He gone around, passed all around. So Samuel says to Saul, hold up, dog. Because there's consequences to us not fulfilling what God called us to do. He'll get it done because it's not your assignment, it's his. So Jesus, I need you to go and fulfill the law. But he didn't come down because he was on assignment from the Father. So they took him down from the cross, put him down in a tomb. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Voices behind the song. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Lord, I'm gonna tithe. When you fail to complete the assignment, when you fail to fulfill that commitment that you made, that thing you said you was going to do and you don't do it, it's not just impacting you. Samuel thinks he's more than he is. Where did all these sheep come from? And it will make noise, and other folk will realize because God will expose the fact that you did not do what I asked you to do. Well if you would stop eating all them chitlins and all that bad food, you wouldn't have to come get you. News flash. not getting done. Um, I didn't know that they closed at five o'clock. That's what they're saying. Like he just keep lying. Want you to represent me. Bring me to a point of being beaten and whipping until the appointed time. enough blood. All the way back to Calvary. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. And the reason why you ain't finished school, because it didn't favor your desire. You're stealing debt because it doesn't fit your desire. And now y'all taking all the stuff. Y'all still here with me? Because he's not doing what I asked him to do. Saul didn't do right. Now Saul's lost his focus. But Samuel said, what's the bleeding of the sheet and the loan of the oxen that I hear? And and they did it, um, um Samuel. To your God, Samuel. One of the consequences of not fulfilling, not completing the assignment is you start blaming other people for what is not getting done. Judah for or some later on sacrifice. China. She got so that so part of the consequences of of not completing the assignment is that you keep pushing it off and making and saying you have plans to do it later. He had an assignment to do, and he heard the assignment. Through Jerusalem, healing the sick and raising the dead. Never decided that my will is more important than my daddy's will. His disciples that I did not come to do my will. Father, I'm on assignment here. Gethsemane and he prayed because he was on assignment from God. You told me to do. part of his assignment was that he would be bruised and rejected. This sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Praise the Lord. That's exactly what Saul is doing. Because it didn't fit your desire. You had to have another dress. Man, I'm gonna take him. This assignment was about the name of God. And now the people are also holding on to the good stuff. The assignment. We run the risk, there's a consequence, there's a possibility that God will regret that he gave you grace enough to have the assignment in the first place. This is something I I never want God to regret giving me this assignment. Saul doesn't fulfill the assignment. Crying out to God because Saul didn't do what he was supposed to do. He's impacted Samuel's time before the Lord. Went to go meet Saul, and it was told to Samuel, saying Saul went to Carmel, and indeed he has set up a monument for himself. He created a monument to himself. Saul said to him, Blessed are you of the Lord. If you look at this, and just I mean, I know this is all this is biblical, and sometimes we think that there ain't no humor in bit in the Bible. A Christian saying, how you doing? So you did not do what God told you to do. And you lie to other folks and they say, oh did you did you ever did oh yeah I'm I'm dumb now I've got that finished Oh I lost ten pounds then say I gained fifteen bags well I've got it Y'all still hear? We need to finish what we said we was gonna do. Wait a minute. This was a harem. Yeah, I didn't really finish the assignment. How about just admitting and acknowledging today I didn't finish the assignment? came into the world, took off his royal clothes, made himself of no reputation, and was born of a virgin and such uh a poor state that when he was born he was placed in a manger which is the equivalent of a feeding trough because gave me to do and what he gave me to do there's an appointed time for it. Be bruised and rejected. Is finished. Sat down. God and even now he's making intercession for you and for me because he finished his assignment talk to somebody And especially if you're in the kingdom of God, because we in the kingdom of God are all jointly hooked up together. Now, Saul wants to be worshipped as God. I finally guilty. the assignment of God and he walked through forty-two generations until such time that the appointed time was near and he Finish the assignment. People of God said together, Amen. office at 301-627-9500. Because it's not fitting your priority. And it grieved Samuel, and he cried out to the Lord all night. You can't hide it. He blaming them and pointing the finger at them and saying they they the ones that did it. a December, but we had all that cake left over. And here we are three days before the end of another decade and we still haven't done it. And and and if you keep reading this text, what you're gonna find, Saul keeps on lying. Second thing, Saul devalued the assignment. I greatly regret that I have set Saul up as king, for he has turned back from following me and has not performed my commandment. Bleeding and some oxen lowing. They they did it. But I want to encourage you to finish the assignment. For if he had not finished your assignment, we would all be lost. Expectation of redemption, but because you finished your work, we can now finish ours. Draw down God. God greatly regretted appointing Saul to the assignment. Can regret giving you the opportunity in the first place. And so the enemy uses that to subtly slip in and drift you and pull you away from true focus Two you lie to yourself. He's lying. Adam, what is this that you've done? To a borrow toon and put him in the grave and bleed and suffer because he was on assignment while he was up on the cross, he could have come down. Your assignment might be tough. Today, God, I'm praying that they would surrender to you. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. If God gave it to you to do, guess what? He prayed and he said Father if it's possible let this cup pass from me. When you called them and said, give me your life. For my people. That they would give their heart to you, that they would give their life to you. You don't take care of your health. He he's lying to Samuel. Based we was gonna do this later. Draw men, women, boys, and girls to yourself today. He didn't finish the assignment. Father, give him grace to finish the assignment Have your way in this time of invitation, God. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Because Jesus was given an assignment. Father, somebody today may be still on the edge. Let my brother, let my sister, let them finish what you've called them to today. Hallelujah. I'm gonna get my money, I'm gonna put my money right. You're the king. I came to finish the assignment and while he went forward to finish the assignment, Lord help me. Father in heaven, we thank you for your grace and your love. Father, someone here today may be hurting, desperately broken. Look, I'm gonna be dragging. Yeah he got up and he ascended to the Father Next decade. They brought them from the Malachites for the people. I'm talking to anybody, yeah. And so here's what I want you to do. And and Samuel keeps challenging him. Here's the last thing. Watch that. And so I like to say it this way. Y'all hear what I'm saying? I finished being made a mockery. Are you in danger of that too? He passed all the way down, went down to Gilgal. So he's lying. Well, um, you know what? You had to have another this, another that, and so you still charting and you ain't paid off nothing yet. He forgot that God said, I'm gonna do to destroy him. Where did all these oxen come from? I finished what you told me to do. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. It was that woman you gave me, Lord. This was a holy sacrifice to God in the land of Amalekites. So now he's impacted him. I want you to go and heal the sick and raise the dead. And he's lying to the man of God. Didn't you hear the assignment at the beginning, Saul? As a matter of fact, there were times when they wanted him to hurry himself along, but he says, No, I can't hurry what God has given me assignment to do. You don't sit down till you finish. See, here's another consequence that we see right here in the text. And he drags them all around. He thinks it's all about him. And sometimes you think you finished the assignment and then you like, you know, did I really finish it? It wasn't priority to you. Watch this. So everybody said, oh, look at Saul, look what Saul did. Next decade. I know you told us to sacrifice it now, but we was gonna do it later. Because he's turned back from me. Um they did it because they want sacrifice it to the to your god to your God and the rest we we utterly we did it we did utterly destroy the rest, but but we was gonna get this to God And so I I ate it and I ate it all of it and I'm a but January first, January first. And some of you didn't make it today because I'm talking to you online. Saul wants to take the king alive so that he can show everybody how bad he is. I'm blessed and highly favored. I'm gonna start paying tithes. Now somebody got to visit you in the hospital. And so for 33 years, Jesus fulfilled the law. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. He gave you the resources to do it. He says, I did everything. You can't blame the people, Saul. This was about giving a sacrifice. God regrets that he made him, but look how it now impacts Samuel. He's impacted Samuel's life. This is my version. He would be cast aside. Amen. Because there are consequences to not finishing it. No, so you lying. It doesn't fit your compassion. Jesus, I need you to walk in the world and fulfill the law because the law cannot be fulfilled by mankind. But finish what God gave you to do. It's not in your desire to do it. I did not come to do what felt good to me. But watch this, it doesn't stop there because it just keeps going on. I mean it's simple things. So your actions are now leading the other people to follow your actions. And all of them are working together, not finishing the assignment, because they have devalued the assignment of God. First of all, Saul heard the assignment. What had happened was I went down to the bank and um I didn't really do what God told me to do. I need you, Jesus, to go and so Jesus heard Then verse 13. He's gonna show everybody because Saul wants his name to be exalted. He puts the monument up because he wants everybody to worship him. The reason why you haven't given up drugs. You have not finished the assignment, so, and yet, watch this. I don't want you to get so far down in the chapter that you you gotta wait till next ten years before you admit that you're guilty The lost, the hopeless, the helpless, the broken. And watch this. It's a wonderful day. Hold up, dog. Man, no, for real, dog. There's a series of things here that are consequences to Saul not completing the assignment of God. Listen to Saul, verse 15. Lord help me. Because he's put his own self higher than me. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. So it was like 5. And you didn't, and you haven't because it wasn't in your desire, it didn't fit your priority. You're the leader. And then he says, What will happen was we was gonna offer it later as a sacrifice to your God, Samuel. She did it. So the assignment, Jesus, is when you go into the world, I. Praise the Lord. Have you done the same thing? Your unfinished assignment will bleed and it will load. Did it all and finish. Listen to this. On the third day, he got up with all power in his hands. Then Samuel went to Saul. If God told you to do something, do it. He's going to give you the grace to do it. In fact, every turn of the way he always reminded What is all of that? That's a great question. God is great. Saul starts blaming other folks, and he's still lying. And instead of taking a page out of Saul's book, take a page out of the book of Jesus. And he didn't devalue the assignment, but even in the garden of Gethsemane Look at Saul. But he sat down on the right hand of God You put value on what you wanted to do. And Samuel had hopes that Saul would do right. As they go out and he's created this monument of himself. But guess what? And uh I was gonna start my diet on the twenty-sixth. I mean, really, really, I did it. Jesus, I need you to go and offer yourself as a sacrifice. Draw them, God. It's the first thing. What's that I hear? I mean he he carried that thing all the way to the end And so he stayed on assignment even until they took them to the garden of Gethsemane. The people didn't spare the bass of the sheep and the oxen and You just lying. Because this is what they're doing. Watch this. When you won't pay off your debt, then you get further in, something else happened. 05 when I got there. And so that's why we haven't finished assignments because we keep pushing it off to later and later and later and later and later never comes. And so I cannot allow them to I'm gonna get myself together. And that's why we don't do things. I did everything God told me to do. It was her. He would take the stripes that his stripes might bring healing. And so he was on assignment from God. Your assignment might be painful. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. You said I'm gonna stop drinking. This was about a harem. He's now impacted Samuel's sleep They gotta take a day off from work and take you to the doctor Y'all hear what I'm saying? This is humorous to me. And he bled on the cross. I finished carrying the sin of man. But for one reason or another, God, they've devalued that assignment. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. He forgot that. He said, I performed all of what the Lord command me. The assignment at the beginning was Finish the assignment. Saul said, they, them, them other folks. You still watch it from TV. Never. I finished paying for sins of men, women, boys, and girls. Watch this. When you have devalued the assignment of God, lying to the man of God is easy. So now they want to worship Saul. What's this following you on your way back from the Amalekite slaughter If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Did I finish it or not? You can't say the people did it, but Saul, the people did it. It was her. He's going to give you the ability to do it. Question is, did you? Third thing, Saul did not evaluate the consequences of not finishing. Watch this. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. One of the consequences of not completing the assignment of God is God will expose you. I did not come to satisfy my desires, but rather I came to satisfy the will of my Then he finally gets way down until he finally says, oh, I sinned There are consequences to the kingdom when you don't do what God has asked you to do. They're saying we're gonna do this late, we're gonna do this later. And so Jesus was on assignment as he walked Now he thinks it's all about him And then my cousin brought a big old thing of ice cream and I ain't wanna just throw the ice cream out. I'm gonna start going to church. I never want God to say to me about me what He says about Saul. Watch this So you you lose your way. You did not complete the assignment. org or contact our church And we say, oh, I'm Lord, I'm gonna get my I'm gonna do everything. Finish the assignment. Don't blame other folks for what's not getting He never devalued the assignment. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. And you was drunk last night. This was about a sacrifice to God who is holy. But I need you to know something. Lion. Here's the first consequence When we don't complete the assignment of God, So Samuel rose early in the morning. So here comes Samuel. And then the Lord said to the woman, what did you do? Only you can do it. You lie. There will be no hope for tomorrow. God did not ask you to drag them back to It's still like it was. He's made his priorities higher than my priorities. You don't even know because you start see once you start lying, you got to keep lying. I hear some sheep. I'm trying to make it plain. You had to have another suit. m. I can almost hear This is part of the consequences when we don't do what we're supposed to do. I um yeah, I'm I'm guilty So watch this. You start blaming other people for what you didn't do. And then I was gonna go back another day. or 11 a. He's lying. Thank you for finishing the work on Calvary for us. One of the consequences of not completing the assignment of God is you get confused as to who is God. Just keeps complaining You said, if I be lifted up, I'll draw all men unto you. He's going to give you But I didn't come to do my will. Well, you made it today. It's not don't fit your desire. And he suffered on the cross until he got to the point where he said it. Have your way But Saul, this assignment was not about your name Don't just park and make yourself more valuable than God. Here's a consequence of not finishing the assignment. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. m. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. And watch this. I just stopped by today to encourage us, we need to complete the assignment Now the people are saying, oh, this is too good to destroy. Saul sees him coming. I'm trying to just make it understandable so we can really grab hold of it at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. Look at it, another consequence. Samuel is up all night long They heard you years ago. Now he's bringing you their stories. It was the just like Adam in the garden. Time to do it, he's gonna give you the wisdom to do it, he's gonna put the people in the place to help you get it done And the enemy uses the subtlety of our disobedience because partial obedience is disobedient. That was six months ago, but I ain't made it there yet because this job. And he let his creation crucify him and nail him. There will be no He Draw them to yourself. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I'm gonna I'm gonna start being in Bible study. Now you gotta go borrow from somebody. She pointed to the serpent. So you've devalued the assignment and you've put value on you. And we're guilty. Finish. It's impacting other people. We just make be making up stuff. Here's another consequence They made their assignment more important than my assignment. I didn't come to be on my assignment. And so now you've taken that, devalued it, and made it about you. You devalued what God asked you to do. It's a serpent. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. You think you're more than you are And they've been living for themselves. I regret that I even put him there. Your assignment might take you In the name of Jesus who is the Christ, I pray with thanksgiving. I'm Andy Christman. One, you start lying to other people Lord I'm feel like preaching now. It is finished. Saul No, finish what He asked you to do. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. You ain't been in Bible study. There are other people being impacted by what you're not doing. That would be wasting food and there's hungry people in China. That's all we can say. Nobody wants to take the take the blame for what they've done. You impacting them. I can only do what God Well, I got I got a condition. I didn't come to make my name great. Finish. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Verse 11 says. Because it wasn't in your desire. I'm guilty. And he bowed himself in the garden of Gethsemane. I'm finished my assignment. I finished shedding God Uh he would He doesn't stop. Finish. Yeah. I came to do what For a copy of