Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to 2 Kings chapter 5, verse number 1. It reads as follows. Now Naaman, the commander of the army of the king of Syria, was a great and honorable man in the eyes of his master, because by him the Lord had given victory to Syria. He was also a mighty man of valor, but a leper. And the Syrians had gone out on raids, and had brought back captive a young girl from the land of Israel. She waited on Naaman's wife. Then she said to her mistress, If only my master were with the prophet who is in Samaria, for he would heal him of his leprosy. And Naaman went and he told his master, saying, Thus and thus said the girl who is from the land of Israel. And then the king of Syria said, Go now, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel. So he departed And he took with him ten talents of silver, six thousand shekels of gold, and ten changes of clothing, and then he brought the letter to the king of Israel, which said, Now be advised When this letter comes to you that I have sent Naaman, my servant, to you, that you may heal him of his leprosy. And it happened. When the king of Israel read the letter that he tore his clothes and said, Am I God to kill and to make alive? That this man sends a man to me to heal him of leprosy? Therefore, please consider and see how he seeks a quarrel with me. And so it was when Elijah the man of God heard that the king of Israel had tore his clothes, and that he sent to the king, saying, Why have you torn your clothes? Please let him come to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel And then Naaman went with his horses and chariot and stood at the door of Elijah's house, and Elijah sent a messenger to him, saying, Go and wash in the Jordan seven times And your flesh shall be restored to you, and you shall be clean. He will surely come out to me, and stand and call on the name of the Lord his God, and wave his hand over the place, and heal the leprosy. Are not the Abanah and the Farpar rivers of Damascus better than all the waters of Israel, could I not wash in them and be clean? And so he turned and he went away in rage. And his servants came near and spoke to him and said to him, Father If the prophet had told you to do something great, would you not have done it? How much more than when he says to you, wash and be clean? And so he went down and he dipped seven times in the Jordan according to the saying of the man of God, and his flesh was restored like the flesh of a little child, and he was clean. And he returned to the man of God, he and all his aides, and he came and stood before him and said, Indeed, now I know that there is no God in all the earth. Except the God in Israel. Father, thank you for your word. Help me that I might declare it in such a way that it's clear in the hearing of your people. If anybody doesn't know you, Lord, I pray that this preaching of the gospel will transform their lives and draw them to a place where they will surrender their souls to you. I pray, God, for those who have drifted in their fellowship, that you might use this word to encourage them to renew broken fellowship. Spirit of the Lord is It's my prayer on this day that as this word is preached, that it would permeate our hearts, our souls, our minds, that it would speak to us and meet us on the pages of our life. Father, make it clear to each one who hears that you have sent this message just for them That they might be transformed, that they might be edified, that they might be built up in the word, that they might be prepared for the journey that is yet ahead. Spirit of the Lord, I'm praying that you would help us in this time of preaching, because I stand as a vessel to be used by the power of your Holy Spirit to accomplish your will. And so I yield, Lord, that you would have your way in me and through me. Use me, God, to accomplish whatever it is you desire. I need your help. I need your strength. I need your thoughts. I need your clarity of speech. And I need to be able to say what thus saith the Lord. So, Lord, have your way with me. And when it's all said and done, we will give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. It's in Jesus' name that I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. And the people of God said together, Amen. When we started our journey on this subject matter, Strange Plans, We began in Joshua chapter 3 on the idea of crossing flood waters. We moved to Joshua chapter 4 and chapter 5, and we spoke from the idea of stones of victory. Last week we were in Joshua chapter six speaking from the subject matter, bringing down Jericho. On this morning, one of the things that I'm learning over and over again, even as I'm walking through these various texts and looking at the things that God does, is that God does things in such a way that one, we can't figure them out. And I understand that he does it intentionally so that we can know that we're not God. We are the subjects and the creation of a God who does what he wants to do. How he wants to do it, whenever he wants to do it, to and with whomever he wants to do it. And all we can do is sit back and witness the strange plans of God. And declare when it's all said and done that that shownuff was God. And so in this text, God will continue to uh confound us with great and strange plans as he brings this story together to create wholeness In this soldier named Naaman, who is the commander of the Syrian army Why would God bother to impact the life and be concerned about making this strange outsider, enemy of Israel, whole again? The plan defies any kind of logic that you and I would have. You and I are living for God, and you and I are walking with God, and you and I are serving God. Why would God Reach across the aisle and be concerned about our enemy being made whole. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter: God's help for your wholeness. In the text, the first thing that I want to pull out is that Naaman is made honorable by God's favor. God, as he often does. Randomly chooses people to lift them up. And if you happen to have been living for a few years. You probably have been perplexed about why certain people get lifted up And in fact, I would probably suggest most often we probably would say it's not God that's doing it. There's some people. Might be your supervisor. Might be your manager, somebody you know. They don't have the experience you have. They don't have the education you have And all of a sudden they moved up through the ranks and you trained them and now they supervising you. And we would probably have all kinds of reasons why that's happening. They the friend of the friend of the friend. They go out and eat together. They play golf together. They brown nose them. We got all kinds of reasons why, but we would probably never suggest that it is God who is raising them up through the ranks. He is a man who has no relationship with God at all. And in fact, he is an enemy of God's people. And God raises him up. And promotes him to be in one of the commanders in the Syrian army. And the text is. Now the commander of the army of the king of Syria was a great and honorable man in the eyes of his master. Why? Because by him the Lord had given victory to Syria. That's strange. Every enemy of God and you does not necessarily mean that God doesn't have his hand on them. So be careful about that. And as I look again, this is just strange that he would give favor to the enemy. And the text says he's honorable, and he's a mighty man of war. He's a mighty man of valor. God has given him all of that In fact, some some texts and some understandings of this is that he's a giant of warfare. And He's powerful and strong. And it's all because God's hand is on him to give victory to Syria. But this is even more strange. Why would God have his hand on this man and exalt this man and lift this man up to a powerful position? To be the commander of the Syrian army and bring victories through him and make him honorable to his master and honorable to his kingdom, and then allow him to have leprosy. That's kind of strange. This disease is so vile and so offensive that the flesh is literally rottening on his body It's strange that if God's hand is on him, why doesn't God heal him and make him strong and powerful and mighty and honorable Just because someone has a disability or disease, an ailment or an infirmity doesn't mean God's hand ain't on them. It also does not mean that that is the end of their destiny and that there's no more left to their story. Secondly, Naaman was helped by God's servants. Look at verse number two. The Syrians had gone out on raids, and they brought back a captive this young girl from the land of Israel. She waited on Naaman's wife, and then she said to her mistress, If only my master were with the prophet who is in Samaria, for he would heal him of his leprosy. Naaman heard this, and he went and told his master what she had said, little girl said thus and thus and thus, and then the king says, Okay, I'm gonna send that is to you so you can go to Israel and be healed of your leprosy. Here's some more strange stuff of the text. This young Israelite girl is taken captive and removed from her family. Now, she is a faithful child of God who has great faith in her God. But yet, God allows the enemy to come in and steal her away. And then she ends up becoming a servant in this guy named Naaman's house. Because God's plans are strange God allows this young girl to be put in position so that she can help a foreigner who doesn't know God. And who is working as a captain in the army and a mighty warrior against God's people. Listen, you never know why God will have you in the places that he had. Issue. Sometimes we're fighting and resisting the place God has us, but He puts you there for a purpose Cause I know you hate that job, you hate this, you hate that. Why I gotta be here, guy why I gotta be here. You're there for a purpose Surrender to your purpose and stop complaining about your pain. Just push on through and let God do what He's gonna do in your position This little girl. She's working in the house of Naaman, and she has grown to a place that she also has consideration for the infirmity of her master. Who is an enemy of Israel, who doesn't know God. But she says, look, if only my master could get to the man of God He would heal him of his leprosy. This young girl has enormous faith because Elijah has never healed anybody of leprosy. And yet, her faith in God is so powerful that she knows that the power of my God. Can heal even this leprosy that my master has. Now keep in mind, in Israel, leprosy would make you unclean So you can't go places you can't do things in Israel if you're unclean. You don't come before the king of Israel If you got leprosy. No, you're gonna keep that dude at a distance because we don't want our king to catch the leprosy. And so, no, he's gotta stay at a distance, but God works it out, strange as it is That Naaman is able to come with letters from the king of Syria to come to the king of Israel and say, Heal him. And the king of Israel says, Dude, I ain't no God. You're just trying to start trouble He tears his clothes. The word gets out. The second servant of God comes to the help of Naaman. The first one was the little girl. The second one Is Elijah himself? Elijah says, Why has the king tore his garments? And he says, Send him to me. I'll help him. I'll help him to know that there is a prophet in Israel. So send him to me. So he's the second servant that helps Naaman to come to the place of holiness. Now there's also a third servant, but the third servant is the one that after Naaman gets all mad, he's ready to quit and go home The third servant says, look, this is my version of the story, dude. If he had told you to do something hard, I mean you would have been up there trying to do that, right? All he said is go wash in the water. What harm could it be That's the third servant that helps Naaman to get to his place of wholeness. So listen, God uses servants to help us get to our place of wholeness Don't miss out on the opportunity, one, to be the servant that helps somebody get to wholeness. You might be the one that God wants to use to help somebody get to their place of wholeness And secondly, don't miss the servants that God sends your way to help you get to your place of wholeness. Thirdly, Naaman is humbled by the plan of God. Naaman goes to Elijah's house. Elijah sends somebody else out and says. Tell him to go wash seven times, go dip seven times in the Jordan River. That's the plan of God. So logically, that don't even make sense. Why would I why would that make me whole? It doesn't make sense. But God's plans are strange. And Naaman thinks it's strange that Elijah doesn't come out to greet him. And so Naaman's pride takes over. And he gets furious. The text says he became furious, I think, somewhere around verse 11. So he's he's so angry, the text says, and he went away and he said, Indeed I said to myself. And this this is this is what people do, this is what we do. We rationalize the plans of God with ourselves. But there are some things that God has sent, and there are some servants that God has sent. And some of those servants might be doctors, some of them might be lawyers, some of them might be friends, some of them might be mamas. There's some people that have been put in place. To protect you from some stuff, and you are just hard-headed talking to yourself, talking yourself out of the plans of God that's going to keep you and get you where you need to be. And I thought he would at least came out to me. Why naming? Because you think you somebody. Right? And he's not even a Christian. He he don't even he's not a child of the living God. He's not a part of Israel. But he says he should have came out and called on the name of his God. Waved his hand over me and said, Be thou healed. Naaman has a plan for how God should do what God should do. Don't beat up naming because you and I have the same problem. When God sends plans to us that don't make sense. That are strange, we start talking to ourselves and we start rationalizing and we start trying to say, well, it should have been this way, and it should have been that way, and it should be this, and we should do that. And we got a plan for everything because we're smarter than God. So we think. But I'm trying to tell you, God's plans are strange. What I'm not saying is that God goes against his word. Because when we have the problem, we already figure out how to fix it ourselves. But if you could fix it yourself, what do we need God for? God had a strange plan I'm gonna come and I'm gonna live in the form of humanity and I'm gonna offer myself as a sacrifice so I can get you together. That's strange. But that was the plan of God. Naaman got his own plan. He's ready to walk away from being made whole because the plan doesn't fit his thought process. Because we do the same thing. We're right at the edge of being made whole. We're one step away, one action away, one plan away from God being able to do fully what he wants to do. But because it doesn't make sense to us, we abandon the opportunity for God to work out his plan in us There's a lot of things that sometimes we just don't understand. And there's a lot of things in God's plan that don't make sense. But we do them anyway. Because God has given the instruction for it. And He knows better than we do. Listen. Naaman is encouraged. Look, dude, just do what he said. We came all this way, brought all this stuff. Just go dip in the water. Just go washing the joint. Seven times. Worst case scenario, naming you get wet. So he goes and he dips seven times, just like God plan says. He came out and his flesh was like a like a Like a child. That doesn't make sense. How did that happen? In the strange plans of God, transition happens. Now, here's what I don't want you to miss. On the surface, Naaman's physical outward body changed. He no longer had an infirmity. He no longer had a disease. But if that was all the change that God was after, God is thinking too shallow If all he wants is to give you a low blood pressure count or lower cholesterol count, then the whole scheme of God Really don't make sense. But if God is after something deeper, then I understand this thing. And what happens to Naaman is Naaman comes up out of the water And he starts declaring there ain't no God like the God of Israel. As a matter of fact, I'm turning my back on the God I served. Only God I want to serve is the God of Israel. And he comes to the understanding, watch this wholeness is not about Physical completeness. No, no. Wholeness is about the soul and the spirit being reconnected to a living God. God understands because he gave his only begotten son that you and I could come into a relationship with him. God understands He understands the sacrifice. He understands the burden, the pain. All this happens so that Naaman can come to know the true and the living God. God, why would you still do that? He's an enemy of God Well, because now I've got a witness in Syria that knows that there ain't no God like the God of Israel. And if we go to war against Israel There's a captain in the army of Syria that says we can't win. Name it, how you know we can't win? Because the God of Israel gave me a strange plan Told me to dip seven times. And I came up. My hands were new. Something happened. Inside of me, I'm not the same. He changed my walk, he changed my talk And now I know there's a God in Israel. I know who to worship. I know who to give glory to. There's no God Like the God of Israel. Look at God working out strange plans. Didn't make sense in the beginning, but God now has positioned some things and put his voice and put his power in front of the enemy. And now the enemy knows you you can't even touch God's people. I'm trying to help you understand God. He has some strange plans. He done changed naming his whole life. Changed his whole religion, changed his whole relationship, changed his whole eternal destiny. Why? Because God can do what he ever he wants to do. It might not make sense to you. You just trust his plan. Because his plan is perfect. And it always works. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.