Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to 1 Timothy chapter 6. We'll begin our reading at verse number 6. The word of the Lord reads like this. Now godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain that we can carry nothing out. And having food and clothing, with these we shall be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into a temptation and a snare, and into many foolish, harmful lusts. Which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil For which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. But you, O man of God, flee these things. Pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, gentleness. Fight the good fight of faith. Lay hold on eternal life to which you were also called and have confessed the good confession in the presence of many witnesses Would you pray with me? Father, we honor you on this morning. We thank you for your incredible grace and patience with us. Now, Lord, as we stand to declare your word, we stand in need of you and in your presence we need your power. We need you to speak, God, through these lips of clay. I need your uh endurance, Lord. I need your clarity of thought and clarity of speech that the word this morning might meet and minister to the needs of your people in ways in which you have already ordained that it would. Spirit of the living God, save someone who is lost, reclaim someone who's drifting in their fellowship. Father, edify this body. But above all things, God, it is my prayer that you would exalt your own holy and adorable name. So, Spirit of God, we give your name all the glory, all the honor, and all the praise, and with expectation we pray, knowing that you have heard our prayer. You will deliver. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving. The people of God said together, Amen. Amen. Praise the Lord. Kettering, we began on last Sunday with a short series of messages entitled Money, Money, Money. We started this journey last week in Proverbs chapter 11. And spoke then from the idea and the subject matter, the pathway to prosperity. And as the proverb had shared there, perhaps from Solomon, that The pathway to prosperity is determined by the way that you sow. It's the way you lay out the resources that God has provided. But not only the way you sow, we also saw there in Proverbs that the pathway to prosperity had a lot to do with the way you share. If you're a stingy and a selfish person, then you give out nothing, you get nothing back. But thirdly, we discovered that The pathway to prosperity was not only in the way you sow and in the way you share, but also in the way you seek. As God has said in Matthew 6. 33, if you seek the kingdom first and his righteousness, all the other stuff will be added unto you. The Apostle Paul speaks to Timothy with the backdrop of false teachers who are uh bringing false doctrine and and And swaying the people of God from being faithful to what God has given them and blessed them with. These false teachers, particularly, as they're focused in on this portion of text. Have been teaching and leading the people to believe that godliness is a pathway alone to material possessions. In other words, they would say that Christianity is the way for God to bless you with stuff. It was a doctrine much like those that we hear today in prosperity preaching that would cause you to believe that the fact that you are a child of God somehow guarantees you wealth. Material wealth. But it's a false doctrine. It's a false belief that God put you here to acquire as much stuff as you could. I want to talk to you on this subject matter today, great gain. For in verse 6, he says, Now godliness with contentment is great gain. Paul, as he addresses Timothy in this text, he starts off here in this portion that we read, verse 16 And he says, now godliness with contentment is great gain, for we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain that we can carry nothing out. I believe he starts here as he addresses the subject of great gain by telling us these components of great gain. He says it's godliness with contentment. Great game, Paul says, has these two elements: godliness, which we would define as reconciliation to God. Godliness is having the spirit of the living God living inside of you. Godliness is having a personal Intimate relationship with God. Godliness is when the personhood and the character of God is being manifest in your life. So Paul says, godliness with contentment. Contentment is Self-sufficiency that comes from the relationship with God. In other words, I'm fully satisfied with what God has provided That's the c contentment of the text. And so Paul says if we put these components together, godliness, which is the relationship with God. And appreciation for the fact that God is supplying, God is providing, God is my sufficiency. That's great gain. Paul says, This is great gain because you brought nothing into this world, and it is certain that you will take nothing out of it. Why is that important to add in here? It's important to add in here because Paul is trying to help Timothy to address the false teachers who are telling people: if you gain stuff, you'll win. Well Paul says, well, what happens if you gain stuff and you leave and you can't take the stuff with you? Then how is that gained? So Paul says now, let's put it in the context. When you came into the world, you came in bankrupt. I know there's one or two that was born in a sense With a silver spoon in your mouth, and your mama and your daddy or your grandmama or somebody else in the family had resources, but you were born bankrupt. But your spirit and your soul that came into the world bankrupt now has to go and stand before an eternal God who's going to judge you. Based on what you did with the life that he gave you. And if you get to the judgment seat of God and you're still bankrupt, what did you gain You brought nothing into the world and you took nothing out. You're still bankrupt. So Paul says These that are teaching this doctrine of of materialism are lying to you because you didn't bring anything in, but What you came in bankrupt of, if you can change that along this journey, if you can leave and not be spiritually bankrupt, then you have great gain. Because if if you can get past this life and gain eternal life when you get to the other side and have to stand before the judgment of God, which we all will You'll be ushered into the kingdom of God and you'll have everlasting life and you will never ever die again. You'll never have another want again. Everything will be taken care of forever. Now that's great gain. So he says, godliness with contentment is great gain And he throws in one more thing. He says, having food and clothing, with these we shall be satisfied, content. Now the idea is not that this is it. The idea here is that if you have the basics of life, that. Well in essence what Paul is saying is if if you gain eternal life and you've got Godliness and your sufficiency is in him, and because your sufficiency is in him, and he's providing all of your needs according to his riches in glory, and you have your sufficient needs for living, you've got food and you've got water, with these that ought to be enough. He says, with these be content. And many would argue that's Pastor, um, I get it, but it's not enough. And the reason why it's not enough is because instead of us being satisfied with the components of great gain, we're chasing after that which is not great gain. Picks up in verse 9. He says, but those who desire to be rich fall into a temptation. And a snare, and into many foolish and harmful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition Paul says, when you chase after being rich, that is materialism, we will fall into temptation A snare to draw you away from God and to draw your focus on riches and wealth and materialism And away from what you already have. But this is a trick that the devil has been playing since the beginning of time. Adam and Eve had everything they needed. And then Satan comes along and he tricks them into believing that there's something God is holding back from you. Guess what? He's doing the same thing today. He's depositing in us this attitude: there's something I'm missing. And so when you're making 40,000, you feel like I'm missing something because I'm not making 80. And every step that you chase just gets you deeper in and further down. And you're you become addicted to the chase. COVID woke a whole lot of people up about the chase. Because some some folk was working and they they should have retired five years before. But some folks they just kept working. And you were still getting up at 5 30 in the morning and you were hitting the beltway and dealing with all that traffic and and you was driv riding the metro and you was doing all that and going into the office dealing with all the headaches and all that people and COVID hit and say you can work from home. And then after you work from home for a little while and say, okay, it's time to come back. And they say, you know what? I really just I think I got enough money. I think I'm okay. I'm okay now I ain't going back because COVID woke us up to see how badly we were chasing after the thing. So it changed our perspective about what was important in life. So some of us realize I haven't spent this much time with my children in a long time, he says here in the text. It's a snare. It draws you into many foolish and harmful lusts which drown men in destruction This chase to be rich will take you into places and cause you to do things that that aren't even logical when you think about it. Chasing is not great gain. It's a snare. That he said it leads to perdition The idea here is it leads to a judgment because at the end of the day we got to stand in judgment. It leads to a judgment of condemnation from God Because you're spending your time and your energy chasing after that which will not bring you gain. And then he says, for the love of money. It's not money that's the root of all evil. It's the love of it. It's when I am in love with money. And that's the root of all kinds of evil. For which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness, and they've pierced themselves through with many sorrows, chasing after that which would not satisfy them. The love of money, the love of it chasing it and being in love with it and being passionate about I just can't get enough of it. You're checking all the time. Is my money still there? It's still there. That's what you do when you're in love. You call and check on it. Money, the love of it, that is the root. It's the root that causes us to do all kinds of crazy things that will ultimately Bring destruction. It brings evil. It causes us to lie. It causes us to cheat. It causes people to to jack your car. It causes people to rob you at the bank when you when you at the money mover when you when you're trying to get money. It it's that love of money that's causing all this evil all kinds of evil is being is rooted in this love for money and it's destroying you a lot Ultimately, because the enemy only wants to kill, steal, and destroy. He's not trying to give you gain. He's trying to tear you down And when you love anything other than God, when you've got this kind of love for something other than God, and you've got your your belief This is my sufficiency, and your sufficiency, you're putting it in material possessions and finances. You're already on the way to destruction. Because you'll do anything to get it, to have it, to keep it. But Christians, it it drives us to all kinds of root. It's a root. Um it it it drives us to all kind of bad behavior, sin, evil, chasing after this thing called material wealth. Finally, and I'm I'm done. Great gain, we we've looked at the components of great gain. Chasing after that which is not great game. But then Paul comes back and he starts to wrap this thing up, beginning in verse 11, and he says, look, he charges Timothy, there's a charge here to pursue that which is great gain. But you, old man of God You old born-again saint of God, you woman of God, you man of God. I like the way he starts that off because now he he lets you know I'm talking to you. And it gives you your standard. You're a man of God. You're a woman of God. You've got an escalated position in the kingdom and in the relationship with God because you're a man of God. And as a man of God, as a woman of God, as a child of God, you ought to have a different pursuit He says, Oh man of God, flee these things. These false teachers are lying to you. The devil is lying to you. Flee, get away from that because it's going to draw you away. He says, flee these things. But rather, this is what you ought to pursue. He says, pursue righteousness, pursue godliness, pursue faith Love, patience, gentleness. In other words, what he in essence tells Timothy to do and instructs the man or the woman of God to do is to chase after The fruit of the Spirit. Chase after that which will truly be the product of great gain. Because as we look at this whole idea, as we pursue righteousness and godliness and faith and love and patience, that doesn't come unless I've got first a relationship with God. So I've got to pursue a relationship with God. I've got to get out of this darkness where I've got no hope for tomorrow. I've got to transcend Thinking that just because I don't have money or just because I'm on welfare or just because I lost my job, that there's no hope for me. No, there is still yet hope Your hope was never in your job. Your hope was never in your financial position. Your hope is in Christ who died for you Some somebody needs to hear that because somebody says, well, this whole this whole thing you're talking about, Pastor, that's for saved folk. No, this this great gain I'm talking about is for the unsaved too. Because before you can even reap the benefits, you've got to come out of the darkness and come into the marvelous light. You've got to come out of the struggle, come out of trying to do it yourself, come out of trying to be your own self. sufficiency and realize that there's a God who will supply everything you need if you just trust him as your Lord He'll turn your life around. He'll take drugs out of your mouth. He'll take alcohol out of your mouth. He'll change your attitude. He'll change your altitude. He'll change your destin But you've got to trust him You've got to invite him in. You've got to want that relationship with him first. So he says pursue that relationship first. And then when you're in the relationship, let him be your lover. Let him be the one you check in on several times a day. Lord, it's noon. I'm just checking in. I'm checking in and seeing are you alright? God, I'm feeling alright. Are you feeling alright? Yeah, yeah. So now we have a relationship because I'm in love with you. I want to hear from you. And because I'm in love with you, I want to talk to you. Lord help me, God. And when I'm in love with you, even when I can't sing, I'm going to try to sing to you. I'm gonna write poems to you. I'm gonna throw flowers at you, Jesus, because I love you. I'm gonna use my energy for you and not for stuff Because watch this, when you have that kind of love relationship with him, the fruit of the spirit begins to manifest itself in your life. Love and joy and patience and long-suffering and temperance and self-control. Bob wish I had time right there. Because the part of the fruit of the spirit is self-control. And part of the part of the opposite of that when I'm chasing material possessions is the lack of self-control. I can't control myself. It was on sale. It was a deal I couldn't refuse. I was gonna make double my money. I can't control myself. The fruit of the spirit will help you control yourself. Y'all hearing what I'm saying? And so he says, Pursue these things, man of God, woman of God, pursue the things that will allow the Holy Spirit To richly dwell in your life, to manifest Himself through you, to you, and for you. Do you realize God wants to give you all you want? Do you realize that? God wants to satisfy all of that. But you've got to he you've got to seek him first. There's an order to it. He wants you to willingly have that relationship with him So that he can bless you. But he says, look, pursue that which is well, pursue that which is of God. Pursue the righteousness of God. That his spirit might manifest the fruit in your life. And then it then he says this. He says, fight the good fight of faith and lay hold on eternal life. That's it right there. If you're gonna struggle in this life, let it be a struggle of your faith towards a living God. And he says, fight that fight. And that will bring great gain. That's where the great gain comes from. That's where we win. Lay hold of eternal life. You came in the world with no life at all. When you leave, leave with eternal life. That's great game. Godliness with contentment. That's great game. Paul says, look, Timothy, you gotta you gotta do this. You gotta do this right, Timothy. You gotta remember what great gain is, Timothy, is it's not the accumulation, but it's the salvation. It's the reconciliation. So help me God. It is the justification. It's ultimately the glorification. Like I've got a plan for you, Timothy I've got a way for you to get to great gain. I've got a plan for you, Ketterin. I've got a way to make sure that all your needs are met But you've got to come to Jesus first. You've got to pursue him first. You've got to pour your investments in him because in him there is great gain Lord help me, God. In him there's everlasting life. In him, we live and we move and we have our being. In him, there's great gain. And watch this. And because he loves us so He'll also bless you along the way with stuff to enjoy the journey to heaven Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the songs. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.