Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. For how can this servant of my Lord talk with you, my Lord, as for me no strength remains in me now, nor is there any breath left in me He's fasting and praying and seeking an answer from God. We got to find ourselves in the right position of humility that we can pray and talk to God, understanding God. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. Voices behind the song. Well, if you have your Bibles with you and you should, turn with me to Daniel chapter 10, beginning at verse 10. And to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard. And he said to me, O Daniel, man greatly beloved, understand the words that I speak to you, and stand upright, for I have now been sent to you. uh been left alone there with the kings of Persia. And then he said, Do you know why I have come to you? That the Word of God would draw them to restore the broken fellowship. I prayed God that the power of God would manifest itself so that they would know it wasn't the preacher talking to me, it was God I pray, God, that you would remove every barrier, every stronghold, everything that hinders them from hearing the truth of the Word of God, so that, Lord God, that they might be encouraged in the journey that they have in front of them, so that they might be empowered. That you might speak through me, Lord, and use me as a vessel, a clear sounding vessel that would accomplish your will in this place. And that place being walking through hell specifically, at least if you're going to go to a place you don't want to go, it's a little bit better if you've got good company And you're praying and you're I mean who wants a delayed answer when you're in that position? Babylon had torn down the temple, torn down the walls of protection around Jerusalem, set on fire everything, burnt up everything, destroyed the land. And Darius has released the captives of Israel to go back home and to rebuild their walls and to rebuild their homes. And to rebuild the homes and to rebuild the wall while they're trying to rebuild the temple of God that had been decimated by the Babylonians, that had been ripped and stripped of all of its gold, that had been torn apart. He's fasting and he's praying and he's mourning over what has been exposed to him. uh that is that is lightning and flashings and and all it's almost uh the the appearance of of of the the the the pre uh Here, the angel is going to bring three messages, uh, if I can say it that way, three messages that he's going to bring to Daniel, uh, because you do know that angels bring messages. You are still here with me? all the way through. See, sometimes we we we don't want to hear from God when we're going through stuff because we are so smart that we think we've already figured out what God's gonna say. that watch this from the first day you set your heart in order with him from the first day that you humbled yourself before him God heard you watch this Our prayer is not offered up in a way that it can be heard by God. Heart to be humble before God. that you humbled yourself from the first day that you set your heart. To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me for twenty-one days, and behold, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, for I had For the vision refers to many days yet to come. And suddenly one having the likeness of the sons of men touched my lips. Because of the vision, my sorrows have overwhelmed me, and I have uh retained no strength And then again the one having the likeness of a man touched me and strengthened me, and he said, O man, greatly beloved, fear not. to do your work and your will so that they might be able to give your name the glory and the honor and the praise that it is due. through hell. through hell in our ministry. Or we're walking through hell in our homes. Hell comes and knocks us back. I'd say this that all of those who have experience walking through hell experience, whether on your job or in your home or in your health One of the worst things that most of us will probably testify as we're going through those kind of experiences and as we're crying out to God and praying and fasting and seeking God in those situations while we're going through it. And while we're praying through it, and while we're being spiritual through it, and while we're fasting through it, we don't get any answer from God. I mean, nobody wants a delayed response. Their failure to respond and react to the messages of God that had come from prophet after prophet in Babylon. To rebuild the temple of God. By these heathenistic people whom God allowed to happen because of their disobedience. Daniel and the vision of what is yet to come for the children of Israel causes him much distress. Captivity, Daniel has been saying to them, God is gonna bring you out of this captivity. And the fate of the people is is not a pretty sight. He's so mourned and grieving over all that he sees happening. And God has not yet answered him. Actually the angel shows up a little bit before that, and it is an angelic uh appearance. He hasn't heard from God. To help us to deal with the delay response while we're walking through hell. In Daniel chapter 10, the word says, Suddenly the hand uh the of the angel touched me, uh which made me tremble on my hands and my knees, and and and he said to me, Listen, man greatly beloved. Regarding the delay, and it says God loves you. Can I talk to you this morning and say the same to you? And stand up. A message that you would understand. I didn't just show up and just start talking. That's what the angel tells Daniel, can I talk to y'all this morning? I'm just walking through this text, but I gotta make it real for you. Verse 12, God loves you and God encourages you and says to you, Daniel, don't be afraid. I'm looking at this glowing and shining and raining angel, and you are uh you're overwhelmed by what you see and and Daniel you you might be afraid What the Lord says as a means of encouraging Daniel and giving comfort to him is to say to Daniel, Daniel, don't be afraid of the message. Seeking godly counsel, we seek friendship counseling Lord help me here. So they'll call the office and they'll say, well, can is Pastor Pugh there or Pastor Williams? be the m it might be that they're afraid of the message that the messenger is going to bring so they don't want to talk to them. I love you. I know it's been 21 days. God heard your prayer. This sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. Suddenly a hand touched me which made me tremble on my knees and on the palms of my hands While we, well rather, he was speaking this word to me, I stood trembling. That today would be the day that they would come to give their heart and their life to you. Looking there at the three Hebrew boys and we spoke to you from the subject matter walking through hell with good company. This morning, I find myself here again in Daniel, where Daniel is going to show us and help us in another aspect, if you will, of our walk through hell. From every angle, we're walking through hell on every side. God's not answering. While walking through hell. It is in this text that Cyrus is the king in Persia. The children of Israel had been under the captivity of Babylon for 70 years, and they had been there as a result of their disobedience to God. And God, as a result of their rebellion and their stubbornness, they were a stiff-necked and hard-headed people. putting him in distress and causing him to be sorrowful. And yet, at the same time, while Daniel is depressed and distressed and worried and concerned about that, Daniel also is concerned about what his people who are now watched this free to go back to uh to Israel, and yet Through all of the warnings, through all of the preaching that Daniel and other prophets have been doing while they were in captivity, the children of Israel are still Worshiping other gods. Because they're now falling in love with other gods and falling in love with Babylon's gods and falling in love with Babylon's. John 3:16 tells me God loves you. Comfort of the message that he brings, but he doesn't stop there. After God tells Daniel, this is the message of comfort, Daniel, God loves you and you're greatly loved of God. God wants you to understand it. Lord have mercy. God sent me to tell you He loves you. And so we're afraid to hear the message of God. Skirt. So they figure if I talk to Pew, he might not be as hard as Sterling. Somebody else. And I have come because of your words. We pray from the perspective not of humility, but from the perspective of demand. Man was made for God. Peace be to you. But I will tell you what is noted in the scripture of truth. Will you pray with me this morning? Through hell with the word. Each experience our various walks through hell, uh, some of our hell experience is that we're walking through hell on our jobs. Answer from God for 21 days. Which I believe also will speak to us that will help us as we're walking through our hell experience to help us on this journey. You because he came through 42 generations, was crucified on a cross, buried in a borrowed tomb, raised on the third day, sits on the right hand of God, even right now, making intercession for you. of the messenger, but also Daniel, I don't want you to be afraid of the message. The divine message and the divine messenger. office at 301-627-9500. Amen and Amen. That many Christians walk away from their faith. And oftentimes when they walk away from their faith is just before the answer of God comes. Nobody wants to be doing all of that and then yet no answer comes from God. This is critical. We barking out commands to God, God, you better get down here and do this and do that and do this. And so if you're living and even still going through stuff, you already getting better than you deserve. That's a bad place to be. And it seems like hell is breaking loose on every side. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter in this third part of this series, Walking Through Hell. The Christ that is to show up in Revelation almost reads similarly, but it's an angel of the Lord that shows up, but no doubt it's an angel. So he says, Daniel, don't be afraid, don't be afraid of the message, and don't be afraid of the messenger You cannot say I don't deserve it. Who is bringing the message from God, and it has taken him 21 plus days to get there. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. When hell is getting hot. God heard you. That comes to Daniel in this scenario is the message of comfort regarding delay. I ain't pulling the wool out from over anybody. From the first day that you set your heart to understand and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard. We started our journey in Joshua chapter 1, verse 8. God wants you to understand. God loves you. God has great love for you. We want to talk to somebody. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. The message of comfort starts off for Daniel, which I believe you need to hear this. Now, while they were in Babylon, Babylon conquering everything had destroyed their homeland It's not just from the first day that you started praying, because sometimes our prayer is not in position to be heard. I know you've been waiting. They're still worshiping the gods of Babylon, and they're still not ready. Be strong. He's got no response from God. For I have now been sent to you. And he not only tells Daniel that he that God loves you, he says, Daniel, you're a man greatly beloved of God Whoo, I'm starting to feel it. I know it's been two years. Eternal God, we need you. Uh uh Daniel is watching and witnessing a few things happen that are bringing him stress and We got to turn that thing around. And the silence causes your faith in God to be pushed to the limit. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. It seems like we're just about to catch your breath. Because they're afraid of the messenger. God heard you from the first day. Here's part of the message that God gives to Daniel to comfort him, the message of comfort regarding the delay. Yes, be strong. I mean everything's falling apart and everything is in trouble and and I'm getting ready to get put out of my house and they're trying to repossess my car and my marriage is falling apart and the people on my job are giving me help. While we're going through these situations, while we're going through and praying and fasting and crying out to God day and night, and we're doing all the things right. Pastor, how do you know that God loves me? And so it is at this point where we find ourselves in Daniel chapter 10, verse number 10, when the angel of the Lord shows up God sent this message for you while you're walking through hell, while you're going through your tough situation. No, God sent me to you. But in this particular text, we get an opportunity to look behind the scenes of the delay in a prayer situation. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. You are greatly beloved of God. I know it seems like there ain't no answer coming. Amen. As you walk through hell, Joshua, you're going to need the word of God. For 21 days he's been fasting. Here's the message of comfort. God is encouraging you. I know it's been three years, four, five years, but God heard you from the first day that And in advance, we thank you for what you're getting ready to do. And because we're afraid to hear the message of God, we stay away from the messengers of God. Listen, let me talk to you. Our ministry is a mess. Hold on. And for 21 days, three weeks, God's answer hasn't come. Understand the message that God is sending to you. Well a lot of time folk won't come to me because they know that I'm not going go easy. I'm here as a messenger of God because God sent me to talk to you. God is speaking this message of comfort to Daniel. He says to Daniel in this text, verse number 11, he says, A man greatly beloved, he comes back and he says, Understand the words that I speak to you. God heard you. Or we're walking through hell as a result of our health. You know why? In this journey that we've been on in this series of messages entitled Walking The doctor's report is not what it should have been. For God so loved you that he gave his only begotten son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. And so in our prayer, we need to be humble in our prayer While the children of Israel, some are going back to rebuild the temple. And he's yet, uh as the time goes on, no doubt, he's becoming more and more distressed about what he's heard, and more and more distressed about what he's seeing, and more and more distressed about what's going on in Jerusalem. Daniel begins to fast and pray. When situation is getting worse. Spirit of the living God, those who've come in hurting and in desperation and despair, seeking and desiring to hear a word from you, God speak clearly into their life. It just seems like every time we make a little progression God is gonna make sure that the message is broken down to your level. God sent me to tell you, I want you to understand the message that I have for you, and I want you to know that I've been sent here just for you. Sometimes our heart is not right before God, and therefore our prayer is not heard by God. You need to hear that this morning. Now I have come to make you understand what the will or what will happen to your people in the latter days Don't fear. And I know you think, well, I thought God heard our prayer. And I need you to understand that this morning, God heard you So when he spoke to me, I was strengthened and said, Let my lord speak, for you have strengthened me. And now I ha I must return to fight with the Prince of Persia, and when I have gone forth, indeed, the Prince of Greece will come. But then others have figured out that I discipled Pew, and Pew is just like me. It is a is a glistening appearance, it's a body And I have uh come because of your words And while he was speaking, he says this word, I stood trembling. When they go back to rebuild, they're now facing opposition from another enemy. God's not gonna send you a message that He doesn't want you to understand A lot of times, I'm just gonna be just talking. That's a great question. Our ministry is falling apart and the enemy seems to be coming in Because they they know that the messenger is going to bring the message from God. God heard you from the first day The answer might be delayed, but it ain't that God didn't hear you. And while he's doing that, he fasts and he pray and he seeks I'm glad you asked that question. Don't be afraid of the message. Then I opened my mouth and spoke, saying to him who stood before me, my Lord. God loves you. Have you ever sinned? I pray, eternal God, if there's any that are struggling and wrestling with their relationship with you, they've walked away, the fellowship has been broken. Here comes something else, and hell seems to be your daily domain of travel. We talk to people who ain't really gonna tell us the divine truth because we're afraid of Praise the Lord. And when he had spoken such words to me, I turned my face toward the ground and became speechless. And we spoke to you from the subject matter, walking I mean, I'm not gonna make it through the night and the answer gets gets here tomorrow afternoon? And so in the process of this, Daniel, because he's so distressed, because No, God don't work for you. Then he said to me, Do not fear, Daniel, for from the first day that you set your heart to understand Some of them are not even not even desiring to leave Babylon, even though they've now been set free. I know you've been waiting, I know you've been praying, I know you've been fasting, I know you've been crying, but you need to hear God loves you. I'm here as a messenger of God to speak to you. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. They give up on God because they think God has given up on them. To deal with that answer that has not yet come, even though the hell's still coming. For 21 days, he's been praying. So some of them are not even going back. But when you go back, don't go back like you came in. And he doesn't just love you on the surface. No one oppose me against these except Michael, your prince. The lawyer said ain't nothing else he can do. And he's fasting and praying. Nobody wants a delayed answer from God. But he says, watch this, verse 12. I mean you're laying in the hospital bed and the doctor says, well, you might not make it to tomorrow And for Daniel, it's like walking through hell for the last years. As if God owes us something or as if God works for us. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. God, I need you this morning. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Can I talk to y'all this morning? Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. I want to talk from the subject matter, Delayed Response. And he says to Daniel, Daniel. Y'all still here we're just being honest. Spirit of the Lord, I'm praying that you would speak a clear word here in the midst of your people that if any don't know you God loves you. I know God loves you because he died on the cross for you. Babylonian captivity has come to an end. Sometimes, you know, like our prayer is arrogant org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. org or contact our church And then last week when we were together, we spoke to you out of Daniel chapter 3. I bless you, God, in advance for what you're getting ready to do. But watch this. Watch this. And so we've got to humble ourselves. And the angel, watch this, he says, I've been sent to you. If you've ever sinned, the Bible says that the wages of sin is death, that's what you deserved. Our health is failing. They don't want to talk to me because they are afraid of the messenger. God was not made for man m. So all of this that's going on, and and all this is distressing The Bible says, if you read the earlier verses of verse chapter 10, A lot of times, folk I already know this, so I I'm not pulling nobody's I know that you're standing there He says. or 11 a. And The first message is a message of comfort. I don't care what you're going through. One of the things we all came to the conclusion is that if you've got to go to a place you really don't want to go And so when the angel shows up But the message that God has for you. God's word reads as follows. He's not eating any good food. Are y'all still here? And now, Pastor Sterling. I mean, hell is hitting you everywhere, and you're praying, but in your prayer God caused them to go into captivity in Babylon and He assigned them 70 years. God loves you. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Um m. Daniel, um God loves you. God heard you, and he encourages Daniel in that regard. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. The messenger, the first words out the messenger's mouth. And so when we when we talk instead of us So they said, well, we don't want to talk to him either. Our marriages are falling apart. Now he's bringing you their stories. And the other enemy doesn't want them to rebuild the temple of God. But the people aren't listening. And so the angel is going to bring three messages to Daniel. And so now that Cyrus has become king in Persia He says, but from the first day And the message from God might The One Degree of Andy podcast. He's not he's not taking any good drink. God uh divinely orchestrated the events of your life so that I could bring you. And the reality is that it's at times like this. And so I think these three messages will help you. Be And so he says you've got to get your heart right with God. Watch this. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Daniel has been preaching to the people in I don't care what it is. I know that God loves you because he gave his life for you. Um Daniel, God encourages you not to be afraid. I'm Andy Christman. His camper there In Jesus' name, I pray They don't even want to go back. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. We're walking And so He's That's his first message to Daniel. The first message In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. God loves you. That's how I know God loves you. Now, as we That's the first And Daniel, from the day that you set your heart Daniel I know he loves For a copy of