Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Bless his name. I want to call your attention this morning as we continue to worship God and celebrate. His awesomeness. I'm going to call your attention to the gospel according to Mark. Mark chapter 10. The gospel of Mark chapter 10, beginning at verse 17. And God's word reads as follows. Now as he was going out on the road, one came running, knelt before him, and asked him, Good teacher, What shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? So Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good but one. And that is God. You know the commandments. Do not commit adultery. Do not murder. Do not steal. Do not bear false witness. Do not defraud. Honor father and mother. And he answered and said to him, Teacher, all these things I have kept from my youth. Then Jesus, looking at him, loved him and said to him, One thing you lack Go your way and sell whatever you have. Give to the poor. You will have treasure in heaven. Come and take up your cross and follow me. But he was sad at this saying or at this word. And he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. Amen. I want to preach the gospel this morning. Y'all know what the gospel is? Pray with me for a moment. Heavenly Father, thank you. For the opportunity we have to stand and declare your word in this place. God, empower me from on high. Endow me even now, God, strengthen my physical body. Speak through these lips of clay, God, words, everlasting words. Heavenly Father, that would change the life of someone who's on their way to hell. Snatch them, God, out of the grips of the devil. God edify those who are here, God, because somebody thinks they're saved, but God, they're on their way to hell too. God save them from their own wisdom. Heavenly Father, I'm praying that you will reclaim the drifter today, Lord, that they would realize what they have in you. Stop running from you, but run to you. God encourage the downtrodden today. Lift up their heads. Speak a word in this place that your name would be glorified. Have your way, heavenly Spirit. Reign, rule, have dominion in this place. In the name of Jesus, we ask this prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. The gospel is good news. But you know what I've I've come to understand a lot uh in church is that we We preach the Bible sometimes. Well, not everybody's preaching the Bible, but um sometimes we get in the habit of preaching. And going through lesson and lesson and encouragement and direction, and we miss one of the most fundamental principles of what we're preaching for. The purpose of the preacher is to declare the good news of Jesus Christ. When I was coming up in ministry, some of the older preachers would say it this way. No matter what you were preaching about, you gotta go by the cross. You gotta go into the grave. And you gotta go and raise them up the third day. Doesn't matter if you're talking about money, you got to go to the cross. You gotta go in the grave and you gotta raise him from the dead. Doesn't matter if you're talking about prosperity, doesn't matter if you're talking about sin in your life or doing better or encouraging yourself, whatever you're talking about, you gotta go by the cross. Gotta go to the grave and gotta raise him from the dead. So this morning, I'm gonna go by the cross. And talk about the good news. This gospel, according to Mark, Mark being the shortest of the four gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, it is It is one of the synoptic gospels, meaning that it is similar in its content to Matthew and Luke, John not being one of those synoptic gospels. But of all the four gospels, Mark is the shortest of them all. Mark, in the midst of his writing, will find him using the word immediately Over and over and over again. It almost seems like to me as I read through the Gospel of Mark that Mark is in a hurry somehow to get the story told. Amen. But in the in the in the process of him telling the stories in such a powerful and compacted way, he has a way of in in in in I guess how do I say he has a way of And then immediately something else happens and immediately God's going here. And immediately Jesus is going here. Jesus in the process of Mark's gospel is is is finds himself moving all around, all around, all around, and immediately, immediately, immediately something's happening. Mark chapter 10, verse 45, is one of what we will call a key verse to the whole book of Mark. Jesus lets us know that he did not come to be served, but to serve. The reason why that's a key verse to the Gospel of Mark is because Mark's gospel depicts Jesus as one of a servant. He lets us know that Jesus is a servant. Not only was he God, not only was he a redeemer, not only was he like man, but he was a servant. He didn't come to be served, but he came to serve. That that's the the key verse, if you will, of all uh that Mark has to say in his gospel. Now uh in this gospel of Mark, I want to talk to you in these verses that I've read in your hearing from the subject matter, do you have eternal life? Do you have eternal life? Now I'm going to need your help this morning if you would just kind of turn to your neighbor. Don't answer the question yet, but just turn to your neighbor and ask them, do you have Eternal life. So I don't want y'all to say it too fast because when you say it too fast, they might misunderstand what you said. Take your time and ask them: do you have eternal life. Now y'all gotta look at him look at him like y'all having a conversation. Don't just turn your don't be faking. I mean you really look them in the face and ask Do you have eternal life? See, because that's a question. Watch this. This question that that I've just caused you to present and to pose to the person that's sitting next to you is a question that has a multitude of answers. Now, let me take you two a step further. Turn to your neighbor once again. Now that you've asked them, do they have eternal life? Ask them, how do you know? So I'm I'm really, really, really getting into your business. I'm really getting into your business now. Um and now just one more time, if you just turn to them one more time, and then ask them, are you sure You have eternal life. Now, watch this. These three questions, I've discovered something in my 20 years of ministry. I've discovered that these three questions will cause folk to answer all kinds of ways. I mean, and I'm not just talking, listen to me. I'm not just talking about unsaved people. I'm not talking about people who haven't been in church. I'm talking about you can ask some people that really are saved Do you have eternal life? And they'll tell you all kind of stuff. And then you say, are you sure? How do you know for sure that you have eternal life? And they'll say, um, um Um and they'll start giving you stuff like, um I go to church, I've been good. I I've been keeping the you know, I try to do the right thing. I don't hurt nobody, don't kill nobody. Trying to keep the law and and you know the the the golden rule and and stuff like that. These are the kind of answers that you typically will receive from people when you ask them about their eternal life. Yaskuma they're sure. As a matter of fact, I've asked this question on many occasions, and one of the answers that I've got in in in over and over and over again. is you can't be sure. Now, this is between me and you, if uh, if I have eternal life and I can't be sure of it, that makes me a miserable person. So we wanna we wanna look at this. We want to try to understand um just a little bit better about eternal life and and hopefully when you leave today you'll be able to answer the question, do you have eternal life properly? You'll be able to know why you have it and you'll be sure that you have it. Every child of God needs, if you are a child of God, if you are born again, if you've been washed in the blood, if you've been Redeemed every child of God that's been redeemed needs to know you you ought not be guessing. You shouldn't have to say, you know, I think I have it. No, you should know that you have it. And if you don't have it, ain't no need in pretending because we're gonna expose you today too. All right, let's let's get to the text. Um in the in the text we we we we pick up here in in Mark's gospel, Jesus has been moving around from place to place. He's he's been ministering just before this particular text picks up. He's been ministering to Some children and you know the disciples had come and said, you know, get the children away, and Jesus says, No, let them come to me. And and and the children came and he blessed the children and he he told Though the disciples and those that were gathered around, he said, Except one comes as a little child, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. So he he lays that out. And and now that's critical to where we pick up because where we pick up in verse number 17, we find this this this young man. ruler as as one of the gospel lets us know. He's a rich ruler who who run who comes to Jesus. He says now verse 17. Now as he was going out on the road, Jesus was leaving after all He had done. He has blessed the children. He has shared with them that they need to come to God as as little children. And if not, there will be no means enter into the kingdom of God. He blessed the children, he's on his way, he's leaving out, and and here comes this rich ruler running and knelt down before him and asked him, Good teacher What shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? If you are evangelistic in nature, in other words, if you're interested in sharing the gospel and watching Folk come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. If that's you, this is the kind of question that causes you to get so excited you almost can't even answer Can you imagine you walking down the street and somebody comes running to you and they they tap you on the back and say, what must I do to inherit eternal life? You're in a grocery store and somebody comes running, and not only do they come running, but they come running and they kneel down before you and they say, What must I do? To inherit eternal life. Now, you know what the shame of this is? The shame of this is if somebody did come running to most of us and asked us what must we do To inherit eternal life. Most of us say, wait a minute, I got called past this therly. Y'all know I'm right. This young man comes to Jesus and says to him, What must I do? to inherit eternal life. The first thing that I want to extract from this text is that he looks like he looks like it looks like he he's looking for peace. So he looks for peace. At least on the surface it it appears that this man has some trouble in his spirit and he's heard that unless one becomes as a little child, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. And he says, wait a minute, I I I don't think I've done that. And he says, he he runs to Jesus. He he gets In position, he kneels down and he he asks, what must I do? It looks like he's seeking peace for his soul. Looks like it looks like it. But but let me let me share something with you because I I believe as I examine this text that what we see here is not what it really appears. And as I was looking at this text, it caused me to realize that in church on Sunday morning, not only in Kettering Baptist Church, but at services around the world, what looks like is happening is not always happening. Everybody does not always come seeking peace. Matter of fact, there's some churches this morning where some somebody showed up just to cause a mess. This guy looks like he's he he's looking For some peace. He he he just heard some disturbing news. Matter of fact, when I was talking about when I asked you to ask your neighbor, do you have eternal life? And I asked you, Are you sure? And you asked you, How do you know that you're sure? Some of you that the whole question That whole line of questioning disturbed you. And right now you're sitting in your seat saying, Pastor, you better finish this message because I need some peace for my soul. Everybody doesn't want peace. Now watch this. What makes it look like he's looking for peace? He runs to Jesus. He doesn't walk. Jesus finished teaching. He's walking on down the road. Here comes this this young man, rich ruler, and he runs To Jesus. He's running to Jesus. He's not walking. He's not casually strolling saying, I'm gonna catch up with him. Yeah, you know him. I catch up with him. But hey Jesus, come away for me, man. No, he He's running to Jesus. And when he gets to him, he kneels down, in he gets in the right posture. And it looks like if you were watching this, you would think that he he had assumed the right position. And he had humbled himself and probably perhaps even bowed himself. Before Jesus, recognizing him as holy and royalty, and he gives him the homage that he it looks like he's doing the right thing. Kind of like some of you when you bow your heads, when the pastor says It's time to pray. And you bow your hands, but you ain't praying. You're thinking about what I'm gonna do after church today. This young ruler, he's in the right position. He's got the right posture. And and watch this. He he he he kneels and he says Good teacher. He he he he exalts him. He gives him praise. He lifts him up. He says, not just teacher, good teacher. He's in position. He's got all the right posturing that will cause us to assume that he really is seeking peace But when I looked at that and the further I examined that, I said, God, how is it that we have churches full of people and they look like they're going to heaven? But a whole lot of them are on their way to hell because they don't know if they have eternal life and they're not sure that they have it. And and and and and they got all these issues and they all got all these problems and they they can't even answer the simple questions Do you have eternal life? And are you sure about it? And how do you know? Because they got the right posture. They do. They come, they rush to church, they cut you off on the road. To get there. And I'm very thankful for the bumper sticker that says Jesus saves. Because every time I get cut off by somebody, I thank God that Jesus saves. When I see that Bob says nevertheless, watch this. They're going and they're rushing. They're getting to the right place. They get to the church they rush into the church they posture themselves for for praise and worship and we've got praise and worship we got it down almost to a science now and we're praying it looks like we're giving him glory it looks like we're exalting him it looks like We're praising him. We got the right posture. We got the right, we got the right attitude. It looks like we got it together. But how is it that we got churches full of folk who are dying and going to hell? How is that This guy has the right posture, but your posture does not denote sincerity in your motive. Did you realize that you really cannot worship God if you're not saved? Did you realize that? You can't worship who you don't know, but you wave your hand. And you sing the praise song, but who are you really praising when you don't know him? This guy has the right posture. He he does all what what appears to be the right things. He runs to Jesus, he kneels before Jesus, and he asks him. He even exalts him. He says, Good teacher. You you a good teacher, Jesus. What shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? So Jesus asked the question, he said, why you call me good? You know what I when I f when you know from a theological perspective, when I first read that question, I said Jesus is trying to point him to God. He's not trying to He doesn't want him to recognize him as God. He wants to make sure that he's looking to one that's greater than him. But then I went back and looked at this thing again. And what I realized that Jesus was saying is that I know your motive You a rich spoiled brat who's used to getting your way. You know how to put on a show. You know how to say the right things to flower me up. to get what you want. It's kind of like your children. You know, when when your children really want something, how you doing, Ma? Is everything alright? I sure love you. And you know my kids do stuff like that. I know they want something. Usually money. This this he he he knows how to butter. You can't butter up Jesus to get what you want. Did you realize that I'm I'm trying to help somebody. You you can't butter him up just because you come to church. He ain't he that's not sufficient. You're not buttering him up by coming to church. You you did not do him a favor by coming to Bible study on Wednesday and Sunday school this morning and church right now. You you did not do him a favor. You are not getting on his good side just because you showed up at church. This this is I knew this was gonna be tough, but I'm I'm gonna lay it out anyway, because see we we we're we're used to hearing news but not good news. Am I right? Got CNN going on 24 hours a day. Matter of fact, got CNN, they got CNN sports, they got CNN this, CNN that. You got all kind of news going on. I was listening, watching TV the other day, and and I I realized Channel 4 news starts at 4 o'clock, doesn't go up till 730. And I said, man, that's a whole lot of news, but it ain't no good news. I just came to share some good news. This guy thought he could butter up Jesus. Jesus, why you call me good? Verse number 18. He says, There's no one good but one, and that is God. So verse 19 picks up. He says, You know the commandments. Listen what he does not say. This man says, What must I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus says, You know the commandments. Hold that thought. Do not commit adultery. He begins to list some of the commandments. Do not commit adultery. Do not murder. Do not steal. Do not bear false witness. Do not defraud. Honor your father and your mother. This is not all of the commandments, just in case you were wondering. Exodus chapter 20, you can find the rest of them. He just lays some of them out and he says, and so the young man answered and he says to him, Teacher, all these things have I kept from my youth. I've I've I've been good. I haven't broken any the law. I've been obedient to the golden rule. I haven't killed nobody. I haven't stole from nobody. I'm relatively good, and I know there's some good folk here today. But hell is full of good folks Listen to what Jesus doesn't say. Jesus does not say, watch this. First of all, I had this question. I said, if this young man can come to Jesus and say, I've done all the law I've kept all the commandments, I've done all that you required of me, then why is he asking him, What must I do to inherit eternal life? Listen to what Jesus does not say. Jesus did not say you need to be obedient to all the laws on the book. He didn't say that. He says, you know the law. Let me help you with this one. Just because you know the law doesn't mean you have eternal life. This this dude knew the law. Jesus says, you know, you know the commandments And he says he lifts them off in the and the young man says um I've I've kept all those. I kept all the laws. I I kept All the commandments. I've done all the good things. I've I've I've walked the old ladies across the street. You know, I'm making I'm putting offerings in. I'm you know, I'm I'm working in my community, I'm doing all this stuff, but but knowing the law Is not sufficient. There's a lot of people who know the law and still go to hell. I'm gonna move on. Verse 19, he's he's he says, now you know the law The answer says, I've kept all these things. But watch this. Keeping the law is not sufficient. If you kept all of the commandments from your youth up, You're still in trouble. And I guarantee you, there ain't a person in here who has kept the law. The Bible says when you, Jesus said this way, when you fall in one area, you've fallen in the whole law. I believe Paul laid it out that way. Paul says, if you falter at one point, you've fallen at it all. In other words, when you want when you make one mistake. You violated the whole law. So, guess what? Keeping the law is not sufficient for eternal life. Knowing the law is not sufficient for you to inherit eternal life. Y'all still with me. Knowing the law is not sufficient. Keeping the law is not commission sufficient. Jesus never says to him, keep all the commandments. He never says that to him. He says, You know them. And then he says, I kept them. He turns to Jesus. Verse 21 says, then Jesus looking at him loved him. Here's a man. Jesus knows his heart. Jesus knows his motive. He's trying to pull out of him. Jesus knows everything about this man and he asks him these questions and he responds to him. And then he says. I still loved him. If we are not loved by Jesus, there is no hope of eternal life. Without Jesus' love, you and I and everybody else is lost. Praise the Lord. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website At Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-574-3515. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence.