Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. I want to encourage your attention to Hebrews chapter 5. We'll begin our reading at verse 9. The word of the Lord reads as follows. And having been perfected, he became the author of eternal salvation to all who obey him, called by God as high priest according to the order of Melchizedek. of whom we have much to say and hard to explain since you have become dull of hearing. For though by this time you ought to be teachers You need someone to teach you again the first principles of the oracle of God. And you have come to need milk and not solid food. For every one who partakes only of milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, for he is obeyed. But solid food belongs to those who are Of full age, that is, those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we bless you for the word of God. We thank you for the privilege we have to stand and declare your word. Lord, even now I pray that you would allow your Holy Spirit in me to speak clearly in this place. the very oracle of God. Give us, God, an extra level of attentiveness that we might hear from you on today. I pray, God, for anyone who may be in this place or listening to me or who might listen to this message later, who doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, God, that their eyes might be open and their heart might be open to the gospel of Jesus Christ, that they may become a believer in you by the preaching of this gospel. Spirit of the Lord, I pray that you would encourage this body, that you would edify us, grow us up in you, Lord, help us to become more like you. I pray Spirit of the Lord, if there's any that need to repent of sin and come back to you to rededicate their lives, let today be the day, God, that they're drawn back to you. Father, in all that is done. And all that is said, I really and truly want to have your name get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. So Lord, it is in Jesus' name that I pray and I stand and ask for your help because I can't do this without you. So use me, Lord, as an instrument in your hand to accomplish your will. In your name we pray. The people of God said together, Amen One of the great concerns that I have of late is church seems to me to be growing more secular. More passive, more cosmetically concerned, while immaturity and passivity and shallowness Seem to be the new norms of the church. We have become so easily moved away from wanting to do the things that God has required of us and asked of us And yet so here we are dealing with this immaturity in the house of God. And I don't want to thrust the blame on the congregation because I believe it begins in the pulpit. So when the pulpit stops using the scripture and starts teaching from the text of CNN, I think we can only understand that it is inevitable that the church will become weak and it will become uh diluted of the truth. And people who are sitting around calling themselves Christians are believing all kinds of anything. There are people who are walking around calling themselves Christians who aren't even sure if they were to die today that they would go to heaven. They can't even tell you from the scripture how they know it for sure. And in fact, if you ask them, they'll have answers like, well, I hope I will, I think I might. I've tried to be a good person, and let me help you with that when there's nobody good. We've tried in so many ways to become so connected with the social culture that we've abandoned the theology and the strength of the gospel. Are y'all still here? In this text of Hebrews, the author here writes to that Jewish Christian to confirm to them that Judaism has ended because the law has been fulfilled in Jesus Christ Himself. He writes to encourage them not to go back to that which is inadequate, but to move forward and not to stop short of faith in Jesus Christ. Who lived and died and gave his life for you and paid the price for you? Don't stop short of faith in that. Hebrews makes it clear to the Jew that salvation is through Christ and Him alone. That in fact Christ is better than anything you had under the law. He's better than the angels. He's better than Joshua He's better than Moses. He's better than Aaron the high priest. And in fact, he's better than any other high priest that you've ever had. Because every other high priest that you had when he went in to do offerings for you had the first offer for an offering for his own sin. But Jesus, when he went in to offer an offering on our behalf, he had no sin of his own. In chapter five, so he is declared the high priest, that is, according to the order of Melchizedek. The one who has no beginning and has no end. He is the high priest that is better than any high priest that we have ever had or ever experienced. And there is much more that the author of Hebrew says he wants to talk about, but you're you're you're dull of hearing. By now you ought to be teachers, but you still need milk. You still need to be taught, retaught, the elementary principles of the Word of God. I want to teach through a series of messages entitled Grow Up. I just feel led of God to really just kind of deal with that subject matter for a few weeks. But in this morning's text, I want to talk from the subject idea, the elementary principles, again. Now, it's so important for us to get these elementary principles. Of the Word of God and the doctrine of salvation So we can kind of understand what is this whole thing all about? Because I I really think we're we're missing it while we're chasing after the prosperity preachers and we're trying to get a bunch of homes and a bunch of cars and we're We want to feel good and we want the vibe to be right and all that stuff. That won't get you to heaven. You're gonna vibe your way right to hell. You don't get to take any of your riches with you. And your riches will corrode and they will decay, but only what you have from Christ in terms of eternal life. Will last you beyond this world. So I want to try to break this down in three parts as I talk about these elementary principles again. Maybe you missed some of them when this class was taught before. When you were sitting in the church and the preacher was preaching, or when you sat down with the counselor and the counselor was walking you through. How to give your life to Christ. Maybe you missed some of this. And so just in case, I just want to review for us on this morning and for those perhaps who've never heard this before. I want to kind of teach you, but just walk through this in three phases. I want to talk first about creation. And then destruction. And then I want to deal with redemption. The overview of creation happens in Genesis chapter 1, verses 26 through 28, somewhere around there. Man and woman are created in the image of God. God says, let us make man in our own image and after our own likeness. The Lord took dirt and he shaped it and formed it and then the God breathes his breath into the dirt. And the dirt became a living being. But let me help you with this. When the Bible says God breathed his breath, another word that would be used for us would be spirit. So God shaped dirt and blew his spirit into the dirt, and the dirt became a living being After creating the man, it wasn't good for him to be alone, so God makes him a woman. He puts the man asleep, breaks off a rib, and from the rib he creates a woman. Y'all know that part of the story, right? God says to them as he's brought them together, now be fruitful and multiply. This is the purpose. And most of us, when we think about the multiplication, we're only thinking about God saying to Adam and Eve, Go make some babies. But I want you to look at this a little deeper. God is not as concerned as the babies as he is about the multiplication of his image. The purpose that God has for us is that we would reflect his image and that we would Constantly and continually and eternally be connected to him. He wants us to be with him forever. So the Lord he says to them, Be fruitful, multiply my image. And then there is this restriction that he provides. In Genesis chapter 2, verse 17, he says, I'm giving you every fruit of the of this garden to eat from. Provided everything you need. And you could eat all of these, but this one tree that's in the midst of the garden, he's talking to Adam. You shall not eat of this tree. For the day that you eat of this tree, you will surely die. God provides this one restriction, and He gives man freedom to choose. And then comes destruction. In Genesis chapter 3, we start off by saying, and the serpent was more cunning than any other any other beasts of the field. So now the woman's having this conversation with with the serpent. And through the process of the conversation with the serpent and the woman and man, the relationship they have, they both take of the fruit, and they eat of the fruit of the tree that they have been forbidden to eat from. When they take of the fruit and they eat, God said, You will surely die. The serpent said, You won't surely die. Guess what? Because he's a liar, he keeps lying. When they took of the fruit and they ate the fruit, Physically, they still were moving around. They didn't die in the sense of physical death. But remember, I said they didn't really live until God had blown his spirit into them. It was God's spirit that was now removed from them because sin separates us from the holiness of God. And so when man and woman disobeyed God, the only restriction God gave them, when they disobeyed God Spiritually, they died to God, they now no longer had a spiritual connection with God They were dead to God. And for the person who has not been reconciled to God, reconnected to God, the person who has not been reborn or born again, you are still spiritually dead. You have no connection to God. You can come to church every Sunday and still be dead because it's not church membership that gets you connected to God. It's not baptism in that water that's going to reconnect you to God. And for those of you who are trying, I'm trying, Pastor, I'm trying You can't try to connect yourself back to God because you have now become defiled by the sin of Adam. When Adam sinned, his blood became corrupted. And every person born after, they now receive the transplanted corrupted blood of Adam. So when you were born, you were born in sin with corrupted blood. And so you were born with a nature that doesn't want to do what God says do. Because it's a disobedient nature. It's so disobedient. Defiled, corrupted blood. So we're all born in sin and shaped in iniquity. Romans 3. 23 says, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. We're all corrupt. The Bible says we're like filthy rags before God. That's the best we can do. So let me help you. You can't reconnect yourself to the holiness of God by your good deeds. Salvation, Ephesians 2. 89, is a grace gift from God. It's not of works. It cannot be accomplished by your works. The moment that the man and the woman ate, the Bible says in Genesis, it says the man and the woman they knew that they they knew that they were naked and they hid themselves from God. And then God came, and what he did was he made a covering from animal skin for Adam and Eve. Because they were now dead spiritually to him, and so he covered their sin with animal shedding of blood. Leviticus 17, 11 says, the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you to make atonement for your sin. Okay? What pastor, why did you bring that up? Because after the the the covering that is made by God in Genesis The process of continuing to shed animal blood to make sacrifices for sin keeps on going throughout the Old Testament history They're always offering bulls and goats and lambs and all that, but it's only for a covering of sin. It's not for a removal of sin. But what the writer of Hebrews says. Elementary principle. When Jesus died on the cross and shed his blood, he not only covered sin, but he redeemed you from it. But now we move from creation to destruction. Now you understand the destruction. Destruction includes eternal separation from God, because man is dead to God. He's unc disconnected from God. But that's going to be eternal because there's No means by which he can be reconnected to God. And so man is in a in a quandary. There's nothing he can do He can't fix himself back to holiness. And and and the shedding of blood only covers the sin. So he's still guilty of the sin. And as a result of this guilt of the sin, the Bible says in Romans 6:23 The wages of sin is death. That death is eternal separation from God It means when you die physically, that your soul and your spirit will immediately be separated from God forever. Will be cast into the lake of fire in which hell has already been cast. Okay, let me back up. First you go to hell And then at the end judgment, God will empty hell of all of those whose souls and spirits are in hell and cast them into the lake of fire where hell will also be thrown. Just in case you was wondering, the lake of fire is hotter than hell because the lake of fire will burn up hell. And you get to stay there forever. But here's the worst part. The worst part is you now have an eternal body because guess what? Jesus paid for all sin so that you can have an eternal existence. So now we take you with an eternal existence, put you into the lake of fire where your body burns every single day. 24 hours a day with the heat of the lake of fire, and you're never consumed, but you feel every bit of the fire burning your body every single day. 24 hours a day, seven days a week. For eternity. That's the destruction. As I said, man is in a bad spot. God knows he cannot save himself. There's nothing he can do. What does God do? God takes off his royal, his robe and glory, wraps himself up in flesh. Takes that spirit, and the spirit overshadows Mary, so that the blood that now produces this child is not the blood of Adam. It is the blood of God. And along with the blood of God, we now once again have the Spirit of God in flesh. This is why Jesus is not like any other human. He is like the first Adam before he sinned. That's why the Bible calls him the second Adam. And so now Jesus is on the earth and he has holy, pure, unstained blood. And he keeps his blood holy, unstained, untinted from sin for 33 years. He lives in this earth And he is tempted by every measure that you and I are tempted by, but yet he does not sin. And then The purpose for which he came in the first place, he goes and he allows his creation to crucify him on a cross. Why do they crucify him? Because we need to shed blood. But this blood is not the blood of bulls and goats and lambs that only covers sin. This blood can pay for sin. It's redeeming blood. And when we talk about redemption, the word redeem means to buy back. To restore to original. So when Jesus shed his blood, his blood was to buy the sinner back to himself. And to reconnect us back to himself. And God not only provided his blood to recon connect us back to himself and to pay for our sin, not just the sin of your past that you and I all were stained with, not just the sin that went all the way back to Adam in the garden, but even he paid for sin that we have not yet. Performed. And then he gave us back his spirit. This is why we use the term born again. You were dead to God, but He by His blood has made you alive So now I'm alive to God, which means I have a connection with God. I can talk to God and God hears me. God's spirit is in me, so I can discern the spirits outside of me. So when I hear the word of God, my spirit in me knows that's the word of God. But if I don't have his spirit and I'm just churchy, I can say anything to you and it sounds good to you. But if you've got the spirit in you, the spirit says that ain't my word. So now we have the ability by the redemptive blood that was shed by Jesus to buy us back and to reconnect us and to refill us with the Spirit of God. And now we're back in the condition that the first Adam was, reconnected to God, redeemed to God. What Hebrews author says here is that he became the author, verse 9, the author of eternal salvation to all who will do what Obey. What was it that separated us in the first place? Disobeying. So he's the author of eternal life to all who will obey So what does Jesus ask for us to do? Acts chapter 3, verse 19. Repent therefore and be converted, that your sin may be blotted out Repent. What do you mean by repent, Pastor? It means a turning of your heart away from sin towards God. It means to say in your heart. It means to say with conviction. It means to say I no longer have a desire to live a life that displeases God. I want to live for God. That's repentance. Repent and be converted, that your sin may be blotted out. What is it that makes me sure that I'm saved? Well, have I repented of my sin? Have I turned away from sin and towards God? Have I by faith placed my faith in Jesus for my eternal life? What do you mean by faith, Pastor? It means you trust in God. For eternal life, and that he has literally paid for all of my sin, just like the scripture says. He died according to the scripture. He rose again the third day according to the scripture. All of this, boom I believe I place faith in God for that. I'm trusting God. But here's another way you can know this for sure. I know for sure that I'm saved and I'm on my way to heaven and I have eternal life because of the testimony of God. 1 John chapter 5. Somewhere around verse 9 it says, If you believe the witness of men, then the witness of God is far greater. And this is the witness of God. God has testified that life, that is, eternal life, is in His Son. And he who has the son has life. And he who does not have the son does not have life These things I have written to you who believe on the name of the Son of God that you have eternal life and that you will continue to believe So now I know that I'm born again, and I know when I die, I'm going to heaven because of the testimony of God. And not only that, I know this because Jesus says: all those who the Father have given into my hand, I've kept them. Nobody can pluck them out of my hand. I guarantee you eternal life. This is the words and testimony of Jesus Well, how long does eternal life last? For those of you who are on this fence about, well, maybe I did something that was so bad that I don't have it anymore. Well, eternal means forever. If you could have it today and lose it tomorrow, it would be temporal life. He did not die for temporary life. He died for you to have eternal life So you can be eternally reconnected to him. So you can be eternally filled with his spirit. These ladies and gentlemen are the elementary principles again. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Servic Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.