Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word from Matthew chapter nine. Beginning at verse 35 reads as follows Then Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion for them, because they were weary and scattered like sheep having no shepherd. And then he said to his disciples, The harvest is truly plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore, pray the Lord of the harvests to send out laborers into the harvest Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we need you as we open up this scripture on today that you might make it come alive in our life and in our application Father, it is my prayer as I stand to declare your word that you would allow my voice to hold, my strength to be maintained, that I might be able to articulate and be used by you to the extent that you have already ordained and desired me to be used. God shall the words and the sermon and the message this morning cause someone who's lost and dying and on their way to a Christless hell. Cause them, God, to turn around and change their life that they might experience eternity on today. I'm praying, God, for those who've been And come into the relationship with you in the past, but yet drifted away. They've fallen aside and asunder. And I'm praying God that today would be the day that They would rededicate their lives to you, that they would make a commitment to you, God, that I'm coming back to you beginning this Sunday in 2024, and I'm rededicating my heart and rededicating my life and rededicating my service to the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. God Work a work in the midst of our time. Father, provoke, correct, instruct, heal, deliver, save. Most importantly, glorify yourself. And all that is done and said, I'll give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise for you alone are worthy of it all in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. We find ourselves on this morning in this passage here in Matthew, Jesus was literally modeling for us what servanthood should look like. And he showed us what it looks like. And that's one of the things I love about the Lord. He doesn't just go send you off doing something that he himself has not done. Then that in and of itself is a great model of leadership for a leader ought to be willing to do what they're asking others to do themselves. And so even this morning when I asked you to give Amen. To the benefit of the paying off of the debt. Tell you I I wouldn't ask you that if I wasn't doing it myself And when I said I um, you know, if if even if you're not doing that, give regularly to the support of the ministry. I wouldn't ask you to do that unless I was doing it myself. And so a leader leads and they lead by example, and Christ was the example for us. I need to talk honestly with you on this morning. I need to pause for a moment to say to you that I know that as we go through this series of messages entitled Serving our Savior sacrificially, there's going to be some tough subject matter that we're going to have to deal with, partly because of the nature of the kind of people that we are. Amen, somebody. What we have become, but I I need to say this that I'm bound to speak honestly to you. Amen. I can't soften the blow. I need to speak to you with truth and with love. Are y'all still here with me? Um, I can't sugarcoat the truth unless it's not the truth anymore And so I need to speak honestly with us as we walk through this because if I don't speak honestly with us as a body of believers and as a world that listens in if I don't speak honestly on the condition of where we are right now as a society as a culture As the church of the living God, I am wasting God's calling on my life. Help me, Jesus. I'm not just wasting God's calling on my life. I'm wasting your time. Amen. Because anybody can come up here and and smooth your ears over and tell you nice things and tell us all that we're doing well and wonderful when the truth is we're not. Amen somebody. When the church is dying all around us, when the world is growing darker all around us I would be a fool to have a calling on my life to preach a gospel of reconciliation, of truth, and have had God call me out of darkness into the marvelous light, shed his blood for me, place me in this position. I'd be the biggest fool to stand up here and tell you everything is okay. So I've got to be honest with you, I've got to tell you the truth as to where we are and the struggles that we're dealing with in the world that we're living in. Are y'all y'all are still here with me this morning? And so uh if if you happen to get offended, um good. But I'm not trying to offend you. If you if you get offended, it's because the word of God is offensive to a walk that's not in order with him. I think I feel like I'm preaching better than I'm getting amended. But it but it's okay. This is a gospel that we are are laying out on this morning is a gospel It is apportioned to us because of the ransom price that was paid for us. We went through the ceremonial communion service on this morning. And we partook of the bread and we partook of the cup. We went through the ritualistic practices of doing this in remembrance of him. But I need to raise the flag just a little bit to remind us That is not just ritualistic. We we are who we are and we are where we are as it relates to our position in Christ Jesus, our salvation that we experience, because he paid a ransom price for us. Are y'all still here with me? I'm I'm trying to get to the text. Uh I I I need to be honest with us because I feel like and I see that as as I'm looking over the terrain of the culture that we live in, we I need to be honest about the fact of and and I need to tell you sh Strictly and and and very pointedly that we've drifted from the calling of God for us to serve Him and to serve one another. We've drifted from that to a place where we're Spending our energies, our efforts to serve ourselves. Not me, Pastor. Yeah, you you too. We're drifting from the calling of God, we're drifting from the grace of God, and we're spending more and much of our energies, our efforts, our resources, our time on serving ourselves. We've become the eye generation. As I talked about it on last week, we have fallen into the eye wheels of Satan. Of Isaiah chapter 14, I will exalt my throne above God. I will ascend on the mountain. I will be like the Most High. I will be God. That's where we as a culture are moving ourselves to. We don't need God because we are God. And we're acting as though we have no need of him. As if somehow we can save ourselves. I stop by let you know you can't save yourself. You you can light a hundred candles ten times a day. You can face the east, north, south, and west You can buy on every mat, you can buy every Buddha, you can transmeditate, you can even float in the air, but you still ain't going to heaven unless you come through Jesus. He said, I am the way, I'm the truth. I'm the life. Nobody can get to the Father except you come through me. So I'm just gonna I just I need to be honest. I just straight shooting I time is just it's it we it's getting dark and and around us and it we we don't have time to play. No more. Not that I ever did, but we we definitely don't have time for it. In our text on this morning Jesus has been going about the cities and he's been exhausting himself teaching and preaching and healing uh the sick and raising the dead and and serving the communities. And as he was doing all of that, he uh he looked and there were still multitudes that were still coming And and what Jesus did as he was looking at these multitudes that was coming, he shares with us some interesting insights of what he saw. in the multitudes. And I I just want to talk this morning in this second part of the series of serving our Savior sacrificially. I want to use this text to talk from the subject matter what the Savior sees. In the text, verse 35 introduces us here, lets us know that he how he's going about preaching and teaching healing, etc. etc. verse 36 picks up and it says, But when he saw the multitudes I like this. He was moved with compassion for them because they were weary and scattered like sheep having no shepherd. The first thing that the Savior sees is that there are a lot of shepherdless sheep. As he's serving, as he's preaching, as he's teaching, as he's healing, he he looks at the multitude But he looks at the multitude with a different lens of intention, and he sees within the multitude that there's a lot of shepherdless sheep. Sometimes as we come to church we see a multitude of people coming And we celebrate the multitude, but if you look more intently, you like Jesus might see some shepherdless sheep. He looked beyond the outwardness of the people. The people were coming. with needs and with desires and with hopelessness and with emptiness and they were They were coming to the well with pictures to be filled by the one who could do it. Jesus Looked at them and he saw their emptiness. He saw their darkness. He saw their directionlessness. He saw that in them. And he said, I see a bunch of Shepherdless sheep. My God. Sometimes I think we should just be a little more intent as to how we look at the crowd. Verse 36 says, He saw the multitude and he was moved with compassion for them. What Jesus saw moved him with compassion for them. And compassion is not just to look at them and say, man, I feel sorry for them. That's pity. Compassion is I look and I see that there is a need and I act. To meet the need. Y'all y'all still with me? What I'm trying to move us to is to start looking at the multitude differently and to look At your multitude differently and look at the people around you differently because if you look intently at the multitude like Jesus did, you'll see that there's a lot of shepherdless people. And you'll have compassion on them because they have no shepherd. Can I just talk? If I pay attention as a child of the living God, I have the Spirit of God in me, and if I have the Spirit of God in me if I pay attention to the Spirit of God when I come upon someone who has no shepherd. The Spirit of God in me will say that person is walking in darkness. Share the gospel with them. He will reveal to me the need if I'm sensitive to it. Can I talk for can I can I help you with this for real, for real? Here's how you get that thing going. When you get up in the morning, pray, God, open up my eyes so that I can see the lost people. God give me an opportunity to share the gospel with somebody who needs it today. I guarantee you he'll show you. Now, watch this. Now, when I see that there's emptiness in the person, I'm moved just like Jesus with compassion to do something about it. I'm not just gonna look at him and say, You lost, you're going you're going to hell. That's that's pity. No, but moved with compassion. He's moved with compassion for the multitude because they are shepherdless sheep. They have no shepherd to lead them. Y'all still here with me? And so he has compassion on them to move and to act on their behalf. Um and so watch this. And so Jesus is compassion, he has compassion because the crowds, the text says they they were weary. They were they were scattered like sheep having no shepherd. When I was reading through this, I couldn't help but think about the the community that we live in, the culture that we live in, the the world that we live in, because if you look around you at the world that you live in, you don't even have to be super spiritual to take pick up on this one There's a lot of shepherdless people. Listen, there's a lot of people who are who are wandering around and they're scattered and they don't know where to go. They don't know what to do. They're trying everything. Amen. All picking up all kinds of strange doctrine, searching for this online on the internet, trying to be spiritual and and trying to be some kind of way connected to something. They smoking weed, all different flavors to try to reach some kind of Y'all know that's true. Might be some of y'all in here. And they're smoking all kind of weed and trying to get to some kind of s level or something. They they they doing all kind of stuff. yoga and this and that and connecting with this guru that guru trying to hook up with this thing that thing try and they done merged religions together they halfway Buddhist and halfway Muslim and and three parts Christian and all that. They people is messed up. They mixed up. They lost. They don't have a shepherd. They need direction. They're scattered about. And if you can agree that you've noticed that in the culture, I'm praying that you would do like Jesus and be moved to compassion. To do something about it. We've been equipped, we've been empowered with the gospel, a message that will give direction to the directionless Scripture says, You and I are the lights of the world. We have the direction. We are the light to shine to those in darkness. If we would just see what Jesus sees. If we can see the shepherdless people, then we would be moved with compassion to do something and to act on their behalf. Y'all still here with me? And so Jesus is moved with compassion to do something about it. And the text is, because these people that he saw were scattered. Like sheep with no shepherd. And I know that we we don't we're not farmers, so we don't really understand sheep and shepherds and all that. Um but sheep that have no shepherd will wander everywhere. And they'll get into all kinds of danger. And they'll get all into all kinds of situations. Matter of fact, sheep without a shepherd will even eat stuff that's not good for them. Amen, Jesus. And that's why some people are tuning into some stuff that ain't even good for them. And they're eating some stuff that ain't even good for them. And then they have the nerve to post it up on online so you can eat some too. Lord have mercy. And I'm thinking take that down. That is toxic. That that is that that will cause people to vomit. That That's nasty. That's not gonna help their spiritual life. That's gonna destroy their relationship with God. That's gonna confuse folk. Take some of this stuff down. Don't just be following everybody because they're telling you you're gonna prosper. Listen, listen, l I I'm sorry, I give give me just a second. Just give me give me a second to get on the get Everybody ain't gonna prosper financially. Can I can I just be for real? Some of us just gonna be broke. Some of us need to be broke. Because as long as you broke, you're gonna keep coming to church, you're gonna keep praying, you're gonna keep seeking God's face, and the moment God gave you more money you be gone like flash so that's the reason why God gotta keep some of us just right on the edge We need some of us need that. If you some of us if we got blessed too much, you never see me in church, you never see him in church. Ne never again And we run around, everybody tell you, oh, you own problems in 2024. God please be with me. The devil always tells you that you can have what you already have. Did you hear what I'm saying? He always promises you what you already have. He did it to Adam in the garden. And he, Adam and Eve, you're gonna be like God. They were made like God. He did it to Jesus. Throw yourself down, and I'll give you all these kingdoms. Jesus made the kingdoms. Don't they belong to him? You're gonna prosper. You already prosper if you're in Christ Jesus. You already possess every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. That's Ephesians chapter 1. Don't y'all read your Bible And so somebody called along and say, oh, you're gonna prosper. Give me this, and I'm gonna you're gonna turn around seven times, you're gonna have a check coming in the mail. What That is demonic doctrine. And so sheep will eat anything when they don't have a shepherd. And as you see this, and as you hear this, and as we witness it in our culture, those who are children of God need to be moved with compassion to see what Jesus sees. When Jesus saw that these sheep people were scattered, he was moved with compassion to act on their behalf. There's something else Jesus sees here in the taxes in verse 37. He he said, then he said to his disciples, The harvest is truly plentiful, but the laborers are few. Jesus not only saw that there was a lot of shepherdless sheep, but he also saw that there was a lack of laborers. Lord help us. Jesus sees the multitude of all these helpless people and he calculates them and basically that's what he what he does he says look these this whole lot of lost people lost they're like sheep without shepherds but he says um But he says he says of these people he counts them as the harvest. He says the harvest is plentiful In other words, all these lost people are harvest. They're harvestable. In other words, they are like fruit that have ripened and they're ready to be picked. All all these lost people are ready to be picked, they're ready to be harvested, they're ready to be drawn in Lord help me. He sees them, and it's a lot of them, and and he says that there's a lot of these people. Matter of fact, there's so many lost people. There's so many shepherdless people that when I evaluate the harvesters to the harvest, there's a labor shortage. There's not enough people working in the vineyard harvesting the harvest. Mm-mm-mm. But the harvest is plentiful. I mean, there's a whole lot of people who are lost. There's a whole lot of people who need to be reached out to. There's a whole lot of people who need your encouragement. There's a whole lot of people who are wandering around trying to. figure this thing out and you already know the answer but there's a lot enough people that are working to do it And the reason is that we are too sophisticated and too educated. And too self-indulgent to care about the lost people. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-627 Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.