Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Daily Hope Ministries. Here's Pastor Rick Warren. Here's what real security is. Putting it in something that can never be taken out. I can lose my health. I can lose my family. I can lose my mind. But I can't lose my salvation because it is finished. Nothing's ever going to change that. And I may really mess up. And I could go way off the deep end. But I, at one point, said yes. And Jesus says, they're in my hand and nobody can take them out. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope, the audio broadcast ministry of Pastor Rick Warren. Today we continue with a special Easter series called Walking Through the Door to Freedom. In these lessons, Rick will show us that Jesus Christ is the door that each of us Must walk through in order to break off the chains in life that weigh us down. In a few moments, we're going to tell you about a resource that will allow you to take a virtual walk along the same path That Jesus walked on his way to the cross. It's called The Journey with Jesus, Deluxe Gift Book, and you can take a sneak peek at it. It right now by going to pastorick. com or by texting the word daily to 99000 while you listen to today's broadcast. Right now, here's Pastor Rick Warren with the final part of a message called The Job Has Been Completed. First Corinthians 10 13. You can try Trust God now not to not allow any temptation greater than you your power to resist it. That means God will never allow more on you than he put What's in you to bear it up? You can trust God to not allow any temptation greater than your power to resist it. And also, when you're tempted, God will provide a way of escape so that you can defeat it. win over Satan. So it gives you a new power that you didn't have before. You don't have to say yes. You have the power to say no. But not only that, because of the cross, I can reject the condemnation. I can stop that incessant flow of negative ideas that are flowing into my mind about me that are putting me down. Constantly. Jesus destroyed Satan's leverage to accuse you. The Bible says like this, Colossians chapter 2, verse 15. God took away Satan's power to accuse you of sin. And God displayed to the whole world Christ's triumph at the cross, where your sins were all taken away. How does he defeat Satan? Well, if you have had your penalty paid and your debt forgiven, what can Satan accuse? If the account is not in heaven, if it's all been wiped out, there's nothing to accuse. Now, do you still mess up? Of course you still mess up. I still mess up all the time. But when the devil comes and starts to accuse me, I'm going to go, what are you talking about? Get out of here. He cannot accuse you. Because there's no condemnation in Christ. It's all been paid off. There's nothing there to attack me with. Do I still physically do wrong things? Of course I do. But the account's been paid in full. It is finished. Paid in full. It's been done. I've been freed. From all that guilt. Now let me give you a couple more and we'll close it. Uh, this one's fast because I want to emphasize the last one. Number four, on the cross, he created a family, including all races. That family is called the church. God wants you to be a part of His family. It's going to be last forever. It's going to outlast the United States. It's going to outlast the world. It's the only thing on the earth that's going to last. the family of God. Everything else will one day be destroyed. And God included all the races. Now I need to understand this. Before the cross, there were two groups of people. There's the Jews, who are God's chosen people, and there's the rest of us. And all of us, whether you're from Africa, Or Asia or Latin America or Europe. We're all in another group called Gentiles. So you're a Gent. If you're not a Jew, I hate to tell you this, you're a Gentile. I'm a Gentile, you're a Gentile. Wouldn't you like to be a Gentile too? And so we're all in this other mess. Now, the Jews were called God's chosen people. Is that right? Yes. They are God's chosen people. What were they chosen to do? To spread the good news about God to everybody else. But they didn't do such a hot job on that one. So plan B is the church. And God says, I really want everybody in my family. I don't just want Jews in my family. I want everybody in my family. Africans and Asians. Asians and Latinos and Europeans and I want everybody. And this happened because of the cross. Look at what the Bible says. Ephesians chapter 2 Verse 14 and 19. Christ has made peace between Jews and Gentiles by making us all one family. We're all in one family now, breaking down the wall of hostility that separates us. People. Now, we are no longer considered foreigners or outsiders, but we can all be fellow citizens and members of God's family. We're all included now. And no matter what your racial background is, the ground is level at the foot of the cross. Jesus Christ belongs to everybody. Salvation belongs to everybody. It's why we welcome people from every background. We are against prejudice, against racism against bigotry because God has made us one family and we say we want our church to look like heaven's gonna look. We're an all-nation congregation Congregation. No matter what background, you're you're welcome here. Now the fifth thing, here's one more. The fifth thing that makes Good Friday good news is this that on the cross, when Jesus said it's finished, this Is a big one. Write it down. He guaranteed my salvation forever. I don't have to guarantee it. He guarantees it. I don't have to keep myself safe. He keeps me saved. It's not like you're gonna be saved today, and then a couple days later you're gonna be lost again, and then a week later after that you get saved again, and then like two months Later, you commit a sin and you get lost again, and it's like saved, lost, saved, lost, and you live a perfect life or a nearly great life, and on the last day just do the wrong thing and boom, go to hell. No, that's not it at all Once you are saved, he guarantees your salvation forever. You're listening to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. There's more great teaching coming up. If you'd like to connect with Rick, just go to Pastor Rick. com and click on his social media. links and while you're there be sure to sign up for his free daily email devotional and if you'd like to let Rick know how this broadcast has touched your life you can email him at Rick at pastorick. com. Every year at Easter, we remember Jesus' sacrifice for us and celebrate his resurrection. Some Christians are able to travel to Jerusalem to walk the path that Jesus took on His way to the cross. It's called the Via Dolorosa, which translates to the way of suffering. Since you may not be able to travel to Jerusalem, Pastor Rick created a unique reason Resource called Journey with Jesus that will give you a way to celebrate, reflect, and pray about what Jesus did for you on the cross. This brand new one-of-a-kind resource will Take you through the 15 stops that the Bible tells us Jesus took on the road to Calvary. Every stop Jesus made along the way of suffering. Details the biblical account of what happened there, and reflects upon the sacrificial love of Jesus. You'll learn why Mary, from Bethany, anointed Jesus with a specific oil, why Jesus prayed so often in the Garden of Gethsemane, and how he handled obedience to God. Journey With Jesus will give you deeper biblical insights as it takes you through the betrayal by Judas, the trial of Jesus, the denials of Peter. And the death and resurrection of Christ. Journey with Jesus is a deluxe hardcover gift edition book with high-quality glossy pages and includes photos of commissioned mosaic tile artwork that represent each stop Jesus made on his path to Calvary. This is a great gift book to give Keep and study time and time again. And it would make a great gift for your family and friends too. We'll send you our Journey with Jesus Deluxe gift book when you donate to Daily Hope this month. It's because of the generosity of people like you that we're able to share the certain hope of Jesus around the world. Just go to pastorick. com right now to get your copy of this amazing study. tool or you can call 800-600-5004. That's pastorick. com or 800-600-5004. Thanks so much for your support. Hi, this is Rick Warren, Bible teacher for the Daily Hope broadcast. Did you know that because of Easter, your past can be forgiven, you get a purpose for living? And you can have a home in heaven. That's good news. Where else can you get that kind of news? Nowhere else. And did you know that at Easter, studies have shown people are more open to an invitation to go to church Than at any other time of the year. Don't go to church by yourself. But bring somebody who doesn't know Jesus Christ, a family member, a friend, a co-worker, a neighbor, a relative. And if you bring them to that church service and they come to know Christ, you're going to be making a friend for eternity. It'll be the most important investment you can ever make in their lives. And by the way, if they come to Christ, would you let me know About it. I'd love to hear that story that you brought somebody to Easter and they found Jesus. You can write to me, rick at pastorick. com. That's rick at pastorick. com. I would love to hear from you. God bless you and happy Easter. Easter. You're listening to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. Once again, here's Pastor Rick Warren. God isn't going to save you for a little bit and then let you go off in the ditch. Now you may mess up, you may lose some fellowship, you may lose some rewards, but you're you're a child of God. Once you have salvation, you can't lose Look at what the Bible says. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8. Saving is all his idea. All we do Is trust him enough to let him do it. It is God's gift from start to finish. A gift is not something you earn. A gift is something that's given to you that you You don't deserve. You don't deserve to be saved. I don't deserve to be saved. It's a gift. Why? Because of what Jesus did on the cross. Now you understand why it's Good Friday? Because you can't And lose your salvation. It is finished. It's all been paid for. Now, when you die, you're gonna have some unfinished business. No doubt about that. But there's one thing that's been finished for you a long time ago Time. It's been finished 2,000 years. Your salvation. It's already been finished. And there's nothing you could add to it. I mean, can you imagine if I went to the Louvre in Paris and I took some paintbrushes, I said, you No, I'm just gonna do a little improvement here on the Mona Lisa. You don't it's redundant. There's nothing I can do to improve it. Or if I took some chisel in and I went to the Vatican, I'm just going to improve on Michelangelo's David statue. That's the stupidity of thinking that you can do something. To earn your salvation, in addition to what Jesus Christ did for you on the cross. Nothing else is needed. He did it all. And that's why he shouted: I did it. I did it. I paid it all. I paid your debt. I paid the penalty. I've broken the power of Satan and all these other things. And I could give you a whole lot longer the list than just these five. You know, one time I was standing up on the patio one time and there was a guy, kind of a gangster type guy, I won't mention his name, but he was He'd done some really bad stuff. And I won't say what they were, but he he knew it was bad and he knew that he needed a savior, and he did not want to lose out on getting into heaven and he comes up to me and goes, so preacher And he goes, what do I need to do to be saved? And I looked at him and said, um, sorry, you're too late. He goes, you gotta be kidding me. I say, yeah, you're too late. Can I buy it? I mean this is a guy who was used to getting his own way. Had plenty of money, tons of money. You just buy whatever you wanted. What can I do to be saved? I said, you there's nothing. It was done two thousand years ago, and you can't add anything to it. You just need to accept it. You see, friends, what I've been talking about today is the difference between do and done. This is the difference between religion and a religion relationship with God. I couldn't care less about religion. I'm not into religion. Religion is simply a list of duties. and don'ts, rules, regulations, rituals, and every religion has a different list. And what's on your list says you're that kind and this list says this kind of this kind of That's not in scripture. It's not about rules, relation re regulations. It's not about rituals. It's about a relationship. And the difference is not do do do do do do. It's Done. It's finished. It's perfect. It's complete. It's Good Friday. It's with the cross. all about and friends it's called grace. Aren't you glad that God isn't just righteous and just, but he's also loving. Aren't you glad for that? Aren't you glad that he said, I'll take the wrap, I'll do the penalty? Look at this verse on your outline. Oh, and actually up here on the screen, John 10, 28. The Bible says, I give them eternal life. Jesus says this. And they will never perish. And no one can snatch them out of my hand. If you're going to be secure in life, you need a foundation of security on which you can build a solid life as a woman Or as a man. You need a foundation that's not gonna move. It needs to be rock solid. You can't build a successful life on sand. And shifting sand is the money you make and the opinions of other people and a lot of other stuff. But this is rock solid. And if you're gonna To have real security, you've got to put your security in something that can never be taken from you. If you put your security in your boyfriend can be taken from you. If you put your security in your bank account, it'll be taken from you. If you put your security In your good looks, handsome, beautiful. He tell you this, it's already been taken from you. And if not, you're gonna lose it sooner than you think. And if you put your security in how you look, that's not very secure. And if you put your security in your husband, you can lose your husband. And if you put your security in your health, you can lose your health. Here's what real security is. Putting it in something that can never be taken from me. I can lose my health. I can lose my wealth. I can lose my family. I can lose my life. I can lose my mind. But I can't lose my salvation. Because it is finished. It's been paid for. For. And nothing's ever going to change that. And I may really mess up. And I could go way off the deep end. But I, at one point, said yes. And Jesus says, They're in my hand and nobody can take them out. Nobody is gonna take it away. Is that good news? That's good news. Now look at this verse right there on the screen. Acts 10:35. Five, it makes no difference who you are or where you're from, or I'll say what you've done too. If you want God and you're ready to do as He says, the Bible says that The door is open. So let me summarize. Why is Good Friday good and what did Jesus complete on the cross? Well let me just these five. He paid my penalty and canceled my So I'm I don't there's not even any account in heaven against me. There's nothing for God to charge against me. It's already been wiped out. Number two, he defeated the fear of death. I'm not afraid because Jesus Building a home for me up there right now. Number three, he broke Satan's power to mess up my life because now I'm going to have a new power. If I get God's spirit in me, now I can resist temptation and I can reject reject I don't have to listen to those things anymore. They're wrong. They're they're all they're lies. He created a family to include me called the church, which involves everybody, and that gives me support. And then he guarantees my salvation forever. I'm sure when Jesus got back to heaven, the Father goes, Well done. Well, well done. These are five things that give us hope and there's certain hope. There are something you these five things are something you can build your life on. You can have security so that no matter what happens with the stock market I know these five things secure. I may lose a lot of the stuff, but I'm never gonna lose the love of God in my life. Nothing could separate me from His love What do I do? I just accept it by faith, Jesus as my Savior. And I'm going to lead you in a prayer about this to God. Let's bow our heads. Heads. And why don't you right now, in your own words, tell God, thank you for what Jesus did for you on the cross. Because you don't deserve it, neither do I. Say thank you, God, for sending Jesus to pay my penalty, to camp. Cancel my debt and to wipe out the charges against me for all the dumb things I've done in life. Thank you that it is finished. Thank you. That you defeated the fear of death, that I don't have to be afraid of dying because you're preparing a home for me in heaven. And thank you for breaking Satan's power to mess up my life. I don't have to To give in anymore. With your spirit in my life, you'll give me the power to resist temptation and reject condemnation. If you've never invited Jesus Jesus Christ in your life. Say, Jesus Christ, come into my life. Put your spirit of love in me. I really want to get to know you. I want to learn to know trust you and I want to follow your plan and purpose that you made me for. And I humbly ask you to accept me into your family because of your grace. Amen. Hi, this is Pastor Rick. If you just prayed acceptance. Jesus Christ into your heart, congratulations. You're now my brother or sister in the Lord. And you need to tell somebody, and why don't you tell me? Write to me me, rick at pastorric. com and tell me your story. I would love to read it. And by the way, I'll send you some free material to help you start in your new journey with the Lord. God bless you. This is Pastor Rick's Daily. Hope. If you've missed any part of this broadcast, including portions we didn't have time for today, simply go to pastorrick. com and listen online anytime. That's pastorick. com. While you're there, you can also download Pastor Rick's Daily Hope podcast to your phone or tablet so you can listen and on the go, anywhere you are. Rick will be back in just a moment with a final word, so please stay with us. Every year at Easter, we remember Jesus's sacrifice sacrifice for us and celebrate his resurrection. Some Christians are able to travel to Jerusalem to walk the path that Jesus took on his way to the cross. It's called Via Dolorosa, which translates to the way of suffering. Since you may not be able to travel to Jerusalem, Pastor Rick created a unique resource called Journey with Jesus that will give you a way to celebrate, reflect, and pray about what Jesus did for you on the cross. This brand new, one-of-a-kind resource will take you through the 15 stops that the Bible tells us Jesus Jesus took on the road to Calvary. Every stop Jesus made along the way of suffering details the biblical account of what happened there and reflects upon The sacrificial love of Jesus. You'll learn why Mary from Bethany anointed Jesus with a specific oil, why Jesus prayed so often in the Garden of Gethsemane, and how he handled obedience to God. Journey with Jesus will give you deeper biblical insights as it takes you through the betrayal of Judas, the trial of Jesus Jesus, the Denials by Peter, and the Death and Resurrection of Christ. Journey with Jesus is a deluxe hardcover gift edition book with high quality glossy pages and includes photos of commission mosaic tile artwork that represent each stop Jesus made on his path to Calvary. This is a great gift book to keep and study time and time again, and it would make a great gift for your family and friends too. We'll send you our Journey with Jesus Deluxe gift book when you donate to Daily Hope this month. It's because of the generosity of people like you. that we're able to share the certain hope of Jesus around the world. Just go to pastorick. com right now to get your copy of this amazing Study tool or just call 800-600-5004. That's pastorick. com or 800-600-5004. Thank you. Thanks so much for your support. Here's Pastor Rick with a letter from one of our listeners. Today I want to tell you about Diana. Diana's a nurse and she helps people every single day when they're facing their motion Diana wrote me this. But it's also provided me words of hope to impact the lives of all my patients and even their families. The toughest thing most of us deal with is the loss of A loved one. And learning more about God's love through Daily Hope has allowed me to share with many, many people about the hope and the trust and the love that we can find in I'm thankful to God for using you as an instrument for bringing me and many others to a daily hope in Jesus. Jesus. Well, Diana, I I just can't thank you enough for writing me. I love receiving these testimonial letters. You know, I was recently in the hospital uh for a week, and so I'm glad that your patients And their families that you take care of have somebody like you to walk with them through the tough times they go through when they are ill. So much for sharing God's promises with the people as they face their difficulties and even death. I want you to know that the promises of God are the best news that we can receive ever during our times of illness. And Daily Hope is here to support you in your ministry to others. God bless you. Be sure to join us next time as we look into God's Word for our Daily Hope. This program is sponsored by By Pastor Rick's Daily Hope and your generous financial support. Don Crow here, I'm sure you're aware that many of our brothers and sisters in Christ Are suffering for their faith and Andy Christman of 4Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast, Wonder Christ. Degree of Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy. Wherever you get your podcasts