Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord from Numbers chapter 11 reads as follows. Now when the people complained, it displeased the Lord. The Lord heard it, and his anger was aroused, so the fire of the Lord burned among them and consumed some of the outskirts of the camp. Then the people cried out to Moses, and when Moses prayed to the Lord, the fire was quenched. So he called the name of the place Taborah. Because the fire of the Lord had burned among them. Now the mixed multitude who were among them yielded to the intense craving, so the children of Israel also wept again and said, who will give us meat to eat? We remember the fish which we ate freely in Egypt. Uh the cucumbers, the melons, the leeks, the onions and the garlic. But now our whole being is dried up There is nothing at all except this manna before our eyes. If you can skip down to verse ten, uh it says, Then Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families, every one at the door of his tent. And the anger of the Lord was greatly aroused, and Moses also was displeased. So Moses said to the Lord, Why have you afflicted your servant? And why Have I not found favor in your sight that you have laid the burden of all these people on me? Did I conceive all these people? Did I beget them that that that you should Say to me, carry them in your bosom, as a guardian carries a nursing child to the land of which you swore to their fathers. Uh where am I to get meat to give to all these people? For they weep all over me, saying, Give us meat that we may eat. And I am not able to bear all these people alone because the burden is too heavy for me. If you're going to treat me like this, this is my version of the story, you just kill me right now. Let me read the text. It says if if i if you treat me like this, please kill me here and now. And if I have found favor in your sight, and do not let me see my wretchedness. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, I need you that you might open up this text in such a way that it might meet us on the pages of our lives this morning Father, if there's anyone who doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, if anyone's who's still on the pathway to destruction, God, let their lives and their hearts be turned around today that they might repent and come and give their heart and life to you. Father, for those who've drifted in their fellowship, for one reason or another, it is my prayer on today that you would draw them, Lord God, back to the place where they loved you, where they were excited about you, where they served you And God calls them to reconnect to you on this morning and rededicate their lives to you that they might serve you for the rest of their days. Spirit of the Lord. I pray, God, that as we teach this message, as we preach this message, Lord, that the body of believers might be edified. I pray, God, that your name would get all of the glory and all of the honor and all of the praise, God, because Uh you deserve it all. And so, Lord, as I stand here in the weakness of my flesh, use me, God, to accomplish your will because I need you, Jesus. I can't do it without you. Preach through these lips of clay. Give me Strength, God, give me wisdom, give me clarity of thought and speech, that your word might come forward as the very oracle of God, and we would all know that we've heard from you and not from Sterling. Lord bless this time As we commit it unto you in the name of Jesus who is the Christ, I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. And the people of God said together, Amen and Amen. Praise the name of the Lord. The way that I arrived at this particular um text on this morning is through our um Bible study, our evening Bible study. That's the thing that happens on Wednesday night at seven o'clock. Right here where you're sitting, there's some other people that come and sit in those some of those seats where y'all sitting right now. Um well what happens is we open up the Bible And we read through the Bible and we teach through the Bible. That's what happens on Wednesday at 7 o'clock p. m. Every Wednesday at 7 o'clock p. m. Right there where you're sitting. Amen. It happens. I thought I might need to educate you because I didn't I don't see none of y'all on Wednesday, so I was just I just thought I'd throw that out there. A little infomercial. Uh but we we've been studying through the book of Numbers and through the Old Testament and Uh one of the things that has come up as a repetitive theme throughout the book of Numbers is the complaining of the people of Israel. In fact, Israel complains so much and their their habits and their uh their fall their short steps if I can say that way. Uh attitudes that you'll see in the nation and amongst the nation of Israel is so so reminiscent and so uh in line with the way we act. That oftentimes I'll I'll say Israel is is us. I mean we we act just like the people of the text. And so now literally we're not Israel. I want to clarify that. We are not literally Israel, but the behavior patterns of the children of Israel uh are Exactly like ours. I mean as uh New Testament Saints and as people of twenty twenty-four you see the exact same uh patterns of behavior and I guess ecclesiastes is true that there's nothing new under the sun. Uh and so you you know what has been will be and the way people acted then they still act now and And so we see this over and over and over again. And uh as we been going through this text, one of the things that continue to to rise up is they're complaining and they're they're discontent with everything. I mean they they just don't seem you know, they they they don't have I I won't say you don't read a whole lot about them saying good. Like they ever they just complain, complain, complain, complain. And as I was kind of putting all this together, I just started going through a list of their complaints and They complained when Moses came to deliver them. They matter they were in Egypt as slaves and they were being made to make brick without straw and they were going through all kinds of um the the taskmaster was whipping them and beating them and controlling this and controlling that and then when Moses came to deliver them they complained about that And when they got delivered and it was time to go out, they was complaining on their way out. And when they got to the Red Sea and they was they thought they were trapped, they were complaining at the Red Sea. And then when God brought 'em across the Red Sea on dry land and And nobody got hurt, nobody died, and all the enemies got swallowed up in the sea behind them. They they got on the other side, and three days later they got to some water, some more water, and they complained about the waters of Mara because they were bitter And and then they we went a little bit further and they started complaining about Moses and then they complained about Moses' wife and then they complained about Aaron and Moses. Y'all think y'all all that and the bag of chips. Who y'all think y'all are? We just as holy as you are and They just I mean just complain, complain, complain, complain, complain. And in all the incidences of their complaining, one of the recurring things that uh I think this text screams out to us is that complaining has some consequences. Y'all still here with me? And so as we I want to look at just a few more of their complaints if we can bear it. Um and I want to show you that the complaining has consequences. So I want to talk to you from that subject matter this morning, the consequences of complaining. Amen. The reason why I feel like God was up to something, and I still do, is that I find myself in this text this morning. Uh speaking on this idea and this subject matter of complaining and the consequences of complaining, and yet we were worshiping and singing a song. And telling folk, look what the Lord has done. Amen. And so on the one hand, God has prepared our hearts to say, look at what he's done and and what he's doing because see one of the reasons we don't do that oftentimes is because we're too involved in the complaining. Amen. And even while we were worshiping, uh, there were some folk that was complaining about that. Why don't they sit down? What are they doing all this for? Don't take all that I'm ready for the word. I got places to go. The red skins. I mean, I'm the commanders of playing today. I mean, all that stuff. Complain, complain, complain. And so there's consequences to complaining. And when we talk about complaining, it is the expression of discontent. It is, if I can say, an expression of dissatisfaction. It is displayed oftentimes as the lack of gratitude and appreciation. Um and in this Christian life, because we have been so incredibly blessed, I know this is gonna be a hard pill to swallow, but we really don't have a reason to complain. And we we just don't. I mean, if you think about all that the Lord has done, I'm not talking about for somebody else, I'm talking about for you. Amen. Now can't nobody tell the story like you can tell it, but you know what you were. Amen, somebody. You know where he brought you from. Amen, somebody. I know you riding a nice car now. Praise the Lord. You sitting in church now with a suit and tie and a dress and all that on, but that ain't the dress you used to wear. Mm-hmm. And God has brought some folk from a lot farther than others. Amen, somebody, Jesus. And we don't have no reason to complain. As a matter of fact, even if I skip the ideologies of materialism and the ways in which he's brought you from poverty to middle class, upper class, somebody's class when you was a had no class. If I skipped that part and only talked about the fact that he brought you out of darkness into the marvelous light. He brought you from a place where your soul was eternally condemned to hell and you were on your way Quick, fast, in a hurry, and he rescued you, set your feet on a solid rock, and changed the destination of your eternal security. And if you think about all that, we have no reason. To complain. But we complain anyway. Just like the children of Israel. And so in this Uh chapter eleven, one of the things I I draw out first and foremost in the text is that it starts off chapter eleven jumps right in and says now when the pe now when the people complain And so if you start there, you've got to ask the question, what in the world are they complaining about? The people complained here about the pathway of their deliverance. God had already brought them out of Egypt, had delivered them from the bondage of Egypt. Delivered them out of the hands of their captors, and there is a pathway that God is taking them to a promised land, and they're complaining about the pathway to the promised land. Ain't that something? It says now the people complained, and now at this particular point of the text, they've been traveling three days from Mount Sinai. Pastor, what happened at Mount Sinai? At Mount Sinai, they met the Lord. The Lord showed up there. He speaks to them. He's talking to Moses on the mountain. They got this whole mountain experience. They got this glory of God showing up on the mountain. They got all this, all this gl Is this adoration of God they've got and and keep in mind while they're traveling along the way, the Lord is with them all the time. He's He's with them as a pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night. Every time they set up camp at night, the Lord kind of surrounds them as a pillar of fire. Nobody can come in, nobody can go out. God is covering them and protecting them, and he's leading them along this way to the promised land. But Three days outside of being in a place where they were having a Shekana presence glory experience with God. Three days. They complaining. Now let me say this because you you don't unless you read through with me and or unless you was with me in Bible study You know, I know some of y'all are online people so I don't get to see your faces, but um if you wouldn't have known that even before they got the side now they was complaining too. And so now three days after they they're complaining and and God is leading them and taking care of all of that and now when they people complained. Can I just park here for just for a second and say, can we hear this and listen in on this real close? Because we like Israel complain because we don't like the the pathway that God is leading us, watch this, since He delivered us From the time he rescued your soul from hell, and he's leading you on a pathway to a promised land called heaven. There are some folk, not everybody, but there's some folk that are complaining about the pathway that God is leading them, even though he's a pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night. They're complaining. Lord, I don't like having to live this way. God says, come on, I'm gonna lead you On this path, so we can get you to glory, and you complaining about the pathway to glory. Wait a minute, think about it for a moment. Slow down. You're on your way to glory with God. And he's leading the way because you don't know how to get there. Amen. When you were leading yourself, you were lost. And he's leading. He's he's already delivered you like he's delivered the the Israelites from the hand of Egypt. He's delivered you and I out of the hand of sin and out of the hand of Satan, and he's leading the way, and we don't like the way he's leading. And so we complain about having to live a straight Christian life. We complain about not being able to go to the go-go and not being able to drink liquor and not being able to smoke weed and not being able to sleep with everybody and not being able to cheat folks and not being a we complain about all of that But that's the pathway that he's leading us on as children of God. It's a pathway of righteousness. That's why the scripture says, few there are who find it. Broad and wide is the road that leads to destruction. Many are on that path. Few are on this righteous road. And will follow him in it. Because the whole folk, a lot of folk, they just gonna complain. I don't wanna go that way. I'm going my own way. I got this figured out And your own way will lead you to destruction. Are y'all still here with me? Let me dig here in here because what happens is there he's leading them in a wilderness. He's leading them in a dry place. And I get it. Um wilderness is not the best place. Wilderness not always the fun place. It's not always the happening place, but you're there with God. The wilderness is lonely sometimes. The wilderness is is doesn't have all the friends you used to have sometimes. The wilderness Is is what watch this. The wilderness is the pathway that God is leading you, but God has intentionality about why He's leading you the way He's leading you. And you're asking and you're complaining because you're looking at somebody else's life and you're saying, why can't my life be like their life? And the reason is being is because he's leading you so that he can get Egypt out of you Are you listening to me? When God took the children of Israel into the wilderness, he realized I had gotten them out of Egypt, but I hadn't got the Egypt out of them. Help me, Lord Jesus. And for you and I, the reason why some of us are going to struggle a whole lot more than others is because some of us have a whole lot of Egypt in us Amen, somebody, and we've got to spend some time in the wilderness with Jesus alone. How help me, God? We've got to spend some intimate and positive and deliberate and intentional time in the wilderness with Jesus. alone so that he can work out the stuff that's in us. Can we all be honest? We still have some sin issues in us. And the pathway that he's leading you on is leading you on a pathway so he can mold you and shape you into the image of his son. But we complain like they complain while we here and they're going through the wilderness and they rebel against it and And and they don't like the way that he's leading and and so they complain. And so when they complain, listen to this, because they're they're ungrateful. Um that that the Lord has done everything for him. They they adhere just like just like us. They're ungrateful about it, and so they complain, and it displeased the Lord. Consequences. Here are the consequences. It displeased the Lord. God was not pleased with the complaining. Can I just tell you that didn't just happen for Israel? God is not happy with our complaining. It displeased the Lord. Listen to this. The Lord heard it. Do you realize that the Lord hears our complaining? I gotta be transparent for a moment. Because Moses, man, I can I can relate to Moses I really can. And sometimes I complain. Like Moses. Lord, these ain't my people. These are your people. And if you gonna treat me like this, just kill me. That's how I come out had to jump right in and change I just had to give you my version of you realize that One of the consequences of my complaining is that it listen to this, it interrupts the ear of God. God is, as a result of all he's done, is positioned himself to receive his own glory back to him, his worship back to him, but my complaining interrupts that sweet spirit. Y'all still hear? And so God heard it, and his anger was aroused, and so now my complaining has not only interrupted the ear of God is interrupted the disposition of God. God has moved from being happy, if I can say it this way, from being fully uh content and happy to being I've moved my my complaining moves God to a place where God becomes angry. His anger is aroused and his fire burns and begins to consume people on the outskirts of the camp. Lord have mercy. And on the outskirts of the camp of Israel, as we r have learned and and understood that The Israelites had a way of setting up. And so with Israel, the Israelites, the true blooded Israelites, there are some who came out of Egypt with them who left Egypt with them and the Bible calls them the mixed multitude. There's some mixed multitude people that are traveling with Israel. Watch this And they're benefiting from all the blessings of Israel. And when Israel is complaining, God's fire begins burning and it begins consuming the mixed multitude who are on the out Outskirts of the camp of Israel. Watch this, but it's burning from the outside, but is moving toward the inside. Y'all still hear? That's a consequence of their complaining that and watch this other people are being consumed because they're complaining Lord have mercy. Think about that. Think about some other folks that are being consumed and having to deal with the fire of God because we're not content with the blessings of God. And so they they cry out to Moses. Verse 2. The people cried out to Moses. And when Moses prayed to the Lord, the fire was quenched. Here's another consequence. They couldn't even pray to God themselves. They needed an intercessor. Because complaining does not allow you to be in the position to have a conversation with God. How do you have a conversation with God when you're complaining against God? I need somebody to pray for me so that they can intervene between God's judgment on me. When I've been complaining against God. And so they need Moses to pray for them. So Moses prays for them. And then God. Relents and pulls back the his consuming fire, and the fire of God is quenched by the prayer of Moses. That's a consequence. Somebody else has to pray to intervene because of your complaining. And and imagine if we all were just giving glory and worship to God instead of having to waste resources and energy and time praying for you because Lord have mercy because God's fire is consuming you because you were complaining. That's what's happened in the text. They need an intercessor, so Moses has an intercessor. He prays for them. So they complain about the pathway of their deliverance, but they also, secondly, complain about the provisions of their deliverance. Look at verse 4. It says, now the mixed multitude So you it was burning them up. Now they start complaining. Who were among them they yielded to intense cravings, so the children of Israel also wept again and said, Who will give us meat? Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchanus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.