Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord from John chapter fourteen, beginning at verse twelve, reads like this Most assuredly I say to you, he who believes in me, the works that I do, he will do also. And greater works than these he will do because I go to my Father. And whatever you ask in my name, that I will do. That the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask anything in my name, I will do it. If you love me, keep my commandments, and I will pray the Father, and he will give you another helper. That he may abide with you forever, the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive because it neither sees him nor knows him, but you know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you orphans. I will come to you a little while longer and the world will see me no more, but you will see me, because I live, you will live also And at that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. He who has my commandments and keeps them, it is he who loves me, and he who loves me will be loved by my father. And I will love him and manifest myself to him. Would you pray with me Father, we are standing here on the edge of eternity, waiting that you might speak in the midst of this place. Father, that you might use this vessel of clay to accomplish your will on this day, that a word might be spoken that might destroy the yokes of bondage that are holding your people. Hostage. God, that someone who's lost in their sin might come to redemptive power this morning and become a true believer in you. God, I'm praying that you would Uh arrest every demonic spirit and presence that showed up for worship this morning. That came to hinder your power and your presence from being manifest. God, I don't know how You're going to do what you're going to do, but I'm here, Lord, to be used to accomplish your will. So Lord, let your will be done, and let your way be accomplished, and let the power and manifestation of the living God be experienced. In this worship time of preaching. Spirit of the Lord, I stand in need of you, for I realize that I am not just speaking to those I see. But I am also being used as a vessel and oracle of God to speak through the atmospheres of demonic presence and through the oppositions of spiritual wickedness in heavenly places, to speak Father God, with the authority of the throne room of heaven, that lives might be changed forever. Father, save someone from their drowning in sin. Father, re Rescue someone from their uh their turning away. Draw them back to you today, God, and allow your will to be done in this place. Lord, I am in need of you. And I pray that your power will show up. That your will will be accomplished, that your people will understand and comprehend the word that you've sent their way on this day It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. The people of God said together, Amen and Amen. We began our new theme and series of messages on last evening for 2023, walking in the power of the Holy Spirit. That's our theme for 2023, walking in the power of the Holy Spirit. And on last night we were examining Acts chapter 1, verse 8. And in Acts chapter 1, verse 8, we saw Jesus talking to his disciples just before he ascended to glory. And in Acts chapter 1, verse 8, he let them know that I'm getting ready to leave you, and when I leave you, you will be relieved of power, because I will no longer be with you. But he turned right back around to let them know and to fulfill what he's spoken in these verses that I've read: that I'm not going to leave you alone or orphaned, but rather I'm going to send the Spirit. And so that while they were at one point going to be relieved of power, he turned around and says, but you shall receive power. And that that power would come when the presence of the Holy Spirit came upon them And then as he continued to speak, and as we continued to draw out of the text last night, we found that you shall also represent Christ with the power. So in other words, that the power that we would obtain through the Holy Spirit's presence with us as a walk Walking companion would not be for our purposes of glory, but it would be to be witnesses to Him and to glorify Him and not ourselves. Are y'all still here with me? And as we dig deeper on today, I need you to be praying for me, and I need you to be praying for you. Because as I warned on last night, this uh series, this journey that God has uh me leading you on is a journey that will challenge your faith, a journey that will It will scare some of you. Um it may even cause conflict among some of you, but If there is conflict, let it be between you and the Word of God. For what I uncover won't be of my own instruction or teaching. I will only share with you what thus saith the Lord. And so your argument will have to be with a text that was written from the eternal word of God. Y'all gotta pray for me this morning. And pray for yourselves because every spiritual principality is not interested in you. being able to walk in the power of the Holy Spirit. Why would he be Why would the devil want you to utilize all the power that God has given you as a child of God? And so therefore it is my firm belief that he has done a great job of saturating our power with disbelief. Whew, help me God. As I dig into this particular text, John uh is uh closing or rather disclosing from Jesus' perspective as he gives this consolation to his disciples uh and uh promises them that they're not going to be left alone but rather he's going to Send them a comforter, a a walking companion, for Jesus had been walking with them for three years. And here in John prior to Acts. Acts is the last time he w reminds them that I'm I'm leaving you comfort. But here in John, this is before his crucifixion, he says, I'm I'm not going to leave you alone. I'm I'm I'm coming to you and I'm going to sends you a comforter in a companion, a walking companion that will walk with you, uh, even as I have walked with you in the form of the Holy Spirit. And though They had been with him for three years. He wants them as well as us to know that we are only going to benefit from the power of the Holy Spirit. If we believe in him. Stay here with me. I want to talk to you on this morning from the idea in this second part of the series of messages entitled Walking in the power of the Holy Spirit. The second part I want to talk to you from the idea of walk believing in me Walk believing in me. As I was reading through this passage and I couldn't help but see how the Lord kept on reminding his disciples of how important it was for them to believe in him. In uh John chapter 14, and actually it goes farther than this, but I'm just going concisely for our purposes right now. In John chapter 14, verse 1, he says, Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, and that's not a question, it's a command. Believe in God, and then he says, but believe also in me. So that's two times right there that he basically says, you need to believe, you need to believe. Then in John chapter fourteen, verse ten, he comes back and says it again, he says, as they were having this uh back and forth from Philip Says Lord, show us the Father, and it is going to be sufficient for us. And he says, Look, I've been with you for three years. You haven't known who I am yet? And then verse 10 he says, Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father in me. And then he comes back again in verse 12, and he says, Most assuredly I say to you, he who believes in me And the works that I do. Now, if you missed it, um, I don't know how you would miss it, but if you happen to have missed it, I'm trying to point out to you how critical and how significant it is for Um for them if they're going to benefit from this walking companion, this Holy Spirit's power uh that's coming, that this comfort that He's going to send. If you're going to benefit from it Uh he he emphasizes over and over and over again you have to believe. Now in Acts chapter 1 verse 8, we already uncovered and disclosed that there was going to be of necessity if we're going to if we're going to walk in the power of the Holy Spirit, we had to believe in that power. But but but watch this. But now what What John this gospel reveals in Jesus' conversation is that not only do we need to believe, but watch this, but the believer needs to believe. Y'all still here with me? Wow. It's one thing to say that if you're ever going to be able to walk with the power of the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit's ever going to be in you, you have to be a believer. And that's what Axe kind of uncovered for us. But now he says to those who are walking with him who already have a level of belief, he says, the believer has to believe. Now what that tells me is That for you and I, even though you're born again, even though you're washed in the blood of the Lamb, even though you got a certificate on your wall that says you was baptized and such and so Time and date and place. Guess what? If you're going to benefit from and be able to walk in the power of the Holy Spirit, you have to believe. As a believer, you have to believe in Him. So Jesus in essence says here to us and to his disciples, you need to walk believing in me. First and foremost, he says, and and this is going to get heavy, so I hope y'all praying and not just saying it, but y'all need to be praying. This is gonna get heavy real fast. He says in verse 12, most assuredly I say to you, he who believes in me. The works that I do, he will do also. And greater works than these he will do because I go to my Father. When you walk believing in him, Jesus said. Sterling didn't say it. Jesus said. You've got the red letter edition, it's in red letters. Jesus said, if you walk believing in me, you will perform greater works. Here you go, here we go. He who believes in me, I'm gonna walk you slowly. You believe in me? The works that I do, he will do also. Well, whoa, wait, wait, wait, wait, Pastor. Wait, wait, wait. I know what Jesus did. I know about the works that Jesus did Hold on, hold on, hold on. Um, Pastor, I I I I I respect you and all that, but now you've gone too far. That's why I said this is a red letter edition. It's not me. It's the Lord speaking. The Lord said, if you believe in me, the works I've done, you'll do also. Wait, wait, wait. No, no, no, no, no, no. He he really can't mean that. Um because Jesus healed the sick and he raised the dead. And Jesus took and fed 5,000 with what they had amongst them. And and and Jesus was the one who was encouraging the discouraged. And Jesus was the one who met those who were outcast and he loved them and he brought them in. Yeah, yeah. Um Jesus was the one who gave sight to the blind and he he took spittle and and and he rubbed it again and put it on their eyes and told them go wash in the pool of Shalom and they were they came back seeing Al No I know the works that he did. And Jesus was crucified, and yet he still lives. Let me let me read what Jesus said. Let me put my glasses on. Most assuredly that that that is a biblical way of saying sure enough. Absolutely, positively, I say to you, Jesus saying, He who believes in me, the works that I do, he will do also. And so we have now a conundrum because you don't believe what Jesus just said. Now, if I'm going to walk in the power of the Holy Spirit, I've got to walk believing in him. And if he is the word, as John chapter 1, verse 1 and following says, if he is the word, I've got to believe his word. Now here in John chapter 14 verse 12, his word says, if you believe in me, what I've done, the works I've done, you will do also. It must be some other meaning. Let me let me dig you a little di little bit deeper. I told you this is going to get deep real fast. Because he doesn't stop there. He says, and and is a conjunction. Is hooking up the first phrase with the next. And greater works than these he will do. Because I go to my father. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Wait a minute, Pastor. You just said Jesus healed the he healed the sick. I mean, he went, I mean, there was a lady with issue of blood who just touched his garments and power flowed out of him and she was healed. There was a centurion ruler and his daughter was dead and Jesus went in and prayed over her. She got up. And and then there was a there was a funeral procession that he stopped and he woke up the dead and and he called Lazarus from the dead and and wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait Pastor I I I know the works that Jesus Jesus um went And he he went to a he went to a party. Matter of fact, it was a wedding party. And he turned water into wine. Look, would Lord have mercy if I could do that. I know the works that Jesus did, but but but you're telling me not only will I do those works But greater works than these can I do if I believe in him? I didn't say it. Red letter, Jesus said it. Now, greater works Is argued by intellectual theologians To try to explain down what Jesus was saying. I went through a host of commentaries and a host of theological um scholars to see what they had to say about Jesus' words. So some said, well, maybe, they didn't say definitely, maybe he was saying that we would do more quantity. of works because because he couldn't have been saying that we would do better quality of works So because there will be more disciples than there was just Jesus alone and he was only here for three years. Maybe what the text is saying is that we will do more work. There'll be more of us doing more of the things that he did at some diminished level And I said, that's a whole lot of explaining when the word says greater works than these. And then There is a uh principle of biblical interpretation which requires me to understand the the words of the text in such a way that it will help me in my English translation to understand what the meaning of the text is Stay here. I'm getting heavy, but I'm gonna bring it back up. The word that is used in the text greater is the Greek word my zona. My zona means quality. It means more impressive. Can I read it into the text? More impressive works than Jesus did, higher quality, more more impressive, more spectacular. That's what the text is. Now I'm wrestling with it like you are. But but but I want to In 2023, I want to walk in the power of the Holy Spirit. And if I'm going to walk in the power of the Holy Spirit, I have to believe Jesus. Y'all still here with me? And if Jesus says, the works that I've done And greater than these shall you do if you believe in me, I believe what he said. The reason why 2023 is going to end like 2022 for a whole lot of folks. Is because you're going to live through 2023 in the same power that you lived through 2022. You did not access the power of the Holy Spirit that lives in you as a believer in 2022 to a full degree that it was available. And so therefore, you are going to live out this year and you're going to be defeated in a sacrifice. same ways and in the same areas that you were last year because you're not believing in him. But when I walk in the power of the Spirit of God When the Holy Spirit is walking with me and I'm in tune with him, he will show me things That you can't see. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed By today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He says Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.