Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Leviticus chapter 25. I want to read verse 1 and then I'll jump over to verse 8. The word of the Lord from Leviticus chapter 25, verse 1 says, And the Lord spoke to Moses on Mount Sinai, saying, Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land which I give you, then the land shall keep a Sabbath to the Lord. Verse 8. And you shall count seven sabbaths of years for yourself. Seven times, seven years. And the time of seven Sabbaths of years shall be f to you forty-nine years. Then you shall cause the trumpet Of the Jubilee to sound on the tenth day of the seventh month on the day of atonement, you shall make the trumpet to sound throughout all the land. And you shall consecrate the 50th year and proclaim liberty throughout all the land to all of its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee for you. And each of you shall return to his possession, and each of you shall return to his family. That the 50th year shall be a jubilee to you In it, you shall neither sow nor reap, whatever grows of its own accord, nor gather the grapes of your uh untended vine, for it is the Jubilee. It shall be holy to you, and you shall eat its produce from the field. In this year of Jubilee, each of you shall return to his possession. And if you sell anything to your neighbor or buy from your neighbor's hand, You shall not oppress one another. According to the number of years after the Jubilee, you shall buy from your neighbor, and according to the number of years of crops He shall sell to you. According to the multitude of years, you shall increase its price, and according to the fewer number of years, you shall diminish its price. For he sells to you according to the number of years of crops. Therefore you shall not oppress one another, but you shall fear your God, for I am the Lord your God. So you shall observe my statutes and keep my judgments and perform them, and you will dwell in the land safely. Then the land will yield its fruit. And you will eat your field and dwell there in safety. And if you say, What shall we eat in the seventh year, since we shall not sow nor gather in our produce Then I will command my blessings on you in the sixth year, and it will bring forth produce enough for three years, and you shall sow in the eighth year, and eat the old produce until the ninth year. Until its produce comes in, you shall eat of the old harvest. The land shall not be sold permanently, for the land is mine. For you are strangers and sojourners with me, and in all the land of your possession, you shall grant redemption of the land. Pray with me. Please, Father in heaven, we thank you for the word of God on today. We thank you for this occasion and the opportunity. I'm praying that the power of your Holy Spirit would manifest itself here on this day. In such a way, Lord God, that if anyone doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, that this will be the day that they would accept you and come asking, What must I do to be saved? Father, anyone who came in Discourage. I'm praying that by the power and preaching of the Word of God, you would encourage them through this sermonic experience. God, let your presence manifest itself in the midst of us here today. That we will know we have heard from God, that we would be edified, that we would grow to be more like you. Spirit of the Lord, I'm praying that you would challenge every heart in this place, every ear that's listening Via live stream, through radio, whatever means by which they might hear the word of God. Lord, in the name of Jesus, let the power of your word accomplish what you set forth for it to do. Use me, Lord, that I might speak a clear word. Use my lips, my tongue, Lord God, that the articulation of my speech might be clear. Let my mind be clear. Speak, Lord God. Have your way. Even now, in the name of Jesus Christ, I pray, and I bless you in advance for what you're getting ready to do. In Jesus' name, I pray Amen and amen. Catherine, as we as a church, again our 50th year, it is a time of celebration. The Lord has blessed this branch of Zion to be able to reach 50 years of its existence and ministry. It's a time of thanking God for sustaining us. Some of you don't know, but since its founding in 1969, there's been uh few occasions where the church almost died. But by the grace of God, God not only sustained the church, but he has allowed the church to now flourish In the Old Testament, 50 years and called Jubilee, it was the year that followed seven series of Sabbaths, even as I read it. There in the scripture. They were to keep, children of Israel were to keep seven Sabbaths of seven years. And at the 50th year, they were to celebrate the Jubilee. Uh as we uh are uh moving forward, uh I want us to focus on celebration because I think we all have a lot to celebrate over these years Now, as I was thinking through this, I was thinking, Lord, far too many of us spend too much time complaining About what we don't have or what's has not yet happened, instead of celebrating what has already happened. The focus for so many is to get over the next plateau, the next terrain, the next accomplishment. And they don't take time to pause and be thankful for what already has happened. In fact, some of us are grieved and depressed about what we haven't accomplished But we fail to look at what has already been accomplished. And so in the year of Jubilee. The 50th year of celebration for Catherine Baptist Church. I want us to turn our attentions to celebration. Stop complaining about what you don't have. Look around you and see you already got a whole lot more than somebody else. And probably more than you need. And just be excited about what you already have accomplished Just thank God for that. And even as we here in ministry, we want to be able to celebrate. And so for 2019, I want to draw from even this text and For our purpose, celebrating Jubilee. And so on this morning, I want to start everything off in this text, preaching from that very subject matter. Jubilee is defined as A special anniversary or an event, especially specifically a fiftieth. In the Levitical Jubilee, it Meant to proclaim liberty or release. Jubilee provided, if you will, three primary areas of uh liberty, release, or restoration, if you will. And we'll call it restoration for the purpose of our examination on this morning. Now, this text He starts off by letting them know in verse number one, Moses tell the people that when they go into the land That I'm I'm giving to them. I want them to keep the Sabbath, seven years of Sabbaths. And at the close of keeping seven years of Sabbath, I'm establishing for the people of Israel a Jubilee year. Now, watch this. Levitically speaking, Jubilee really focused on liberty and release. But in the etymology of the word, because of the release and the liberty That the people were able to experience the word jubilee became synonymous with celebration. Because when you've been released from bondage, The average person celebrates. Verse number eight says, and you shall count seven Sabbaths of years for yourself, seven times seven years. And the time of the seventh year of Sabbath shall be 49. Then you shall cause the trumpet of Jubilee to sound. That's on the in the seventh month, tenth day, day of atonement. You shall make the trumpet that sound throughout all the land, and you shall consecrate the 50th year. Set the 50th year aside and proclaim liberty throughout all the land and its inhabitants. And it shall be a jubilee for you, and each of you shall return to his possession. I told you there's three components that the Jubilee year actually served as a means of restoration for. The first was for the people restoration. At the close of 49 years, they would blow the trumpet throughout all the land. And the trumpet was to sound in the purpose of waking the people up. It was to sound to let people know that there was coming something of a change in the ordinary. If I can correlate the sounding of the trumpet to today, it would be sound the trumpet. And wake the people up because after 49 years of doing the same thing and getting comfortable and being in Debt to everybody and being comfortable to being in bondage, blow the trumpet and let them know they're about to be set free. You've been in debt for 49 years, you've been paying for that dress. And them shoes and those tickets to the basketball game that you put on your credit card, you've been paying for them for 49 years. And so you've been carrying debt on that credit card and you owe not only on that credit card, but you owe on your house You got a second mortgage on the house, and you've been paying that for 49 years, and you owe everybody, but what happens is We get comfortable with owing people. What happens is we get so accustomed to being in debt. And being in bondage, and I'm not just talking about financial debt. We got all kinds of bondages. Some of us are in bondage to tobacco. You gotta have a cigarette. Others are a little more sophisticated in your addictions and bondages, and so your bondage might be to a tall glass of wine at night, every night. And sometimes in the afternoon and in the morning for breakfast. But you're addicted. And don't frown on them because your addiction is wine or tobacco. There are others that like the wacky weed. It's not as sophisticated. It doesn't come pre-rolled. You gotta roll your own. But you do it and you got an addiction to it, and you're creeping through neighborhoods at night trying to get it. Amen. And now you're trying to get you a card so you can say you've got pain so that you can get it legally as medically prescribed marijuana. Y'all know what I'm talking about. Stop acting like y'all don't understand We've got some addictions and we've got some problems that we've become accustomed to. And for others, maybe it's not drugs or alcohol. Maybe your addiction is food. You just can't stop eating everywhere. But watch this. So what God says on the 50th year, blow the trumpet, wake the people up, shake them, and tell them it's time to be liberated. He says, you shall consecrate the 50th year and proclaim liberty throughout all the land. Tell everybody they've been set free. Tell everybody they've been liberated. Say that to all the people of all the inhabitants, and it is a year of Jubilee. Each of you shall return to his own possession, each of you shall return to his family. The 50th year Shall be jubilee to you. You don't reap, you don't do none of that. But it's a year that is set aside and it is holy unto you. Lord, help us right here, right here. Pastor, why do you say it's going to be holy? It's going to be holy because the year Jubilee was the year that people were liberated. They were set free from their bondages. And so watch this. Every slave was set free in the year Jubilee. Everybody who was indebted who was bogged down and burdened down in the ensnarement of bondage were set free in the year of Jubilee. And so the people were restored in the year of Jubilee, and they were allowed to go back to their families. Lord. Help us here. I'm praying that in our Jubilee celebration that people will be liberated to go back to their families. I declare we need a year of Jubilee. We need folk to go back To their families, because let me talk to you right here. There's a whole lot of folk because of bondages have left their families They had to leave because of the bondage. They had to leave because they couldn't leave the drugs alone. They had to leave because of the encirclement that they had. They had to leave their families They've had to leave their children. God, I'm praying that we have a year of restoration that people can come back to their families and be reunited. Because even though, in some cases, they haven't left the house, they've left the family. Just because mom and daddy are in the same house don't mean that the family is together. And because of some of the bondages, because of some of the ensnarments. The family has been broken up. But in the year of Jubilee, the Levitical Jubilee, the family was reunited. The husband, who had been taken off, to work off What he owed to the person that he owed debt to, he was free to go back home to his family. In some cases, the children were taken as payment. For the debt. Those children who had been working for, they perhaps left home and been out there working off the debt of the family for 10-15 years were allowed to be set free and go back to the family. That that which separated the family Bondages, slaveries, imprisonments, all of that would be dispersed so that the family could come back together. Catherine, I'm not sure what it's going to take. Besides God Himself to bring families back together. And you know what grieves me is that we're accepting a new picture of family. That is not the picture of the Bible. We're accepting a picture of family where mama is upstairs And daddy is downstairs, and the children are running wild, and just because they're in the same house, we're calling it a family. We're accepting family where there are addictions to the internet, not only by the adults. Watching pornographic material, but also by the children who are ensnared to the addictions of YouTube and Instagrams and posting pictures of stuff that ain't real that Lord help me here. And so the the family is Torn apart by these addictions. And so in the year of Jubilee, the trumpet was to be sounded, and the families were brought back together. And people who were taken hostage or taken in bondage or taken enslaved, they were set free to return back to their families. I would say It's time to blow the trumpet in America. It's time to blow the trumpet in Kettering Baptist Church Legacy Center. That the family comes back together. And that it's not just a family in name and title, but it's a family for real where they love each other. Where the father is equally engaged as the mother. Where there is no more of this, I'm gonna uh take you down. To Upper Marlboro and get all the money I can out of you. Don't get me wrong. When there are these issues of separation, I I'm a firm advocate that whoever it is that's got to pay The child support, pay the child support because the child is next to come here. You did that, that was your concern, and so you've got responsibility for that But I declare that we need to blow the trumpet so that we can shut up a Marlborough Courthouse down and bring the families back together because the family Is broken. Y'all look around you. There's brokenness all about us, and the family needs to be restored. He says in the 50th year, that the enslaved Would be liberated, and that each one shall return to his family. There was not only people restoration, but there was produce restoration. Picks up verse number eleven. That fiftieth year shall be jubilee to you, and neither sow nor reap what grows of its own accord, nor gather of the grapes. Of the unintended vine, for it is Jubilee. It is holy to you, and you shall eat of its produce from the field. In this year of Jubilee, each of you shall return to his possession This is interesting to me because God was not only interested in the restoration of the people, he was interested in the restoration of the produce. And the land. In the year of Jubilee, each shall return to his possession. If the people had lost land, They were able to go back to their land. And in the restoration of the produce, he made it such that in this year of Jubilee that nobody would sow. nor reap. And when they talk about reaping, what we're talking about is full-blown harvest. We're not talking about picking up what's out there because he tells them basically you can eat from what's there. But don't initiate a full-blown harvest where you're gathering and everything in this 50th year. Now, herein lies the challenge that was before them Because the seventh year was a year of rest of the land anyway. And so the year of Jubilee becomes now a second year. That the land has to rest. The 49th and the 50th. That the land has to rest because God is interested in In resting the land, in restoring the land, there is imagery of the restoration of a land that is yet to come. Heaven and earth is going to pass away. But John said, I saw a new heaven and a new Lord help me. I can't dig into it like I want. But there's this imagery of what's yet to come in this Jubilee year There is the people restoration. There is the produce restoration. And so it is in the year of Jubilee that it is holy to you. Watch this. He says, let the land rest. This is the year that's holy. This is the year that you're going to trust God. This is the year, instead of you pursuing your own promotion, this is the year that you just let God take care of it. A whole lot of folk are chasing the promotion, but because they haven't read Scripture. And Scripture says promotion doesn't come from the East or the West, but all promotion comes from God. In this holy year, in this year of Jubilee, let God take care of the promotion. Instead of you chasing after trying to sow new seeds and harvest new things, just let the investments of the past Take care of you in the future. Lord, help me here. In other words, the work you already put in, let that take care of the promotion for you. Let that take care of feeding you Let that take care of prospering you. I know the president signed in to order you won't get no rate. But the president doesn't provide for you. It's It's God who supplies all of your need. It's Him who is the provider of seed to the sower. You need to give God glory even in the midst of that. Sitting around with your lip poked out because the government shut down. You ought to be running around the church thinking God you don't have to go to work. Who is it? That provides for you. Did you get that government job on your own? You didn't get that job because you were so special. Out of all the people they could have hired, why'd they hire you? Let me help you. It was God. It was the Lord who made the way. I know you're living in four bedrooms now, but you didn't come up that way. How did you get where you are? It was the Lord who got you there. Don't be mad at the president. He's just doing what he does. You better look unto the hills from whence comes your help, because all your help comes from God. This is a holy year. Let your focus be on the Lord will provide I think it's a good thing. I know y'all gonna get mad at me, but I think it's a good thing when God pinches your finances every now and then. Because that's when you realize I need him. When that check was coming in regularly, you didn't think you needed him. When you got paid and it was coming in like clockwork, you said I work for the government. I'm secure. How secure are you now? Every now and then God ought to remind us who's the one that's providing for us. To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice Called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. For additional information, Go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. And the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman of For Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite. Artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music. Use it. This is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.