Spirit of the Lord, I pray for your edification in the process of preaching this word this morning, God, for you have purpose, you have intent in all that we stand to declare. Nobody else thought you were worthy. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. We'll talk to people that they won't talk to, but we need resources to be able to go. And I'm like, what David, how are you thinking that this offering that the people have given is going to be permanent in their hearts and Voices behind the song. And that your way would be accomplished. I pray, eternal God, for those who've drifted in their fellowship, that today might be a reminder of them how much you love them and how much you care for them and how much you've been waiting for them to return to you. And all of the praise for in your name I pray this morning and believe it shall be done. But God, beyond strength, if if there's going to be resources to build a house for you, you are the one who is able to provide. And so no one can take credit and no one could cry that they've made some extraordinary sacrifice because you've only given to him what was his God puts a he can put a lot of resources in people's hands, but if the people aren't willing to release what God has put in their hands, then the work of God can't get accomplished. And David says, I've seen the people gave willingly because I only asked for those who had willingness to offer. this this offering has been successful and he he wants the the giving and the process of of paying off This temple of Solomon is going to stand for 410 years, and Israel is going to get in trouble, and they're going to Rebel against God and rebel against God and God will send prophet after prophet and tell them that you need to come back to me and and he's already uh came in and and through Assyria assimilated the ten northern tribes and the two southern tribes are are sent prophets and and they're told that if you don't turn your hearts around to God Then God's gonna send Babylon and and He'll raise up a heathen nation to come in and destroy you. Babylonian uh culture and captivity, but but then they came and they destroyed the temple and they took it apart and they stripped it of its gold and they stripped it of its experience for the children of God, but God in his divine way, he allows Israel to return after their appointed time and they build another temple. This is not what David's talking about. I just want to make sure you put your shouting shoes on so you can dance all over this church because he died for you. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. where we minister in the spirit of excellence, under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. for the word this morning and for the opportunity we have to have such a celebrative opportunity. That Lord God, the message might be clear in our hearts. And he's calling their name and he's given his life for the ransom for their sin. would have been expected of him and he gave all of this so that there would be a house that God could dwell in that would be in the midst of his people. a student loan from Sally, M Nelly, or one of her sisters. that your debt was complete and they perhaps stamped on there somewhere, somehow, paid in full. uh probably have and I'm sure every church has and every uh uh bu business has when they approach the uh process of building a building they That riches and and honor come from you and you reign over everything. Who's able to do anything that he wants to do with anybody who's willing to be used by him. Uh to all. If you want anything done in your life, you need a source that doesn't run out. From your neighbors what you need, and they'll give it to you. We're thankful because we know you you are that source. The second thing I want to raise here out of the text is the sending of the payment because God can be the source of the payment, but the people might not want to send it. And so the people gave willingly for the purpose, and there uh there was a willingness of heart. not going to destroy us. And he's blessed us too much. Babylon came in. I'm going to pay the debt in full. Earthly tent that he's building for God, and he's looking prophetically into a time that is yet to come in his era. Paid in full. And now, Pastor Sterling. For we are aliens and pilgrims before you as were all of our fathers, our days on earth as a shadow and without hope. Now, therefore, our God, we thank you and praise your glorious name. O Lord our God, all this abundance that we have prepared to build your house, for your holy name is from your hand and is all your own. I also, my God, that you are a God, you you test the hearts, and have pleasure in the uprightness Who are present here to offer willingly to you. of the heart of your people and fix their heart towards you. Aside all the resources that would be necessary in order to build this temple, this house for God. David, King David, coming towards the end of his earthly life, and he had a great desire to build a house for God. this temple for God. Help me, Jesus. And so as I looked at this text in the first movement, I see that we first of all address the source of the payment. have this as a question and there are some who ask this question louder than others how we gonna pay for all that I believe David helps us to answer that question. He's talking to God, he's celebrating God, he's praying to God, and he says, God, I've come to the understanding and I've come to the realization in my life, uh, even as king over Israel, that You have the ability to raise one up and to pull one down. The source of your wealth and the source of your success came from the power of God. If you want to know how Solomon and how David built this temple that he built, everything that was needed for the temple, God provided For your holy name is from your hand. to do and that at whatever assignment he puts in front of the people of God, he's already put the resources in the pockets of the people. what God has put in their hands, it could afford us greater opportunities to do great works all over the world. This is verse 17. In the uprightness of my heart I have willingly offered all these things. Keep this forever in the intent of the thoughts of the heart of your people, and fix their heart towards you. the the resources or putting aside of the resources for the house for God. In the rest of David's praise and the rest of David's prayer. And so what he did was he went to Romans chapter 6 and looked at verse 23. debt of sin is paid I'll be able to dwell in the temple forever. come and he's going to be the source of the payment. He paid for it himself. Of sin would be paid. From top to bottom. When God pays the debt, it's paid in full. down with the voices behind the song. It didn't just cover my past sin. Thank you for another day. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. Sundays at 10 a. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Both riches and honor come from you. As for me in the uprightness of my heart, I have willingly offered all these things. God restricted David from building the house because David was a man of war. This morning I want to talk to you from the subject matter paid in full. I know that we're middle class folk now, but everybody didn't start off there. Look at verse 16. the the wilderness for 40 years and then they came into this land and they've been in this land and then when it comes time to build this house for God all of the resources are already there So what we've done here Israel is from God's own hand. Do you realize that God puts a lot of resources in people's pockets but they don't give it to God even though God overpays them? request of David as we see it here because this temple that David has provided all the resources for that will be built by Solomon, this And so if I'm going to build me an eternal house that I can dwell in in the midst of my people, I've got to go and pay the price. Yeah! For all things come from you, and of your own we have given you. Lord have mercy. As he's here in the text celebrating the blessing of having all the resources collected, he reveals for us the answer to the question that all of us When I think about what God did for Israel, He put in their possession everything they needed, and they carried all of these resources across This is something that I've become clear on as it relates to the people of God, and that is that whatever God needs That lets me know that when God put the resources in the people's hands, it was a test. Final movement of the text that I want to look at is the success of the payment. This process of David as he says, Yeah, we've gave we've given willingly, but Lord, make this Forever in the intent and the thoughts and the hearts of the people and fix it in their heart towards you. Permanently affixed them to God. To build a temple, God counts the cost of the temple he wants to build To build an eternal house, an eternal temple for himself. Michael couldn't pay it. I'll pay it myself. Let this cup pass from me. Not with brick and mortar, but with hearts of flesh, he paid the price. And your heart will be constantly intended on him and focused on him To bring the resources necessary so we can build this temple for God so that God might dwell amongst us. So that I can give Israel the gold, the silver, the bronze that you have, God gave it to you when you were leaving about of Egypt. Because if we look at our bank account, it'll tell you where your love and your affections lie. precious elements and they they tore down the the the the temple of god and and they utterly destroyed the temple of god and and it was just uh it was a horrific thing and a heartbreaking ex He's the one who raised you up. Because you are the source. And I I love what David does because as they raise these resources in the text, it was David who was willing and the people who were willing. Man is not smarter than God. And I hear Jesus wildly, he's praying in the garden with great drops of sweat, like blood dripping off of him. Not my will, but your will be done. On Calvary's cross. My debt is paid in full, so God can now come Over and over again. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Matter of fact, if you talk to some missionaries that are serving God all over the world, they would tell you we could do a lot more if somebody who had the resources would just release Impact upon them. for forever. When Jesus was in the garden praying, the question was, are you willing, Jesus, to pay this price? Ted a less time. I know I didn't deserve it. For all things come from you. As were all of our fathers, and our our days on earth are as a shadow and without hope. He stayed there till the blood covered all of your sin, covered all of my sin, covered all the future sin, that all the debt. And dwell in you if you're willing. That he made it possible that you'll have everlasting life with him. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. We're we're too good. You are the one who is the source of strength. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. They not only destroyed the people, they took the people, those the best and the brightest, and they took them to Babylon and they assimilated them into the I know also, my God, that you test the hearts and have pleasure in the uprightness. And David, as the leader, led by example to the people by giving himself. Where did he get the money from? Nobody else thought you could. Oh Lord our God, all this abundance that we have prepared to build you a house. And and look, we've even got God dwelling amongst us. And so uh David in preparation because his son Solomon was still yet a child, he began to put They sent you a notice in the mail or you got some kind of electronic correspondence that let you know Lord, I stand as a broken and fractured vessel before you. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Praise the Lord. m. The people wanted to watch this. And David seems to to to give this idea that that somehow this was was possible. Help me God. Yeah. at the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. He he is the one who put you in position. That's what David is in essence saying, so that God is the source of the payment. David said, I want this to be perpetual. Gabriel couldn't pay it. And so God took me back to verse 15 and it helped me a little bit because verse 15 says, For we are aliens and pilgrims before you We're God's favorite. We'll begin our reading in 1 Chronicles 29 and verse 12. No more debt. I told you when God wants something for himself, he'll pay for it himself. Yeah. He sent himself. Because when he made the payment 2,000 years ago It covered my future sin. I see God saying I've got the resources, but I need to make sure that it's willing to be paid. He could have come down, but he would not come down It is finished. You're the provider for everything that we need, all that we have need of, Lord. And when Israel left out of Egypt, they left out with everything they needed so that they can build God a house. Let this debt be forgone. It was God who was the source. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church Thank you, God, that is paid in full I'm going up on the mountaintop and I'm going to make sure that when this He saved me anyhow. So when the people here in the text were solicited to send money for the temple, David said, I know God tests your hearts. That if there's anybody that doesn't know you, Heavenly Father, that today might be the day that they come to realize there is a God. And he he comes back and he says, But who am I? Was the payment successful? We got something good going on with God. Verse 12, both riches and honor come from you. Yes, we count the cost. And you reign over all. Didn't come from us. He sent his son to pay the payment. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Servic It just seemed like it was out of place, but as I as I went back to that verse, it it began to help open up my understanding about this They wanted to contribute what you had given to them so that we could build a house, so that you could dwell amongst us. We've got his temple right here. Because if we're ever to have any strength, it's coming from you I believe what David is looking at prophetically is he's looking beyond this O Lord, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, our fathers, keep this forever in the intent of the thoughts Yeah. And then while he hung on the cross, I heard him say In Jesus' name. And by the time you got to the end of paying all the debt off He said this debt, if we're gonna get to paid in full. That's a great question. No more sin. In your hand you make great and you give strength. And of your own we have given to you. He wants this process to be kind of fixed in the hearts and in the thoughts of the people. And now with joy I have seen your people who are present here to offer willingly to you. Paid in full. God, I need you to declare this word. Some of you have lived through the experiences of having a debt in your life, a car payment, a mortgage perhaps And I know that even as I stand here this morning, it ain't Sterling standing here, you're looking at and witnessing the power of a living God. And so the people brought the payment willingly. He's the one who exalted you when And I thought about, you know what, when God gets ready. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome And I get up in the morning and I say, thank you, God. Lord, I'm praying that even in the midst of our time of celebration, that we would pause and hear from you clearly What we're what we're supplying is from God's own hand. He'll come in and he'll sup with you and he'll be with you forever. And so God made it clear that Solomon his son would be the one that would build And so the southern tribe said, No, God That's a great question. And I know I haven't I haven't lived perfect since he saved me. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. And I'm praying, God, that today would be the day that they would say yes to your will and surrender their heart and their life over to you. Didn't come from my job. Would you pray with me on this morning? He counted the cost. And Romans 6, 23 says, Well, the wages of sin is death To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. God's got too much grace on us. Why would God do such a thing? Let me not have to pay it. And some of you can testify this morning, and you can agree with me this morning that Look at with me at verse number 18. And I'm just the living witness on this morning that he's a great source to have. In your hand is power and might. He says, now, therefore, our God, we thank you and praise your glorious name. I want you to understand that when God decided to build Himself an eternal temple. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Amen. We we do our our math and we we try to uh analyze and we do all the things, but when God got ready And so when he wanted to build an eternal temple And so his son was the source of the payment. We we'll go places that they won't go. And then God tore the temple's veil It was a test of their heart. But who am I, and who are my people, that we should be able to offer so willingly as this? David comes back and he says, as for me. He's looking forward to the time when Jesus is going to If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. There was no coercion, there was no twisting of the arms, there was no forced Holding us back from being in relationship with God. Or by himself, he sent his son, who willingly died. Glory to God. And now with joy I have seen your people. And David just didn't just give a little bit, David gave above and beyond, and way beyond what Because what I believe that David uh reveals to us. That's what we ought to celebrate. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. The word of the Lord reads as follows. Father, we bless you and we thank you. Didn't come from for I didn't make the money. And so, God, use me in the way that only you can, and I will forever give your name all of the glory and all of the honor. In your hand is power and might and strength And so they kept acting a fool, and they kept living like they wanted to live. Paid in full Here in our text this morning, we find And so he called upon all the people as well, and he said to the people, all who are willing. Fix their hearts towards you. According to David, this. I hear him saying, Father, if it is possible. And who are my people that we should be able to offer so willingly as this? David says, O God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, and of our fathers. But nevertheless, Now, when I was working through this text, that verse seemed like it just didn't fit And that next temple that they build, it'll last for 410 or 420 years. Yeah. In your hand it is to make great and to give strength to all. Now he's bringing you their stories. Who were they really in love with? I want to I wanna go to the a cross on Calvary and on Calvary's cross. The One Degree of Andy podcast. And so I pray that your will will be done. And so I kept wrestling with that and going back and forth with that Now he's bringing you their stories. And and so as I was I kept wrestling with this Because he paid the debt that you couldn't pay No, God, you gave it to me But he keeps forgiving me. When you were slaves and you had nothing at all, God said to you, Go ask. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I'm Andy Christman. And so, God, draw them back to yourself on this morning. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And then God raised up Babylon. I'm Andy Christman. org. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. Your debt. org. But but but it's not the He said