What are you talking about? We need you, Lord, and we depend on you. Because that's not a high boost to your self-esteem. You just dirt, they just dirt, we all just dirt. Oh, have mercy, help me. And the U R in this context, because the U is plural, so that's R. You need to know the value of the you. Ephesians chapter 4 spoke to you from the idea of the benefits of the church because we know that this postmodern generation of millennials always wants to know what's in it Praise the Lord. Figure out what the value of dirt was, and I found out you can buy a 40-pound bag of dirt for a dollar and 65 cent, cheaper than a pack of MMs. This kind of dirt, that kind of dirt, all kinds of dirt, and where it came from dirt and all this and that. Or you get your podcasts Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Voices behind the song. It for me was the benefits of attending church and being part of the church. That you might speak clearly a word of life in our midst. Chapter two verse one and we we got here, I believe, by the clear hand Of the power of the God who loved you and saved you and called you his own. Intrigues me and I can figure out ways if I just had that that tool that yeah it would make my life so much easier. Uh articulation of what the value of dirt was, I've also found out that there were more than one kind of dirt. Started looked online, went online, find trying to find out value of dirt online from getting a truckload of dirt. Verse number one, if we're going to understand the value of dirt, Ephesians chapter 2, verse number 1 says, and you stop right there to find out and understand the value of dirt, go back to the beginning when dirt was made. And he breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living being. The youth pastor is dirt. See, we need we need to know who you are. weave hair in it. is dirt the you is dirt the you is not better dirt it's not worse dirt is dirt and watch this In sin shaped in iniquity, we were born bad dirt. And so if we were dealing with a singular and you, I would say you need to know who you is. in Kingdom Building. Education mess us up. In essence, no or little value became valuable because of what God did to the dirt. chapter two verse one we want to um close the series that we started some while ago entitled do we need the child God utilizes the church to advance the kingdom of God and to claim the corridor for Him. Heaven and eternity. hand of God to try to comprehend in a real way the value of dirt. Member of the body, I want you to comprehend and understand and fully regulate your value. Of the understanding. Maybe I'm the only one. Little bag of dirt that wasn't much more than maybe I don't know eight ounces or ten ounces or something. back there the dirt has different values based on a whole lot of different things they got a whole lot of reasons why they got top top they got what they call field dirt topsoil dirt they got conclusion of is that trying to assess the value of dirt based on lows and based on the internet and Based on people's perception and what people were willing to pay, I found out that that was a futile approach to try to come to the understanding of what the value of dirt was. Answer of who you are, because I need to know who you are, and you need to know who you are if you're gonna understand the value of dirt. are you this text in the Genesis the beginning says that you are dirt I know I wasn't going to get any amens on that but to other dirt and other dirt makes you feel inferior, I stop by to let you know you are equal dirt to the other dirt And so is talking about all dirt. I'm trying to help somebody. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Scoop the dirt up, shape the dirt. Of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III. He's great in the midnight hour when you can't get in touch with nobody else. Hallelujah, there was a time. church and that journey has brought us to this point to look at this passage in Ephesians chapter two. we spoke from the idea we need the church to claim the corridor for Christ. and sins. uh comprehend and fairly evaluate their value. idea the value of dirt. Differently in those. Genesis chapter 2, verse 7 gives a more detailed version of this. Choir, I thought I was gonna step back here in the choir and I was gonna pass my mic around. from the other stuff that's in the tub and you will discover that your dirt is just wearing off. I'm light dirt. I'm just trying to I'm trying to get down to the basis of the thing because you know we always want to exalt ourselves up and build ourselves up, but the reality of it is that we're all just dirt. Uh don't think that your clothes or your house or your money or your education gives you the right to talk down another piece of dirt. bottoms put some fake hair on top of the dirt and say look at that how long and pretty that hair is that ain't but is dirt alive. Because of what was put in the dirt caused the dirt to have greater value. To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. Of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. 627-9500. Without Christ, you bad dirt. 10 spoke to you from the idea our inherent obligation to attend church. Them tremendously, and they've been connected to him, the Father, and and and and then he comes back and he prays for them, and he says, I pray that your understanding us for just a moment. I know what you're thinking. We're not dealing with the singular you. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. Let's give the Lord a praise. Y'all said y'all came to worship on today. Ephesians chapter 2, you should have your Bibles with you. Um I know I got some fellow low people. 2 verse 1 to talk to you about the value of dirt because the value of dirt is in Ephesians chapter 2 verse number 1. 1, uh verse number 27. Because God took dirt and shaped dirt and molded in his own image and blew his breath into the dirt, and the dirt became a living being. And all we can really say to it is amen. Hallelujah. And people were good going to assess who they were based on a whole lot of variables, and that's really not going to get me to the end. And so I know what you're thinking. He sits down with the voices behind the song. What is the you value? Amen. Lord have mercy. Use me, Lord, as I need you this hour to speak this word with power and authority and conviction to put into the atmosphere I can buy a 40-pound bag of dirt for $1. And so I said, well, maybe maybe this is not the best way to assess the value of dirt. Dirt. This is bad dirt. Because sometimes dirt gets a raise. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. nest that's in them. That which would horrify the devil. I'm gonna I'm gonna get you there. Would be enlightened that you would really fully comprehend the hope of his calling on your life, the riches of his glory towards you, and the greatness of his If you're going to understand the value of dirt, you need to know who you are. We're all just dirt. church. into the dirt and the dirt became a living being. In the text, the U in the text is plural, meaning it's not just singular. I'm just trying to nail that home. So you can see it better. So you used to be the clerk, now you the manager. I wanted to kind of get a good comprehensive understanding of the value of dirt. If we're gonna understand and comprehend the value of dirt, we need to uh first of all you need to know who you are, but you also need to know you need to know the you value Omnipotent. That their heart might rejoice in the joy of their salvation. And I would probably say even the children of God to understand and to fully His message by letting the saints at Ephesus know how blessed they are. But you just bad dirt have been put in a higher position. In the beginning, God gave value to the dirt when he took the dirt. He's great in all the earth. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Amen. I'm handsome dirt. And so I'm looking at this dirt and I'm saying, this little teeny bag of dirt is eight dollars, whereas I can get a 40-pound bag for a dollar and sixty-five. It says, and you he made alive, who were dead in trespasses. Because if you're just dirt and they're just dirt, then how can dirt talk about dirt Y'all still here with me? There is an obligation on the child of God because of the blood of the Lamb. Uh but I I can be in lows all day, just like some of you ladies can be in Lord and Taylor all day or the mall all day. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. And we think we better dirt. When you go home today, you go back and look in the tub and separate the scum, soap scum. Listen, uh woman of God, man of God, listen, if we're all just dirt, then And you, all all of you are dirt, specifically as Christians in the text, but in Genesis it says that we all are dirt. But specifically in this text, it's the Christian, and you, Christian, born again, child of God, blessed, highly favored, you are dirt too. The usher leader is dirt. Stay with me. I'm gonna read this for you. This is what we are. When somebody says, who are you? No, I Pastor, wait a minute. And you he made alive who were dead in trespasses and sins. This is some of y'all bad. You are, according to Genesis, dirt. I'm just dirt just like you. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. I'm dark dirt. Omnipotent. Father, speak a word here on today that may cause someone who has drifted in their fellowship to return to you and to reconcile the broken In this final part of the series of messages, we find ourselves here in Ephesians But but but Pastor, that dirt got lipstick on it. This dirt is bad dirt. He says, I'm gonna make it in my own image. You you just dirt. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That means and so let it be. Don't check out. The you value is the equivalent of the value of the dirt. God speak a word that the one who came in on this morning discouraged might be encouraged when they leave And what I found out is that the more they put in the dirt, and based on what they put in the dirt, the value goes up. Genesis chapter 1, verse 27 says, So God created man in his own image. Ain't no need having low self-esteem when everybody is dirt And if you're one uh who is suffering from low self-esteem because you're comparing yourself Don't compare yourself to other dirt. That somehow I'm better Bless his name. Want you to turn there. I'm strong dirt. And you. We're dealing with the plural you. We think we done got, you know, exalted. Um it is a common problem amongst people And so when he says, and you is talking about all dirt, everybody is dirt. Glory. God, use me as your instrument to declare liberty to those whom you've desired to set free. I when I go in lows, I just get stuck. But it not only says that you are dirt, it says that man is dirt, woman is dirt, we all are dirt, the pastor is dirt, the choir director is dirt. He's great. Hallelujah. 65. Don't check out on me yet. You, who are you from now on? Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. He's great on Monday. And so I trust you now that you will accomplish in this place what you've set forth to do. I'm good looking dirt. Y'all still here with me? The trustee is dirt. Amen. And it says, And the Lord God formed man of the dust that is dirt of the ground. I ain't dirt pastor. Well, you have at least convinced me, Pastor, that I am dirt, but I'm sexy dirt. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. Glory to God But what I also discovered as I was looking at dirt in Lowe's, trying to assess the value of dirt, because I wanted to be effective in my uh You just dirt that been moved from clerk to manager. That's that's all you are. And you think because we raise the dirt, the dirt thinks You done start thinking about the God you serve, how great He is. This morning, Ketterin, we want to invite you to Ephesians chapter 2. I was gonna say, tell me who you are. Uh let me help you. So assuming it was too many variables to determine how you really come to the true value of dirt. Yeah, he he's got all power in the palms of his hand. And so maybe it'd be better if I can find out, well, yeah, I can get a bunch of dirt, like a truckload of dirt, maybe I can get a better sense of the value of dirt. Wouldn't it be crazy if I took this dirt and put some lipstick on this dirt and put some painted the bottom of it red and said that dirt got red You, you gotta know who the you is in the text. And so it is. I wanted to know what dirt was worth. What the apostle Paul does in Ephesians chapter one is he introduces That's a great question. Y'all haven't got mad yet, have you? Anybody who knows the Lord has a relationship with the Lord, they can agree. I'm just dirt. And you have, he quickened. He's great on Tuesday. Whether you have the papal version or whether you have your electronic versions, Ephesians A word, God, that would change someone's eternal destiny from hell and the lake of fire to hell I don't know where you got that from. Matter of fact, on this particular bag, I wrote bad dirt. I am well formed dirt. So you need to know who you are and I mean it's just so much stuff in there that I can use Y'all stay here with me? He's great when nobody can't help you. Everybody in here is dirt. Y'all still hit it? If my English serves me properly, after plurality, it's R, and after singularity, it's E is. Praise the Lord. I wanted a lot of dirt. You still just dirt You just dirt that just got moved from sitting on this pedestal to put on another pedestal, but you still just dirt. And after my likeness. God, speak a word. And if we all are just dirt, let me talk to Glory to God. I'm gonna explain that in a little while. We all just dirt For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Watch this. It was a really small bag of dirt. Just like my experience at Lowe's, the more they had put in the dirt, the more value they gave to the dirt. But I knew that if I did that, I would have so many different answers. We are dirt. Omnipotent. It got it got long If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. I'm I'm yellow dirt. I'm trying to help somebody because see sometimes our position and titles and and education That's a great question. And so what I found out is that in in assessing the value of dirt from that And then the third part that we dealt with was in Matthew chapter 16. So I went to my favorite place, Lowe's You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. And so I agree. We're going to do anything if the we're going to advance his kingdom. Dirt. Now, in my research to try to come to a comprehension So I went back to Genesis chapter chapter one and in Genesis chapter I brought with me a bag of dirt. That's bad dirt right there. Amen. Paul says, I want you to understand how valuable you are to the church as a minister. But we're not dealing with I'm I'm heavy duty this morning I don't care. The dirt that had I can be in low lows all day because there's so much that in Lord, we have an obligation to attend. Y'all still here with me? But this when we were born, we were born And then he blew his breath. We're just dirt. I'm gonna help somebody right here. Bless his holy name. In an image of God, he created him. That your name would get all of the glory and all of the honor and all of the praise. And so there are differences in the dirt, and they have packaged the dirt Y'all still here with me? If you didn't clean the tub out this morning You dirt, I'm dirt. We we need to attend We thank you in advance for uniting with us If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. m. Y'all stay with me, I'm gonna get you there. Watch this That means he has all power. When the doctor says he's done all he can do. On this morning, Ephesians chapter 2. You he made a lie, the text says. So when somebody asks you, who are you? or 11 a. And now, Pastor Sterling. And that little small bag cost eight dollars and fifty You are dirt. Welcome to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. I'm brown dirt. But nevertheless, I was there and so what I did was I did some research and I was trying to figure Bless his name. Bless his adorable name. Stay here with me. We raise the dirt. m. He's got all power. He's great. I'm really I'm gonna help somebody. And so as I look at this verse, I want to talk to you from this I Now he's bringing you their stories. They have received the favor of God and that God has blessed them. We're all just at our new edifice called the Legacy Center. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. And this is Because the text here says, and you, so we know who the you is. I know you're looking cute on this morning, but you ain't always been looking cute. Omnipotent, he's great. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Male and female, he created them. So what I came to the Um And so as we look here in Ephesians chapter 2, verse We then went to from there to Ephesians You need to know who you are. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1. I say what So the Lord says, okay, go back. Are you there yet? We started the journey, Hebrews chapter Father in heaven, we need you on this day that The you is dirt. Don't be talking about I'm the executive's assistant vice president. You made Bless his name. Have your way, God Now he's bringing you their stories. We all began our journey as dirt. Matter of fact, they even had one And God led me here to Ephesians chapter org or contact our church office at 301-0. I'm Andy Christman. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Amen. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And so what I thought to do originally I know we serve a God. In Jesus' name So I was Okay. The you And if and and Lord have mercy In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. If I'm gonna if you're gonna Amen. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast, One Degree of the. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever. Lord have mercy.