Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling I want to invite you to turn with me to 1 Samuel chapter 3. We'll begin our reading at verse 1. The word of the Lord from 1 Samuel chapter 3 reads as follows. Now the boy Samuel ministered to the Lord before Eli. And the word of the Lord was rare in those days. There was no widespread revelation. And it came to pass at that time while Eli was lying down in his place. And when his eyes had begun to grow dim, so that he could not see, and before the lamp of God went out in the tabernacle of the Lord, Where the ark of God was, and while Samuel was lying down, that the Lord called Samuel, and he answered, Here I am. So he ran to Eli and said, Here I am, for you called me. And he said, I did not call. Lie down again. And he went and he lay down. Then the Lord called yet again, Samuel. So Samuel arose and went to Eli and said, Here I am, for you called me. He answered, I did not call you, my son. Lie down again. Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, nor was the word of the Lord yet revealed to him. And the Lord called Samuel again a third time. So he arose and went to Eli and said, Here I am, for you did call me. Then Eli perceived that the Lord had called the boy. And therefore Eli said to Samuel, Go lie down, and it shall be, if he calls you, that you must say, Speak, Lord. For your servant hears. So Samuel went and he lay down in his place. Now the Lord came and stood and called as at other times. Samuel, Samuel, and Samuel answered, speak, for your servant hears. Then the Lord said to Samuel, Behold. I will do something in Israel at which both ears of everyone who hears will tingle. In that day I will perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house from beginning. to end. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, we honor you on this morning. We thank you for the privileged opportunity to declare your word I'm thankful, God, that I have the chance to stand here this morning with blood yet still running warm in my body, with activity of my limbs. I'm praying, God, that you would help my mind, that you would help my mouth, God, that you would give me the clarity of thought and of speech to declare your word in such a way that if anybody doesn't know you, That they will come to know you and the pardon of their sin, that they would come into a personal and intimate relationship with you today, that they would accept the invitation of being adopted into the family of God. I pray, Heavenly Father, if there are any who have drifted in their fellowship, they've walked away, they've drifted in their relationship with you. God, that today, through the preaching of the gospel, you would draw them, through the power of your Holy Spirit, you would draw them back Into a renewed relationship with you, Spirit of the Living God. I know that perhaps there are those that are listening who will come in or tune in, who are in need of encouragement, Lord God, and in need of your spirit and your presence. I pray, Heavenly Spirit, that you would move on them, that you would draw them, that you would edify them. But God, and above and beyond all that I'm praying and all that I'm asking of you, it is my fervent prayer, Heavenly Father, that on this day, And on this occasion that you would glorify yourself. Let your name get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise For it is you alone who is worthy of it. I bless you in advance, God, for what you're going to do. Use me now as an instrument in your hand to accomplish your will. I surrender all to you. I need you, God. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. A few weeks ago, I kind of started on this series of messages that dealt with family dynamics And so I started in Esther chapter four and we spoke there from the subject matter, the sacrifice to save the family. And we examined Esther's uh scenario and all that she was going through. We saw Esther's separations and the shame that she went through and then the ultimately the sacrifice she made. To not only save her family, but to save all of Israel as a result of petitioning the king. Today, we find ourselves here in 1 Samuel chapter 3. And we get to see Samuel, whose mother was barren, who went to the temple of God, who pleaded with God. God, please give me a son. She made a declaration to God. God, if you give me a son, I'll give them back to you. I'll lend them to the Lord for all the days of his life. So, as the text bears out, while she was praying, she was praying with such passion, with such intensity, that Eli came and thought she was drunk. And she says, No, your maidservant's not drunk. I'm not drunk. I'm pleading with God that God would answer this prayer And she went off and the Lord blessed her to become pregnant for the first time and she gave birth to Samuel, and she kept Samuel near her until such time that he was weaned. And once Samuel was weaned, she took Samuel as she had promised God, took him back to the temple, and she gave him to Eli so that he could serve God in the temple of God with the other Levites. And he was there to serve the Lord for all the days of his life. And so Eli the priest took Samuel in to become part of his family. To raise him, to allow him to serve in the temple of God. And so through this story, we get to see some family dynamics. That may be at work in our own families as well, and perhaps we'd be able to identify with some of the scenarios that are playing out in this family of Elias in the text. Have you ever noticed that you can have children that come out of the same family? The same mama, same daddy, same house. Eating the same food, but yet they come out drastically different. And as I was looking at this text on this morning, I couldn't help but notice The paradigm between this family and how different the children turn out. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter out of the same house. I want to kind of lean in on this and look at the influence that Eli has as a father on this family. First of all, we see that Eli. Trained Samuel to serve the Lord. Right after Hannah had given this just weaned off breast milk baby to the priest to raise and to serve God. Verse chapter two, verse eleven says Then Elkanah went to his house at Ramah, but the child ministered to the Lord before Eli the priest. If you skip over to verse number 18, it says again, but Samuel ministered before the Lord even as a child wearing a linen ephod. And his mother would make him a little robe and bring it to him year by year when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice. Then by the time we get to chapter 3, verse 1, we see him once again. Now the boy Samuel ministered To the Lord before Eli. Now notice two things. One, he's always ministering to the Lord, but Eli is always there So Eli is training him how to serve the Lord. Now, you gotta understand he's a boy and he's not a Levite, so there's only certain things things he can do, but he's learning how he's being trained up in the house how to serve the Lord. Now that's a sermon right there, but I I don't want to I don't want to push too hard because parents If you wonder why your children sometimes turn out the way they do, maybe you didn't train them to serve the Lord That is our responsibility. Parents, y'all do know that. So Eli is training Samuel how to serve the Lord. So this training that Eli gives to Samuel. I'm going to make a grand assumption, and maybe I'll have some justification later. I got a little support later, that this is the way he trained his sons as well. That they might know how to serve the Lord. That they might know how to minister before the Lord. And so. He does this training with Samuel over and over and over again, even as a little boy, and as he's growing up, he's teaching him how to serve the Lord. But then you realize that in the same house You can train the children the same way to do the same thing and get different results We get given the same rules, the same guidelines, we train them the same way, but we get different results. We get one who comes out rebellious. And the other one comes out obedient. You get one who is kind and generous, and the other is mean and selfish. You training these children the same out of the same house, you training them the same way. One of them will look after you and care for you while you're aging. And the other one won't never call you, won't check on you. They just waiting for you to die so they can get your house. Eli has trained Samuel and his sons. To serve the Lord. But then as I walk through the text to get to chapter three. I also discovered that Eli tolerated his son's disrespect for the Lord In chapter 2, verse 22, it says, Now Eli was very old, and and he heard everything his sons did to all Israel, and how they had lay with the women. These are priests. They lay with the women who assembled at the doors of the tabernacle of assembly of meeting. So he said to them, Why do you do such things? For I I hear of your evil dealings from all the people. No, my sons, for it is not a good report that I hear that you make the Lord's people transgress If one man sins against another, God will judge him. But if you will sin against God, who will intercede for him? Nevertheless, they did not heed the voice of their father because the Lord Desire to kill them. And the child Samuel grew in stature and in favor both with the Lord and men out of the same house. Eli heard, not only were they sleeping with the women at the doors of the tabernacle, but they also were still in the offerings that were being put in the And they were violating the Levitical law that they were supposed to burn off the fat first. They said we don't want the burn they were taking all the best chunks of of beef and and all the best chunks of meat and they were sticking forks down in it and snatching it out and they were threatening the people, you know, taking this, taking the offering from the people. They I mean they they had just gone buckwild And Eli, their father, who trained them to serve the Lord, hears about it, knows about it, but he tolerates it. Now, what did he do when he heard about all the sins of his sons? That they what they were doing. The text says in verse 23, he asked them, Why would you do such things? Now The fact that he asked them, why would you do that suggests to me that he had trained them to know better. In other words, they knew that what they were doing was not how they were trained up to do So one, he asks them why. Two, he warns them, he says, well, look guys, this is not a good report that I'm getting. I mean, if you sin against you know a man, then there's some intercession from God. But if you if you sin against God, you got no help. It's you against God. Y'all going down a slippery slope. But these two sons who were growing up in his house Who were getting the same training that Samuel was getting, who were eating his food. They did not heed his voice. Here you have two sons in your house that you trained. To serve the Lord and they're violating the service of God. And and you've given them the warning and you've told them what they how to correct their actions, but they won't even listen to your your uh advice and they it while they're still in your house these things ought not be There are certain things that if we tolerate, we allow and precipitate worse behavior. Can I talk to somebody? Because there are things as parents that are cute when they're five But they're not cute when they're 15. But the old people used to say you better bend the sap while it's young Pastor, what you talking about? I don't understand them old time sayings. What it meant was you better shape the tree and you better shape the child in the way that you expect them to be when they're young. If you tolerate it now, you won't be able to do anything with it later. Samuel tolerated the behavior of his children and he let them go on and on and then it gets to the point Where they're not only embarrassing him, they're embarrassing God, and they're violating the people, and they're teaching the people to do wrong. But out of the same house Same training, same same Eli that's leading them. Verse 26. The child Samuel is growing in stature and in favor both with the Lord and men. Eli is training Samuel and Eli is tolerating the disrespect from his brothers. By the time we get to chapter 3, Eli is going to teach Samuel to know the voice of the Lord. This this Samuel is not qualified. Samuel is an adopted son. He's a non-Lavitical son. But yet God doesn't care about any of that. And he calls Samuel, but watch this. But Samuel doesn't know the voice of the Lord. Listen, there's a lot of people that are working in the house of the Lord, that are serving in the house of the Lord, that are hanging around the church of God and they don't know the voice of God. See, I can train the worst heathen to stand at the door and be the most sharp usher. Wave you to your seat, be kind and generous, smile, do all that stuff. I can train people to do that. As a matter of fact, if we go back through world history, some of those who were the most charismatic, like Hitler, Who started out on the road as a preacher was not knowledgeable of the voice of God, but he knew how to serve I'm trying to help us to see that not that service is bad, but you can serve and not know the voice of God. Samuel has been serving all this time. And he doesn't know the voice of the Lord because the word of God was scarce. And so when God calls, he thinks it's Eli. Eli, what you want? Eli said it wasn't me. Go back to sleep. Goes back, lays down, God calls him again. He gets back up. He goes back to Eli again. Yes! I know you called me. Eli says I didn't call you. Go back and lay down. This happens three times. Now, what's interesting to me, it takes Eli, who is the high priest, the three times before he figures out. Kind of gives you an idea where he is. But he had a relationship such that he finally perceived That it is God who's calling him. And Eli says to Samuel, this is what you must say. Verse number nine. He says, if he calls you again, you must say, Speak, Lord, for your servant hears. Samuel went and laid down. Now the Lord came and stood and called as at other times. Samuel! Samuel! And Samuel answered just like Eli told him to answer. Speak For your servant hears. I want that phrase to get down into you because That's the way to answer the call of God. And listen When God picked Samuel, and God chose Samuel, God tells Samuel, Samuel, I'm gonna do something in Israel. It's gonna make everybody's ears tingle. Because Eli is the high priest in Israel. I'm gonna take down the high priest and his kids. Wait a minute, wait a minute. My theological education says you can't do that, God, because the Levites are supposed to supposed to be the ones that serve in the temple. And God said, but there was conditions to that. As long as you obey me. Now Eli and his His boys have cut across the lines of God. They violated all that God laid out for them to do. And now God says, I'm going to take them out. God speaks to Samuel and starts telling Samuel intimate things. Morning comes around, Eli says, Samuel, what did God say? Samuel don't want to tell him. Because God had just told him I'm gonna kill Eli and his sons. Here's why you need to be obedient to God. Samuel was trying to protect Eli by not telling him, but God had already told Eli what he was going to do. So when when now it's Samuel's turn to say it, all Samuel is doing is confirming that this is a fresh revelation from God. God wants to use some of you to be instruments for his kingdom. But he needs you in the paradigm of your family. To say, Speak, Lord, for your servant hears Samuel is not qualified. Samuel is not a Levite Samuel is not the one, and he's coming out of a house that is messed up, tore up from the floor up, even from the priesthood down, but yet God still decides: out of this house, I'm gonna use him. I only emphasize that because it doesn't matter what your house looks like. It doesn't matter what you look like. God can still use you. God gets greater glory out of you when you are messed up. Because everybody then knows that no, I know that way that ain't you. That has to be God. And so God is looking for those out of the same house. So in the middle of whatever your family dynamic is, if your family is a mess, you know it's a mess, they know it's a mess, everybody knows a mess. If your family is so so. Invite the presence of God into the dynamic of your family and watch the dynamic change. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he says Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.