Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling I want to invite your attention to Joshua chapter 3. We'll begin reading at verse number 1 The word of the Lord reads as follows Then Joshua rose early in the morning, and they set out from Acacia grove and came to the Jordan, and he and all the children of Israel, and they lodged there before they crossed over. So it was after three days that the officers went through the camp and they commanded the people, saying, When you see the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God and the priests. The Levites bearing it, then you shall set out from your place and go after it. Yet there shall be a space between you and it. about two thousand cubics by measure. Do not come near it, that you may know the way by which you must go. For you have not passed this way before. And Joshua said to the people, Sanctify yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. Then Joshua spoke to the priest, saying, Take up the Ark of the Covenant and cross over before the people So they took up the Ark of the Covenant and they went before the people. And the Lord said to Joshua, This day I will begin to exalt you in all the sight of the city. of Israel, and they may know that as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. And you shall command the priests who bear the ark of the covenant, saying When you have come to the edge of the waters of the Jordan, you shall stand in the Jordan. And so Joshua said to the children of Israel, Come here and hear the words of the Lord your God. And Joshua said, By this you shall know that the living God is among you, and that he will without fail drive out from before you The Caanites, the Hivites, the Hittites, the Hivites, and the Perizites and the Gergeshites and the Amorites and the Jebusites Behold the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord and all the earth is crossing over before you into the Jordan. Now therefore take yourselves twelve men from the tribes of Israel, one man from every tribe, and it shall come to pass As soon as the soles of the feet of the priests who bear the ark of the Lord, the Lord of all the earth, shall rest in the waters of the Jordan, that the waters of the Jordan shall be cut off The waters that come down from upstream, they shall stand as a heap. And so it was when the people set out from their camp. And as those who bore the ark came to the Jordan, and the feet of the priests who bore the ark dipped into the edge of the waters, for the Jordan overflows all of its Banks during this whole time of harvest that the waters which came down from upstream stood still and rose in a heap very far away at Adam. the city that is beside Zartan. And so the waters went down into the sea of the Erabah and the Salt Sea failed and uh were cut off, and the people crossed over opposite Jericho. Then the priest who bore the Ark of the Covenants of the Lord stood firm on dry ground. uh in the midst of the Jordan, and all of Israel crossed over on dry ground until all the people had crossed completely over the Jordan. Will you pray with me this morning, eternal and everlasting God? Thank you for the word this morning. Thank you for the worship we've experienced thus far. Thank you for your Holy Spirit's presence in this place. Lord, it is my prayer even now as I prepare to declare your word that you would speak clearly into the hearts, minds, and souls of every person who is listening. Whether they view and listen now, or whether they view and listen later, or whether they're sitting right here in the midst with us, I pray, God, that your word and your spirit would capture their hearts if they don't know you as personal Lord and Savior God. I pray that the The urgency of a need to give their heart and life to you just moves them today, God, that they surrender and say yes to your will. Spirit of the Lord, those who have been beaten up and trodden down, who who come in and have tuned in on today, God, and just need some encouragement. I pray that this word would speak encouragement and direction and wisdom to their life. I pray, eternal God, that if there's anybody who's drifted in their fellowship from you, God, that this will be an opportunity that they might be encouraged to return to you. Return to the fellowship and Renew the brokenness, Lord God, of the relationship that now currently exists. Draw men and women, boys and girls, according to your word. God, you said, If I and if I be lifted up I'll draw all men unto you. And so, God, I'm praying that you draw men unto yourself on today, that you would help them, God, to understand That you have never left them and you'll never abandon them, but rather, God, you're with them always, even until the very end. Spirit of the Lord, I stand in need of you now. Use me as a vessel in your hand to accomplish your will, and I'll give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. It is in Jesus' name that I pray with thanksgiving, with great expectation. Amen. Catherine family, as we as Christians live this life of Christianity, some of us have learned and others of us are learning. That the plans that we have seldom work out the way we plan them And we are learning or and have learned that the plans of God oftentimes don't make logical sense to us. And in fact, the plans of God often uh resonate and validate Romans chapter eleven, where God says, That his ways are beyond figuring out. I want to preach through a series of messages entitled Strange Plans. As I begin to look at what God does and how He lays out and orchestrates events in our lives and sets plans before us. Is so that we can kind of see and begin to learn that the plans of God, though strange, are always perfect. God never messes up. He never fails. Did y'all know that? And so his plans always work, even though we don't understand them. Because he is an omniscient God, knowing everything. And he has a way of proving to us over and over and over and over and over and over again that his plans are always perfect. In this particular text that I read and you're hearing today, Joshua chapter 3, I want to talk to you from the subject matter, crossing flood waters. Every time we get heavy rain, or there's some projection of a heavy rain or a storm coming You and I will oftentimes, if you listen to the news, you will oftentimes hear them warning of flash flood warnings. And in those flash flood warnings, we're warned about the fact that you might be driving along and everything looks wonderful, and then all of a sudden here comes a whole bunch of water rushing across a road. And they warn you about that. And and as I was I was looking at this whole idea of the the of the flash flood and and the flood waters and all that thing and as I was trying to compare it into this text Because this text is is is that there's some flooding happening at the Jordan River, and yet God has called them to cross this river. And so what I what I learned and what I discovered is that the average Flood waters move at about six point two miles per hour, and the force of Floodwaters moving at ten miles an hour is equivalent to wind speeds and wind destructions of two hundred and seventy miles an hour. It gives you an idea of the power that is underneath the current and that's moving in the flood waters, and it's the reason why that you always hear them say something like this. Turn around, don't drown. In other words, I know you're driving an SUV and you've got all-wheel drive and four-wheel drive, and and you've got the Hemi under the hood and all that kind of stuff. But ain't none of that gonna help you when them 270 pounds of pressure come flood rushing across your supersized SUV or your supersized pickup truck, it'll wash you right down the river. Are y'all hearing what I'm saying? And so they say to you, even if you can't, you know, like folks say, well, I think I can make it, but you never know what's underneath that water that's crossing the road. You don't know in fact whether the road isn't even there at all. And so you going hopping along and thinking, I got this, I got to get to work, even though you was late in the first place. And now Even though the signs are saying turn around and and don't drive this way, you you riding along in your Hyundai and you figure I got this, and next thing you know, your iPhone is calling 911. Saying, come get this person. Oftentimes in life, we have some floodwaters that we have to cross. We don't have the option of turning around. We have to go through them. There's some circumstances, some situations that uh that that rise up in our lives and and and God through his strange plan says to you And to me, the way to get to where I'm trying to get you is that you've got to cross these flood waters. First and foremost in the text, as God gives The plan or directions, instruction, he he speaks first to the people, and he says to the people, set out after the ark. That's the first part of the plan. Joshua rose early in the morning. They all set they are they they're right there, right beside um the the the the Jordan River at Acacia Grove. And so after three days, they the officers and they went through the camp and They all commanded the people, When you see the ark of the covenant of the Lord, the God and the priests, the Levites bearing it, then you shall set out from your place and go after it. Part of the plan here for the people is that you don't cross the Jordan until you see the Ark of the Covenant. The Ark of the Covenant represents the presence of God. And so what God in essence is saying to the people here is wait for the appointed time. Don't just go in on your own because you got to get to the other side. No, wait, because the plan of God always includes timing of God Sometimes God will show us a glimpse of where he's taking us, but because we're too anxious to get there. We don't wait on the timing of God. And when we try to do it ourselves, what happens is it doesn't work out. And then we get frustrated because it didn't work, but it didn't work because you didn't wait on the timing of God. So the text lets us know is they're right there at the Jordan, waiting to cross over, but it's not their point in time. But now after three days The officers come and they tell the people, wait till you see the ark. And the priests, and they're going to be going before you. Don't you get ahead of them. When when you know that God is opening up the door, don't sit there and wait for the door to just stay open. No, you get up and you move after God. And so it says to them. You get up and you you go after the ark, but stay at a distance. It's right there in the text. It says somewhere around verse 4, it says, Yet you shall be a space between you and it. About 2,000 cubics. Now, literally translated, that's about a mile. So he wants them to stay about a mile back from the Ark of the Covenant and the priests who are carrying the covenant. And again, the Ark of the Covenant represents the presence of God. And so the presence of God moves, the priests are moving, and he says, Now, y'all get up and go after it, but I need you to stay at a certain distance behind it. Now wait on the timing of God. Let it be a distance. Do not come near it, that you may know the way by which you must go, for you have not passed this way before. So follow the presence of God. And it'll keep you out of trouble. And Joshua said to the people, Sanctify yourselves for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. And what's weird about this to me is when the children of Israel are going across the Jordan, they're going across the Jordan to do war with their enemies. And instead of Joshua saying to the people, sharpen your tools, get your weapons ready, he says, Sanctify yourself He says, prepare yourselves spiritually for God is going to work wonders among you tomorrow. This is strange to me, but the more I dug into that, it dawned on me that if you don't prepare yourself Spiritually, for what God is getting ready to do, you're going to miss the move of God, and you might give credit to somebody else, or you might move at the wrong time, or you might not be spiritually in tune when God begins to whistle. Whisper directions your way, y'all not hearing what I'm saying. I need you to be the sh as sharp as you can be and as in tune as you can possibly be to God when we make this move. Because when you get ready to step in the water and the water is moving so fast, everything in your natural body is gonna say back up. Back up, back up, back up, back up. No, no, no. This is danger, danger. You know, everything inside of you is saying, no, we ain't going this way. But God says, when you get in tune to the Holy Spirit, And you can hear God speaking clearly. When you have spiritually tuned in to the power of God and the sensory of God, even though there's danger, you'll say, I know I'm in the hands of a God who can take care of me. So I can have peace while I'm walking through dangerous flood waters when I'm in tune with God. So God says to them, the part of the plan is sanctify yourself, get yourself ready, spiritually get ready. Not that you're gonna have to do anything, but that God's gonna do something. Can I talk to somebody? You're getting ready to go through a place, an experience that you've never been through before. But God says, don't worry about the physical. Get yourself spiritually ready. Pastor, I need the details. No, you don't. Because if I give you the details, you're so intelligent you will make another plan. I need you to follow the plan of God. Because the plan of God is going to get you to the destination that he has for you. But you gotta be in tune. So he says sanctify yourselves. So so Joshua he you know the people they go and they s they set themselves Get a part with God, get themselves ready because God's getting ready to do work wonders among them. And so Joshua says to the people, and matter of fact, he goes forward, he begins talking to the priest now. He says, Now, priest, it's time to move Pick it up, verse 6. So now the first instruction was to the people, and that was to set out after the ark. Then the second part of the plan is to the priest. And to the priest he says, Step in and stand in the Jordan. Picks up verse number seven. And the Lord said to Joshua, this day I will begin to exalt you in the sight of all of Israel, that they may know that I as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. And he told the priest in verse number six, take up the ark of the covenant and cross over before the people. So they took up the ark of the covenant and they went before the people. So now everything's on a move, everything's rolling. And he says to the priest, priests, you've got to step into the flood waters. For two reasons. So that the people will know that God is with Joshua like he was with Moses Now, Joshua is the new appointed leader, and God's going to use this occasion to affirm to the people that the same way I was with Moses, I'm with Joshua. Secondly, he says, that they may know that the living God is among them. I want you to visualize the priest. The Levites carrying the Ark of the Covenant. The Ark of the Covenant is precious. It's the presence of God. It has the very elements that God has given them to put into it. And now the instruction is While you're carrying the Ark of the Covenant, step into the flood waters that can wash away a building. It's a strange plan. Carry the ark, step into the water. But this plan requires belief and faith in God that what he says he's going to do, he will do it. So they've got to step into the Jordan, they've got to stand in the Jordan, and so that the people will know that as I was with Moses, I am with Joshua, and that the people may know that the presence of God is amongst us. You cannot expect to receive the promise of God unless and except you step into the flood waters. The priest They step in the water, they begin to stand in it, and then God affirms, just like he said, I'm with you. You and I, just like the priests, will need to do that. We got to step in it, we gotta stand in it. We got Jordan River situations in our life. We've got flood rivers running in front of us, we got problems, we got People, we got stuff that we're fighting and dealing with, and we need to know that God is with us. We've got the the plan for the people. Set out after the ark. Got the plan for the priests. Step in and stand in the Jordan. But finally there is the plan that is addressed to the water. Stop flowing and stand up. Verse 13 in the text says, and it shall come to pass as soon as the soles of the feet of the priests Who bear the ark of the Lord and the Lord and all the earth the Lord of all the earth rest in the waters of the Jordan, that the waters of the Jordan shall be cut off and the waters that come down from upstream, and they shall stand as a heap. The text says, as soon as the feet of the priest are in the water and they rest in the in this in the water. Now you gotta you gotta understand what it takes to get to the point where your feet are are resting because y'all know what we do when trouble we start running. We get happy feet. But no these need to be resting feet. They have to rest in the Jordan. Now when the feet are of the priests who are carrying the ark of the covenant. Rest in the Jordan. Now the water has to obey the command of God because that's the plan. The plan is when the priest are settled in the water when the priests are determined that God's plan is the plan that's gonna work. Then water, I want you to stop flowing. The water is the obstacle that's in your way. If God can speak to water, listen to this, and every molecule of water backs up. And forms a wall. And Lord Jesus. And you got to understand something. The reason why they can walk across on dry land Is because every single solitary molecule of water has obeyed the voice of God and has either flowed downstream or it's backed up upstream. And I'm trying to tell you what kind of power my God has. He's got power to talk to water, and every molecule of the water has to obey. If God can do that to water, I guarantee you he can do it to your problem. He can do it to the people in your life. He can do it to the job. He can do it to your health situation. He can speak to cancer and say Get out of her. Leave him alone. But listen, logically, this don't make sense for you thinking I'm gonna step in the water as soon as I stand in the water, that water is gonna stand up like a heap. And all of a sudden, the dirt that is saturated with water from hundreds of years of the of the Jordan flowing, all of a sudden that's just gonna dry up and all the water gonna be gone. Yes, that's the plan. Verse 16 says, the waters which came down from upstream stood still. At Autumn, the city that is beside Zartan. That's sixteen miles upstream Pastor, that's a long way upstream. Yes, it is. But five million people need to cross this Jordan. And we're not crossing in a single, single foul line. Are y'all hearing what I'm saying? I got miles of people that need to cross over. And so God has commanded the water 16 miles upstream. To stop flowing and to back up into a heap and into a wall, so that so that when my people cross over this flooded plain is no longer a flooded plain, but it's dry land. Now the priests are standing, holding the presence of God in the middle of the Jordan River And while the presence of God is in the middle of the Jordan River, the water is obeying everything God told it to do. And while the priests are standing there The people have to have enough confidence in the plan to go ahead and start walking across. Can I talk to somebody right about here? There's some rivers that God has already dried up in your life. But you're still afraid because your past has held you captive, and you're still remembering the last Time. You're still remembering what happened 10 years ago and 15 years ago. I stop by to let you know that God has already dried up some of your rivers. All you need to do is have confidence enough To know that the presence of God is in the midst of your flooded waters. Just go ahead and walk across. And everything that stands as an obstacle, including the molecules of water, God will move it out of the way Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.