Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Let them know who your cemetery is. There has been no death, burial, and resurrection. And heaven keeps good records, so it ought to be sure on your side that you've got the right documentation. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. You've got the right covering, you've got the right blood, you've got the right Jesus, you've got the right God to make sure that when you meet him face to face, everything is in order Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. And the word of the Lord reads, In those days Hezekiah was sick and near death. Of the king of Assyria. Voices behind the song. Pastor Sterling. Father in heaven, we honor you this morning and we bless your holy and adorable name. And we discovered that in Jesus' outline that was given for prayer, he first of all instructs or leads or guides us that we must first of all be submissia submissive. uh petition to God, things like that. In which we may give praise, make petitions to God, or even receive instruction, wisdom, direction, insights name of the Lord. And obtain the intervention of God in our life and circumstances. And and then they just they showed up just once in a while to talk to you. To meet your creator, Hezekiah. That we don't have that in a text. Uh Lord, I want more days. is that you're gonna die and not live. When he knows he's getting ready to face death, when he knows he's getting ready to meet his creator, he says, I want to make sure, God, that you remember two things You you forget what I've done and that you don't recall my faithfulness. But it might be of your benefit to you to make sure that the record in heaven is straight, that you are born again. To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. integrity with a heart that was upright before you and God I've lived in front of you right so when I stand before you in judgment remember what I've done And have seen your tears, surely I will add to your days fifteen years, and I will deliver you and this city from the hand which he has spoken. And the word of the Lord came to Isaiah, saying, Go and tell Hezekiah, thus says the Lord, the God of David, your father, I have heard your prayer. We spoke from the subject matter, the outline for prayer. And so we enter in reverencing the holiness of God and submitting to the holiness of God. Because God will not withhold from you what is his will to give to you. Repeating that prayer and reciting it by memory, and hopefully you've grown a little bit in the last couple of weeks in your prayer life, and your prayers have changed a little bit and have altered to be more of what God would desire them to be In our texts today, we find here that in the days when And in pride he brings the Babylonians to Judah and shows them all the greatness that God had done. Hezekiah had made Hezekiah wealthy and the nation was wealthy, and he was showing it all off, and he was he was acting out in pride and and in his prideful uh experiences it brings us to this It's as the text says, in these days or in those days, Hezekiah was sick unto death. seems to be kind of almost unbelievably a an elusive terminology to discover. To talk to you. Then Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall and prayed to the Lord. But Hezekiah is not praying at that moment. Y'all still hear? with the with the vinegar and water you can stop with all the the mixtures and messed up you can stop with the robotussing you can stop with the theraplu it's not going to work you're going to die and you're not gonna live that comes in your life. It's time. This is a powerful, powerful statement. This sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. How I have walked before you in truth and with a loyal heart and have done what is good in your sight. So the sun returned 10 degrees on the dial by which it had gone down. That everything that prevents us from hearing, God, might be removed from the very canals of our ears that we might hear this word from you. this morning. to that one who's downtrodden and came in heavy laden and you might lift their burden and set them free. Have thine own way even now in the name of Jesus who is the Christ, I pray. To the holiness of God. Because in our prayer life it's not what we want, but it's what God wills for us that will come as an answer. So we must surrender to the will of God. gave in his outline that there was a time for the sharing of your supplications with God. That we ought to ask for what we need today. And what's interesting about that is that sometimes we can become so in tune with God that we drop out of the reality of our need for God. to him and to Judah from Assyria, he instead of trusting God, he began to trust in man and he seeks an alliance with another nation, Babylon to this text and in these conditions it is where Hezekiah is led to pray this prayer that we have in our text. And we don't want to spend time in conversation with him. to the king, Hezekiah. And the doctors say, you know, we we've done all the medicine, we've done all of this we can do that she's at the end now. Lord, help me right here. And the timing to do so. When things are in order when you die. Then after the warning, Hezekiah begins to pray because he has no other hope of survival. That are sometimes necessary to get God's people to come have conversation with him. Second movement here in the text is that God listened to the prayer as he wept. When Hezekiah gets this invitation to prayer, Hezekiah's instruction, his sign, his warning that comes to him He says, God, I want you to remember what I've done. Can you remember how faithful I was? This is good news. Lord help me here. Lord have mercy. You know I've been faithful to you. How I served you, Lord. Set your house in order, for you shall die and not live. Ketherman, we began a couple weeks ago a series of messages entitled Prayer: Power. Build on that and understand this is just the outline for prayer and I abolish some of your customary prayers that you've been praying for 40 years. place in the text where now Hezekiah is near death. And uh since we've outlined the prayer, uh given an outline for prayer, I want to add to our outline and add to our benefit on this morning as we delve into this particular passage of And unfortunately, we ignore that part of the relationship. Set your house in order because you're not going to live forever. office at 301-627-9500. Lord, I'm praying that every heart would be open and receptive to the gospel today that if anybody doesn't know you, that they might come to know you in a real and a personal way. Assyria was on the move and conquering many nations. In an effort to form an alliance with Babylon in order that he might be able to stand against Assyria Because Hezekiah was a good king. spending time with God in conversation. Amen. Prayer time that we spend. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter, invitation to prayer. God wants to have a conversation with him. Let me tell you, God could have probably sent a whole lot of messages and it still may not have moved Hezekiah to pray. And that he was getting ready to face death, the text says, then he accepted God's invitation to a conversation. Invites Hezekiah in to prayer with God. Come on, Pastor, move on, move pastor. Are y'all still here with me? I don't know about you, but I wouldn't want to get to heaven and find out I I picked up the wrong Jesus on the way. God, we pray that you would speak in such a way that every barrier that we've raised up will be broken down today that we might hear from you. And Hezekiah is the king in Judah at the time, and he is operating out of pride. We don't have a whole lot of time to spend talking to God. He wants to talk back to you. In those days Hezekiah was sick and near death, and Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amos, went to him and said to him, Thus says the Lord, set your house in order, for you shall die and not live. As a vessel in your hand, use me even now, God, to declare your word and to accomplish your will. a definition for prayer because I think there's a lot of uh ideas of what it is and what it's not and To a solemn request for help or an expression of thanks, an address to God in word or thought. In this uh story, which uh is also recorded in 1 Kings chapter 20 and 2 Chronicles chapter 32, it begins with this. For you shall die and not live. For you shall die and not live. It wasn't until God made clear to him that he had nowhere else to turn. Hezekiah, set your affairs and your affections in order. Set everything in order, Hezekiah. More of us need to understand that we're going to die. But it's an invitation to prayer, but it comes by a warning. Lord, make sure heaven's records are straight. How I was loyal, had a loyal heart. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And he's not praying to God. With a warning. What I'm glad about is that if I'm covered in the blood of the Lamb, I'm secure when I meet my Savior face to face. You're gonna start praying. All of a sudden. And he said, This is his prayer, Now remember, O Lord, I pray, how I have walked before you in truth, and with loyal with a loyal heart, I have done what is good in your sight. But in Hezekiah's prayer, God is listening. Thank you, three people that were honest enough to say you could use a little help. And sometimes when we're not willing to pray, God will set conditions in order to make sure that He invites you to prayer time. Time is up. And after that, begins to pray. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Never spoke to you except when they were ready to eat and then after they were ready to eat they just asked you to do something for the food, but they never bothered to listen to you. Kether, and if you have your Bibles with you today and you should, I want to invite your attention to Isaiah chapter 38. And I'm praying, God, that even right now, that as I stand to declare your word, you would stand up in me and speak, God. He's not talking to God. God is not sending it to kill you or destroy you. Your home remedies are not going to work. Mama's on dialysis or she's sick and her heart is failing. People that haven't talked to God in years start praying at this invitation. Behold, I will bring the shadow of the sundial, which has gone down with the sun, on the sundial of Ahaz, ten degrees backwards. Let me stay here a little longer. When we enter into the presence of God to speak to God, we have to be submissive to His holiness, realizing that He is the one that's holy and not us. This is a good example for a whole lot of folk because if I realize I'm going to die, it would behoove me to have not only my records on earth in order, but my records in heaven in order. It some would say, Well, it's inferred by the answer of God. Remember that it was all about you and it wasn't about me. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. He had done great things and he was he had removed idols and and he had led Judah into a great relationship with God. But did you know that God wants to have conversation with you? We don't have a good prayer life. Hezekiah, you're you need to set your house in order. Let them know who your lawyer is. The first order of business of Hezekiah is to make sure that the records in heaven are in order. And I will defend this city. And so Hezekiah has nothing other than his attempt to live out the law and to live according to what God had called him to do. Your child is sick and the doctor says there's nothing we can do. In the context of Hezekiah, Hezekiah, God is saying, it's time for you, Hezekiah. Uh now, and let me say this, it's not that God's going to forget. You may not get a warning before you go. But let me define prayer as this. He wants to have an exchange, a dialogue with you, and he wants to have conversation. God's invitation to prayer with a warning. You don't have nothing else that you can do. I'm not sure where you are on this morning, but I would encourage you to talk to God more regularly, lest he sends you such an invitation. God, you know I done what I could do according to the law to walk before you with And I think I encouraged you that if you want to assure that all of your prayers get answered, let your prayers be according to the will of God. Give us this day our daily sufficiencies, what we need to survive and to thrive on today. Can I talk to you really for real for real? I'm not just talking about Hezekiah, I'm talking to some of y'all. It's over for you now. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Lord help me here. Set your house in order. Can you remember how loyal I was? So God sends a messenger in the form of his prophet Isaiah, and the messenger brings a message. I don't want to get there. Remember, he's in the midst of operating in pride, and in the midst of his pride, he doesn't perhaps feel like he needs God. Let them know where the wheel is. Lord, can you just give me more time? And so God invites Hezekiah into prayer by sending a warning to him that Hezekiah, your Tylenol is not gonna work. There's no other hope. I had done things that I did. And if we're honest this morning, because we are such a busy people, If you ask most Christians, most Christians would testify, my prayer life is really not that good. Y'all still here with me? Y'all don't even want to talk about death. Hezekiah wants to make sure that when he gets to heaven, everything is in order. We find ourselves in your presence today, seeking that you might speak a word in this place. So God wants to have conversation with you. That's why I like coke because coke is the real thing. Let me tell you something. The text says, then y'all y'all text say that? Hezekiah set everything in order. I don't want to stand before you, God, and somehow uh in the in the in the in the in the blink of a of an eye that you He's on his deathbed as some folks would say. This man of God, this king who has followed God and done great things with zeal towards God, he's sick and dying, but he's not praying. Lord help us here. And listen to this invitation. I like this. And this is the sign to you from the Lord that the Lord will do this thing. You can stop drinking theraplu. What is commonly known as the Lord's Prayer. That wouldn't be too good a relationship. God has already determined. And it's unfortunate that it is invitations like this. I I I don't know, but I can tell you what it clearly does say That's a great question. This passage begins with an invitation, God's invitation to pray Y'all hearing me? And it will behoove us to set our houses in order because guess what? Sometimes God's just sending you an invitation to come talk to me. Simply state it: spending time with God in conversation. So I'm just going to encourage you. And so finally we looked there in the passage and we saw that the Lord For the rest of them, we're going to pray for them. I want you to understand that every trial that comes in your life, every heartache If you don't have a wheel, Hezekiah, get a wheel. Verse 3 picks up and it says. God, I did it for your name. Hezekiah, set things in order for you going to die and not live And so if you look up prayer and you look up a definition for it, you'll find such things as to petition God for something. You're going to die. Praise the Lord. And then secondly, we discovered that we must surrender to the will of God. They came to the place where they were also now at odds with Israel and they want to overtake Israel. Amen, Jesus, and the walls. I'm trying to help somebody. Can you extend my days? You got to remember Jesus Christ hadn't come yet. God, remember that that I wanted your name to be great. Can you remember how I walked before you? Help me, Lord, that you've got the right thing Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Amen. I want to define prayer as an interactive conversation with God. Now, let me just give you a paint a picture for you because for most of us we could probably relate to this. Hezekiah is praying, God, remember what I've done. God has a way of inviting us into prayer. This quiet that they got quiet God speak in such a way that you might edify this body and encourage them to glorify you. You see, God through the servitude of The first thing even an unbeliever will do is we need to pray. Let God know what it is you have need of, and specifically in that general text, he said Though many assumed the Hezekiah's prayer was one that said Lord have mercy. He's verifying and validating that God And Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amos, went to him and said to him, Thus says the Lord, He set the end of your days. Get your insurance papers, lay them out on the table. Okay? If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. An invitation to prayer. Then Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall and prayed to the Lord, and said, Remember now, O Lord, I pray. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. I surrender all. Set your house in order. That I got a bootleg version, that I got a camouflage, that I got a an imitation. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. And so it's in these days and under these conditions that we come He's laying on his sick bed. He wants to hear you talking to him. Just listen to me. God will not forget org or contact our church I did it for your glory. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Set the affairs in order. Hezekiah, get your finances in order. Amen. Set your house in order. You can stop with the root mixture. And amen. Your time has run out. It ought to be sure in heaven, Lord have mercy. And in these days is We'll begin our reading at verse number one. m. Would you pray with me? We walk through that text in Matthew chapter 6. We began our journey in Matthew chapter 6. The text doesn't explicitly say that Hezekiah is sick in the text. They're marked, they're measured. or 11 a. He wants. Set your house in order for you're gonna die and not live. Because we're so busy, we don't have a lot of But I guarantee you, if you get this message. You're missing mama or you're feeling like you know she's gonna get ready to slip away. So how do we think that we're gonna have a good relationship with God when we don't want to talk to him? Yeah, I don't know what's going on in this moment. Lord help me. And now, And when you set your house in order, this is just a little pet peeve of minds, it makes grief a lot easier for your family. Bless the name. I can use a little bit of improvement. An invitation I didn't do it for myself, Lord. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. m. Can you remember what I've done? at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. Get prepared Are y'all still here this morning? You're getting ready to come to the last day, Hezekiah. Let folk know where they want you to be buried at I wasn't after making my name great, but Lord, just remember my loyalty to you. Now he's bringing you their stories. And Hezekiah wept bitterly. Things are bad, and he's he's not getting better. See, I appreciate the seven up this morning, but I really like Coke because Coke is the real thing. Remember how I walked before you in integrity. But when the threat came You can stop with the ISAM. Verse 2. And so Hezekiah's first order of business The One Degree of Andy podcast. Hezekiah, let your family know Remember You'll get a definition such as that: a spiritual. If you had a a boyfriend or a girlfriend or a husband or a wife and they never spoke to you. But get the fog out here for just a moment. That's what prayer is. Everyone may not get this invitation. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. He is near death in the text. Spirit of the living God, I enjoy your presence. I'm Andy Christman. And so we kind of began to That's when folks start praying But he's not praying. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. You can stop with the Get things in order, you're not gonna live. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. And Hezekiah wept bitterly. No, I need the real thing. Listen God, I yield myself. For a copy of