And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. What do you mean tell the story? Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Matthew 28. His assignment. Son and Holy Spirit. That we've been charged with by God. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence One degree of Andy Podcast. So you ain't got to worry about nothing. To buy Kettering Baptist Church. Voices behind the song. Amen. And so because he is a God of eternality, he knows not only that which is coming, but that which will come and that which has come and that which will be. But for some, you may be sitting thinking, you know what? His assignment was to come into the world and to give his life as a ransom for ours. For everything he said he did, I did according to the will of my father. And then he was buried in a tomb, and on the third day according to the scripture, he rose with all authority in his hand. He's going to commission them and he says to them, Look, I know that some of you are doubting. So he says, I have all the authority. Here. He's got charge over the white, he's got charge over the Asian, he's got charge over the Hispanics, all authority is in his hand And so his authority says that he has the right. That on the third day he got up from the grave because death couldn't hold him, because he had no sin of his own. In other words, if you're going to make followers of me, they need to know who I am. Let me give you an illustration. In Kingdom Building. At Kettering Ministries. He doesn't care how much money you had in the bank. Bringing you their stories. The second part of our series, we were in Joshua chapter 18. Why should I go in the first place? Because as we walk through this and look at this particular passage today, I want you to understand that you've been commissioned to do so. He says, I want you to meet me on this certain mountain in Galilee. For them. And so he commissions them to do their part. In other words, there are no non-commissioned officers. And when we look at this idea and this thought of commissioning, a commission is an instruction, a command, a duty, a mission, a charge that is given to an individual or a group of people. And I'll use my military background to kind of perhaps explain this. But in the commissioning of the Lord, as He's commissioned his officers and commissioned us to do the work of the ministry, we lay out in this passage what exactly that commissioning involves. Here they are. I'm going to alleviate all of your doubt because I'm going to commission you to go and I have the authority to commission you. As it relates to this particular commission, he has the authority for all of the beings on earth, but he also has the authority to commission and to charge all of the beings in heaven. And in the same way that the commissioning of the military officer is done, the authority is transferred from the president To the secretaries of state so that they could commission the officers. To be worshipped because all authority has been given to me. for you to go. But the charge is to make Christ known. You got to tell others that the way, the truth, and the life is through him. The scripture says there's none good, no, not one. Not just people you know, people that are your color, people that hang out in your neighborhood. That's why we invest here in making disciples that go. We have a responsibility to go. Spirit. into the belief, into the understanding, into the teachings about the triune God, about the names of God. And guess what? Now, what was he baptizing? In whom I'm well pleased. of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Spirit, that we three are one, our triune God. So go teaching, go making disciples, go baptizing, go teaching. Instead of teaching those who we are discipling how long your dress ought to be, or what kind of color tie you ought to wear, instead of us teaching that, we should have been teaching what he commanded them What did he command them? That's what's of the utmost importance because when we leave here, you got to go meet him face to face. He not only says, go making, go baptizing, go teaching, he says, go in my presence. I'm going to be with you when you go. To observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Last when we were together, we were in Exodus chapter three and we spoke there from the idea and the encouragement, the catalysts for claiming the corridor. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III. In Exodus chapter three, we want to ensure that you had an understanding and a knowledge that it was God who would do the claiming, and you just had to be in position. He lived a perfect life. He has completed all of his assignment. So that they may commission the officer in his name. But we had CEOs which were commissioned officers. So he commissioned us, and the commissioning of the Lord's army is also in his name. They worshiped him, but some doubted. They worship, but some doubt it. Because you can't worship him and doubt at the same time. And if just in case you just wanted to be one of those folks that said, I'm only gonna do what God the Father says, do. In heaven and on earth. our commander in chief as you will, he says in verse number 19, go and make disciples. But you need to follow him yourself. Make followers of all nations. If you're gonna tell somebody else to follow Jesus, it might be good for you to be following him. That he is God in the flesh, that he died on the cross, that he shed his blood because nobody else could or would, that they buried him in a borrowed tomb And so you have an assignment. Don't stop because the color of the skin changes. And even as he has through this through radio broadcast, through live streaming, through CDs and tapes, whatever means by which we can get the gospel out there, we've got a responsibility to do it. A good chicken dinner, or having a name, a title, all that. Put the name around them so much so that they are immersed in the name. Theologically speaking, it is to immerse them into the truth of the doctrine, the belief. And yes, we are three persons, but we're only one God. It is to immerse them into water as a testimony that they are in agreement with the teachings that went forward. Stating that he is in agreement that the kingdom of heaven is at hand. That said, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Theologically immersed them into the doctrinal teachings of God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. If you weren't saved when you went in the water, you still ain't saved when you came out. We've lost our way as it relates to making disciples because we miss out on what we should have been teaching those who we were discipling. We've been commissioned to go out and make Christ known wherever we go. I'll transform their life. He's involved in convicting the world of sin, righteousness, and judgment. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. In heaven and on earth. Chapter 1, the fourth part of the series, we were in Acts chapter 16. From the idea and the thought commissioned to claim the corridor. As we close this series of messages on today, in this sixth and final part of the series, I want to talk to you out of this very familiar passage which we know as the Great Commission. But the officers that are commissioned in the military service oftentimes are not directly commissioned by the president of the United States. Of this text. When Jesus says here, go baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, go immersing them into that name. Watch this. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. To function or to do or complete a particular assignment. Of the United States of America says that the President of the United States is the one who commissions all officers. Go-making disciples ultimately. Not in doubt. He has no authority to tell them to do anything. Immerse them into the doctrine and teachings of the triune God, the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit, the Trinity, if you will. Names for ourselves, names for our pastors, names for our churches. What folk ought to know about you is that you make Christ known. When they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted. To go. The reality, if you will, and the teachings that go forward regarding the name. I agree that the kingdom of heaven is at hand. What has he just commanded the disciples? Cycle that the kingdom of heaven keeps growing and growing and growing, and the disciples keep getting made, and the disciples keep going out, making more disciples Do you know the name of Jesus? He was crucified on the cross. You are charged to go and make disciples. Everywhere. That's our commission from God. So he shifts and transitions from the go-making and he says go baptizing. Go teaching them what I taught you or what I've commanded you. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. All authority is given to me on earth and in heaven. He says, go making disciples, but go baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Into water as testimony that they agree with the teaching and the doctrine that was going forward. All we need to do is fulfill the commission. By the time we get to Matthew chapter 28, not only has he risen from the dead, but he's also gone and he's presented himself to his disciples. Here is Jesus who has completed his assignment, and he says, Now that I've done what I was supposed to do, now you need to do what you're supposed to do. They go there. We've been commissioned to go and make disciples. Here's the good news for all my scaredy cats, for all my folks that's got knocking knees and shivering and shaking and worried about something. What if the only way you had to feed your family was stolen from you? You got to know the story that he was born of a virgin, that he lived 33 years without sin, that he is the very Son of God I'm Andy Christman. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. We have been on a journey through a series of messages entitled Claiming the Corridor for Christ. So it's not just in case you feel like going. And the word of the Lord reads: Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had appointed for them. And if he sends you somewhere, he's already got the victory already finished, already settled, already resolved. Jesus himself comes and he is also baptized, physically baptized in the water. The eleven go there. So just in case you thought when you got baptized that you went into the water, a sinner and came out a saint, it didn't happen. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Don't even worry about the enemy. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And so some were worshiping him, but some were doubting him. And here at Ketteran Baptist Church, one of the things I have vowed and attested to, I want to be able to take the gospel to every place God opens up doors for us to be able to take it You've been charged with the assignment to go making. When John the Baptist came baptizing, he had this message: repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. org or contact our church office at 301-574-3515. What ought to motivate me? Because if he does not possess all of the authority, then he has no authority to commission you or I, or even his 11 disciples that are standing here. And all authority has been given to me. We need to repent. And watch this. You don't have to be so convincing that you convince somebody to get saved. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. He did not sin. He's got charge over every demon. This is what we have been commissioned by God to do. Lord have mercy. Making a disciple is to make one who follows. Why was he baptizing? Go, making disciples of all nations, go, baptizing them in my name Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them The text says, Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee and into the mountain, which Jesus had appointed for them. Remember, one has already given him his life in suicide, Judas. But he charges them, go and make disciples. That's what John the Baptist's message was. He goes and he meets his disciples in the place where he is going to transfer them their assignment. I'm going to be with you as you go make disciples. You need to be able to tell the story. He doesn't care how much you're in your 401k plan. I got him in check. Here's a key point of the text, and then I'm building to this. Don't stop because the economic position changes. This text of Matthew chapter 28, specifically verses 18 through 20, we have coined the Great Commission. That's what's important. Not only do you need to follow him, but if you're going to make disciples, if you're going to make followers of him, you've got to tell the story of him. That's why He left us here. Go claim the corridor for Him. Why should I go? He died on the cross. And so even God the Father was in agreement that the kingdom of heaven was at hand, that the kingdom of heaven was present before the people. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. And you might be thinking, well, you know, I'm scared. If I'm reading this straight on, I'm thinking that the 11 worshiped. In our text, the authority is transferred from the father to the son, and the son says, I have all the authority. We spoke from the idea of claiming your inherited corridor. What's the reason behind me moving from my seat and being comfortable in my stubbornness? And what I've learned in my military history and in research as well, I've learned that Article 2, Section 2 of our Constitution In every aspect of his life, he did everything the Father sent him to do. But the fact that he has all authority, that means he has charge over everything. I want to bring our attention to uh Matthew chapter twenty-eight. That's why we have such a strong missions ministry that sends out mission teams every year to go. This is why I believe there has been a gap in what we, the church, are doing today. I'll do the transforming, I'll bring them to me, I'll draw them to myself. And so now we're here on this mountain in Galilee where he's going to commission them and all believers to fulfill their assignment that he has. So stop doubting I am who I say I am. He is empowered to charge us to do what he's getting ready to do. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. Everybody in the Lord's army has been commissioned by God. For John chapter 4 says, they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. He said for every born-again child of God, for every one of you And so here in Matthew, we have this charge given to us by the Lord Jesus Christ. But not only does he stop there, he says, therefore, make disciples of all nations. And what John the Baptist was in essence saying is that the Messiah is here and we need to repent. He went even to Calvary and offered himself as a sacrifice. He's got charge over every being. There's a charge on our lives, there's a responsibility on our lives not to make ourselves known So you need to immerse them into the knowledge and the doctrine that I am the Father of One And all those who agree were baptized in agreement with it. In the military, we had what were called NCO, non-commissioned officer. People were being baptized into the testimony that I agree with that doctrine. And in Acts chapter 16, we spoke from the idea of claiming your community corridor. I mean, I'm not just gonna go out here calling myself claiming the corridors for Christ just because Pastor Sterling said so He says, and lo, I am with you always, even until the end of the age. So he says, all authority has been given to me. So you need to immerse them into that doctrine. We've messed it up to think that that's what church is all about. So he says to them, Go making disciples go, baptizing them in the doctrinal beliefs and teaching I got your back. We're more concerned about that than we are making Christ's name. Is his name known? That's a great question. You got to tell others that he is the only means by which we can get to God. So if you're going to make the followers of Jesus Christ, you need to follow him yourself, and you need to tell the story. Last week you understood I have a catalyst that is the power, the means by which we're going to claim the corridor, is God Himself. What are we going to teach? And if we had kept that cycle going, what it creates is a perpetual. And so, in our army, the army of the Lord, there are no NCOs. No, we have a responsibility to take the gospel to all nations. And he wasn't the only one who was in agreement that the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And in order to make one who follows, you've got to first be following yourself. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message. He shed his precious blood for the redemption of our sin, that all of our sin might be washed away. The latter part of verse 19 he says baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit I'm going to go with you as you're baptizing. And so, what he does to alleviate all doubt is he comes back, and the text says there, verse number 18, he says For additional information, go to our website So that we can make Christ known. They are saturated in the name What I'm most interested in about Catherine Baptist Church is this a place where Christ is being made known Don't stop because the language barrier. I like that because of what it helps me to understand The command that he gives the disciples is to go making disciples. But we missed it. We've been commissioned to go and claim the corridors for Christ. I'm covering you. No, you just tell the story. And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me. Don't sit back in your big old chair and be telling everybody, you need to go to church, you need to follow Jesus, you need to do that, and you're not doing it. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Jesus' assignment is finished. Now I don't really want to reduce this to just as you go, though that is in fact the reality, as you go make disciples. Physically speaking And physically in testimony that they agree with the doctrines of the Father, the Son. He don't care about that. Now, the making of disciples, he says, make disciples of all nations So theologically speaking If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And as they doubted him, Then he comes back in verse number 20 and he says, teaching them For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Jesus had finished Stop doubting I am the resurrected Christ. Just in case you were wondering if I really am who I say I am Now, this all authority statement is an essential strength, an essential necessity. Is his will being made known? He's got charge over the black I don't know. He buried your sin and my sin. Praise the Lord. Sometimes in church life we get a little caught up thinking that church life is all about f you know fellowshipping and having Now, theologically and spiritually speaking, they were immersed into a teaching or doctrine I'm going before you. Now Jesus says to the disciples, Now you go, make followers of me and baptize them. Teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you. He's not going to send you where he won't cause victory to happen. But then the eleven go there to meet him. God the Son says, the Father has given me all the authority, so you need to do what I charge you to do. So his first command, his first order, instruction, if you will, in this commission is to go making. Did you fulfill what I commissioned you to do? Began this journey here in Numbers chapter 33. We're more involved in making I don't know about that pastor. Matthew lets us know that Jesus has already fulfilled his assignment by now. So we can make followers of Jesus Christ. He doesn't care how many businesses you own. Then we moved in part three to conquering the corridor of fear. And what he commissions us to do. We thank you in advance for uniting with us. But the authority of the president is transferred to others And I'm gonna say this in all sincerity The Holy Spirit does the convicting The word baptize comes from a Greek word baptismo, it means to immerse I'm going to be with you as you're teaching. I know a whole lot of us want Jesus to do it all. He says, Go in my presence. You just need to open your mouth and tell the story. m. A God of all authority, a God who has everything that will sustain us in our claiming. But then when I read some doubt it, that helped me to understand that all 11 weren't worshiping. You've been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. Now, theologically speaking, that's what we mean when we talk about this baptism: immersion into the doctrine. He's completed. No, we have a responsibility to take the gospel to all nations. or 11 a. And I'm the catalyst. We'll begin our reading in verse number sixteen of Matthew. He allowed his creation to whip him, to beat him, to brutally mutilate him. I I can't talk to folk. Are we teaching what he taught? Stop doubting that I died and rose again. Now he's bringing you their stories. m. He's done what he had to do. You got to tell the story No, here is what we are supposed to be about: making disciples of all nations. Well, I'm glad you asked the question And when they go there to meet him, the Bible says at our new edifice called the Legacy Center. Because when he came up out of the water, the father said, This is my son. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. You got to be able to tell the story that you don't get to heaven by being good. And notice all nations The One Degree of Andy podcast. And when they saw him He says, wherever you go, I'm there because I'm an omnipresent God. And watch this. I'll be with you. All you need to do is go. Perhaps if I can help you to understand it just a little bit better. I can't do that. We spoke from that very subject matter, claiming the corridor from Christ. That's a great question. He did it all, but now he's saying you need to do your part. So just in case you wanted to be a rebellious Christian. And not just send it, we also have a responsibility to go. I commissioned you to make Christ known. I'm Andy Christman. And so they were baptized physically. This is our assignment. He won't take you where he can't keep you. Well, here's the good news Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. You need to know the story to tell the story. Let me do the work. Stop doubting that I'm standing before you right now and that I'm worthy of you. That was his message. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. That's what you need to do. But there is a deliberate charge here given I want to speak to you out of this passage. Second Timothy Have you done that? Now he's