Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Genesis chapter one, uh verse twenty-seven says, uh so God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. If you look over at verse chapter 2, verse 7, I just want to hit that one as well. Want this all to be in your spirit as we um try to preach through this message on this morning. It says And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of of life and man became a living being. Amen. Now if you would flip on over now to uh first Corinthians chapter thirteen Uh 1 Corinthians chapter 13. And look there with me at verse uh number nine, word of God reads uh from there for we know in part And we prophesy in part. But when that which is perfect has come, that which is in part will be done away. When I was a child, I spoke as a child. I understood as a child. I thought As a child. But when I became a man, I put away childish things. Amen. Would you pray with me this morning? Father in heaven, we bless you. We thank you. We honor you, God, because you are in full and sovereign control. We kneel before your throne and bow our heads before you, God, crying out unto you to have mercy on us even now. God, that you would allow the words that are preached in this place this morning and through the airways this morning to be a word that would draw men, women, boys, and girls to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. I'm praying, eternal God, that if any are drifting in their fellowship, they've walked away, God, that you would draw them back unto yourself. Father, speak to everyone on today. I know this is men's day and the focus might be on men, but I'm praying you speak to us all, God, through the power of your word. Spirit of the Lord, I'm in need of you that you might give me clarity of thought and speech, that I might uh say what thus saith the Lord, and that your message might be clear in the hearing of those your people. Now, God, we yield ourselves as vessels in your hand to accomplish your will. Speak, Lord. Speak clearly, and have your own way. And we will give your name all the honor, all the glory, and all the praise, for you alone are worthy of it all. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen. And amen. On february the first, nineteen sixty eight, in Memphis, Tennessee, it was pouring down raining. Some would call them torrential rains, so much to the extent that the roads were overrun with water, the drains were overflowing and flooding. Flooding was happening all over the town and all over Memphis, Tennessee, yet the public works department still required all of its Black male sanitation department workers to go to work anyway. On that February 1st, 1968, In order to avoid the exposures to the torrential rains that were falling, Echo, Cole, and Robert Walker took shelter in the back of their sanitation truck. They were merely trying to avoid the rain. As they rode along in the back of the truck, trying to stay out of The heavy weightedness of the rain, an electrical shortage that was uh triggered if I can say that by the rain and already a defective vehicle caused a malfunction of the trash compactor And the compactor came on automatically and crushed the two men in the back of their sanitation truck. The Public Works Department of Memphis, Tennessee refused to compensate their families And eleven days later, thirteen hundred sanitation workers walked off the job protesting. Protesting racism, protesting horrible work conditions, poor equipment, abuse, and discrimination by the city. This protest caught the attention of many because these sanitation workers who were poorly paid, 65 cents per hour, who were forced To work 12 hours a day, sometimes longer, with no overtime pay, with always having the threat of losing their job, even if they were injured on the job, they would be fired. They were abused in every way that possibly could be imagined. No sick leave, no overtime, no consideration as human beings for what they did on a daily basis. But when they went on strike, the trash started piling up. Are y'all hearing me this morning? These men, as they went on strike, carried signs in front of them that read, I am a man. One of those sanitation workers was interviewed in a documentary series, his name, James Douglas. And he said, we wore our signs saying I am a man because we were demanding to have the same dignity and courtesy as other citizens of Memphis, Tennessee. This protest ultimately drew in the attention of the civil rights movement and Dr. Martin Luther King and is attributed to a leading to his very assassination. I want to talk to you on this morning on this Men's Day from the subject matter I am a man. Y'all still here with me? Just in case you thought this was A civil rights sermon is not. Just stay here with me. For those of you who already checked out, don't check back in. Check back in. I I'm I'm I'm going somewhere. I I I think I know where I'm going, but I'm I'm following the Lord, but we're in the text this morning. Y'all still hear The nineteen sixty-eight uh protests and signs that they wore spoke to an audience of people Who treated these men as if they were not men It was a message, if you as you were, it was a message to them to see me as a man And not as an animal. For in many cases, animals were treated better than they were treated on their job. The message, however, when we turn over to 1 Corinthians chapter 13 that I read in your hearing, verses 9 through 11 The Apostle Paul is saying the same thing. I am a man. But what Paul is literally saying in his text is I am a man. He's addressing his outward representation as a result of how he's living. Y'all still hear? And so on the one hand, one group is saying, see me as a man, and on the other hand, Paul is saying, I am a man, see how I'm living. I'm gonna get you there. So I just want to look at two points. I want to examine two two ideas this morning in this sermon, I am a man. I want to look at first of all, seeing the man, seeing the man, and then secondly, being the man. Because I believe the sanitation workers were crying out for society and their employers and the city and the world to see the man. And on the other hand, the Apostle Paul was saying, I'm being the man. And he's calling us to be the man. First of all, seeing the man, and as I can try to walk into this and and get into this as best I can. Um y'all pray for me as I'm kind of navigating these waters this morning. Um because I I I just feel like we are in a a pivotal place in history in um our society in our world uh and more importantly in uh the biblical uh uh movement of God. I I I kind of feel like we're on the a cusp of a a critical moment in history Where we've got to decide who we gonna be. Okay Um we we've got this decide. I'm I'm not talking just I'm talking men and women and boys and girls. We we gotta make it up in our mind I believe the time is coming where you're gonna have to choose whose side are you on. Y'all still here with me? And so as I looked into and delve into seeing the man, let me begin by saying our culture and our world that we live in has has in the past and is now making it very difficult for us to see the man I'm I'm trying to walk carefully. Hold hold on let me let me pause myself because I I I'm gonna get ahead of myself. I know I am But but our society, our culture, because of its racial inequities and social uh uh corruptions and uh economic situations and sexual perversions. We've made it difficult for us to see the man that God created. Lord help us here. Um Um slavery and systemic racism and lies and gender neutrality and All kinds of foolishness that's being pushed down the throats of a culture and a world make it difficult for us to see the man And so we have now begun already, and if it's not already too late, we've already moved to a place where we are not acknowledging what God said was the man. I'm I'm I'm I'm trying to get us there. Y'all y'all I tell y'all pray for me with pray for me so so so we don't know We don't know what man is. We don't know who he is. And we are struggling day by day, even as men, to know how we're supposed to act as men. Lord help us here. Because several years ago, somebody came up with a grand idea that men were too menly. Lord help me here. And so they said, men, you need to get in touch with your feminine side. Lord God have mercy. But they didn't put any brakes on the movement And so as they began to move to their feminine side, they kept moving. And sometime now, I'm I'm I'm so glad that I'm married Praise the Lord. And I ain't looking for nobody because sometime now you can't tell who you dealing with. I'm gonna preach anyway. That's why I said y'all gotta pray for me, pray for me up here. Um I was in the store the other day and I went to the think it was in the shoe store and I asked the sales man And what wit which side were the men's shoes on? And he told me, no uncertain terms, uh, well, because of the way things are. We don't have a men's side or a women's side. Everything is Is unisex. And he said, but but typically I I and and I guess he under he probably saw my face My eye expression beyond my mask. And he said, but typically the males pick their shoes from this side. And I thought to myself in that moment, we are messed up When you can't even tell me you you have been restricted by the laws of your company. To tell me, I just want to know where the men's shoes Well well they're all shoes. If you like those over there, you can wear them. Now I want the ones that come in my size I'm sorry, y'all y'all not praying hard enough. We made it hard to see the man And so we need to we need to we need to find out what he looks like and who he is and who is the man. The sanitation workers had a sign around their neck that said, I am a man. I started to order me a shirt and and wear it today. That said I am a man. And and I might need it after a while because never mind. So what I did, what I did, I I I I I did what I was taught to do. I looked it up in the dictionary. Now I'm I'm old enough to know what a man is, but I I wanted to know what the dictionary say. A man is. And you'll be fascinated if you look it up. It's all kinds of crazy stuff, even in the dictionary, as to what a man is. But the simple Uh definition, I wanted to get the definition that I looked up. Was of a man was an adult male. That was a simple definition. Adult male. Now that that's valuable in the sense that again, culture and society have moved us away from knowing who the man is. And so, even in a simple dictionary explanation, I at least get the idea and the knowledge that is we're talking about an adult male. Yesterday with me? Not your son who was left to live with you because his daddy departed the scene. or because he's deceased or because you're divorced and you're trying to make him the man. No, he's still a child. He's still an adolescent He's not the man. See, that's another thing that's messing us up. We are calling up boys to be men, and then when they become men, they're still acting like boys Y'all not praying hard enough. I need some more prayer. Online, y'all need to pray. Y'all need to pray for the pastor on this morning because it's it's getting hard to see the man It is. It really is. We we we're making it and so that that's I needed to dig into the definition. I this definition is an adult male And so um as I looked at the definition from Webster, I say, okay, Webster, or uh it wasn't Webster, matter of fact, it was somebody else. Can't remember what it was. It was dictionary But I need to clarify that was not Webster. You know, that's a you know my mind is Webster, that's when you used to look it up. Now you Google everything. It probably was Marion or somebody's Anyway, simple definition: an adult male. But then I needed to understand not just the definition, I wanted the divine design of the man because God knows what a man is So I went to the scripture and in Genesis 127, the Scripture says that God created this Person we call a man in his image. Y'all still here with me? And after his likeness, and so a man Is one who has been created in the image of God. Lord, help me here. All men have been created in the image of God. Lord help me, Jesus. Asian men have been created in the image of God. Black men have been created in the image of God. God, Hispanic men have been created in the image of God. White men have been created in the image of God. Indian or or or Native American men have been created in the image of God. God said Yet man has been created in my image. Y'all still hear, and the reason I need to draw that out is because even in evangelical circles we have Been wronged in different colors and different nationalities because we have been disconsidered less than a man because of the colors of our skin. Y'all still here? But God said I created them all in my image and after my likeness. And if we're all been created in the image of God after the likeness of God What you can't defile me, or I can't defile you if we're both created in the image of God. I can't look down on you if you look like me. Y'all stood here? According to God, we are all created in his image. And I don't get it. I don't understand why. Folk running around here trying to defile the image because of a disease that came about and they're now trying to destroy, trying to abuse Asian Americans because the disease came from Asia. I mean come on now. What about all the other sicknesses that came from America? I'm sorry, y'all gotta pray harder. We ain't beat nobody up for chicken pops. Where'd that come from? Polio, where'd that come from? We we we weren't we weren't defaming people for that. All of a sudden. And I and the whole idea is just ludicrous in the first place. You gonna accuse a whole nation of people for disease because you won't wear a mask? I'm sorry, y'all, y'all got to pray harder, y'all. I'm I'm struggling up here. I'm struggling. So so so God said, I've created man in my image. Then I went over to Genesis 1:31, and God, when He got done creating man, Lord help us here. He said it's very good. God said, the man that I've created, it's very good. When he got done. This is what he was what he said. It's in the scripture. Y'all read this in the Bible? And then when I flipped over to chapter 2, which is more detailed version of it. Watch this. God says here, God formed man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became A living being. Can I can I walk through this slowly? I need you to understand that man who is created in the image of God, whom God said when he created him, is very good. He's nothing more than dust that God breathed into. So just in case you're thinking a little too highly of yourself, That you are somehow above somebody else. You're just dust, just like them. Yellow dust, brown dust, red dust, black dust, tan dust, dust That God breathed breath into. That's all we are. So I'm trying to help us to level the playing field. We're all just dust. That has been breathed. We're nothing more than dirt that God breathed into and caused us to become living beings. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed By today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.