Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Matthew chapter 21, beginning at verse number one, God's word reads like this. Now when they drew near Jerusalem and came to Bethpage at the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, Go into the village opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied and a colt with her. Loose them and bring them to me. And if anyone says anything to you, you shall say to them, the Lord has need of them, and immediately he will send them. All this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, saying, Tell the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, lowly, and sitting on a donkey, a colt, a foal of a donkey. So the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them, and they brought the donkey and the colt and laid their clothes on them and set him on them. And a very great multitude spread their clothes on the road. Others cut down branches from trees and spread them on the road. Then the multitude who went before and those who followed cried out, saying, Hosanna to the son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. And when he had come into Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? So the multitude said, This is Jesus, the prophet. from Nazareth of Galilee. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we honor you. We thank you for the privilege opportunity we have to declare your word on this great occasion as we enter into Passion Week and enter into the opportunity to share your word before those who may have never heard it before and for those who have heard it but yet not received it. God, let your word go forward with power and authority. And conviction to grab the heart of that one whose soul is nearest hell. I pray, God, the fire of the Holy Spirit will light afresh on them, God, that they might Run to you asking what must I do to be saved? Father, I'm praying that the word of God today would cause someone who's walking a mediocre Christian life. who's walked away from you, who's distant from your fellowship, God, that they will restore that broken fellowship, that they would be excited once again. to fellowship with you and to represent you as a child of the living God. I'm praying, Heavenly Father, that in the process of the preaching of the word, that somehow, Lord, you would minister to that one Who is in need of a word from you today? So Father, someone just tuned in, someone just showed up today because they if you don't speak, God, they're not gonna know what to do. So Lord, I'm praying on this morning that you would speak through the words Of my mouth and through the words of this scripture, Lord, that your people's need might be met. Father, I pray that you would edify this body, that you would most of all glorify yourself. Father, I stand as a vessel in your hand to accomplish your holy and divine will, Lord. Use me according to your purpose on this morning. I'm in your hands, God. I'm your vessel, God. I need you, Lord. I can't do it without you. So have thine own way in the powerful name of Jesus, who is the Christ, I pray. With thanksgiving and expectation. Amen. This text this morning that we have read in your hearing is a text that speaks of, or if I can say, tells the story of the beginning of what we today call Passion Week. It is a week that allows us to follow the uh life ending life of Christ as it uh moves closer to that day of crucifixion and ultimately Resurrection as he passionately suffers on our behalf, that we might have an opportunity to be rescued from the penalty of sin. Specifically, in this text that we have read this morning, we get a chance to look in on Christ's triumphal entry into Jerusalem. And as we look at this text, it displays triumph in multiple ways. It displays the triumph of humility over arrogance and pride. For as Jesus rides in to present himself as king. Instead of taking the high road of pride to come in on a high riding white stallion, he comes in in a humble a mode of transportation if I can say it that way. Uh he's sitting on a uh a donkey. Uh not if I can say it in the way it seems, uh sideways, not not even straddling, sitting sideways on a donkey Riding in as a humble vessel of the God of all creation But yet at the same time, while he comes in displaying humility, he is showing us that humility trumps arrogance. Stay here with me. He uh demonstrates in his triumphal entry into Jerusalem the triumph of poverty over wealth. And influence. For as he enters in and as he lived his life, he did not go about in his 33 years trying to see how he could bolster his 401k plan. He did not see how he could get over on people by taking taxes from them that he was not deserving of, nor did he seek to try to make himself wealthy as he Lived his 33 years, but rather in poverty, rather in simplicity, he lived and he allowed God to provide for his need day by day. Lord help me here. In fact, even when he taught his disciples to pray, he taught them to pray, Lord, give us this day. Our daily bread. He didn't say, Lord, let us fill up the freezers and let us go to Costco and Sam's and have some reserve. No, he said, pray, Father, give us this day So his entry into Jerusalem shows and demonstrates to us that, if I can say, he is a God who triumphs through not only humility, but through poverty, that poverty trumps. Wealth. Thirdly, as I can uh pull out from this entry, it also demonstrates the triumph of meekness Over rage and anger and forcefulness. Jesus had a right At this point in history, to come into Jerusalem angry, violent Forceful as he had been preaching and teaching for three years, and and these his own people whom he came to, those Jews he came to, who had not at this point yet received him. He had a right to come in angry and say, look, slapping folk upside the head and being, you know, forceful about that. He had a right to do that, but he didn't. His entry into Jerusalem is one of meekness, but his meekness triumphs rage. I'm really kind of help trying to help us this morning because what I want you to see is even in his entry, there are things that we think that we should be doing, but he demonstrates you don't have to do to be triumphant. You don't have to slap sister girl upside the head to be triumphant. And meekness is not a weakness. Because meekness is power under control. Y'all still here? And so as he rides into Jerusalem, he is demonstrating power. Under control. I would uh say that the world that we live in today Because as Jesus comes in in his triumphal entry, he comes to provide and to bring salvation to a hostile, violent. Confused and divided world. And I would suggest that we have not transitioned far from that day That the world that we live in today is similarly violent and confused and divided and lost in sin and in need of direction. It's interesting to me that as time changes, not much changes. You would think by now, 2,000 years removed, that things would have changed drastically. But we're still divided. We're still angry. We're still confused. We're still mixed up, we're still messed up, we're still need in need of direction, and Jesus comes to provide what we need. The text today may help us as we witness his disciples in verses six and seven. Do as they were told to do. He told them go get the donkey and if anybody asks questions about it, tell them the mass has need of it and you know go do that. And they in the text says they did what he told them to do. And they're doing what he asks them to do and tells them to do. They set the stage for the fulfillment of a prophecy that was spoken in Zechariah chapter 9, verse 9. It's similarly quoted in the text of Matthew. Zechariah 9. 9 says, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you. He is just in having salvation lowly riding on a donkey, a colt, the foe of a donkey Them doing what he told them to do, and verses 6 and 7 literally sets the stage for this prophecy to be fulfilled. And on this morning, as we delve into this text, I want to speak to you from the subject matter: your king is coming. Now, in the context of the passage, the king is coming to Israel to present himself as their king. In application, the difference is that in their case, it was his first time coming, but as I speak to you today, I want you to know he's coming again. So I can I can say to you, and I want to speak to you, and I want you to hear me this morning say to you, your king is coming. Catherine, your king is coming. Now that I know that my king is coming, what is it that we need to do? And as I walk through the text and I pick up here in verse number seven, it says, as they had done what they were told to do, uh, and he sent his disciples and commanded them. Verse seven says, They brought the donkey and the colt, and they laid their clothes on them, that is on the animals, and then they set him on the animal, and a very great multitude spread their clothes on the ground. The first thing is I pull out of this text what literally happens as they are told and that they are experiencing this Coming of their king, the first thing they do is they remove and lay down their coverings. Stay here with me. I'm going somewhere. Recognizing that their king is coming, and and I noticed this in the text that the disciples, the the text says they take off their clothes Um and in verse 8 it says the multitude went and got branches from the trees, and they laid down On the ground before him. They lay these things down before him. So they they're taking off their clothes, they're taking off their covering. They're taking off, watch this, they're taking off two things. They're taking off their clothes and they're They're laying down these tree branches. Bosses What I recognize here in the text is that the two things that are laid down are the two things that Man utilized to cover his nakedness when he recognized he was naked in the garden. Let me see if I can make this plain. When when Adam and Eve sinned in the garden, help me, Jesus. The Bible says they heard that God was coming. Lord Jesus And when they heard that he was coming, the Bible says they hid themselves and they took leaves from the trees to cover themselves. Y'all still here? Y'all know the the Genesis chapter three. And so when they covered themselves, which is a whole nother sermon because It's amazing to me to think that you can cover your sin. Watch this from God who made you by utilizing leaves from trees. Stay here with me. But they covered themselves with the leaves from the trees to cover the sin that they had that that had come between them and God. Stay here with me. And then the Bible goes on to say: after Jesus has uh God has given them their punishment, he then made them skins of clothing. Lord Jesus, that he might cover them, Lord help me here, and cover their sin Well, when in Matthew Jesus is coming again, Lord Jesus, when the king is coming this time, they take off their coverings. I'm trying to get to you. They they take off their covering, they take off the leaves from the trees, and they lay down the things that they were using to cover their sin. I'm feeling this better than I'm preaching this. But but I I I know I gotta go slow because I if I go too fast, I'm gonna I'm gonna blow over your head, but I want to hit you in the chest this morning. What happens when they hear that the king is coming? Instead of hiding this time, they undress And they remove what was used to cover the sin. Watch this. There's an interesting thing now bear with me just for a moment because there's an interesting thing that happens here that I maybe I'm maybe I'm seeing more than is in the text and just forgive me, just bear with me. I'm I'm you know how preachers are. Sometimes we just be seeing stuff. But what I saw here was that the disciples They brought the donkey and the coat and they laid their clothes on them, and they between the donkey and Jesus. They put their clothes so that Jesus wouldn't was separated from the donkey. You remember I said this was a uh illustration uh or example of humility over pride and so instead of him coming on a stallion, he comes on a donkey. Well, a stallion or a a horse, a great horse, would have been one example of great royalty and power, but a donkey was the symbol of peace. Watch this. And the thing that separated God from peace was the covering. Can I help somebody here? The the thing that's separating you and me from God is the covering. In the garden, the thing that they used to separate and hide from God was covering. And so the covering is emblematic of that which separated us from peace. If you want peace, you've got to remove the covering Get to your point, preacher. What are you trying to say? When the king is coming You've got to stop hiding and pretending like you got it all together You got to lay down the sin that separates you from peace You've got to clear the air. You've got to come clean. You've got to come before him, unlike Adam and Eve with a bunch of stories and excuses and justifications for their nakedness, you've got to come before him and say, Lord, I'm guilty. And can I just take it a whole nother step? When I come before him and say I'm guilty, tell him what you're guilty of And oops is not an identity to a specific sin. Oops, I slipped up no You lied, you cussed, you were coveting, you were committed adultery, you stole whatever it is. Name the thing. Now watch this. It's not for his benefit, he already knows. This is for your benefit so that when you stand before him, when he comes and you stand before him, you're honest. So when the king is coming, we've got to remove and lay down the covering. We've got to undress and let him know this is who I am, Lord. Confess openly who I am. Your king is coming. The second thing I see that happens here in the text and I think that is helpful, it might help us. Is that when the king is coming, verse 9 says, the multitude who went before and those who followed cried out saying, Hosanna. To the Son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. When they find out and recognize that the king is coming, they not only remove and lay down their coverings, but they also rejoice and cry out for salvation. The multitude cries out, Hosanna, which is save and save now. It is an appeal for divine help. Here's what I want to say about that. They realized they were in a place that of God doesn't do it. It won't get done. They were crying out with a joyous expectation that Jesus is the one. Who can deliver us from our situation? Now, they had a partial comprehension of all that they really needed salvation from See, their focus was on the Roman Empire. His focus was on eternity. He came to deliver them not from Rome but from sin. Not for a moment, but for eternity. Imagine for a moment that uh the Ukraine got help from all the major superpowers. and delivered them from Russia. That would be a good thing. But what would be a better thing is if the King of Kings came riding into the Ukraine. And the gospel message of eternity began to be accepted by every person in the Ukraine And now, no matter what Russia would do to their body, it couldn't touch their soul because their eternal destiny would be secure in heaven. Israel wanted temporary relief from the pressures of Rome. But Jesus came to give them eternal peace with God. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.