Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord this morning reads. As follows, when Mordecai learned all that had happened, he tore his clothes and put on sackcloth and ashes and went out into the midst of the city and cried out with a loud, bitter cry. He went as far as the front of the king's gate, for no one might enter the king's gate clothed in sackcloth And in every province where the king's command and decree arrived there was great mourning among the Jews and fasting and weeping and wailing, and many lay in sackcloth and ashes Esther's maids and eunuchs came and told her, and the queen was deeply distressed, and then she sent garments to clothe Mordecai, and Take his sackcloth away from him, but he would not accept them. Then Esther called Hattat, one of the king's eunuchs, whom he had appointed to attend to her, and she gave him a command concerning Mordecai to learn what and why this was. So Hathak went out to Mordecai in the city and square, and that was in the front of the king's gate, and Mordecai told him all that had happened to him. and the sum of money that Haman had promised to pay into the king's treasury to destroy the Jews. He also gave him a copy of the written decree for their destruction, which was given as Shushin that he might show it to Esther and explain it to her, and that he might command her to go into the king. to make supplication to him and to plead before him for her people. So hath that returned and told Esther the words of Mordecai Then Esther spoke to Hathach and gave him a command for Mordecai. All the king's servants and the people of the king's province know that any man or woman who goes into the inner court To the king who has not been called, he has but one law, put all to death, except the one to whom the king uh holds out the golden scepter. that he may live. Yet I myself have not been called to go into the king these thirty days. And so they told Mordecai Esther's words. And Mordecai told them to answer Esther Do not think in your heart that you will escape in the king's palace any more than all the other Jews. For if you remain completely silent at this time, relief and deliverance will arise for the Jews from another place. But you and your father's house will perish. Yet who knows whether you have come to the kingdom for such a time as this Then Esther told them to reply to Mordecai, Go, gather all the Jews who are present in Shushan and fast for me. Neither eat nor drink. For three days, night, and day, my maids and I will fast likewise. So I will go to the king, which is against the law, and if I perish, I perish. So Mordecai went his way and did according to all that Esther commanded him. Would you pray with me? Father, we honor you this morning. We thank you for your amazing and incredible grace. Lord, we need you even now that you might speak a word in our midst. That you, Lord God, might open up our eyes and our understanding and our heart and allow us, God, to see your will for each and every one of us and for our families. I praise you, Lord, because I know that your will is perfect and your way is already preordained, and so we want to find ourselves walking in and on today. Father, I pray that the word that I declare in this place might cause someone to come out of the darkness and into the marvelous light, that they might give their heart and their life to you, to begin living for you. for the rest of their days. I pray for deliverance to take place. I pray for healing to take place. I pray God that you would speak into the hurting heart that Uh, that you might lift their spirit on today. God, I pray that most of all, above and beyond all of the salvation and all of the edification, I pray that your name gets all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. I stand, Lord, God, as a vessel that is in need of the power of the Holy Spirit, that you might use me, God, to accomplish your will. I cannot do this without you. So help me, Heavenly Father. Preach through these lips of clay. Keep my mind sharp, my thoughts clear, my articulation perfect, that the very oracle of God might come forward to speak into the hearts and lives of your people And your name will be glorified. I bless you in advance for what you're going to do, for I pray with great expectation that you will do great and marvelous things. It's in Jesus' name I pray and I thank you. Amen. And amen. In this text, I want to lean in on the family dynamic Of Esther's story. For in this story, Hadassah, who's we know as Esther Has lost both of her parents. And her cousin, whose name is Mordecai, takes this orphan child in as his own and raises her as his own child. And as he uh does all of this and the Queen Vashtai in the Persian kingdom had if I can say it this way, cut up and She got expelled as the queen and they kind of locked her away. And so the the decree went out we need to find a a new queen. And so they went out and gathered up all the beautiful young ladies uh that were in that particular region of Persia. And it was in that process that Esther also gets swept up in this search for a replacement queen. Things grow more complicated, more challenging as the time progresses on, and the king signs this decree. Through Haman, and where all the Jews are to be destroyed. And so there is now a, in the eyes of Mordecai, one way out of this situation. That's through Esther. So as I lean in on this text on this morning, I want to talk to us from the subject matter, the sacrifice. To save the family. The first thing as I looked in on Esther's life is that Esther's life begins with a number of separations So I begin just looking at the separations. Esther has separation after separation after separation after separation after separation happen in her life. It starts all the way back in chapter 2, where Esther, the story, is told of her parents who die. Then as you move on in chapter 2, you'll find out that That she separated from Mordecai, her cousin, who took her in and he raised her as his own. And there's nothing in the text that helps us to see that Mordecai had a wife. And so Mordecai is who's raising Esther by himself, and then as a result of an edict that comes out because Vash is a very important thing. Tie cuts up as the Persian queen. Now they need a new queen. And so because they're living in the region, what happens is the decree goes out, and soldiers come out and they start gathering up these beautiful women. No fault to her own. She was a beautiful young lady, and so she gets swept up of the collection of prospective new queens. In the process of her being collected up as a candidate for a potential queen, she's also separated from the choice of life. She now has no choice as to what she can be. The choice for her to decide whether or not she wants to be a lawyer or a doctor or a teacher is taken away from her. She's separated from Mordecai. She's separated from her parents. She's separated from the Jewish community that she lived in and was associated with. And whatever friends that she may have had, she's now been ripped away from them, and she's Taken off to a foreign place and staying in the king's palace, which she has no familiarity with, and she's been separated again, again She's also separated from the truth because when they come to take her away, Mordecai says to her, Don't let them know that you're Jewish. And so now She can't even live in the truth. She's separated from being able to identify with who she really is. And what I'm trying to point out here for you and I is that we too perhaps have gone through and had to deal with some separations in our lives that are also impacting us and affecting us. And we've also been told or we've been made to understand you don't talk about that. Don't ever reveal to anybody your true heritage because If you let them know that it's going to hinder you. And so Mordecai had told her, Don't, don't tell anybody. So, in spite of this, despite all of her pain, despite all of her separation, despite all of her grief that she's had to deal with Guess what? By the amazing grace of God, Esther still rises. And then the king falls in love with her and he chooses her to be the queen. And while she's in that position, there's a plot to kill the king, and Mordecai gives word of the plot. He channels the information through Esther. Esther so that Esther could tell the king of those that were planning on killing him. And as a result of that, they kill those men, and then Esther gets escalated even more in the heart of the king because now the king understands and believes that Esther's looking out for him. But after the separation in Esther's life comes the shame. Mordecai, her cousin, who raised her as his own, refuses to bow down to Haman, who is one of the king's officers. Haman wanted to make sure when I become promoted, when you give my promotion, make sure everybody has to bow down to me. But Mordecai refused to bow down to him Haman then gets the king to sign his decree that we're going to kill all the Jews. And when the decree goes out to kill all the Jews. Mordecai realizes this is my fault. He provoked Haman to this place. And so Mordecai is out front. at the king's gate and he is wailing and he's dressed in sackcloth and ashes and that's that's my cousin out there Embarrassing me. This is kind of the position where where Esther is. I mean, she just made it from nothing all the way up to the queen, and now here's Mordecai out there embarrassing her at the king's gate. Can you go do that somewhere else? If folk find out that's my cousin, the fact that he's mourning because the Jews are going to be killed will make people make the connection that if he's crying because the Jews are being killed and you're related to him. Are you a Jew? So now I'm I'm ashamed to be to be named among the Jews. It has brought shame to her because it reminds her of her past. It reminds her of what she does not want to think about There are things, listen to me, there are things in our lives, and maybe this sermon will prove to be one of them that reminds you of some pain in your life, some places in your life, some scenarios in your life that you'd rather just forget about. No, Esther doesn't want them to know where she came from. And she does what we do when we become ashamed, which is the same thing that Adam and Eve did when they were ashamed. Cover it up. Look what the text says. Verse verse number uh four, I believe it was. Esther's maids, the eunuch, came and told her what the the queen and she was deeply distressed. She sent garments. To clothe Mordecai and take his sackcloth away from him, but he wouldn't accept it. She wants Mordecai to cover up because you're embarrassing me. Put some clothes on. Take that sackcloth and ashes off. Stop mourning. Stop crying in front of the gate. Stop letting people know that we are Jewish. I need you to cover that up. Hide that stuff This is another problem that we do in families. We want you to cover up your situation because your situation is causing shame to me. So I need you to ignore your pain so that I won't be ashamed. Now Mordecai is crying and he's he's grieving. One, because all the Jews are now going to be killed, but he's doing so even the more vehemently because he feels like it's his fault. And so, but now Esther is saying to him, get over it. Because all that stuff you doing, you embarrassing me. Esther is going through all of this, this shame, and she's embarrassed by Mordecai's actions, but then comes the sacrifice. Mordecai sends a message to her, gave a copy of the decree, written decree of all destruction, what was going to happen, and it was given as Shushin. He might show it to Esther, explain to her, that he might command her to go to the king, to make supplication to him, and to plead before him for the people. And so Mordecai, he's got a family connection. So he says, Hey you you the queen, new family. You need to go to the king. Talk to the king for us. Because this is his family and they need your help. When you're promoted, and sometimes those same people who need your help were not there for you at other times. And sometimes those people that need your help were not the people who were supportive of you, were not the people who were encouraging you. Mordecai says to Esther, Esther, we need you to put yourself in a vulnerable position to save us. Wait a minute. Mordecai, I've already been through separation. I was separated from my mother. I was separated from my father. I was separated from my friends. I was separated from my heritage. I couldn't tell people I was Jewish. You are the one Mordecai that told me to keep the secret. Now you want me to go to the king and tell him I'm Jewish? Because you got a need. You want me to sacrifice my promotion? You want me to sacrifice my position? You want me to sacrifice perhaps even my very life To go before the king, because there is a written law, and everybody knows it. She says in the text. If you go before the king and you have not been invited, the king has one law, kill him, death. You want me to sacrifice my life and my position and my wealth? Cause you in trouble And so while she's perhaps contemplating that, Mordecai says something powerful. He says Don't think you're gonna escape when he starts killing Jews. The Lord will raise up someone else to save the Jews. But you and your house gonna die. There's stuff that we need to do to save our families. We may have been separated and gone through trauma and drama and mesh years ago and things might be relatively good now. We may have been promoted. We might be in a better place. We might be in a better position now. And you can stay in that position. And make no change at all, or you can make the sacrifice that will save your family He said verse thirteen, tell Esther, do not don't think that in your heart that you will escape in the king's palace any more than all the other Jews. If you remain completely silent, you might live out your days, but your family is going to get destroyed. From your silence that allowed folk to keep doing what they've done. Relief and deliverance will arise for the Jews from another place. But you and your father's house, they're gonna perish. Yet who knows? Whether you've come to the kingdom for such a time as this. Who knows, Katarin, whether or not you came to Catherine this morning for such a time as this? Maybe God had it in his plan that you needed to be challenged this morning to make a sacrifice for your family. If you stay silent, don't think, you're gonna live on. You're gonna die with that secret. But you dying with the secret is going to kill the rest of the family because if you don't open up your mouth, if you don't speak at this moment, if you don't act in this moment then the rest of the family will still suffer with the pain and the distress and the mess that this problem has caused. We're normalizing things that are destroying the family. And the family unit is broken and is breaking apart. And it's falling apart, and our kids don't even know where to go to get help, and they're online seeking help online from strangers. Because there's no continuity in the family. But we need you to make the sacrifice, Esther, to save all these people. Esther says, okay, tell everybody to fast for me. And I'm going to tell all of my people we're going to fast too. For three days. And then I'll go before the king. Now there's something that's not included in that context. Prayer. You're gonna stop eating, but you're not gonna pray. Can I help the text? If you're gonna fast about the decision Pursue the wisdom of God in prayer so that God might lead you and guide you in how to manage what to do next. So I just put everybody on notice. You got some stuff you got to deal with. Okay, we got to deal with it. Yeah, we're gonna fast, but we're gonna pray too. Esther just says fast. Esther says this. Take me to the king. If I perish, I perish. That doesn't sound very hopeful. That is the confidence you have when you haven't been praying. If I've been praying, I'll say, take me to the king, all will be well. If I've been praying, I'll be like Abraham, and I said, me and the boy are going up to the to the to the altar and we we will be back. That's the confidence you have when God has led your steps. And so what I don't want you to do, I don't want you to go taking steps without the wisdom of God. I need you to spend some time talking to God so then when you talk to God, you will know when I take these steps, God has led my steps and God is going to save my family and God is going to protect our posterity and what shall happen after this God is in control of what shall happen but I'm walking in the wisdom of God I'm walking in the power of God. I'm I'm following the direction of God because because God knows what's best. And so the king The king has the authority to undo the judgment That has been placed on you. Because all of us have a judgment that was put on us when Adam and Eve sinned in the garden. And the judgment that was put on us is that all of you will die. The day you take of the fruit that's in the midst of the Garden Adam, you will surely die. And all of your posterity will be born in sin and shaped in iniquity. We're born in sin. We're born in separation. We're born in death. We're born in destruction. We're born in Shame and we cover up the try-to-high the sin that's in us but there is a king. His name is Jesus And if you could just get to the king, he can wipe out the judgment. Lord, God have mercy. He's made it possible so when we get to the king to ask him, God, can you save me and my family? He's already paid the price to make sure that you and I can be saved. I would suggest that he's already made provisions. That your family can be saved too. In Esther's case, she takes the risk of putting her life on the line. You're putting nothing on the line when you give your heart to Jesus. What do you mean, Pastor? Um yeah, I'm I am putting some stuff a lot. People will find out I'm a Christian. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's worth sacrificing. Put your heathen reputation on the line. Put your sin on the line. Matter of fact, put your promotion on the line. And your position on the line, and find out when you come into the kingdom of God, if he won't promote you further and higher than you ever thought you could be promoted Because the reality is even in your sinfulness, even that promotion came from God. How do you know that, Pastor? Because all scripture, scripture says all promotions comes from God. He's in control of it all. And and it gives you an idea that God was loving you, favoring you, providing grace for you, even when you was acting a fool. But now he's asking us. Make a sacrifice to save the family. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He sits Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.