And the people, they didn't reverence God, they didn't respect God, they were afraid that God wasn't going to fulfill the promise, but yet they were not afraid that God was going to bring judgment. Y'all see that? Well here's the deal. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Go to our website at Kettering Ministries. The idea here is in this statement that the that it's the whole nation, it's that so much of Israel is involved in the the robbing of the Lord. These things have brought a curse on you. Wherever you get your podcasts Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Voices behind the song. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. This question is rhetorical because he's creator, he's owner, he's preeminent, he is the I am, he is omnipotent, omniscient, omnipresent Tithes and offering. You are cursed with a curse. marriage if you want a uh a blessings in your covenant marriage covenant faithfulness in marriage reaps covenant blessings in marriage y'all still here yeah I know y'all rather talk about money now right were following in their actions and their behaviors. Sponsor reality. to the faithful. I don't know how it happened, but God made a way that my child is in college. Go ahead now. That that I've been faithful to God and I've been giving and honoring God, and and even though there was a layoff on my job, guess what? Wouldn't be alive. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. Degree of Andy. Draw them to. Called his own children, adopted into his family. That he gave his only begotten son, that whoever would believe in him would not perish, but ever have everlasting life. He's coming, I'm coming. Leviticus chapter 27 verse number 3. It belongs to the Lord, so we give it back to him for his glory. And then there's another group of folks that say, well, Pastor, do I tithe on my gross or do I tithe on my net? It's first fruit. We're going to be cursed. if you get pick up your Bible after church today, since you left it from last week. through 18 is the reward of the faithful remnant. him. They knew that God would open up the windows of heaven and pour out such blessing that they did not have room enough to receive. While everybody else was struggling, God was taking care of them. And I hear God listening in on their testimonies of faithfulness and how God had blessed them and how God was keeping them, and they were concerned about those that are going on around them. And the text says that God listened in on a conversation of the saints, and the saints, if you will, the faithful ones, were communicating with one another. I feel Jesus all over me. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. God is not real. that will be his jewels and will escape the judgment that is yet to come. Live on the earth, die a brutal death, be buried in a borrowed tomb, raised again the third day, and and and and invite you and I to be partners with him I mean I might rob you if you give me a hard time and you know when when it's time for me to get something you say nah we can't afford it but when it ever time for you to get something you get what you want then I might rob you then But when God is constantly ever loving us, nah, we wouldn't rob him. He is ever watchful and he is loving us all the time. Then the text goes on. That's the response of reality. and against those who turn away an alien, because they do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. I'm coming. My salary is uh you know somewhere around thirty thousand after I pay everybody. Okay. Comes from covenant obedience. Son who serves him. Try me now and see if I won't open up the windows of heaven and pour y'all such blessing that there might not be room enough for you to receive. Now, for you and I, we it it paints a picture. For those that are faithful, God remembers our faithfulness, but it gives us the imagery, if you will, that there is a book of remembrance that is ever in the front in the presence of God when the day of judgment comes, that He will remember that you were faithful. The more the faithful talk for God. In the office place, when they start saying that you can't have your Bible on your desk, I hear the faithful sing, For God I live, and for God I die. The more you talk, I'm gonna stay on my knees. And said, Yes, God is real. Because he holds me, because he tells me that I'm his own. I'm going to preserve you from destruction. That means salvation is not based on what we do, but his mercy towards us. Give their heart, give their life to you. Matter of fact, sometimes they y'all look better than mine. And Malachi says, even though you don't think judgment is coming, if you look back with me to verse number three, and I'm read a couple verses there, Malachi says, judgment is coming. It belongs it's holy and it belongs to him as holy. Y'all still here? And in the this unfaithfulness to God, not just in the giving area, but also in the multitude of other areas, because the priests uh had left the abandoned God. They shall be mine, says the Lord of hosts. Where he doesn't say, watch this, this is what he doesn't say. of being called Father. That he would take off his royal robe in glory, wrap himself up in limiting flesh John chapter 3 verse 16 says, For God so love the world. And and even after adopting you, he keeps waking you up in the morning, keeps feeding you, keeps clothes on your back, shoes on your feet, car in the driveway, half a tank of gas at least. They figure God was had gone to sleep, he's not paying attention in essence. Cattle and livestock from the stock, and wheat and corn and seed from the field was commerce. Y'all still hear? I just want you to know if you are a time tither, you would have to tithe, let's see, 18 hours and 38 minutes of every week to the Lord. Holy to God. 18 I don't think I don't see no tide titles because I don't see y'all. Amen. Your employer is gracious to you to take up take the tithes, I mean take the tithes for the government off for you. Verse 16 picks up and says, Then those who feared the Lord, see, there were some who feared the Lord and feared the Lord spoke to one another, and the Lord listened and heard them. So so so a book of remembrance was written before him for those who fear the Lord and who meditate on his name. It still takes the mercy of God. What your will is for us. That message was to the unfaithful to try God. In him I move and have my being. He loves us anyhow. He's talking Israel. He will purify the sons of Levi and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer to the Lord an offering in righteousness. But today we don't farm. Now, for those of you who say, I heard that before, that's Old Testament, that's the law. On your finances. They knew the blessings of God. He says, look, I'm gonna put their name in a scroll or a book of remembrance. But can I use my imagination for just a moment? I've been honoring God, and I didn't have much, but God supernaturally caused me to have enough when I got home. The more the faithful taught. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. What do we do? For the children of Israel, he says, because you have robbed me, you are in and in this area of tithe and offering. On one mountain is blessings. I'm gonna remember your faithfulness. It's not personal, it's not personal. Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasant to the Lord as in the days of old in the former years, and I will come near you for judgment. Amen. of the first fruit of your commerce increase. When Abraham gives ten percent of his first fruit of increase to Melchizedek before the law even starts. And we're not. But are we guilty? He sits down with the voices behind the song. Spirit of God, if there's one here under the sound of my voice that has not trusted you as Lord and Savior of their life, I'm praying even right now that they would abandon the ways of the world and that they would come to you. Amen. I can hear another one saying, Well, you know what? God said I'm coming. Leviticus chapter 27, verse number three says that the tithe is holy to God. You can't you can't tithe talent either because the talent ain't yours. Now I don't have a whole lot of time to lay out for you all the ways in which folk even today are being cursed, but I will tell you: if you're struggling in your financial area, it might have might have something to do with a curse. Because remember, he did say judgment was coming. And so they had a choice in terms of walking in obedience, they knew that they would be blessed because of their obedience. Last thing I want to talk about because I want you to know that everybody was not unfaithful to God. Remember I said first fruit of commerce, but just in case you are a time tither. Nobody brags on what they get after taxes and after after you know after allotments and all the other stuff. And what Malachi comes back to them and reminds them: because of your unfaithfulness to God, you've chosen the curse. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. It's it's 10% of the first fruit, that's the first part that comes in of your commerce increase. There is, if you will, a reward that God says I will give to those who have remained faithful. I was looking at the text and he says, You're mine, and on that day I will watch this, I will spare them. Are we guilty? Have your own way in this time and in this place in Jesus' name. You've been cursed. Here's the great picture here is that once again everybody was not robbing God. Now, let me let me walk us through just a little bit of a little teaching here. First fruit means both the first part that comes in and I'll call it your bragging salary. Listen to this. And again, remember, we're talking about Israel. Praise the Lord. He keeps on blessing you and loving you and pouring it out every day, even when we don't love him. Y'all catch that one later. That means it is set apart, sanctified. But there was a faithful remnant and watch this. I'm shooting y'all down. I will be a swift witness against sorcerers and adulterers and perjurers, against those who exploit wage earners and widows and orphans. Through Malachi, he lets them know that judgment is indeed coming. I hear the faithful sing. It says, yet you have robbed me. Yet you have. What do you mean by that? Now, watch this. They were marrying foreigners and God had told them not to marry foreigners. And so the the the tithe is ten percent of the first fruit of commerce increase. And so now, watch this. I hear the faithful say, oh yeah, he's real, he's real, oh yeah, he's real because he loves me. Despite all the reasons why you shouldn't have robbed me, Israel. But you say in what way have we robbed you? I'm not gonna read it, but Leviticus chapter 27 verse number 3. If you do, if you keep my word and you're faithful to me, I'll bless you. And even today, those who are faithful to the Lord's word, they know the blessings of God. And the Lord is not asking for that because time is in his hands, not in yours. Father, I'm praying that today that they would surrender to you. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Because I I felt y'all tighten up when I s when it when I read the word when I read the word you, when I s when I read when it said yet you have, I I I felt y'all tighten a little bit. Then you shall again discern between the righteous and the wicked, between the one who serves God and the one who does not serve. He will sit at as a refiner and a purifier of silver. I can see it. Now this this is not just the covenant as it relates to the covenant of giving and and and offerings and and the other things, but even the covenant of You've given the best you had. Father, here in our texts, they were robbing you of tithes and offering, but maybe someone's robbing you of the privilege. It's he is. On that day that I make them my jewels, I will spare them as a man spares his own But the law was just a standard to keep us at the big basics. The Lord had set before the children of Israel. So he sa he says to them, Y you you're curse with a curse, for you have robbed me even this whole nation. Because you know it does rain on the just and the unjust. Um so they ask this question, how now the answer comes back to them in tithes and offerings. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Okay? See, they were living there in Israel like judgment wasn't coming. org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. I'm I'm working and I'm a single parent. He doesn't say because of your faithfulness, you'll make it in. The rhetorical question response to reality reward to the faithful That's just the love and grace of God. In light of the rhetorical question, there is a response of reality. Might. Father, in your name, speak to every heart, speak to every mind, make it clear. He's still got to forgive you. And so now what what I what I hear and I get a lot some folks say well you know what pastor I give I give some money but I tithe my time Okay, okay. I wish I had somebody here that's not ashamed of the gospel because when they start talking about Jesus That's that's as and again remember tithing has nothing to do with your talent. Let me back up. While everybody else was trying to rub pennies together, they had dollars and they had spare change and they could bless other people. I'm gonna remember what you've done. Keep that in mind. It's it's not that God is going to forget. I could just imagine that one faithful saint says to another saint. Surely you wouldn't rob the person who adopted you, especially not after they paid that kind of price. I'm taking this rug from under your feet. And God said, I've got a reward for you. I'm not saying every financial picture is a curse. Um the the we we've looked at in this text, we've looked at the rhetorical question, we've looked at the response. So Tithin is the Tithin is the first fruit of your commerce increase Talk about him as much as you please It belongs to Him, it's holy. Can I point out one more thing, y'all? And so therefore, I get it, it's a rhetorical question. Every single individual was not unfaithful to God. I can feel him in my feet. You died on Calvary's Cross. The more the wicked talked against him and said he doesn't know what he's talking about, the more the righteous stood up Just you know, write that down. See, in the old testament, fruit from the tree and I don't see y'all that much. They knew this. Now what typically happens with this passage when people preach the passage is that they go to No, you bread, I'm sixty-five thousand a yeah. You can write this down because you I want you to check me, because I know y'all, you know, this is a subject matter y'all gonna be checking. I can't live without him. They were doing all kinds of things. Amen. That's a great question. They they want to know what you're talking about, Willis. Tithe means 10% This is the responsible reality. I know y'all want to know this too, right? So I asked why. So, you know, I believe that's what allowed them to get to the place where in the text he says, yet you have. He had set before them a mountain. I hear the wicked say Amen. And the Lord says, Yeah, judgment is coming. But the faithful were already trusting in trying God. He's still got to remove your sin. Praise the Lord. And if you read back in Malachi, you know, take a little time, read back through Malachi this week, you ain't got nothing else to do. I'm gonna watch this. Praise the Lord. Ain't no cattle ranches in here. If if I want the covenant blessings of God, I've got to obey the covenant of God. Y'all know that, right? We ain't under the law. Then there's another group of folk that say, well I'll tie my talent because I sing in the choir. Covenant blessings Draw them, God, as only you can. It's your responsibility to bring the tithes to the house of the Lord. While everybody else didn't have enough, they had what they needed. That He reigns on the just and the unjust. And the Lord says that every gift and every talent that's given is given for the benefit of all. But I've been faithful to God in giving to God, and last year, where my child had to go to college. Question is as I close, are we guilty? You bled, you suffered. So that helps me to understand why this Watch this, here's another one I want you to know. It's the mountain of blessings. And I hear another saint saying, God does not forget. And I'm out of y'all way. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. So now I asked the question why, but as I kept reading the text, they asked the question how? I'm going to remember your faithfulness, and in that day of judgment, you will become my jewels. He said, two mountains. I got some neighbors don't never go to church. Now keep in mind before you take this too personal. It's untouchable. Not saying that. They had robbed God, and God said, You've robbed me in time. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. That's a great question. 18 hours 38 minutes will be what will be required of you, even if we were accepting time tithes. And God says through Malachi, as a result of their robbing God that they have been cursed with a curse. Y'all already know that. All the more the wicked talk You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I'm going to judge, and I will separate, and in that day I'm going. Now, what John is saying is that he is loving us, and if he's loving us to the extreme, It's in there and it shows you and lets you know all the things that they were doing that were anti and against God. I ain't gotta preach that to them. I gotta give glory to him. For additional information, Just in case you wanted to know. But it might have something to do with it. The more that the the those that were evil talked against God And in their disobedience, they already knew that in our disobedience There was a remnant of faithful people, and what I want you to look at in verse number 16 and m. And then on the other hand, you can also choose to disobey me, and then there's the mountain. You're right. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. or 11 a. And for those most of who would probably say that, not that talented anyway. Y'all got that memorized. Thanks the Lord. Even though we're still faithful, that doesn't get you a ticket to heaven. And so it will be 18 hours and 38 minutes, will be your requirement of time tithing. I was reading back and I saw the priest I looked at the text and I saw in the text If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. I make a hundred and forty thousand. Watch this. I can feel him in my hands Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message And if God is loving us that way, you wouldn't rob a person who's loving you. It's His. Nobody b well you know They were not reverencing God, they were not respecting God, and the people Father, there are others that are struggling here with multitudes of issues. Grace says I can do the basic and then some. We don't we don't go to a safe way and exchange a chicken for a loaf of bread. We're not under the law, but this is not law because this begins before the law is even instituted. Now um the the idea m. But when the rain come down, it rained on their yard too. Everybody in here not robbing God. I was the last one to come, I should have been the first one to go, but they kept me in my job. at our new edifice. They already know that, but there is a promise So that we would be able to be called the children of God. Let me say this: if you honor God, I will say this: God will take care of you. Now he's bringing you their stories. It's because of him that we'll be able to receive the reward that he talks about in the text. The response of reality is: yet you have robbed me. Now, the text doesn't tell us what they were saying. But here's the deal: the faithful already knew that. And I know that we want to get out from under the law, and you are out and you are free. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I'm gonna say it one more time. How can I put away his word if it wasn't for his word? That's what they used to buy and purchase. They had money in the bank. I usher at the door. Yeah, that's what the first fruit Alright, alright, I'm gonna leave y'all off. Tell your neighbor this ain't personal. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. The reason why I add the word commerce because I want you to know we're talking about money. I know y'all Now he's bringing you their stories. I've got to be faithful to the covenant. Everybody will know for sure who's mine, who's not. I'm Andy Christman. I'm praying you And Lord says, Don't be concerned, I've got a reward for you. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. They they had better than what they had when they were hustling. And God said In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. So if I'm faithful, But it's not personal, this is Israel. You'll become precious to me. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast, One Degree. Listen now to One Degree of Andy where