Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord from John chapter 1, beginning at verse 1, reads as follows: In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God. And the Word was God. And he was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. Verse 14 says, and the word became flesh. And dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we honor you today. We bless you on this great and awesome day. We know not the exact day in which you came into the world. Probably wasn't this day, but nonetheless we stopped pause to acknowledge on this day that you did come. And that you came in such a way that confounded the wisdom of men in that you came through a virgin who had never been with a man. And that you overshadowed her with the power and presence of the Holy Spirit, and you impregnated her that you might take on the form of flesh You came in such a way that even all of Angelic Creation showed up to serenade and to join in as an angelic choir. to sing of your glory and sing of your appearance. Father, I'm grateful on this morning that you showed up in such an extraordinary way. And Spirit of the Lord, I know that you're not limited to that day because you're outside of time. And so even on this morning as we stand to declare your word and to remember what you did, I pray that even on this day, God, you'd show up in an extraordinary way. I pray that the very angels of heaven will realize and recognize that you're in this place and in our midst and that they might serenate you once again about how glorious you are and how wonderful you are. And Father, in the midst of your presence, being in our Our assembly this morning. Heavenly Father, I'm praying that if there's anybody that doesn't know you, they would realize that they are in the presence of the living God. And I pray that that presence, God, might draw them into a relationship with you that would change their eternal destiny. Spirit of the living God. have your way this morning. I'm praying, Spirit of God, that you would not only draw those, Lord God, who don't know you, but those, Lord, have who have drifted away. Father, I pray that you would draw them back into a A loving and intimate and personal relationship with you, uh, God, that they might not ever leave you again, that they might not ever forsake you again. Father, so I pray you would draw the drifter this morning back to you today. Father, I pray that in all that is done and all that is said when your presence shows up, Lord God, that whatever it is you desire to do Do and to accomplish in this place. And through these that hear the word this morning, I pray that you would accomplish it in that way, Heavenly Father. And when it's all said and done, no one can take the glory But you alone, Lord God, will receive all the glory, the honor, and the praise. Lord, I stand as a vessel, an instrument, to accomplish your will, knowing not which way you will turn, but I will follow you, I will go with you, I will speak for you, God. Use me as an instrument. In your hand to accomplish your will on this day and on this occasion, in the name of Jesus. I pray with expectation and belief. In Jesus' name. Amen. And Amen. Katarine, I wanted to start by saying Merry Christmas to everyone this morning. Oftentimes when I'm preaching, I'm preaching and I don't think about the holiday or whatever day it is, so I need to say that at the beginning because I'll probably forget it at the end. So Merry Christmas, everybody. Amen. Praise the Lord. Now, what I'm going to attempt to do, I don't know how this is going to happen because I feel something else is happening, but my plan this morning, so at least y'all know what the plan was. My plan this morning was because, you know, Christmas Day is not the only day we here at Catherine Baptist Church Church talk about Jesus. That's not true everywhere. But on this but but because we talk about Jesus all the time, and this is not the first time that you've heard about him being born into the world. And I don't always wait till uh Christmas to tell you about that. I'm preaching it all the time. I'm telling you he came into the world. I'm telling Every Sunday I'm letting you know not only did he come, but he lived perfectly. He died sacrificially. He was buried, show enough, and he got up powerfully on the third day. We get that every Sunday. So I don't I don't feel like I have to I don't I don't really have to spend a whole whole lot of time pounding into your brain that Jesus was born and they was going to get to the census and and and there wasn't no room in the end and I don't have to deal with all that. So I don't have to keep you here all day because you've got gifts to open. You got you've got food to still fix. Amen. You got the house to clean up. You plan on going somewhere. So my plan was to cooperate with your plans. But I don't know if the Lord has the same plans that we have this morning. Is that all right? So as I lean in on John's gospel this morning, I wanted to Look in on his version of the birth of the Lord because his version is so different from that of the other gospel writers Now, Mark is in such a hurry that he just skips all that. He just jumps right into the ministry. But With Matthew and Luke, they they have different versions, and John's version is quite different in that John's emphasis is to uncover Jesus Christ as God Himself. Where in John's gospel, how do I say this? The lenses by which John writes uh this book of John, it is through the lenses of one who sees God in eternity past In incarnation and in eternity future, even as he has the lens to be able to write the entire book of Revelation. He looks all the way to eternity past, to the beginning, and he goes from beginning to incarnation, that is the birth. even in and through his eternal existence to the end. So John has that kind of a lens when he writes this gospel of John. Whereas the other writers have a different perspective. And so I want to try to talk this morning from the subject matter giving birth to the word in flesh. Now, when Matthew wrote his gospel, he started off and he opens up his whole purpose, if you will, is to expose Jesus Christ as the Messiah. and the king. So you'll see his references to the connection of Jesus' lineage all the way back from Abraham. Through 42 generations, but he stops through King David to assure us that Jesus has a kingly heritage and he has a right to be king. And then Luke writes from the perspective of making sure that we know that this Jesus, who is King. And is God also a man? And so he lets you know clearly that he bleeds and he Hurts and he suffers like a man, whereas Mark, even though he doesn't give us the birth Of Jesus, he writes from the perspective of helping us to know that this Jesus whom we will celebrate is a servant at the same time. It's amazing to me that this Christ that we come to celebrate is both king and servant. And Messiah and God all at the same time And yet, very man in the flesh. But as we delve into John, John helps us to understand how it is possible that this this word Became flesh. John says, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And he was in the beginning with God. John starts off by uh his his uh narrative of the birth of the Lord by saying In the beginning. He says, in essence, this first movement is that the word has eternally existed with God. But what John says is that the word Was always eternally with God. In the beginning, in the beginning And you got to understand something. With God, there is no beginning because he is an exnahilo God. Which means he never came into existence, he always was. Which surpasses our mental comprehension because we are created as linear beings and for us There's always a beginning and there's always an end, but we're talking about a God who has no beginning and no end But John to try to help us humans to comprehend the eternal existence of the word That was born on the day that we call Christmas. This word was eternally exahilo. It was always present with and always present God who was not created by anybody but always existed. The word was there in the beginning. And it's not as if How do I say this? It's not as if God had to create the word, because the word wasn't created, the word always was. It eternally existed with God. And if you look at the text over and over, this this troubled me. In verse 1, he says, In the beginning was the word, the word was with God, and the word was God. In other words, there's no separating the word from God. It's not God and the Word, it's the Word is God. They eternally existed together. I know y'all probably Pastor get to the point. I'm getting there. I'm trying. I'm trying. I really am I I this is this is critical when we get when we move you into his incarnation. Um we gotta understand first of all he's He's the he's the word that was eternal and always eternally existed with God And he's not separate from God. He is God. Because what John says is in the beginning, the word eternally existed with God, but he comes back and he says, but the word was. was made manifest, or the word made manifest, the creation of God. Watch this. It's in verse number three. It says, All things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. So we've got the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God, and the word was in the beginning with God, and he hasn't been born yet. Y'all still here? We're in eternity pass. And then John says in eternity pass, when there began to be a beginning for us, not for him. God started speaking. All things were made through him, that is the word, and without him nothing was made that was made. And in him was life. Everything that was created was created by the Word of God. Everything, everything that was created. Watch this. God. This is the best way I can dis explain it. Uh he was alone with himself in eternity past God, the word and the spirit were were there together and and the and God began To articulate what his will was, and as he spoke Everything that was nothing began to realize that God no longer wanted you to be nothing, but he wanted you to be something. Okay, let me see. Here's God standing out on nothing, and nothing exists but Him. And while there is nothing that exists, God, in his infinite wisdom and power, begins to speak, and nothingness becomes something. Wow. So the word was eternally existing with God. The word made manifest all the creation of God, everything that was created. was created when he spoke. And he spoke everything into existence. And in him that is in the word was also life. And so he is the giver of life, the word. But something happened along the way from eternity past to the birth of Christ. The creation of man that God has spoken into existence in a perfect way because he was a perfect God and spoke everything perfectly, and everything was in perfect harmony. He created a man and gave man his image and his likeness, but he also gave man the freedom of will to choose whether or not he would worship him. Whether he would obey him. Man chose not to obey him, and because of man's decision not to obey him, his sin corrupted all of the perfect Perfect the creation of God, not just himself who became a sinner, but he corrupted all the creation of God, and so God already before there was or was already knew what man would do and so he had already crucified his son in in the in the before time so before the foundation of the world he already had made everything God is not a reactionary God, He is a proactive God. He assigned an appointed time in all of His creative uh genius and all of the generational movements of humanity, he already had designated a time when he would Step out of uh Royal Diadin and take on the form of flesh. He would take that word that you have floating in the air and he would Slap it down into a virgin and wrap it up in flesh and have it be born on a day we call Christmas. God already had a plan. He he didn't he didn't react and respond to the sin of man. He already knew man would sin and he had a plan for sin. The word eternally existed with God. The word was made manifest the creation of God. But thirdly, the word became flesh and accomplished the will of God. Verse 14 says, and the word became flesh. The word, that is that word that is floating in the air, became flesh. It was born. Here is the incarnation of Jesus Christ. Here is the birth of the Messiah. Here's that day when they didn't have any room in the inn and Mary was heavy with child and Mary went into labor and Mary was Screaming at Joseph, and this is my version of the story. She was screaming at Joseph Joseph, you ain't found a place yet. And and yet she was Trying to hurry up and have this baby. And and so they had a place called the Inn. Amen. It wasn't the Holiday Inn or the Ramada Inn. It was just the inner part of perhaps even a cave. Where the animals were. It wasn't a barn like we think it's a barn. We westernize everything. It really wasn't a barn It's like a inner place, probably a cave or a place where someone lived where they put the animals on the inner part to keep warm and they said You can you can have the baby here. But when they went to one place that says there's no room in this inn, you can't come in. Stay out. But on that day, she came in and it wasn't it wasn't like a surprise birth because God had already orchestrated and ordained that this day would happen. Why? Because the word had already spoken it. And so the word came And it became flesh so that it could accomplish the will of God. Watch this. From the beginning, when the word was spoken, it accomplished the will of God in creating everything. When man sinned, he corrupted the will of God by disobeying the plan of God. This is God's instruction. Man disobeyed, so he he violated that and that corrupted. But the word of God always accomplishes the will of God. Watch this. Because the word is true to God. That's why when Jesus was here, he says, I didn't come to I didn't come to speak of my own. I came, I came only to speak and to do what I was sent to do. Because in, if I can draw you a picture of this if I can if I can help you to get a visual of this. God is sitting in heaven speaking word and word is saying I'm doing what I'm told to do. Word didn't have an option, help me God, of violating its cinder The sender was God sitting on the throne. The word came as from the very mouth of God, and it manifested itself in the taking on of flesh that it might accomplish the will of God. And so while the word is here on earth for 33 years, it is here to accomplish the will of God. God, what is the will? It's right here in the text. Um it became flesh, it dwelt amongst us. The word came into this world to dwell amongst us. It came to fulfill the scripture of God that there would Come this one born of a virgin and you would call him Emmanuel God with us The word came to fulfill scripture. He came unto his own, but his own did not receive him. But to as many as receive him, to them they shall become children of God. He he came to accomplish the will of God. He came to unite sinful man with holy God. He came, watch this, because there was no way that word alone could shed blood. For the sin of man. And so God decided and made it up in his mind that I've got to have flesh because flesh must die For the purpose of the sin of man. Lord help me, Jesus. But I've got to do something. I've got to, I've got to fulfill My law. I've got to show man that what I've laid out for him is only accomplishable through the righteousness of God. It's only accomplishable through the holiness of God. It's only accomplishable if I Do it myself because I gave Adam an opportunity to do it, but Adam couldn't do it. Adam chose to disobey me, so I'm coming to take care of it myself So the word got wrapped up in flesh so that flesh could live out. Lord help me here. The plans of God, the scripture of God. The law of God and he will fulfill the law of God perfectly. We had to have a man, a fleshly being body, fulfill the law that was necessary Why, Pastor? Because the blood of bulls and goats and lambs and turtle doves could not satisfy the requirement that God had put on man for sinning against him, for the wages of sin, God to be death and And that to be death and eternal separation from God. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. of Kettering Baptist Church, under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. Or virtually Via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.