Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention To first Kings chapter 17. We'll begin our reading at verse number 17. First Kings 17, 17. In addition to 1 Kings 17, 17, I'm also going to just um Uh look at uh John three sixteen. Praise the Lord. The word of the Lord reads, Now it happened after these things that the son of the woman who owned the house became sick. And his sickness was so serious that there was no breath left in him. So she said to Elijah, What have I To do with you, O man of God. Have you come to me to bring my sin to remembrance and to kill my son? And he said to her, Give me your son. And so he took him out of her arms, and he carried him up into the upper room where he was staying, and laid him on his own bed. And then he cried out to the Lord and said, O Lord, my God, have you also brought tragedy on this widow with whom I lodge by killing her son? And he stretched himself out on the child three times, and he cried out to the Lord and said, Oh Lord my God, I pray, let this child's soul come back to him. And the Lord heard the voice of Elijah, and the soul of the child came back to him, and he revived. And Elijah took the child, and he brought him down from the upper room into the house, and gave him to his mother. And Elijah said, Your son lives. And then the woman said to Elijah, Now by this I know that you are a man of God. And that the word of the Lord in your mouth is the truth. Father, we need your assistance on this morning as we stand to declare your word. Father, give me strength, give me wisdom, give me clarity of thought and speech. That as I declare and preach your word on today, that it might cause someone who's lost, come. Turn their heart and their life over to you. Father, I'm praying for that one who's drifted in their fellowship. They've walked away from The church, they've walked away from you. Their faith has been dashed. I'm praying, God, that you would restore the broken fellowship, that you would draw them back to yourself, that they will be drawn back into the fellowship with you. Spirit of the Lord, I pray that as we declare this word on this morning, that we would be able to see ourselves in the text, that you might be able to speak to us clearly, Lord, that you might help us through this difficult journey called life. Spirit of the Lord, let the body of believers and those who hear be edified by the preaching of the gospel. Lord, I stand in need of you. I cannot do this without you. So let the power of your Holy Spirit come and do what it does to preach through these lips of clay. Use me as a vessel in your hand To accomplish your holy and divine will, and I will give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise, for it is in Jesus' name I pray, with thanksgiving and expectation. And all the people of God said, Amen And amen. Kettering, we've been preaching through a series of messages entitled, Do You Trust Me? I didn't read John 3. 16 because I figured y'all already knew it. Here it is. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever should believe in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. We're going to come back to it later As I've been preaching through these series of messages entitled, Do You Trust Me? We started off in Genesis chapter 12 when God called Abram and we spoke there from the subject matter: Do you trust me enough to move? Then we move to the second part of our series. We were in Exodus chapter 14. And then that spoke from the idea: Do you trust me when your back is against the wall and your enemies are pressing or pursuing? In this text this morning, Elijah has called a drought in the land, and the drought is going to last for three years. In the middle of the drought, God says to Elijah, Elijah, I want you to go down by the brook. And when you go down by the brook, Elijah. I'm going to take care of you at the brook. And Elijah goes down to the brook, and by the brook, Elijah has water to drink, and a raven. Brings him bread and meat. This is the kind of stuff that happens when we just let God be God. When the burk finally dries up, God says to Elijah, Elijah, I want you to get up and I want you to go to Zarephat. And in Zarephat, there's a widow there, and I'm going to have her take care of you. Elijah is invited to stay at her house. And he he has a room in the upper part of the house. And he's allowed to stay there. And God is there blessing the house while a drought is on everybody else. And in the middle of that, her son gets sick. And the text is He got so sick, there was no breath left in him. And when that happens, Elijah is there. As the mouthpiece of God to say to this widow, do you trust God I want to talk to you on this morning in this part, this, this third part of the series from the subject matter, do you trust me with your children? It is Really difficult as we see for this woman in the text because she's done everything that seemed like it was the right thing to protect her child and she's She should have the favor of God because she's doing the godly things and yet her child still dies. And God is saying, Even when your child has died, do you you you are you don't trust me? Verse 17 says, now it happened when these things, this is while you know Elijah come to live with them and all this. The the woman who owned the house where he's living at, her son gets sick, and his sickness was so serious that there was no breath left in him. Parenting is hard. And do you when God's asked this question, do you trust me with your children? Um, do you trust me with your children when they lose the life that you gave them? This boy, the breath goes out of him. He's dead. He's lifeless. And this is the child that she gave birth to. That she nurtured, that she been feeding and clothing and taking care of. And God says, even though He's His life is gone. Do you trust me with him? I want to know, do you trust the Lord? Do you trust him when the life that you've given your child is gone out of them? Sometimes we may be faced with a very similar situation where our child is sick or something happens to them and they're hospitalized. And the doctors are scratching their heads or it seems like they're in an impossible scenario or or and and and maybe they're near death or maybe they maybe they've died. And God says, in that moment, do you trust me when the life that you breathed into them is gone? Eve even though you breathe the life into them, you um you you you taught them the right way, you you you gave them all the right things and now they They're acting like they have youthful Alzheimer's. Like they don't even remember what your family name stands for. And so the question for us and the question for the parent is can I trust the Lord when the life that I've breathed in them is I'm trying to open up this text and make it relevant because in the same way this widow is having a very hard time. Trusting God when the life she gave him is gone, so do we. We have a hard time trusting God And so we will say I trust God with them, but our actions don't always say that. What happens here in the text is Verse 18, this woman gets offensive, and she begins to accuse Elijah. So she says, what do I have to do with you, man of God? In other words, what do we have in common? Why, why, why'd I even let you in my house? See what happens? She's now turned her her anger at him. And then she comes back and she says You came here, she's accusing them, you came here to remind me of my sin. What is she really saying? What she's saying is the reason my child died was because of my sin. It's a premature conclusion because she is trying to comprehend and trying to come up with an answer. Why I can be living right and still experience the death of my child? Why I can be in church? Why I can be the preacher. Why? I can be the choir director. Why? I can be the usher. Why? I can be this or that or the other. Still serving God and my child still acts crazy. It must be something I did. And any parent who has a child that goes off the rails. Every one of us is going to ask ourselves, what did I do wrong? But the problem here is that you you've turned the focus on you and you haven't said, God, I trust you. Because in reality this ain't even about you. Look at verse 19. Second, second movement of the text. And he said to her, give me your son. So he took him out of her arms and carried him to the upper room where he was staying. Here's the second movement. You've got to trust the Lord with your children when you need to let them go. Here's the tough part. The hardest thing for parents is to have your children going astray. And God says, let them go. It hurts. It burns. Guilt starts rising up in you. I can't let them go. I know I got I gotta. And we we just keep we keep we keep holding on and holding on and holding God said let them go. Elijah says to the woman, let him go. She's got the boy. He's out of breath. He doesn't have any breath left. He's dead. He's out. And she's holding him, the dead child, in her arms and won't let him go. Because sometimes that's what we're doing too. We smothered the child to death, and now we're continually smothering them when they're already dead. They don't want nothing to do with church because you smothered them. And then you want to beat them up with the Bible and say, you need to be naenon, or you I can't breathe. And God is saying, trust me with them, let them go. Like says, let them, let them, let them go, give them to me. Elijah took the child from the woman. Word says he cried out to the Lord continuously. Verse 20. He cried out to the Lord and said, Oh my God, have you have you brought tragedy on this widow with whom I lodge by killing her son? And he stretched out his self on the child three times and he cried out to the Lord, Oh Lord, I pray to you, let this child's soul come back to him. You want to know what to do once you let your child go? Don't just let them go and forget about them. No, you let them go and you start crying out to God. In the morning, pray for them. When God wakes you up in the middle of the night, pray for them. You just keep crying out to God, God, bring them back to their senses. God, put them back on track. God If they get in trouble, don't let it be something that they can't get out of. God, cover my child. God, keep my child. God, I'm praying for my child. God, I love my child God, I trust you as my child. God, I put them in your hands. I know you're gonna do what you need to do, but let your will be done. One or two times ain't enough. No, keep crying out There's a God who who knows. He knows how to turn them around. He's got a way to get their attention As a matter of fact, if we were honest this morning, some of us were that child. And mama prayed for you, and daddy prayed for you, and grandma and grandpa Prayed for you. And the reason why you got your life together is because they kept crying out to the Lord. They let you go, but God brought you back. If God did it for you, He'll do it for your children too. Verse 22. The Lord heard the voice of Elijah, and the soul of the child came back to him, and he revived. Then Elijah took the child, brought him downstairs and from the upper room and into the house and gave him to his mother. And Elijah says, See, your son lives. The soul of the child was returned and Elijah gave him back to his mother, watch this, to steward him and not smother him Our responsibility as parents is stewardship of children. To raise them up. They belong to the Lord. But if I start taking what belongs to the Lord and claiming it as my own, I kind of bring a curse on my own self. Because I'm taking what belongs to God and I'm claiming it as myself and I'm not not letting God have his way and what belongs to him And so when Elijah gives the child back to the woman, it's so he can she can steward the child. Now, here's what probably happens to a whole lot of folks. When the file when a child finally comes back, we're gonna smother him. In some cases. That's the reason they left in the first place. Because you were smothering them. You were not allowing them to live and experience free will, which God gave to all of us. One of the toughest lessons I had in raising my children was coming to the understanding that God gives them free will. At one point I'm raising you, at the next point I'm coaching you. So when you become an adult, I'm not raising you no more. You already been raised. Now I'm the coach. I'm the advisor. But that's that's the transition that we we are in. And so as the advisor, we're providing the advice as they Need it and as they solicit it and then we don't smother them, let them go. Keep covering them with the prayers. And trust God with them. Now you might be saying, well, you know what, Pastor, all that stuff sounds good. It sounds really, really spiritual and all that good stuff. I don't know if I can really trust God. Well let me give you some of his credentials. John chapter 3, verse 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but should have everlasting life. Do you realize that the same thing that God asked us to do, He had to do? He gave his own son and guess what happened to his own son? He gave his son to the world and he allowed his son freedom. Jesus could choose to obey his father or disobey his father. He chose all the way through to obey his father. And guess what? And then it came upon a time, 33 years into his life, where they nailed him to a cross, and the breath that his father gave him was gone. And for three days, God had to grieve for his son like we have to grieve for our children when they're out there in the street or when they pass away. But guess what? He's a trustworthy God because on the third day the breath came back into his child. I want you to understand it doesn't matter how bad it looks, it doesn't matter how long they've been out there in the street, doesn't matter how long they've been incarcerated, doesn't matter how long they've been acting a fool, God has the ability to raise them up. God has the ability to speak life into them. God has the ability to turn their life around. God has a way of bringing them out of no place that you would ever want to be. God can do it, but you gotta trust him. If he did it for his own child, he'll do it for you for you. As a matter of fact, the reason why he gave his own child is so that you and I could have eternal life. But let me show you something in the text. And I'm I'm done out of I'm out of your way. The text says when Elijah came and brought the child back to the woman and says, See your son lives. Listen to verse 24. Then the woman said, Now, by this, I know that you are a man of God. And the word in your mouth is the truth. God had to allow the breath to go out of her child. To bring her to the point that she realized that Elijah was truly the man of God and that the word That Elijah brought to her was truly the truth. God will take us through some circumstances to cause us to believe that He's a God that does not lie. If He said He'll do it He will do it. But sometimes because we're hard-headed and stiff-necked, sometimes God got to cause some circumstances to come in our life to cause us to understand and believe that his word is the truth. He can do anything but fail. If he said I can raise the dead, he can do it. If he said I can heal the sick, he can do it. But guess what? You'll never believe it until somebody gets sick. When a doctor shake their head and say ain't nothing I can do. But when you call on the name of the Lord, Lord help me God. When you trust in him and do not faint god will show up and show you through the circumstance I can do what I said I can do Yeah, I can bring them back from the dead. Yes, I can heal cancer. Yes, I can do it. There's nothing too hard for me. But you had to go through it Till you came to the understanding. Now I see that what God said is the truth. But God will bring us through some circumstances and through some situations with our children. Not to destroy your children, but God has other purposes on the other side. And we as parents, we just need to let God be God. Let him do what he does because he's good at it. And when it gets to the end, we're able to look back and say, now I understand what God was up to. And now it makes sense to me why why God sheltered me from this and kept me from that. And now I can I can probably say, you know what, it's because I was so good or he has such great plans for me that ain't might even be true. I know I wasn't so good, but I know one thing, my mom and daddy were praying for me. And they were covering me in prayer. And I know that God was using all that, He blocked me in and kept me so that I didn't stray too far. And when the when the opportune time came, the Lord showed up in my life and turned my whole life and world upside down. And as I tell you many, many times, I had no intentions in the world ever Of being in a pulpit. But God made it real clear, I have kept you for this purpose. Do you trust him with your children? He's a trustworthy God. He really is. Do you trust him with your children even after they're grown and making decisions on their own that you don't agree with? Do you trust them with your grandchildren who are in the hands of those who are making decisions you don't agree with? You just gotta trust God with them. This widow trusted Elijah to take her son out of her arms. She had to be willing to let him go. So that God, who so loved the world and gave his only begotten son, Could deliver her son back to her alive. Listen to me. One of the greatest Gifts, benefits that you could ever give your children is the word of God and leading them into a relationship with God Because let me tell you this. Even if they stray, they can't root out that word of God. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buch Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed By today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with With the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.