Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Lamentations chapter 3. The word of the Lord reads as follows: I am a man who has seen affliction by the rod of his wrath. He has led me and made me walk in darkness and not in light. Surely he has turned his hand against me time and time again throughout the day. Skip down to verse 19. And remember my affliction and roaming. The wormwood and the gall my soul still remembers and sinks within me. This I recall to my mind, and therefore I have hope, because his compassions fail not. Through the Lord's mercies, we are not consumed because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, says my soul, therefore I hope in him. The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him. It is good that one should hope and wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we honor you. We bless you. We thank you for your grace, your kindness, your love. Thank you, God, that you have given us opportunity to even be at this place on this morning and to hear your word. God, let your word now move in such a way that if anyone doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, today would be a day that they would come say, What must I do? To be saved. Spirit of the Lord, I pray for those who are drifting in their fellowship, who need to be reconnected to you in fellowship. God, I pray that you would draw them by the power of your word The power of your spirit, God, that they might come and w reconcile the broken relationship with you today. Lord, I pray that you would edify this body. uh of believers, those who are listening here uh in person as well as those uh via live stream. I pray that edification would take place. I pray God that That most importantly, that your name would be glorified in our midst, God, that your name would get lifted higher and higher and higher. And so, Lord, as I stand here as a vessel of clay, much in need of your power and your presence, Lord, speak through me. Use me as a vessel in your hand. Accomplish your will in this place, Lord God. We need you in this hour. Preach now, God, through me, and use me as you see fit. In the name of Jesus, who is the Christ I pray. And I thank you. Amen. This morning, Ketterin. I want to do a s uh a short series of messages on Lamentations chapter three. The Book of Lamentations, uh, it is a poetic masterpiece of a work. From the middle of this Masterpiece of poetry. I want to talk from the subject matter. Great is your faithfulness. The deeper I look into the scripture, and the more Awesome the expressions of God and the layouts of things that seem insignificant to us. are that are critically significant to God, it further validates in my mind that only God could have done this Jeremiah begins by remembering God's wrath. He says, I am the man who has seen affliction by the rod of his wrath. In other words, I've seen what God will do and can do when he's angry. And perhaps we can say like Jeremiah, we've been in a position where we've been wrong, we've done wrong. And and we could probably testify. I know what God will do when you don't do right. Amen. Amen. And so Jeremiah, he's remembering when he wasn't doing everything right. And And I had to deal with the chastening hand of God because I was outside of the will of God when I did it. Thought I got away with it, but God's wrath caught up with me. And herein lies the problem with most of us as Christians. We don't recognize God's wrath. We will blame the wrath of God on everything else. You know, something happens. It cannot be because I'm not walking upright before God that I'm dealing with this situation. It's impossible that I'm broke because I robbed God. I think far too many of us really don't recognize when God's wrath is on us. And we ascribe it to everything else. But I I want you to know that the wrath of God is is awesome and we'll see in in just a few moments, but it moves in such a way that He will He will box you in. And you'll be calling everybody and won't nobody answer the phone. And and you you go to every doctor and every specialist and every this and every that and you get the best lawyer and God says, Oh no, they can't help you now. This is in my hands and I've determined what I'm going to do to you. And Jeremiah says, I remember the wrath of God. Jeremiah says, I remember the Chaldeans coming in, and I remember watching them overtake. the people of God, the people who God has set apart for Himself. And I I remember watching them pull families apart and take the best and the brightest children and take Take them to the king's house. I remember watching them kill the the women and children and other men. I I remember watching the Chaldeans come in and strip the gold from the holy house of God and take the The elements out of the house of God and go into the holy place. I remember seeing God's house torn apart because God's people would not do what God asked them to do And Jeremiah laments over this. This was not a beautiful time. This was a it was a hard time. It was difficult to watch. It was difficult to witness when God's wrath was moving and allowing this to happen. But he he he remembers it and he reflects back on God, what God did and how God blocked him and God worked against him and and and how uh he worked against the people. Let me let me let me just read some more of this because you you'll get the whole bigger picture of it when I when I read through these verses. Um Chapter 3, verse 2. He's led me and made me walk in darkness and not in light. Surely he has he has turned his hand against me time and time again throughout the day. He has aged my flesh and my skin and broken my bones. He has besieged me and surrounded me with bitterness and woe. He has set me in a dark place like the dead of a long ago. He has hedged me in so that I cannot get out. He has made my chain heavy. Even when I cry and shout, he shuts out my prayer. He has blocked my ways with hewn stones. He has made my paths crooked. He has been to me a bear lying in wait, like a lion in ambush. He has turned aside my ways and torn me in pieces. He has made me desolate. He has bent his bow. He has set me up as a target for the arrow. He has caused the arrows of his quiver to pierce my loings, and I have become of the ridicule of all my people. Their taunting song all the day. And he has filled me with bitterness, and he has made me to drink wormwood, and he has also broken my teeth with gravel and covered me with ashes. You have moved my soul far from peace, and I have forgotten prosperity. And I said, My strength and my hope have perished from the Lord Remember my affliction and my roaming, the wormwood and the gall. My soul still remembers and sinks within me. Now, in all of what I just read, perhaps some of it might sound like some of the things that you and I are going through or have been through. But he moves from remembering God's wrath to recalling to mind God's mercy. This I recall to my mind, therefore I have hope. That it is through the Lord's mercies that I'm not consumed. I mean, I thought I was getting the punishment that I was due because I did wrong, but I realized guess what I'm not dead. God, you didn't kill me. The wages of my sin was death. I deserve to die from what because of what I did. But when I process this thing, you know, let me say it this way: we can complain a lot about the things that God is doing in his wrath against us, but if God didn't kill you, you ought to be rejoicing. God really didn't deal with me according to my sin. What God literally did was He stepped in and intervened and He dealt with me according to His mercy. It was through his mercies, he says, that I'm I'm not consumed because his compassions fail not. Even though God is a just and a righteous God, He is a God who executes punishment on His people. He is a God that definitely will spank you. Yes, He will. He's a God who will box you in. He's a God who will Who will he execute wrath, but he is also a God who has mercy that and compassion on us He realizes our frailties. He realizes our shortcomings. He understands who we are. And he has compassion on us. And his compassions do not fail. Now let me put you in the place because there are some people in your life that have pushed you to the limit. Amen. Somebody. There's some people in your life that you used to have compassion on, but your compassion has run out. There's some folk in your life that you just sick and tired of You ain't dealing with them no more. If their name comes up on caller ID, you will not answer the phone. You don't want to see them. You're not going to their house for Thanksgiving. You don't want nothing to do with them because you have cut them off your compassion has failed but God we we didn't do right by him time and time and time and time and time and time and time and time and time again but his compassions don't fail. Every morning he we wake up with new mercy. It's in the text. They are new every morning. Every morning, new mercy we see. Do you realize how how amazing that is? That that every every morning. When you wake up, God has cleared your account from yesterday. Yeah. He starts all over. He says, okay, that thing you just did, what you really deserve. For that is death. But I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna let you live Even in his wrath, even in his judgment, even in his punishment, even in his thankings for us, he keeps on pouring out more mercy, more mercy, more mercy, more mercy. And now let me can I reflect on this just for a moment? As a result of all that mercy that I got yesterday when I wake up in the morning and I'm not dead. I ought to jump up and say, thank you, God, for the hey, I got another day. You mean you didn't wipe me out for all the stuff I did yesterday? And I get to start all over. New mercy. Hallelujah. So every day I ought to jump up with a praise in my mouth and thanksgiving in my heart because God gave me another chance. We're not consumed by his wrath because his mercy steps in. And his compassions do not fail. And then it's almost like Jeremiah starts to excite himself in the middle of writing this text. And he says, Great is your faithfulness. Think think about that for a moment. Think about the the relationship you have with God and has God ever failed you Amen. He's faithful. Every morning isn't isn't God faithful every morning to make sure not only that you wake up, but that you would get up with a reasonable portion, Lord help me, of health and strength Great is the faithfulness of God. And then he moves from remembering God's wrath And recalling God's mercy to rejoicing in God's faithfulness. Lord help me, Jesus. Jeremiah can't help himself when he thinks about the faithfulness of God. Now you've got to think through this thing with me. Jeremiah. He he prophesied to a nation that wouldn't listen. And he was telling them, judgment is coming, judgment is coming. Y'all need to get yourself together. Judgment is coming. God's gonna judge us God's gonna bring enemies in. They're gonna take our land. They're gonna kick us out. They're gonna destroy the temple. And the people said, Yeah, yeah, yeah, Jeremiah. We don't want to hear that, Jeremiah. And then and then watch this. Then And then God sent the Chaldeans in and they began to overtake the people, overrun the people, kill some and and steal off others and drag them off, and if you will, hold them hostage in the kingdom of the Chaldeans that they might train them and teach them in the Chaldeans. And Jeremiah watches all this, he witnesses all this. He himself is carried off into Babylonian captivity and he has to live and deal with all that that the that the Babylonians decide to do to him and he's gotta deal with all of that. And then he comes back and he realizes, you know what, as a result of all that I've been through and all that I've seen, I've seen God at his worst. I've seen God block Me and I was praying to God, He wouldn't listen to me. I was trying to get out, but God had boxed me and I couldn't escape. God had me arrested me. And after all that I went through with the wrath of God, I realized that God was really showing mercy. Watch this. And sometimes the mercy that God shows even might take you to a point of taking you from this earth. Help me, Jesus. Sometimes when God removes folk, that's mercy too. Mm-mm-mm. God's keeping you sometimes from what you got to go through. Oh, help me God. Because God knows That if I keep going down this road, this is where I'm gonna be headed. And so God says, you know what, I'm gonna just gonna remove you right on out the way. I'm gonna set you aside. You ain't gotta worry about that. I got this. And so we These are things we we're watching these things happen, but we don't really comprehend what's really going on in the hand of God. And so Jeremiah says now, look, I've seen all of that. I've seen God's wrath. I've I've I'm understanding God's mercy. But you know what? Now when I Think about how faithful God is. I can't help but rejoice. I can't help but shout. I can't help but give God glory because He's been so faithful in my life. He's been He's been there all the time. Even when I thought he had left me, even when I thought I was all by myself, God was there. Great is your faithfulness. And listen to what he says in verse 24. He says, The Lord is my portion Says my soul, therefore I have hope. When my mind can't see it, when my body is not experiencing it, my soul understands that God is my source for everything I need, and so therefore my hope wells up out of my soul. Lord help me, Jesus, and my soul has hope When my mind can't comprehend it, Lord Jesus. When my mind is is hearing the doctor say this is the prognosis, this is the diagnosis, this is all we can do. We've done all we can do, and that's my mind starts the process. That's all we We can do and for some folk when their mind says um this is what the doctor has said, this is what the lawyer has said, this is what the judge has said, they take the lawyer at his word they take the judge at his word I'm I I just stop by to tell you the law the lawyer and the judge don't have the final say Help me, God. God has the final say. And when God says I'm gonna do something, you can have hope in him because he has the final say. And so watch this. When my mind can't Wrap itself around me getting out of prison after uh after thirty days when I really should have stayed in for twenty-five years Ah, my soul says God has made this possible by his mercy. Lord help me, Jesus. When when my mind says I I should die because I've been smoking for 30 years, but yet my soul says there's a God who can overcome cancer, He can rid the body of that Lord help me Jesus because his mercy is new every morning. Lord help me Jesus. When you understand That that the soul is in communion with God even when the flesh is not. You start hoping when there is no reason to hope. And people will ask you, how are you still positive? How do you still have hope? And it's right here in the text. My soul. Knows the faithfulness of God. My soul knows that in him there is no weakness. My soul knows that I deserve hell and the lake of fire, but by the blood of the lamb I've been redeemed Oh my God, my God. The Lord is good to those who wait for him. Here it is. To the soul. Who seeks him? It is good that one should hope and wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. What Jeremiah wants us to understand is that regardless of what you see, and regardless of whether or not the wrath of God is being poured out vehemently on you. Because of his compassions and his mercy that do not fail, there is still opportunity for hope. If my flesh can't muster up hope, I need to let my soul have a fellowship session with God. When when I need to close out everything that my intelligent mind can process. And I need my spirit to connect with God and my soul, my my sanctified, set apart soul I needed to sit down and have a little talk with Jesus. Lord help me God. It's good, he says, it's good to wait on the Lord. Now the text uses the word salvation and oftentimes we jump to it being salvation in terms of redemption from sin. And it does it it does cover that. But but in this case, just even salvation meaning deliverance from what I'm dealing with. It's good to wait on the Lord for the deliverance of what I'm dealing with right now. This morning we had a whole altar full of folks that said there was sickness going on in their body and they would let they they wanted God to move for healing. Well, it's good. To wait quietly for the salvation, for the deliverance, for the healing that comes in your body. And even when your mind and your flesh can't comprehend it, let your soul still have hope. Because great is the faithfulness of God. He can I can I help you all with this one? God has never failed. Okay. Um And I like to say it this way: none of us is so important that he would risk his perfect reputation. And fail on you. Are y'all hearing what I'm saying? If he's never failed And then it comes to you. And he fails on you. He's got to give up his royal diadem. He is no longer God because he failed on you. I I just want to let you get the scope of this. He never fails. And here's a good thing. When we talk about never, it's not just never in the past. Because the God that we serve is an eternal God. He's the God who declares of himself, I am the Alpha. And I am the Omega. I'm the beginning and I'm the end. And if you look at my record from the beginning all the way to the end, I've never failed. And you and I are somewhere in the middle. So I just want you to know that he's faithful. And great is his faithfulness. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. Or virtually Via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.