Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. I want to invite you to Matthew's Gospel, chapter 28, verse 10. God's word reads as follows: Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brethren to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. If you skip from there all the way over to verse 18, It says, and Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples. of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even To the end of the age. Amen. Would you pray with me this morning, eternal and everlasting God? We come to thank you for your amazing grace, for your sweet spirit that's in this place on today. God, we pray that your power of your spirit would manifest itself in such a way that if anybody does not know you as Lord and Savior of their life, that today would be the day that they would say, What must I do to be saved? Spirit of the Lord, I'm praying that in the process of preaching today that someone whose heart is heavy would be lifted by the preaching of the gospel. I'm praying that this body might be edified, that your name might be glorified, and the devil might be horrified. God, I pray that the power of the Holy Spirit would show up in an extraordinary way in this preaching opportunity on today. We are living in a day and a time that we need you desperately. And so even now, God, have your way in the time of this preaching. I lend myself to you as a vessel to accomplish your will. Use me, God, according to your sovereign will, and give me the strength, grace, and ability to articulate what thus saith the Lord. I bless you in advance, God, and I look forward with expectation to what you're about to do. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving. Amen. On this morning, Catherine, we find ourselves in February, and February, among many other things, is also Missions Emphasis Month. This morning we've had an exposure to George Lyle, uh born slave, if you will, one was emancipated from that to go and leave the United States and to become the first Baptist missionary and uh Uh he there in Jamaica led many people to Christ, established churches, and discipled many, just as the Great Commission has commanded us to do. So on this morning, I want to use this text that I've read in your hearing, part of which uh verses eighteen through twenty, uh defined as the Great Commission. I want to I want to use these verses to talk to you from the subject matter every day. on the mission field. Can you imagine for just a moment that every day of your save life God put you on the mission field to serve Him. You imagine that? Well, He did. Because most of us are not aware that Everybody who's born again is a missionary. In this text, Jesus has risen from the dead. The Mary and Mary are looking for uh him. They've gone back to the tomb to prepare his body and then his body's not there and they're s kind of scrambling around looking for him. They run into him And Jesus has a conversation with them, these these two ladies, and he says to them, I want you to go into Galilee. Well, that's over there in verse 10. He he tells them, don't be afraid, but go and tell my brethren and go to go to Galilee and there they will see me. In other words, uh there's a meetup place. And and and the reason why I pull this portion out because I want you to I want you to see the address to whom he's addressing. He's he's addressing those who have followed him, those who are his disciples, those Who are his brethren. And he says, I need to go talk to my brethren. And so have them show up because I've got something important. I've got something of significance that they need to be endowed with. And so have them meet me in Galilee. When they get to Galilee, the Bible says in verse 17, it says, when they they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. Ain't that something? They've been walking with the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and even now there's still some doubters. And so Jesus came and spoke to them, and he said, All authority has been given unto me in heaven and on earth. What Jesus then opens up the conversation to say is As they come and he he declares for them, I have all the authority to do what I'm about to do. I have the authority to commission every believer, everybody who I died for everybody whose sin I paid for. I have the authority to commission my brethren to be missionaries to the world on my behalf. He says, I've got all the authority. I've got the authority on heaven, and I've got the authority on earth. I am the reigning and ruling king. There's nobody like me, there's none besides me. And guess what? I've got all the power in my hand. What's interesting to me is that after making this uh acknowledgement of his power and authority, then he exercises his authority with a commissioning to the believers. What do you mean missionary pastor? What's the role of a missionary? It's right here in the text. It says, therefore, go and make disciples. of all nations. Make Christ known to all nations. So he directs them to go and to build followers, which disciples are followers of Jesus Christ. Then he says something interesting here in the text. He says, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Can I unpack that for you? Oftentimes, and even in theological circles, folk are arguing about whose name you should baptize in. They say, well, if you don't baptize the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, then they ain't born again. So here we are in theological circles arguing about this text out of context. Let me help you The word baptize means to immerse. It means to put into. It comes from the Greek word baptismo. And what Jesus says to his disciples, his followers, I'm commissioning you to go into all the world. Make disciples, make followers of me, teach people of me, and immerse them into the doctrine of The Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Help me, Jesus. In other words, you can't have the Son except you have the Father. You can't have the Holy Ghost except you have a Father and the Son, because these three are one. And everything that is in concert with the teachings and the doctrine and the belief that are associated with the Father Son and the Holy Spirit, that is what you are making disciples of. And he says, you're making disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ because he is God. And so it's it's an immersion, it's a putting into uh uh uh or teaching people into and and leading them into the beliefs that are in line with the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And these three agree as one because there's no confusion in him. Now What is most critical at this juncture of the teaching experience with his disciples is that you have to teach them that I came from heaven. Wrapped myself up in mortal flesh. I knew that man could not save himself. Moses couldn't do it. Muhammad couldn't do it. Gabriel and Michael couldn't do it. So I came and I came to do it myself. The doctrine of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost is that the Father caused the Father began to speak, and worlds came into existence. And when the worlds came into existence, the creation of the Son was Manifest because the Son is the Word. Help me, God. And when the Word became flesh, the Word dwell amongst us in the form of Jesus, who is the Christ. Lord, help me, God. And Christ lived for 33 years without sin, paid for your sin and mine when he died on Calvary. Lord help me, Jesus, because somebody had to pay. Lord Jesus. Because the wages of sin was death. But the gift of God is eternal life and it comes through Jesus Christ and him alone. And when Jesus got ready to leave here, he says, I'm getting ready to go home now. I'm going back to my father, but I'm going to send you another, an alas. That's a Greek word that means another who is the same as me. And he's not gonna be just with you like I'm with you. He's gonna be in you, Lord Jesus. That's the Holy Spirit. He doesn't come along until Acts chapter 2. But the Holy Spirit's gonna then dwell in you. Who's the Holy Spirit? He is me, but he's me in the form of the Spirit. Who is you in the form of the Spirit? I'm God. And so me and God and the Holy Spirit are one. That's the doctrine that Jesus says I need you to baptize people into Everybody who's born again, everybody who accepts him as Lord and Savior of their life, they are endowed endowed with the Holy Spirit. Because watch this: it's the Holy Spirit that baptizes you. Into the body of Christ. When I say baptize, what do you mean? Are you talking about going into the baptismal pool? No, I ain't talking about that. Because if you go in that baptismal pool and you just happen to be a sinner going in You're gonna be a wet sinner coming out. Ain't nothing magical about the water in the baptismal pool. The baptism that happens is the baptism when the Holy Spirit takes you It's when the Holy Spirit takes you and immerses you into a body of other believers, and you become one with those other believers and one with God. For you were dead in trespasses and sins, but he quickened you. He made you alive unto God. It's the Holy Spirit that did that. And we might be in a place, we might be in a space where we don't like people of different colors, we don't like people of different ethnicities, but if they're born again, they're one with you and one with me And so together, every born-again believer who's been endowed with the power of the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit was given to us so that we might do the work of the ministry of God. What is the ministry of God is to fulfill the fulfill this commissioning that He just gave here in Matthew chapter 28? He's commissioned you to go and make disciples to teach them whatever I've taught you And lo, I'm with you always, even to the end of the age. Secondly, let me point this point out to you that every field is a mission field. Go therefore. When he says go therefore, he's not saying get up and go. He's literally saying as you go. Every field you find yourself in is a mission field. And everywhere you travel, there is work to be done. Lord help me, Jesus. The fields that we travel in from day to day put us in position to make Christ known to the world. to immerse unbelievers into the believing in the doctrine of the Father and the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Everywhere we go, we have an opportunity to tell somebody that Jesus is the Son of God, and He died for my sin, and He paid for my sin, and to receive Him I receive eternal life. Everywhere we go we have opportunity to let somebody know that he is the son of God and there's nobody like him. If you confess Confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Everywhere we go, we have an opportunity to tell them that If you repent therefore and be converted, your sin will be blotted out. We've got an opportunity to tell them that yes, the wages of sin is death. But The gift of God is eternal light through Jesus Christ our Lord. We've got the opportunity to tell people everywhere we go that I am who he says I am. I used to be a sinner on my way to hell, but the master. Of the sea, heard my despairing cry, and he lifted me. And now safe am I everywhere we go we have opportunity to teach and tell somebody about him. So you want to know where the mission field is? The mission field is your your job. Your office that you work in. Your mission field is the school that you go to, the playgrounds that you play on. The the bowling alley that you go bowling in, the mall that you shop in, the grocery store. That's the mission field. Help me, Lord. The mission field is the vacation that you take to the beach where you get your you know where you get your tan on. Amen. Somebody Amen. The mission field is that cruise where you want to get away from everybody that you know. Amen. And and and go into some places where you shouldn't be. That's the mission field. You know Because even on the cruise line they let you gamble and and do stuff that you know you shouldn't be doing. That's that's the mission field. You you you ever notice how many unsaved lost folk are on the on the on the cruise line that you want to know you haven't noticed because you was hanging out with them. That's the mission field. That's the place to be working, not playing. Amen. It's the place of work, not play. Help me, Lord Jesus. The mission. You want to know where's my mission field, Pastor? It's all around you. Mission field is everywhere that we go. There's no limitations to our mission field. It's it's everywhere. In fact, the mission field is even on your social media pages. That you travel. Because as much as you have opportunity and occasion to post up your new car, your new living room furniture. Your new baby, grandbaby, you can post up some scripture that says Jesus is Lord. You can post up some text that says in him there is no failure. You can post up some text and let people know that there is a hell coming and a judgment coming, but they can escape it if they accept Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior of their life. That's your mission field And because you have at your fingertips, through social media platforms, the ability to reach people all over the world, you can't even use cost as an excuse for getting the gospel to the world. Oh, I can't go to Africa. Yes, you can. You can go there right on your computer. And you can tap in and talk and talk, put stuff in there, and boom, all over the world people are reading. That's the mission field. That's the field that's before us. That's where Jesus says the harvest is plenteous, but the laborers are few And oftentimes because we don't know that everybody born again is a missionary and every field is a mission field. So we are missing out on an opportunity to lead people to Christ. Can I talk to my Americans that have a savior mentality? In America, we have a tendency to have a savior and a superior mentality. That's what do you mean by that? We have this mentality that we need to go to these poor people. In these awful, God-awful countries. And we need to tell them about Jesus because they're so desperately messed up. And they need us to go save them Well, let me help you with some. America is becoming one of the greatest spiritual deserts in the world. And at the same time, it is a mixing bowl of people from all over the world Some of us can walk out of our front door and you can walk down the street and interact with people from three to four different countries right on your own street. It's almost an acts two experience when you go to some of these communities because there's people from every nation and every tongue and every tribe. Right there where you're shopping, right there where you're moving, right there where you're flowing. And so we don't have to we don't have to go far. Because and here's another thing that we're we're probably not as aware of. Do you realize that other countries are sending missionaries here now? Because America is the lost place. You know we would sit used to sending all these people out, let's go to everybody wanna go to Africa like like ain't nobody in Africa say. Now Africa's sending people here because ain't nobody in America saved. This literally is happening. People from other nations are sending missionaries here to America. to lead people to Christ here where you would think that the gospel is so available that everybody would be saved. But because we have forgotten that we were commissioned as missionaries to go make Christ known, to make disciples of him, you get lostness. Let me let me share something with you. I I discovered I was on uh uh an online source called Quora. I did a uh an analysis um and I discovered that On average, each American person, on average, is an average. We come in contact with twelve people per day Now, what I I did a little math, and I found out if each of us comes in contact with 12 people per day and is 365 days in the average year. That's 4,380 people that we've come in contact with in a year. My question is, how many have you shared the gospel with? Because you are you're a missionary, and missionaries are supposed to be sharing the gospel. Listen to what he says. He says in verse 20, he says, um teach them everything I've commanded you, and lo, I am with you always. Even to the end of the age. Now, watch this. The reason why he says that, the reason why he tells them, I'm with you always, is because there's never a time that you're going to be left alone As it relates to sharing the gospel or serving in the missional position. I'm always gonna be with you. Um, he he gives kind of that assurance that every day is a mission opportunity. So that's why I'm never going to leave you because I don't want to leave you, and then the day comes up that there's a mission opportunity, and I'm not there. So I'm always there because every day is a mission opportunity Everywhere you go, there's a mission opportunity. So I'm going to be with you. So secondly, not only did you need to understand, I'm always there, I'm always with you. But watch this: there's no reason for you to be afraid Because this is another issue we have. We scurred. I don't know what the people are gonna say. What if they say, I've been waiting for somebody to come explain the gospel to me? Thank you. I want Jesus in my life. What if they say that? Now here's what I'm I'm gonna throw this out. Here's what you need to understand. When people say no to the gospel, they're not saying no to you because it's not your gospel. They're mad at the one who sent the message. The message is coming from God. And so when they reject, they're rejecting God, they're not rejecting you. Does that make sense? We're just the instrument. That God is using. That's it. That's it. Everybody born again is a missionary Every field that you travel in is a mission field. And every day is a mission opportunity. For far too many of us, we've missed out on the 4,380 people that we've come in contact with. And here's one last thing I'm gonna share with you. When he said to them, he said, teach them what I commanded you. In other words, what you haven't been taught and what you don't know, you don't have to teach that. Just teach what you know. Well Pastor, I don't know all that theological stuff. I ain't got all that. Well, here's a good one right here. I once was lost. But now I'm found. I once was in sin, but he he made a way to get me out of sin. I don't know how he did what he did, but I I know he came and he lived and he died and he got up on the third day. I don't know how all that happened. I can't explain all that, but all I know he did it I know I was lost. I was on my way to hell, but now I'm on my way to heaven. I know he changed my destiny. I don't know, I don't know all the theology, but I can tell you the practice. stuff. I know I did a matter of fact if you if you don't can't even get that deep you tell him I used to be a liar, a stealer, a whoremonger, but he changed my life And he changed me from the inside out. He he he did something to me. I don't know. I can't explain what he did. But when I when I embraced him, when I accepted him, my whole life changed. I used to talk different. I used to walk different, but now, oh, glory to God. I don't I don't know the theology, but I know I'm different. You can't explain nothing else. Google yourself a couple verses. I know y'all use your smartphone for everything else. Use it for some scripture searches. You can text the word surrendering to the number 301-900-6555 and a whole video will come up and explain it to you. You can just carry that number around in your person. Say here, text this number. Share it. But guess what? Don't don't use it as an excuse, I don't know, or I'm afraid. Because Jesus said, I'm with you always, even until the end of the age. We're always, every day, on a mission field. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.