Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. Good morning, good morning, good morning. We're gonna definitely adore him. Thank you, Brother Josh, and the choir. Good morning, Catherine. And good morning on this blessed Christmas Eve. I am Sam Omarogiever. I am not a minister, but I am a deacon on assignment. I am on assignment to call to talk about a cornerstone of our belief as Christians, and that is the prophecy of the birth of Christ. I would like to thank Pastor Sterling, for giving me the opportunity to speak on this part of the tag team. Please be patient with me as I allow God to use me. The following scriptures Be used to detail these prophecies. We're gonna look into Isaiah 7:14, Isaiah 9, 6 through 7, and we're gonna flip into the book of Micah, chapter 5. Focus on verse 2. Let's begin by reading Isaiah 7:14. Therefore, the Lord Himself We give you a sign. Behold, the Virgin shall conceive and be a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. Please turn to Isaiah 9:6 through 7. For unto us a child is born, unto us a child is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder. His name will be called Wonderful Counselor. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government and peace, there will be no end. Upon the throne of David. and over his kingdom to order it and establish it with judgment and justice. From that time forward, even forever, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. Can you please pray with me? Father Lord, I thank you for this opportunity to allow me to stand here before you to talk about the birth of our Christ Jesus Christ. I pray, Father, that you pull the right way. word in my mouth. And I've been the lead person here this morning as a deacon. I know in fully way the ministers behind me is going to clean this up and um do a better presentation. But guide me through this, Father. In Jesus' name I do ask. Amen. Catherine? The prophecy of birth of Jesus Christ was foretold over several hundred years ago, before it occurred, by the prophet Isaiah. Azai was a prophet. to King Ahaz of Judah at a very troubled time where they were facing threats from neighboring countries of Israel and Syria. This is as told in Isaiah chapter seven verse ten. The definition of prophecy as its most fundamental is a message from God. Through these prophecies, God will reveal how Messiah will come into the world and provide details. That we leave no doubt of the arrival of Jesus Christ. Let us take a look at let us take a deeper look at Isaiah 7:14. The very first part of it says, Therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. The sign from the Lord is That a virgin will conceive and give birth to a son without the involvement of a human father, but rather through the Holy Spirit. The virgin shall conceive and be a son. This part of the prophecy is by itself unusual. The blood of Jesus Christ will give hope to the world. And shall call his name Emmanuel. Emmanuel. It's an Hebrew word meaning God with us. Now let's turn to Isaiah 9:6. Unto us a child is born. This identifies the That the purpose of Jesus coming is for us. Upon us, a son is given. God planned to give us a son. And the government will be upon his shoulder. Jesus will reign as king over the world and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor. And this is because he will be unique and will counsel us from the perspective of God. God. In him dwell all the deity in bodily form. He is El Gabor. He is God of strength, power, and God our warrior, everlasting Father. He's father of eternity. Prince of peace. He's the only one that can bring through restoration, redemption, reconciliation between us. And God and others. This is the prophecy of the coming rule of Jesus Christ. Let's quickly take a look at Isaiah nine seven and see what it says. He says, of the increase of his government and peace, there will be no end. Meaning, he will rule with justice and righteousness. Upon the throne of David. And over his kingdom. This identified that Jesus will be a descendant of David. Uh let's take a look at the book of Micah, uh focusing on um chapter five, verse two. It reads But you Bethrahem Ephrata, though you are little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of you shall come forth to me, the one to be ruler of Israel, who is going for. The test by itself is powerful because Micah prophesies that the Messiah will be born in Bethlehem, a small town and in many ways insignificant. It wasn't even in the map. But we know that God specializes in bringing hope to what may seem hopeless. As He did with Abraham and Sarah, who did not expect to be a child in old age. And we all remember the defeat of Goliath by David, who is going forth from old, from everlasting. This identifies that, the prophesied ruler of Egypt, of Israel. Beginning with from ancient times, and his existence was rooted aside of time and space. He is the one who spoke everything into being. His origin is From eternity. Catherine, I'm empowered to know that I know that the prophecies of the birth of Jesus Christ, there will be no confusion about his arrival because God provided Prophets like Isaiah and Micah to deliver his message. God will send a savior. He will save us from our sins. We will know him because he Be born of a virgin in Bethlehem. God will send us a servant who will reign and rule over all his creation with government on his shoulder. God will send forth he who is. supernaturally eternal. He has no beginning, he has no end, he's Alpha and Omega. And more importantly, he's everlasting Father. Amen. I wish now to my esteem um minister Richardson. Praise the Lord Church. Can we bless the Lord again for our Deacon Sammy And the the word that he brought forth just reminding us that um the the prophecies are true. And uh this was set forth hundreds of years ago and uh I I thank the Lord for uh God allow me to be here today, my my uh my pastor, uh my family, my wife here in the audience. And um thank you, Sammy, for setting us up for this next section of scripture. Uh please turn with me to Luke. Chapter one beginning at verse twenty six. Luke chapter one beginning at verse twenty six and it reads Now in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth. To a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David. The virgin's name was Mary. And having come in, the angel said to her, Rejoice, highly favored one, the Lord is with you. Bless you. Blessed are you among women. But when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and considered what manner of greeting this was. Then the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God, and behold, you will Receive in your womb and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus. He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. Lord and of his kingdom there will be no end. Then Mary said to the angel, How can this be since I do not know a man? And the angel answered her and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore, also the Holy One is to be born, will be called the Son of God. Church, um, in your hearing today, I'll I'll be coming from the focus and the message topic, the Immaculate Conception of Christ. Christ. When when you look at um and you search the Immaculate Conception, sometimes the term is associated with the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary. And if we're not careful, what we can do is give greater honor, give greater reverence, give greater glory and worship to Mary and not her son. And so today I want to. I want you to focus in on not just Mary and and what she did as the mother of Jesus Christ, but how God ordained this, how he structured this, how he put a plan in motion to send forth his son through a verse. Virgin. And so uh the first the first point uh here is God affirms his presence. Look look at verse 26. It says, Now in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent by God. God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth. If you look when you get a chance at the beginning of this chapter, we're introduced to another birth announcement, Mary's cousin, Elizabeth. Um Zechariah had been praying uh with his wife for a child in their old age. And the angel Gabriel, this same angel, comes to uh Zechariah and announces that they will have a son, and that son will be John, and he will be a son. Will you know he will be good because he's he's gonna bring forth and proclaim the name of Jesus and the coming of the Messiah. So we are now in the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy and the the the the writer Luke takes the time to identify this city and and as um Deacon Sammy said he s he sometimes uses the insignificant for great things. This city, um this village of Nazareth, you know, not on the map, nobody would Would think twice about it. You know, what what good can come out of there? But God uses this space and this time and this place to do something miraculous. Verse 27, to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph. Joseph of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary. And so now we're we're called to to Mary's current circumstance. We we see that um she's engaged to this man Joseph, who's of the house of David. So again uh falling in line with the prophecies that God had already established hundreds of years ago. And it takes the time, the the text and the word takes the time to remind us that she was a virgin. Because this is setting us up for the miraculousness of God and and the power that God has. We don't hear anything special about Mary and her walk and how she fasted and prayed and and she went to the temple, you know, all All this time, and she was so different because in her of her faithfulness, but she's just a young girl in this town who is a virgin getting ready to be married to Joseph. And so we We start at verse 28. And it says, Having come in, the angel said to her, Rejoice, highly favored one, the Lord is with you. Blessed are you among women. He kind of greeted Zachariah. Zachariah with a with a different message. Um in verse thirteen of chapter one, he he says to Zechariah, Do not be afraid, Zacharias, for your prayer is heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son. And you shall call his name John. He he kind of gets right right to the order of things, right to his his business, but for Mary, he he stops. He he does something different. He he greets her in a uniquely manner. He says, Mary, you are highly favored. Mary, you you you have received a grace that no other woman has ever received before you or ever will receive again. Mary, God has God has come to you and He has He is telling you that right now I want you to know that you are special There will there will never be another woman like you to come forth and Mary I want you to know That you have been highly favored with grace. There's something special, church, that happens when we receive the grace of God. There's nothing uniquely, again, nothing uniquely uh about Mary's faith, but God. God chose to use Mary. You know, I I'm I'm of the belief that he could have chosen any other woman that was uh going to be betrothed, um, that fell in line, that fell in line with the prophecies, but he chose Mary. And we're thankful that he did. And then he reminds us, the angel reminds Mary that the Lord is with you. And there's nothing we can't do when the Lord is with us. There's no battle we can't overcome when the Lord is with us. There's no enemy that can stop us when the Lord is with us. And so before the angel uh gives the details of this great thing that's about to happen, he he kind of prepares her for what he's about to tell her. And then we get to uh the second movement, Mary's response. But when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and considered what manner of greeting this was. So Mary's just trying to get her bearings of about you know, this dude comes in, you know, doesn't knock, doesn't ring the doorbell, I mean just appears out of nowhere and rejoice, highly favored one. I mean, how how else would I mean w I think anybody else would re uh react the same way. She's she's She's perplexed, she's she's fearful, she's she's trying to understand what's going on. Highly favored one. I'm I'm just I'm just a little peasant girl from from Nazareth, and you're telling me I'm I'm highly favored. And the angel goes on to say, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. He repeats that refrain. He reminds her again of your favor, Mary. Don't be afraid. Um, this is a common refrain that angels uh share to to humans and and when they're introducing themselves because it it can be an awesome fearful wonder amazement when God decides to reveal himself through his angelic host. And I'm thankful that fair favor Is not just reserved for Mary, although she had a favor uh different amongst women, but we too have received the favor of God. Proverbs 3:33 says, The curse of the Lord is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the home of the just. Just. Surely he scorns the scornful, but gives grace to the humble. The wise shall inherit glory, but shame shall be the legacy of fools. Continuing on in verse thirty. It reads, And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus. Now it's getting even stranger. You know, uh Pastor Sterling had a series, the strange Plans of God. Now we're getting into the strangeness here, and it's beginning to be a little bit more revealed. Mary, you you're highly favored, and I know you're about to get married to Joseph, and and just let me tell you something, you are gonna have a baby. It's gonna be a son, and you're gonna call his name Jesus. And I was thinking about when my wife and I, you know, uh were getting ready to have our first child and we had to go through the sonogram and we were debating. names back and forth. Well I like I like Roscoe and I like I like I didn't really like Roscoe, that was just a name. Um you know and we're going back and forth and debating and you know in the end I think I just you know let her have it. So um but you And then, well, if you get the first name, I get the middle name and you know none of that. God God is so ordered and and so detailed and and has such a plan that He says you're gonna have a son and here's the name. Because I don't want you to just name him anything. I don't I don't want you to conjure up in your own mind and your own thoughts and and confer with Joseph. I need him to have the name that fulfills the prophecy. I need him to have the name that when people call it. Call on it, they can be saved. I need him to have the name that at his name every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess that he is Lord. I need you to give him the name Jesus. He's given the name. Jesus or or Joshua, Yeshua, which means Yahweh saves. I need him to have the name that means something. That when people hear it, they'll know that he's my son. And Mary, not only that, but in verse 32, he will be great. And he will be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. How amazing is that for our mothers and our parents? out there to to know not only what your child um is, the sex of your child, and not only the name, but but who your child will be and who your child will become and the plan that God has established For h his child. He says he will be great. He's gonna be the son of the highest. He's gonna have this kingship. He's gonna fulfill the Davidic covenant, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of his kingdom there will be no end. Unlike any other man ever born before, he has this eternal nature that's only associated with God. And lastly, and I'm out your way, um, God confirms his word in uh verse 34. Then Mary Mary said to the angel, How can this be, since I do not know a man? So God proclaims this great and mighty wonder and uh lists off, you know, Mary, you're highly favored, and here's the plan. That I have for you, and here's what I'm gonna do in your life and the life of your son. And Mary stops the angel, just like Zachariah did, and and said, Hold up now, wait a now, I don't know, I don't have a degree in medicology and biology, but I I do know one thing. It takes a man and a woman that they need to come together and know each other as the word says. So how is this gonna happen, God? You know some c sometimes God speaks into our own lives and he tells us great and wondrous things. He gives us promises and he tells us what's gonna happen and we want to stop God and say, But how God? How are you gonna deliver me through this? Don't you see what's happening? Don't you see what's going on? Don't you see what's stacked against me? Don't you know where I come from? Don't you know the family that I'm from? How are you gonna do this, God? And we shouldn't be looking at the how, but trusting in the The who. Because if when we trust in God, we know that He's able to do exactly what He said He could do. Anything that He said He could do, He's gonna do it. But the angel gives her grace. And in verse 35, he he reveals to her how. He says this. And the angel answered, To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.