Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. God's word reads as follows from Psalm 139. O Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know my sitting down and my rising. Up, you understand my thought afar off. You comprehend my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all of my ways. For there is not a word on my tongue, but behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. You have hedged me behind and before, and laid your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high and I cannot attain it. Where can I go from your spirit or where can I flee from your presence? If I ascend into heaven, you are there. And if I make my bed in hell, behold, you are there. And if I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the Uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me and your right hand shall hold me. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we are in need of you this morning. To speak to us. To meet us on the pages of our life, Heavenly Father, that for those who don't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, whose eternality is hanging in the balance, God, I'm praying that you would. Speak a word that would cause their hearts to turn to you today that they may ask, What must I do to be saved? Father, for those that are in need of edification, uh edify the body of Christ today. God, someone is Perhaps confused or perplexed. I pray this word will clear their thought processes about who you are and what you do. Through this morning, and they are in need of a word, Lord, that would comfort them and guide them and affirm to them that nothing has changed. You still have everything in So, Spirit of the Lord, I'm in need of you as I stand to declare your word. Uh I am but a broken vessel that has been uh called out and filled with your spirit, that I might be used for the purpose of your preaching. Lord, use Use me now in the weakness of my flesh, that I might accomplish your will in a way that even you, God, would say, Well done, and be pleased with this occasion. So, Spirit of the Lord, move through this vessel of clay, through the airways, the Bible. Name of Jesus who is the Christ I pray. Amen. And amen. Catherine, this week has been to say the least, a an extraordinarily challenging week for me. And amidst All of my challenges and all of my struggles throughout this week, God has made me keenly sensitive to the anxiety that the members Of Ketteran Baptist Church, the kingdom of God and the world is wrestling with. And as I began to become more sensitive to that, and feel the weight and uh the burden of the anxiety, I I realize that this anxiety like poison is spreading throughout. It's how do I say it's not like uh it's not like the COVID virus where there are some clearly identified uh traits that everyone could see right up front but but if I can say it this way it is uh uh sometimes uh it sneaks up On you or uh it is it is in the fabric of people and yet there are no obvious signs except and unless an explosion or a breakdown takes place. I'm I'm trying y'all pray for me this morning. I'm trying to get there. Um I the the the the the the The poison is is creeping in and creating side effects that we may not know are the side effects of anxiety. Sleepless nights, depression, mild, moderate, and severe, hopelessness, acting out in schools with violence, stabbings, and shootings among little children, heavy drinking, smoking, and even binge eating. Uh gambling and impatience, intolerance, and an uneasiness about each day that we have to face. I don't know how how you feel, but but it it's it's creeping in on us and creating worry about things we have no control over. And in the midst of our worry, Worry, we because we are so intellectual, because we are so superior in our own mind, we begin to work out and dabble in these areas where we have no control over. But yet we dabble in them and we manipulate in them only to cause more anxiety. Because anxiety that is created by that which cannot be free. Fix only grows when you try to fix what you can't fix. This this poison has created a a a a pandemic of stomach aches headaches and nauseous chest pain. Heart attacks amongst folks that ought not be having heart attacks. Heart attacks not only among the 50 and above with overweight, obesity, and poor eating habits, but heart attacks. Among the young, physically fit and well to do folks in the land. I'm I'm trying to help us to understand what's what's permeating our culture and permeating our church and permeating our lives as a poison. That we might not be aware is creating dangerous scenarios in your life. Y'all still here with me? This poison creates this fear. And discomfort. Have you found yourself recently just feeling uneasy? Just you anxious and don't even know why? It's like something's getting ready to happen but you don't know what it is. And you start thinking through your catalog of uh things that are worth worrying about. Stay here with me. I'm I'm coming up your streets sometime today. You you you start flipping through the pages and you check your financial things to see if that's what's causing it. You start thinking about uh mom. And daddy and you know the the senior folks in your life. Let me let me call them and see if everything's all right because I I feel like something's getting ready to happen. And and so you start checking on folks and and and and then you you move from your your finance to to the different people in your lives and and you start thinking well maybe I need to go to the doctor get myself checked out 'cause maybe s maybe something's getting ready to happen to me. Maybe I don't feel like I normally feel There's some kind of pressure on and I'm I'm flipping through and trying to figure out where is this coming from and and and then you know I start thinking about what I'm eating and and how long I'm sleeping, what's going on, what's happening. And the things that you normally were tolerant of, you're no longer tolerant of. And the things that you were usually patient in, you don't have patience for. And the people that you used to be able to with I can't deal with you no more. Right now you better move. I'm only talking to the serious people this morning. My my desire is To as as as as I'm and I'm trying to say this as best I can. Um as I'm feeling this weight and burden of God's people, my my desire is to reach out. Out to you and wrap my arms all around you to hold you close to me and let you cry. on my shoulder and let you let it all come out. My desire, my my what's in me is I wanna I wanna wipe Those tears from your eyes and even those that you through your strength of manhood and your strength of personality won't let come out. I I I wanna I wanna let you know. I I I wanna I wanna hold you in a way that you know that you know the I can give you the proverbial pat on the back and rub of the shoulder to let you know. that everything is gonna be alright. That's what's in my heart. That that's what I really have a desire to do. And but yet I I realize I don't have arms that are long enough. And because physic physically I I can't do that. I've been praying, God, give me a word that through the preaching and declaration of the word. that you put in me, I can wrap your people up in the word. And wipe tears from their faces and and comfort them uh and and let them know that that it shall be be well. It's gonna be alright. I was praying, God, give me, take me to a place in Scripture and that we can we can walk through that and and help heal. The current struggle and anxiety of your people. Now, I'm bearing my heart with you because I want you to know what I'm trying to do. But I realize that that I told you I can't I can't do it. And so I'm leaning on the Lord this morning to through this this word to to reach out to you and hold you. And comfort you and let you let it all out. Y'all still here? I wanna I wanna talk to you uh on this morning from the idea. The antidote for your anxiety. An antidote is a is a remedy or that which counteracts the effects of a poison. And I I think and I'm I'm I'm praying even right now that that this message that God has laid on my heart will serve to remove the effects of the poison of anxiety. This might be hard. This might be a hard message this morning, and so bear with me um this morning because I'm I'm I'm in a in a in a unique kind of way, I I'm trying to hug you through the text. But at the same time, I'm trying to get hugged myself. Um and so as I read through this one hundred and thirty-ninth division of Psalm, I I heard David having a conversation with God where David realizes that the antidote to his anxiety is God. And I'm gonna try to see if I can if I can stay focused. Um David says to God, You have searched me and known me. He says you Lord you are the antidote to my anxiety first of all because you know me stay here he says you you you know my sitting down And my rising up. Lord, you you know when I rest and when I rise. Y you you know when I can't push for word anymore and I need to sit down. You you know when I'm slack and you know when I'm at my best. Yep, y'all still with me? You know every move that I make You you understand. Look look at the look as he keeps building this thing. He says, first of all, you you know me. He but these are the ways you know me. You you know my sitting down and you know my rising up. You understand. My thoughts are far off. You you you pay attention. Um you you compre you are you have the ability to comprehend and uh my thoughts uh The idea when he says afar off, before I even finish putting it together, you already but I I'm I'm thinking, but God, before the thought is complete in my mind, you already Already understand where my thoughts are going. You know me. You you uh you comprehend my path, he says here in the text. You you comprehend my path and my My lying down you Lord you know me you um you have cerebral knowledge of the the places I go and the the places Because the my path is not always a physical path. S sometimes my path is where my mind is traveling. You you you uh God can comprehend my my path and my lying downs. You Um you know you where I am and where I'm laying down. You you even, Lord, have such knowledge of me that you know what I dream about when I'm laying down. I don't even know what I'm gonna dream about tonight, but Lord, you know me so well um that you know what dreams are gonna come. Based on this anxiety, I'm working with. Stay with me, guys. I'm I'm struggling here. Um it, God, you know me. And you're acquainted with my ways. You um you you you know how I am. You you you know God, my my my good side and my bad side. Lord, can we just be for real for real? Lord, you know when I when I when I just can't take it and I'm gonna tell somebody all And you know when I'm gonna be patient and bite my lip. Lord, you you are acquainted with my ways, you know my ways such such uh intimately, Lord, you know my ways. That even you even know God if I'm a nasty person. You know if I'm a vengeful person. You Lord, you know my ways. You know everything about me. You know you're familiar with how I behave. Behave and how I am. And my my my new behavior to a friend is not new to you. Y'all know how sometimes your friend only knows you one way and then all of a sudden they catch. you on a bad day and they like what I know you talk like that. You know it's kinda like the pastor catch you in the grocery store cussing. You know, and I thought you was like the best m member I had. I would be surprised, but the Lord said I already know her ways. That's just how that's how he is. That's how she got He said I know your ways. He's acquainted with our ways. You you know every word. that I speak and uh before it let me let me read this he says you're acquainted um with my all of my ways for there is not a word on my tongue but behold Lord you You know it all together. You know every word that comes off my mouth. You you know me so well. You you know the good things I say and the bad things, you know everything. You you you even know my conversations that I have that no one else knows about. You know me. I'm uh why Pastor w wh why are you spending time here? Because watch this. The fact that That he knows me and he knows you this well. Stay here with me. Helps me to understand that he knows when I'm off. Ya y'all know what I'm talking about? Um now you you might have some good friends, you might have a husband, a wife, you might have children, and they y you you're so good at covering up. And making up and pretending and articulating that everything is alright. But the reality is only someone who knows you like this knows when you're really. off. Watch this, watch. So God, you you you know me and you you're you're you're the antidote for my antidote. Anxiety, because you know all of my symptoms, but you know my person so well that you even know how my person has changed, altered, or di diverted from his normal. Normal pattern. You know me, God, and so you're the perfect antidote for my anxiety because I can't fool you. I can't say Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. Everything alright. To you. I I can't Mac it up, Maybelline it up, suit it up boots. It up. I can't cover it up with you. I can do that with my church members. I can do that with my family. I can do that with my friends, but God, I can't do that with you. You know when I'm off. You know when I'm not myself. And so you can see how the anxieties poison is impacting me because you know me. And we're looking in on David's conversation, but this conversation can be our conversation. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web Please visit our website at kettering ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get. At your podcasts.