We we teach our kids the values that matter most. For instance, if I'm a professional pitching coach for the Angels or for any team, and I go out on an important game and I go out to the pitcher on the mountain and I say to the pitcher, what Whatever you do, don't throw a curveball. Because they are different from many of the dysfunctional relationships all around us. This study kit is great for individual, small group, and even a whole church study. That's comparing. You're gonna need some covering. We have to help each other, we protect each other, families stick together, families are a ringcoat. Pastor Rick Warren wants you to have the Awesome Relationships DVD Study Kit. Billy Hope Ministries. Why I don't use it on you. Don't keep telling them everything they're doing wrong. On their talent, they've got a vocal coach. Rick Warren. In your family. Voices behind the song. be up against and none of them are true. With, we need to get here by this time and get back to here by this time. with your kids about the Bible. Criticism, not to criticizing. And while you're there, be sure to sign up for his free daily email devotional. partnerships. This is why Pastor Rick Warren wants you to have the Awesome Relationships DVD Study Kit. It says specifically to dad, says, Dad, don't be so hard on your kids. kids, why can't you be more like your brother? It doesn't work. Wait a minute, I thought pride was a sin. Okay, don't forget your booties. You're wrong. on both the good and the bad, those who are trying to do the right thing and those who couldn't care less. Raincoat in the storms of life. Three storms, write these down. Hundreds of times on Friday night, as it said, because they take care of me. Go to Pastorick. Here's Pastor Rick with a closing thought. Is your backstage pass. Familiar with that. And get started. Personally, now he's bringing you their stories. Counseling when you've gone through a major change in life. by that ad. The man. did this in teaching the disciples. is very specific and it says this to parents. a sermon, they want to see it. breakfast. why most families are not awesome. That are important. Grow. family, you're gonna have an average family. It is totally ineffective in helping a person change. pastorick. To be more than just fair, average, good, or even great. just email me and I'll send you the link to sign up. Change it. love you because I love what God is doing through you. Because they take good care of me. me and kind to me and always understand me. Life. It throws my wheels completely out of align, and I have to take my car in to get it realigned because of the change I just went through. Study, and it's yours today when you support Pastor Rick's Daily Hope with a financial gift. You'll find this message and others along with more helpful resources. Relationships all around us. Go get some counsel to help you work through that change Now in just a few minutes, we're going to tell you how you can take all of your relationships to a level you never dreamed possible with the Awesome Relationships DVD Study Kit. to 99000 to find out more. your character. that. Service. You're playing at bedtime and first thing in the morning, the four teachable moments. of the right thing to do, I gave him a picture of the wrong thing to do, and I told him to focus on the wrong thing, and that's gonna pretty much guarantee he's not gonna do the right thing. Call 800-600-5004 or go to pasterick. Thanks so much. So why are you so critical? in life. is unique in so many ways in so many areas in giving and commitment in in love and in in just the things the impact that we make and I'm I am proud justifiably proud of you and there's nothing wrong wrong with that. They're always so kind and generous and they always think of me. like them. When you go through the changes of life and you hit a bump, go get some counsel. Of television viewing, and they have seen thousands and thousands of murders by the time they're 18 years old. ideas. Daily Hope app. in your family. We didn't have time for, or if you'd like to sign up for Rick's free Daily Hope email devotional, just go to pastorick. average, good, or even great. You can find out more right now by going to pastorick. Right now, here's Pastor Rick with part three of a message called Fighting for an Awesome Family. They're pushy, they're primadonna's, they don't know that manners make the man. example and through conversation. or anybody else they go yeah you're right criticizing just labels people it reinforces the negative it does not work We don't help people grow this way, not through comparing. Because they're my family, that's why. counseling when you've gone through a major change in life. and partnerships. ideas. In it, Pastor Rick Warren will show you how to take your relationships with family, friends, co-workers, and even God from average to awesome. When you are at home, when you are out for a walk, third time is at bedtime, and the f and then number four, the first thing in the morning. I can't please my mom. Okay. And neither are you. And the Bible tells us not to compare. It's unfair and it's lethal to any relationship. change. You got somebody on the outside who's giving you counsel. and becoming best friends with God. If you're not having conversations with your kids about real issues, they're not growing. The moment you start comparing yourself, but I did better than that guy, now it's it's fallen into sin. Hello, and thanks for joining us here on Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. about the real issue of character. Two ways that help people grow. You must teach God's commandments to your children and talk about them. It has never ever ever worked. Through all your incessant criticizing, they never measure up. Now let me give you a third symbol of an awesome family. Two are better than one. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. physical storms like illnesses, relational storms like conflict. When you criticize a child or your wife or your husband or anybody else, they go, Yeah, you're right. You're wrong. You like having a mom and dad? It's like a big bump in the road. How do you help mom grow? Each person should judge his own actions. Let me show you a verse. But at least they were learning to spot what most kids and even adults accept without question. It's an act of service. Every member of your family is going to go through storms, emotional storms, financial storms, moral storms. Sometimes mom is going through a storm. Any person who's smart gets coaching. Hi, Don Crow here for Passport Auto Group, a family-owned business with a stellar reputation for superior Andy Christman a four-him has spent forty plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist person. When you've gone through a major change, it's good to get some advice from the outside. Said my dad tells me that all the time. You have to promote the positive alternative. It's lethal. It's just too bad because there's no one there to help him up. To get the app for an Android device, visit the Google Play Store and search for Daily Hope with Rick Warren. Be sure to join us again next time as we look into God's Word for our Daily Hope. He's saying these are the teachable moments of your family. Topics include fighting for an awesome marriage, fighting for an awesome family, fighting for awesome friendships, and becoming best friends with God. And I could get up here every week and tell you everything you're doing wrong. Making them angry and resentful. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. You're listening to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. It's a storm of life. Many children, listen to me, many children are provided for, but they are not protected. com if you've been listening to the broadcast for a while you know that rick is always saying that god wants your relationships This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. So you take pride in yourself for man, I did uh with the gifts God gave me, I did the best I could. Awesome families protect each other because in a storm you need support. And uh I'll give you the number one answer in a minute, but watch some of the answers that they gave. When you've gone through a major change, it's good to get some advice from the outside. In one of the interviews I did at Blocktober, one little kid said, I said, what did you learn from your family? Hi everybody, it's Pastor Rick Warren with some big news. What's wrong is if I say we're better than another church. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Our app is a convenient way to get your daily dose of daily hope. Ah, lust of flesh. At home, when you're relaxing, when you're on vacation, when you're having a walk, you need to do it at bedtime conversations, you need to do breakfast conversations. And it's a raincoat. I have to have a family to take care of me. Video topics include fighting for an awesome marriage, fighting for an awesome family, fighting for awesome friendship. And they've seen sex portrayed in the wrong way. com to get yours right now. Why? And that's what it's all about. And so it doesn't work judging, criticizing, demeaning it it isn't it didn't work on you. When the rains and the thunder and the lightning and the snow and the hail come, you need a raincoat. That we need to care for each other in our family. All around our little kids are being bombarded with harmful ideas. I just give up. There's a good kind of pride and there's a bad kind of pride. The Bible says bad things happen to good people, bad things happen to bad people. And I would we would stand in front of the TV and watch commercials and I would pay them a nickel for the one who could figure out which value it was being promoted. Why are you so rough? Look up here on the screen. Every professional out uh athlete has a personal coach. Healthy relationships aren't automatic or easy, but they are worth fighting for. I could get up here every week and say, okay, let's talk about your sins this week. Okay. Because everybody's unique, everybody's different. Yeah, I like them. How do you help dad grow? Since I have washed your feet, you ought to wash each other's feet. They want to see it in your life. Comparing never, never works. What does that verse mean? They are super kind to me, they take care of me and they just are wonderful. You're just going down the road smoothly, and all of a sudden a major change happens, boom, and it throws your car out of line. He wants your relationships to be awesome. Number one, we grow through example. John 13, he says, since I have washed your feet, which was a a model of humility and servitude Just stop doing the Bible says over and over again you should never compare. On Andy Christmas. Why can't you be more like your mom? And we need a family to be around them when there's a a major or even a minor change. Hey everybody, I've got some really big news I'm going to tell you about. So by example and by conversations are the two ways we help each other grow. Manners make the man. Let me tell you two ways that don't work, and it's the ones we all use. What is a raincoat for? And if one of them falls down, the other can help him up. That makes them angry and bitter. I have a justifiable, legitimate pride in you. Because they're always so nice to me? This DVD study kit is great for individual, small group, or even whole church Boom. Talk about them. My email is rick at pastorick. Instead, bring them up with the loving training and teaching of the Lord. Why do kids love their families? Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts And so let me just show you how lazy I can be. All the 500 ministries in the community. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. And the fifth thing we learn from our families is good habits. Why are you so tough on your kids? So, not through criticism. I love my family because they're always looking out for me. That's 800-600-5004. How do you help brother and sister grow? You should never compare your wife to anybody else. Uh because they're very nice. Now, if one of the marks of uh of um an awesome family is that we help each other grow, how do you do that? Let me be the judge of my own actions and not compare himself with others. Um so much because they're wonderful. That's called repentance. Okay? Counseling is a good thing. Here's a nickel. And conversations are about schedule, eating, or homework. It means good things and bad things come into everybody's life, whether you're doing it right or doing it wrong. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. Counseling is a good thing. The Bible says in Matthew 5. com while you listen to today's message. That's pastorick. I thought, whoa. And second way we help people grow is through conversations. There's more great teaching coming up. Once again, here's Rick. In the storms of life, you need other people to help you get through that tough time. We think that being critical of someone will actually help them Why? What have I just planted in his mind? We talked about last week. You must teach God's commandment. My Daily Hope devotionals are now available in Korean. Write this down. Every professional singer has a voice vocal coach. Sometimes dad is going through a storm. Sometimes you need a family coach. Then it gives us four places to do this. Most families aren't awesome. You drive them to resentment. Now I realized that was materialism. A raincoat is for protection. Nagging doesn't work. It doesn't work. There's nobody in the world like you. They've seen life portrayed in the wrong way. And if you'd like to let Rick know how this broadcast has touched your life, you can email him at Rick at Because when you criticize, you're focusing on what you don't want rather than what you do want. Healthy relationships aren't automatic or easy, but they are worth fighting for Why want them to be tough? The good kind of pride is: hey, I did the best I could with what I had, I'm proud of what I did. That's a great question. Why can't you be more like your dad? It's not a shameful thing. How do you help your nephews grow and nieces grow? com to get your copy. Now, if you've been listening to this broadcast for a while, you know that Rick is always saying that God wants your relationships to be more than just fair. This four-video series and workbook will give you the tools you need to build an awesome marriage and family, along with awesome friendship. Look at what the Bible says, Ephesians 6:4 to parents. And anybody can go through these storms. Because I love them. It's not a shameful thing. Here's Pastor Rick Warren. He wants your relationships to be awesome. Change your mind. The most vulnerable people in the world are orphans. Does that make sense? That's dumb for a dad to do. And the third symbol of an awesome family is a raincoat. I know CEOs who don't know that. And when you go through a storm, you're going to need some protection. Awesome relationships cause the world to stand up and take notice because they're different from many of the dysfunctional relationships. com or just text the word daily to 99000. Circle that talk about them. And it's yours today when you support Pastor Rick's Daily Hope with a financial gift Well today we continue with our series called Awesome Relationships. And at some point, when it's criticism, criticism, criticism, the kid just goes, okay, I give up. 45, Jesus said this. Because they're really fun and I love to hang out with them. If you'd like a copy of today's message, including portion You're not making them tough, you're making them a failure. You start comparing your wife to somebody else, you're you're headed for divorce court. You can't go through life without storms because it rains. Awesome families protect each other Call 800-600-5004 or I'm going, that little kid knows more than that CEO does They're just average. If you'd like to connect with Rick, just go to PastorRick. When you criticize a child or your wife or your husband. What? You should never compare your husband to anybody else. All the things we're doing around the world. I love my family because they take care of me. Our Daily Hope app has been completely redesigned and it's available now. Through example. When you're at home, when you're out for a walk, in other words you're you're relaxing, recreation time, you're fishing. com. Let me show you how late I can be. This four-video series and workbook will give you the tools to build an awesome marriage and family, along with awesome friendships and So you are incomparable. Let me show you one verse. It's not a bad thing. We grow through conversations. It's not a bad thing. I highly recommend when you go through uh the changes of life and you hit a bump. I've given you an example to follow. Write these down. That's 800-600-5004 or pasterick. And when you do it, it it's unhelpful. I asked uh the kids, why do you love your family so much? If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. That's rick at pastorick. But if someone is alone and falls, it's just too bad. Or you can just text the word daily. Now, friends, this is what God tells us to do, and this is Number one, you know what you're doing wrong and me telling you it about it doesn't isn't gonna change. Anytime you compare anybody to anybody else, you've made a major mistake. You're not a freak, you're not a nut, you're just getting coaching. I'll tell you why, because I'm not them. The number one answer, I mean I heard it hundreds. When you are at home, you might circle these four things. Or just go to PastorIck. Condemning doesn't work. Get a third perspective to help you work through that change. It says, don't keep demeaning them. It rains on both the good and the bad, because we're in a broken world. And no matter which of our family members going through the storm, we have I highly recommend. Good habits. A picture of a curveball. Every one of my sermons are preaching for repentance. You remember these? They are so faithful to me Mom can go through these storms. Because they do my favorite things. And if you are a CEO of one of the biggest corporations in the world, you've got an executive coach. I want you to get this app today. This program is sponsored by Pastor Rick's Daily Hope and your generous finance. Criticizing just labels people, it reinforces the negative. Well the moment I compare, the pride becomes sin. Now if I'm driving down the road and I hit a pothole They've been given all kinds of violent, harmful, and hurtful That'll be a four-hour sermon. By the time a child gets to be 18 years old, they have amassed 18,000 hours That's not an option. That means conversations. I feel pretty good about that. And the reason they're average is because they don't do what God says. Galatians 6. And if they're playing video games, it's tens of thousands And it's a good investment You know, when my kids were little, I taught them these three values. That's why I highly recommend you get And it's a good investment in Ecclesiastes 4. Not through criticism. So don't don't compare. Now the official Daily Hope app has our yellow and blue sunburst logo. He said that manners make the And no conversations about the stuff that really matters in life. I like that I am mom and dad Well let me give you two ways that help people grow and two ways that don't. Not to criticize it. Families are meant to be a raincoat com. Let me show you how irresponsible I can be. I love Saddleback Church and I love You remember your cute little booties with them? For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Jesus Critical conversations. You can help your wife, your husband grow through by Kids need to be cared for, particularly in the storms of life. Habits are determined Dad can go. They're w are they super wonderful? I don't know exactly. Unfortunately, most conversations we have with kids have to do with 4. You should never compare your lawn or your house, your job to anybody else. This church That's pastorick. Awesome relationships cause the world to stand up and take notice You can take pride in a job well done. They don't just depend on They're mean, they're rude, they're bossy. So if you know somebody who would like to enjoy reading these daily devotionals in Korean Criticizing and complaining doesn't work. Don't keep criticizing them. By the way, it doesn't work in preaching either. And kids instinctively know I couldn't take care of myself com. So download the app now. Now he's bringing you their stories. All right. 9 says this. Number one is change. You're to have conversations with God's com Another verse in the Bible, Colossians chapter 3. I didn't give him a picture So next time you think you got a problem, say, well, God must be punishing me. And change can be upsetting, particularly to kids. Don't keep on scolding and nagging your children. That's Pastorick. Do as I've done to you. And then there's another one that we use, and this one doesn't work either. The One Degree of Andy podcast. com and click on his social media links. Repentance doesn't mean stop doing bad, it means start doing good. You just love them? I highly recommend you get Now You don't want to miss a second of this relationship building series. Yes, because they're really funny and weird. com with two R's in the middle God says you need to talk about the things I can't please my dad. I'll show you. The bad kind of pride is I'm better than so-and-so over there. Sometimes a child is going through a storm. Then he could be proud for what he himself has done. Don't keep judging them. And when you go through life, you're gonna go through storms. I'm Andy Christman. com. We learn best by example. com with two R's in the middle. He said, if you're not doing this, you're never gonna have an awesome family. You think they're lovable? Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Another storm of life, what I call harmful. I said, these are the three values you're gonna It does not work. Change is a storm in Thanks so much. This applies in every area of life That's a great question. You certainly should never compare your In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. I want you to get this Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 7. Kids don't like Your kids don't want to hear You're familiar with Uh-huh. Now let me give you three If you love Christian music, this is You're done