Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III And you have come to see the nakedness of the land. He'll take care of that. You would never get to where you're supposed to be. Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the Spirit of Excellence Voices behind the song. And then Joseph remembered the dreams which he had dreamed about them and said to them, You are spies and you would not listen. And Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph. And Joseph said to his brothers, please come near me. The thing that comes to Joseph's mind is what God had shown him. To bless you up and to take you up, but when you step outside of that to try to get it on your own, then you're taking matters into your own hand and you're gonna mess up what God has set up. Um conceal your identity, uh control the narrative, finally confess the purpose of your position. So they came near and he said, I am Joseph, your brother, whom you sold into Egypt. And what did they do? Verse 45, 7. For your prosperity, I've been put in this spot to save you alive. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Joseph saw his brothers and recognized them, but he acted as a stranger to them and spoke roughly to them This morning we want to invite your attention to Genesis chapter 42. Why do you look at one another? Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. and we would not hear. And then he turned to them again and talked with them, and he took Simeon from them and bound him before their eyes. But now do not therefore be grieved or angry with yourselves, because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve your life. And God sent me before you to preserve the posterity for you in the earth and to save your lives by great deliverance. Father in heaven, we need you on this morning that you might open up our eyes and our understanding to this word and speak to us individually and collectively. Preach your word. And so right now, have your way, Jesus, and overflow in this place. As we look at Joseph and see what we can learn from Joseph that he does when he ascends to his ordained position, first of all, is as Joseph is interacting with his brothers, he's got promoted to this position that is Notice that Joseph does in the text is that he conceals his identity. They did not know that Joseph understood them. And Joseph is listening in, and they're having this little argument. What's next is that Joseph not only conceals his identity, but Joseph controls the narrative of his story There's some people right now that are in bad places in bad positions because revenge took over the narrative of their life Trust me, God is going to take care of anybody who has stepped against you. scenario. Can I help somebody right here? This whole narrative how things play out because he wants his brother Benjamin to be brought to him. One more thing. And so he controls the narrative of the story and how these things play themselves out. When you step sideways in your ordained position, you are going to mess up what God has set up. So it's got his brothers all before him and and they stood there and and he started to cry. Um you you fired me, but God promoted me. They didn't care about him. of Joseph were his brothers and they were mad at him because they said, Ain't no way we ever gonna bow to you. I need you to understand something about where I am. voices behind the songs. Put in position so that I can share the word of God so that you can see the person of God being lived out in me. to go to hell. that we may live and not die. with his brothers, for he said, Lest some calamity befall him. Then he said to them, Where do you come from? If you are honest men, Joseph says, let one of your brothers be confined to your prison house, but you go and carry the grain for the famine of your house And bring your youngest brother to me, so that your words will be verified, and you shall not die. For these two years the famine has been in the land, and there are still five years in which there will still there will be neither plowing nor harvesting. Make every one go out from me. drifted in their fellowship to be restored and renewed today because your favor is with them. That is in Genesis 37 as well. I want to talk to you in this last and final part of the series of messages, what's next, from the subject matter, what's next after you ascend to your ordained position. Second only to Pharaoh in Egypt. All of a sudden they they uppity they don't know nobody. Declared it would according to the dream that Fero had, and now his brothers who are in Canaan they're starving in Because they don't want you to know that when they got to this position that they didn't grow up on the s right sides of the track. Joseph is going to conceal his identity so that he can get more information from them about his family. And so, what Joseph does to conceal his identity, there in uh chapter 42, I believe it is, verse 7, it says, Joseph saw his brothers, recognized them, but he acted like a stranger. to them and spoke roughly to them as if he had no idea who they were. They didn't know that Joseph understood them, for he spoke to them through an interpreter. And uh he took Simeon away and bound up Simeon and and he's um not letting him know who he is. When you get promoted to or you ascend to your position where God has ordained for you to be, sometimes you gotta conceal your identity so you can hear and find out what's really going on. Most often when we find ourselves in our ordained positions with power like Joseph has, then our enemy comes, and our enemy now needs us. Was in his sack, and when they and their father saw the bundles of money that were there, they were afraid. He remembers what God said. Because remember, they don't even know who he is. That is ordained by God. People's rejection of you is God's promotion of you. into the house. Look at chapter 43, verse number 26. Look look at verse 28. And they bowed their faces or their heads down and prostrated themselves I'm in this position so I can save your life and the life of your posterity. By a great deliverance. God had already ordained my end. here so that I can do what God ordained for me to do so I can save your posterity so I can make sure that you had life. That I've ascended and that he ascended to his ordained position. Thank you for your blessed Holy Spirit. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Speak to your people today and have your own way to the overflow in Jesus' name Your servants are not spies. Skip over to chapter 45. A word, God, that may draw someone out of the darkness and into the marvelous light. And in your likeness. Next, we saw Joseph being faithful to God, and we spoke there from the idea what's next when you resist temptation in Genesis 39. Many of us have watched this scenario play itself out. And so when they go to buy grain, they have to buy grain from Joseph. What often happens right about here is that it's not us that controls the narrative, it's our anger and our revenge that controls the narrative. And to restore every man's money to his sack, and to give them provisions for the journey, thus he did for them. Joseph is controlling the narrative. And now he speaks their language. Sending me ahead so I could save you. God, he meant it for good. Now Joseph was governor over the land, and it was he who sold to all the people of the land, and Joseph's brothers came and bowed down before him with their faces to the earth. They said to one another, we are truly guilty concerning our brother, for we saw the anguish of his soul when he pleaded with us. And last when we were together, we talked from the idea what's next when the Lord is with you. We learn that even though the Lord is with you, you can still be forgotten by men when the Lord is with you. Through his favor to the second highest position in all of Egypt. And Pastor, you m and I know you're saying, well, maybe they weren't supposed to be there. An accused rapist who has served time in prison. They're still your brother. And he's crying so loud, the text says that even all the Egyptians could hear him. Does my father still live? And can you imagine being one of the brothers right about now? Joseph begins to confess his purpose. If they're drifting, cause them to rededicate their lives today to you. six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Amen. From the beginning, part one, we talked about what's next when you're the favorite child. And so his father says, why y'all sitting around looking at each other, starving to death? uh about his brothers, he does not remember the things they did to him. They was mad about that thing. And it was he who sold all the people of the land, the grain. Joseph conceals his identity for this purpose of getting to know more about his family, what's going on. He blesses them. By doing good to those who have done him evil. Look over at chapter 45 with me. Do not therefore be grieved or angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God sent me here before you Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Joseph takes his um his his accusation, he says you're spies, but he's using that further to find out what's happening with his family, and he's he's trying to control And then Joseph says, well, if you guys are honest, um leave Simeon here. You don't need to do nothing. He gets emotional, he starts to cry, he can't contain himself, he throws everybody else out, he says, everybody get out. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Verse 35. But his brothers they could not answer him, for they were dismayed in his presence. You don't Lord have mercy. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. And what they do? Look at chapter 44, verse 14. You sold me. They hated him. And God, I pray that you would stand up in me, that the people will hear you and not me. And they fell before him on the ground. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Therefore, behold, his blood is now required of us. And they answered, Your servant our father is in good health. God sent me before you to preserve and a posterity for you in the earth and to save your lives. Therefore this distress has come upon us. The Lord said, vengeance is mine. In Jesus' name I pray. But watch this. And it happened as they emptied their sacks that surprisingly each man's bundle of money. Matter of fact, when he was having all them dreams and stuff, they wanted to kill him for his dreams because they were like this. But watch this. And they said to him, No, my lord, but your servants have come to buy food. And so no one stood with him while Joseph made himself known to his brothers. You didn't like me. So they're talking about the wrong they did to him. You need to walk in the ways of God so that the plan of God can be fulfilled according to the narrative that God has ordained to take place. So there's a few things going through your mind. And bow down before him to the earth. Then Joseph could not restrain himself before all those who stood by him. We move from Genesis 37 to Genesis 39, and we spoke from the idea what's next when plans change. And so Joseph keeps on controlling the narrative. He's controlling the narrative. Last thing I want to say and I'm out your way is you you need to conceal your identity. Remember he was trying to get to the purpose. You'll know that there is a God. Now you need to understand Joseph is not an Egyptian. Lord, have mercy. And he said, Indeed, I have heard that there is grain in Egypt. If you jump over to verse 19 of that same chapter, chapter 42, verse 19, want to pick up and just read a few verses there. Look at chapter 42, verse 6. You control your own narrative. God of mercy. They're still your sister. And so Joseph tells his brothers, look, y'all, I know y'all probably concerned about this. You didn't care about me. Does not my father still live? Now, God, speak. So Joseph's ten brothers went down to buy grain in Egypt, but Jacob did not send Joseph's brother Benjamin So they came near. Joseph he he he got his brothers there and um this is after he had given them the silver cup and they brought him back and he got them all there and he's he gets emotional again So Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, and he was still there. And they said, From the land of Canaan to buy food. And you might not like the fact that God saved me, that God has lifted me up and put me in this spot. And he said, I told you we shouldn't have done this. It was really God sending me. We've witnessed it in many of people's lives. Because right up until now, he's never spoken in their lit their language. Sometimes you need to just tell your enemy, thank you for what you did to me. That's how he concealed himself. The whole process, he's controlling it. Some of them get lazy. God has put me in this position for a reason. And so when watch what when you get in the position where God has ordained you to be, you need to remember what God said and not what people did. What else did we say in his presence? It works, y'all. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Amen. No, because all promotion comes from God. He's trying to get to find out what's going on with his family. You were mad about my coach. And the sons of Israel went to buy grain among those who uh journeyed, for the famine was in the land of Canaan. And then he said, I am Joseph, your brother, whom you sold into Egypt. I will repay. You'll know that there is hope when there's the midst of a pandemic. Sometimes God's got to cause folk to reject you so He can propel you into your ordained position. Now y'all need to hear this because see the enemies That's a great question. They're still your biological brother or sister. I hear Jesus. And Reuben answered them, saying, Did not I speak to you, saying, Do not sin against the boy? But they did not know that Joseph understood them, for he spoke to them through an interpreter, and he turned himself away from them and wept. That's a great question. And so what he does, he he says to them, You guys are spies, and they they deny it and all that. He said, Look, God, this thing is coming back on us. He wept aloud. The word of the Lord reads like this, beginning at verse 1. It works. He calms his brother's fears by confessing the purpose of his position. You can't get nothing out of them because somehow they feel like they've arrived. I heard that there is grain in Egypt. That's what Joseph does in the text. And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which was in their hand. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome But his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed in his presence. Break us if you have to, but make us in your image. As we've been on this journey, this series of messages, what's next, is taking us from walking through Joseph's life. Go get Benjamin, and then when you come back, I'll know y'all were telling the truth. Listen to verse 25. It works. Lord have mercy. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web Um because guess what? But look at God. Man, we should have never done that. Now Joseph was governor over the land. Watch this by blessing those who have hurt him. Joseph was a slave that was sold into Egypt. Does my father still live? And many of us can say, you know what, I've watched some folk get promoted and I've watched some people ascend into these positions and some of them get cocky. Verse 2 says, The Egyptians all throughout the house of Pharaoh could hear him. You don't have to do nothing. And if you are the favorite child of God. I'm trying to talk to you. But I need you to know something. Draw men, women, boys, and girls. org or contact our church office at 301 If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. God, speak a word that would cause someone who has wavered in their faith. Stay here. That's the second time He is still alive If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Some people conceal their identity. And Joseph says to his brothers, please come here, come near me. See, see, so see, sometimes you need to understand that And they did so. Joseph has his haters in his hand. And we learn that when the Lord is with you, there is favor that comes with the Lord's presence. Lord, have mercy. They didn't understand. Go down to that place and buy for us there. And the famine hits the land just as Joseph But now Joseph says But the second thing that I love about what happens in this progression of Joseph's Why are you in this spot Right? And so Joseph recognized his brothers, but they did not recognize him. Father, in the name of Jesus, I am standing need of you, God, that you would allow for clarity of thought and speech as I would When Joseph reflects, he sees his brothers. They're still your spiritual brother or sister And he wept aloud, and the Egyptians of the house of Pharaoh heard it. That was in Genesis 37. And even though you didn't think you were going to bow, you've already bowed down before me four times. Father in heaven, thank you for your word today. And then I like what this Ruben said. He's been speaking through interpreters. I hear Jesus saying that's why I came. So if they're in that spot, it was an ordained position for them to be in. You just keep on being a favorite child and God will take care of your haters. It works And he's now there with his brothers alone. And secondly, they can't believe that this is the brother. It's okay, it's okay um um brother, brother, sister who who did wrong. Lord have mercy Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. So now that Joseph has ascended into his ordained position, the first thing we He got this whole plan, he's working out. If you have ascended to a place If they're in need of a church home, God draw them to where they need to be. We are all one man's sons, we are honest men. Father, we stand in awesome need of you today. I spoke to you. Verse 25. Y'all still here with me? And God has set up What's next after you ascend to your ordained position? They didn't see his purpose. Joseph's brothers came, they bowed down before him with their faces to the earth. He has promoted him Joseph remembers the dreams. Not what they did to me. Joseph, you think we're gonna ever bow to you? You'll know what it looks like to stand strong when everybody falls around you. Uh it says that As much as they did you wrong When Jacob saw that there was grain in Egypt, Jacob said to his sons, Y'all go down there and buy some grain m. Don't do this, don't sin against that boy. You had a plan, but Then Joseph gave a command to fill their sacks with grain. You probably think I'm gonna take your head off, but I y'all are the ones that sold me, but you need to understand God was And he cried out. at the Legacy Center. Now he's bringing you their stories. And now, Pastor Sterling. That his favor prevails no matter what you have to go through. Part two, we talked about what's next when you serve your haters. I know you meant it for evil, but Now he's bringing you their stories. I was put in this spot. I told y'all, you shouldn't have never done that to that boy If they're unsaved, God save them by your grace. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. The One Degree of Andy podcast. And they say, no, we honest men and all that. The One Degree of Andy podcast. And then Joseph says to his brothers, I am Joseph. I was A word, God, that would change our life today. Instead of him crushing them. What we reap now, we're getting ready to sow Because see, it was a time when we needed them, but now they need us. I'm Andy Christman. Lord, help me here There's some folk in prison this morning because anger took over. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a So when judgment comes, you don't have to Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Trust me, I know this for a fact They go through whole all that Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. For whatever position God has put you in, I've been put I'm thankful today. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Um it's okay. For if you had stayed where you were. I've been put in this spot