Some of them didn't qualify because they was too heavy, some was too thin, some you just didn't like the way their mouth was, or something about them just didn't jive with you. But because of the blood, he paid for it and washed it away so that there's no evidence of sin. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. at Kettering Ministries dot org. To accomplish your holy and divine will, now have your way, Jesus. Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. Voices behind the song. Whom God set forth as a propitiation by his blood through faith to demonstrate his righteousness, because in his forbearance God passed over the sins that were previously previously committed. Father, it's my prayer that anyone who's drifted in fellowship from you, who's walked away, whose whose back has been turned, Lord, I pray you would draw them today back to you, to cause them to realize you do desire to have a relationship with them. And even as I stand to declare your word, God, give me clarity of thought and speech that I might be able to articulate what you've laid in my heart for this day, for this message. In our fourth session, we were in 2 Samuel chapter 13 and Matthew chapter 6, and we talked there from the idea of trauma scars and forgiveness. From the idea, the will of the Lord for children and parents. You're gonna go back and still have the same problems and you would have just wasted seven weeks and all those copayes And they keep saying, okay, fifty minutes, time's up. Some people just didn't qualify because you had a list of things that would either qualify them or disqualify them from being able to have a relationship with you When God first created man, he created man to have a in a holy and personal relationship with him. To have fellowship and communion and a relationship with His holiness. He sent his own son, and that's what he did, wrapped himself up in flesh, was born into the world, so that he could make it possible so we can have a relationship with him. But it comes only through Jesus Christ. So he loved us and so he extended grace to us. where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Voices behind the song. in its entirety. to demonstrate at the present time his righteousness that he might be just and the justifier of the one to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in you. And that you have already forgiven them of whatever it was that brought the riff between them. We move from there in the second week to the subject conflict resolution in Acts chapter 15. We were encouraged in week five in Ephesians chapter five to walk in love. The filling of the Holy Spirit. If you leave the session and say that was a good session, but you don't apply any of the plan, then you're going to still find yourself in the same mess that you were when you went into the therapy session. If I can get that relationship with God right, it will empower me to improve on and get my relationships with people right. Because a lot of the strength of our relationship with God is laid out very comprehensively, very detailed in the book of Romans. And so I've got I'll just be kind of walking through some different verses and pulling in some things and so it's gonna be a little bit different than you typically than I typically would present, but I want you to see how God has already set everything in place He's already thought about the challenges. I'm examining the Jew and I'm examining the Greek, the Gentile, the Greek. His list is holiness and anything other than holiness does not qualify to have a relationship with him We deserve that death, which is eternal separation from God. And you'll sin. And pays for the cost of all of our sin. please visit our website at kettering ministries. And covering our sin was he escalated us from unholiness and wretchedness and wickedness to righteousness. There was nothing that qualified us to be recipients of his favor to cleanse us of our sin except his love for us. Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus Who has faith in Jesus? Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. But now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells in me. But if the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ from the dead will also give life That we might change our ways, that we might reform our actions so that we can begin to look like you and act like you. For this time that we have together. Number seven is a good number, number of completion. And then finally we were uh encouraged there and instructed there that parents are to obey I would encourage you because they are you know historically stored, you can go back to YouTube or Facebook to the website, you can go back and watch them or watch them if you haven't watched them, but I would encourage you to to watch them all. And so for the therapy to be effective, we need all the sessions. to implement or a plan or strategy to implement to help you manage or deal with the challenges that you had when you came into the session to your situations and specifically here to your relationships that you have. scripture over and over and over again, God has helped us to understand how we can improve upon those relationships. In order for the other relationships to fall in line. Turn our attention to what I would say is the primary and focal relationship that is absolutely necessary. Are y'all still here? to empower you so that you can stand and navigate those challenges with the tools and the insights that you've gained and gleaned in counseling. For later times when challenges come up that they get out of your hand. Stood on nothing and spoke everything into existence. and fall short of the glory of God. So some people did not qualify because they were too short. Yolis. And so we were separated from God. Doing it fast. Y'all still here with me? We have peace with God. If God puts you under a microscope and he broke out the SVU or whatever the program is, if he broke out the laboratory experimental stuff, semblance or or inference of sin on you because of the blood there will be no evidence of sin High school queen and king of the homecoming. Y'all know those the people that was at the top. being saved because we were saved by the grace of God when we didn't even deserve it. that I do not practice, but what I hate that I do. Is spiritual, but I am carnal, sold under sin. That they might step forward today and desire to enter into a relationship with you. Well, Ketterin, we have been on a long journey of therapy sessions, preaching through a series of messages entitled Relationship Therapy. And then in the third week, Genesis 25 and Genesis 27, speaking from the ideas of family drama and parenting problems. the Lord by not provoking their children to anger or to discouragement. Should be working along the process of time to be equipping you so that you can survive on your own. Is supreme and superior and above everything, and there's nobody like him. Me to have a relationship with him. Neither one of you have an excuse and can't say that I didn't know any better. That was us. But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if indeed the spirit of God dwells in you. You just have a way of taking care of your children. A long journey of therapy. that we understand the challenges and the difficulties that relationships present, but through the And as I kind of kind of bring this whole therapy idea to some closure, the therapists, well I'm gonna say the good therapist I think if most of us are honest, we will probably testify that as much as we have had challenges in relationships with people, we've also had some challenges in our relationships with God. Y'all remember any of this? In sin. So what he had to do, he had to suffer and bleed and die, be crucified, so that the sin that was separating us from God could be paid for and covered by his blood. Chapter 5, verse 1, I think I read, therefore, now having been justified by faith But watch this. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. And if Christ is in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is life because of righteousness. I'm trying to make it plain. Now there are some therapists that enjoy you coming back every week because you have to pay. Some uh help in your relationship with God. First and foremost, here's the question that probably plagues some. Before that, couldn't have a relationship. So nerds, y'all just keep being the nerd because that's where it really becomes powerful. No no more, no more. If you've missed any, and you might say, Well that that doesn't really apply to me. And you go there and you lay out all your challenges and troubles and the therapist gives you a recipe. So this morning I want to kind of turn our attention because we've looked at all these varieties of relationships, but I want to I'm really preaching way better than y'all saying amen already. And so it's the same is true here. Because a lot of people have just given up on the relationship with God. You looked at yourself in the mirror and you said, hmm, there's only a certain caliber of person that I would even try to talk to. In all of the efforts of humanity, trying to be good, trying to be smart, trying to serve, trying to do this, trying to do that, trying to get positions, none of it qualified us to have a relationship with God because we were still. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And then also that they were to honor their parents. Whoa, I'm preaching way better than y'all saying amen. And with me. I want to talk to you on today from the subject matter, providing help in your relationship with God In fact, we probably would even say, I'm not even sure how this relationship with God is supposed to work. So watch this. So what happened is that God, because he still loved us, he And he he tested you on every level and and he searched for any molecule, any residue, any any Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. If I can't love God who I've never seen, how in the world am I gonna love you? Now, Pastor, I understand that God is the one who, as you say, um stepped out of nowhere. No results. Through faith in Christ, not of yourselves, not of your works, lest you could brag about it. This only happened to a few people those those of you who were at the top, it didn't bother you. It cost him too much to make it possible. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Okay, let me let me paint a different picture because y'all saying well I'm trying to see what you mean. And it reads as follows So then those who are in the flesh cannot please God. Because the other people were kind of out of your league. Okay, that maybe that was too heavy for you. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. They wore glasses. We was on our way to hell in a hurry. Y'all still hear? And now Pastor Sterling. We were not qualified because we were in sin. Or we might even declare that we just know that we're failing and ain't never gonna get better. Because all had sinned and fallen short of the glory, fallen short of the ability to match the glory of God. The righteousness we now possess is not because we did anything, it's by grace. So when this is what Jesus did was he redeemed us by paying the price because the wages of sin, the payment for sin was death. So there were certain people because most of us had a list in terms of who we would hook up with and date anyway. You have to pay your co-pays no more after today. We have to be filled. As a result of what Christ did, if we place our faith in that, we have peace with God. I know it was a long time ago. It wasn't the nerds that was at the top. They didn't wear glasses or whatever. We were unholy. In essence, what it let me let me go back to my earlier example. I'm trying to help somebody along. Lord, I need your strength. It doesn't come through anything we can't be good enough. I want you to skip over to Romans chapter 5, verse 1 So in other words, if you've come and you oh man, this is a great this is a great series that you're preaching, but you're not applying none of this stuff So the idea is to apply the scripture to your life So I've got to get this relationship with God right so that I can navigate the relationship with you. He's already prepared for the capabilities so that we can have this relationship with God. So he justified us. Praise the Lord. And that relationship I think we can all kind of leave the better off. We have to be controlled by the Holy Spirit. I've been trying to equip you and empower you so that you can you know navigate these relationships on your own. Somebody should somebody should be shouting right now because you know how much sin you have And even now, God, we just ask that you would take care of us. All of us have sin. Pay at the desk, right? Or contact our church office at three zero one six two seven nine five zero zero. And so if you took me and you who have trusted Christ as Savior, it's only for those who've trusted him already, who've accepted his free gift, once we've accepted his free gift. Both of you are guilty of sin and ultimately he comes to the conclusion in Romans 3. He took on our sin and died in our place as a substitutionary offering for us. And so we're gonna complete our therapy sessions today. We were unrighteous. And we will give your name all the glory and honor and praise. Just a couple of things I do want to say. I'm glad you asked. And that is our relationship with God So if that be your case, just call Trevi and make an appointment So his blood covered I need your power. Nerds don't get to the top until you get into the workforce. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message The word of the Lord beginning at Romans 3 and 23 reads as follows, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. We were reminded there as it relates to that relationship between parents and children, and children and parents that children are to obey their parents. And we encouraged you to make sure that regardless of whether you're a youth youthful child or whether you're an adult child, that these still applied to you. So as we kinda look here in this text God is the one who keeps everything moving. Sin corrupted and and put distance between us and God and and made it in made it an impossibility for our unholiness And he says, in essence, both of you are guilty of sin We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. org. And you keep paying. He was from the beginning and he will be at the end. So, Spirit of God, use me as an instrument in your hand But we started this journey in Genesis chapter one and two, speaking from the idea of the foundational pillars of relationships All of them apply to you. We were unclean. Your nerdism will put you on top when you get into school, when you go to college, when you start working. That's a great question. If I can define the word justify, justify is to declare you and me forensically clean of all our sin before God. We got escalated up to the super athlete and the cheerleader level. That's a great question. How do I or how do you even get into a relationship with God? Well God has a list too. We can't make ourselves. Some of you have not been present or have not had the opportunity to hear all of the sessions. Amen, Jesus. Tattoos, okay, I don't like that you like tattoos. But let me tell you this, he's not given up on a relationship with you. A lot of our problems with people is rooted in our problems with God. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. Would you pray with me for a moment? You keep coming back. Okay, let me let me paint a b remember you was in high school and All of us are born in sin, shaped in iniquity. So that now I can stand before God and have a relationship with God Last week when we were together, we moved forward to Ephesians chapter 6 and we talked there. Amen. Some didn't qualify because they were too tall. And so we couldn't have a relationship with God. In essence, it's like the fact that Christ died for us and paid the price for us, moved us from nerd to nerd. We were desperately wicked. So we can't even brag about Let me walk you through just a little bit of things that that might be helpful for us all. I pray, God, through the preaching of this gospel, that we would be challenged in our walk If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Speak a word in our midst, Lord God, that might cause someone who doesn't know you, who hasn't developed a personal relationship with you. But the the real objective really should be Man sinned in the garden. Or you were, you know, they was either too high or they was too low. You were so holy you could talk to anybody. So in essence what God did by taking Are y'all still with me? And so if I can through our time this morning help provide you some And so, Spirit of the Lord, draw men, women, boys, and girls, such as you do. What makes us holy is the shedding of his blood that covers my sin. For what I am doing, I do not understand. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. He's so holy that he couldn't even invite the presence of unholiness in. Every session applies to you. So I've chosen the book of Romans to kind of walk us through But we were also warned there that in order to do so, we have to have He's omnipotent, he's omniscient, he's omnipresent, he has all these attributes, and so how is it possible for me? And if then I do what I will not do, I agree with the law that it is good. We could stay there, but I gotta get to eight. Now, if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not his. And now let me say something else about the therapy process because if you go to therapy Are y'all still here? Father, we bless you on today. So you become part of their meal ticket. 23, all have sinned Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Go on over to 714. Whatever We have tried to make clear And in fact, as Paul walks through this book of Romans, what he does is he walks through, first of all, and he says, Look. Each and every one of us, watch this, don't do not qualify to have a relationship with the Holy God. We were seeking our own way. Now let me say this because this has been a For by grace you are saved. m. They lived on the wrong side of the street. at the Legacy Center, located at 6909. Some didn't qualify because they was the wrong color. You was just For additional information, go to our website We thank you because you are an amazing God. Now he's bringing you their stories. We now have a segue and an opportunity to have a relationship with God. Now he's bringing you their stories. So that you don't have to keep coming back to their office every week. You gotta get to eight. We really didn't seek God. The One Degree of Andy podcast. The One Degree of Andy podcast. We've now come to week seven. First of all, I need you all, I need all of us to understand that They went to the wrong school, whatever it was And I gotta see you every day So you keep paying them and they keep letting you talk. But now the also the good therapist is also available. But God wanted a relationship with us. Amen. To hear this message again on the web Y'all still here with me? We were doing our own thing. For what I will to do Amen Y'all stay here with me? Says, For we know that the law And those others that were on the top, then you'll see a little flip. I'm Andy Christman. I'm Andy Christman. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a Please join us again as Senior Pastor Chapter eight, verse eight. You come there and talk