And he doesn't even rise up. Okay, they started off with this attraction, they're attracted to one another, but the distraction comes to divert the attraction. You you messing up my you messing up my visuals. What magicians will do, and why magic's acts work, is because what they do is they create a distraction so that your eyes and your attention will be drawn away Wait a minute, wait a minute. She don't have to go to the grocery store. Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Get your podcasts And so he he points her attention to the one that she's forbidden that he might deceive her. Buch Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Y'all did what? He sits down with the voices behind the song. Voices behind the song. Of distractions that are gonna come. All the happy and all the attraction and all the goo goo ga eyes that you cast at each other and all the lovey-dovey names that you pass on each other, and after getting to the altar and after coming into the relationship, immediately the distractions come. Tenor, somebody who's gonna say, Oh, that's okay. I mean, come on, think about this. You're working something else over here. The only man that he created, God made her out of him. She ain't got to go to HGTV and buy nothing else. She was deceived, and now she's given to her husband who's with her. He comes to steal, kill, and destroy. kill and destroy. It's coming to destroy your covenant that you made with God at the altar before friends and family and God and angels that you came together and said, Um I I'm gonna I'm gonna commit to this till death do his part. In your marriage, that may be bringing destruction and ultimately death to your relationship. to the distractions now they're hiding from God how stupid is that how you gonna hide from the God of all creation in his garden And and then watch what he does. And and nobody they hemming and hawn, nobody accepting responsibility? deceived and drawn away. Whether she was gonna be a chicken head or whether she was a gold digger, she was the one God brought to her. There's distraction that happens in a marriage. There's the distractions of jobs and the distractions of careers and the distractions of kids and the distractions of business and the distractions of toys and the distractions of time and the distractions of of trouble that comes and and there's always gonna be somebody who has prettier skin uh or or different hair or a bigger behind or bigger breast or bigger biceps or or bigger bank account. As I looked at this, is that there the this distraction has a an intention in chapter 3, verse 1, to move, rather to divert the attraction. What distraction has caused that to happen? She's got the God of all creation. Stay here with me. or they start looking at that woman or they start looking at that woman and they start looking at that woman and watch this. And so watch this. It comes to destroy. That relationship, he comes to destroy the image of God that's in you. And he's coming to do it, watch this, by distraction. And she disobeys God, and then she invites her husband into the disobedience, and he follows her into the disobedience. They try to hide themselves from each other. These are all reactions to the distraction after they've improperly reacted how crazy it is once we've been deceived and we've been drawn away and we've been we've been plunged into a sinful scenario Credit card bills, you you don't want you don't want your spouse to see what the what the bill is. And and you're hiding names and you're hiding this and you're hiding that. Because, watch this. And God's action was that before the foundation of the world, he had already had his son, Jesus Christ, die and commit his life for you and me. We know it, spiritual death. Is a marriage through the blood of the lamb who was slain on Calvary. And we will be the bride of the lamb, and we will be taken away from this place to be with him for eternity. Praise the Lord. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. God gave him the one that God presented to him, the one he didn't have to go looking for, he didn't have to go sorting through, he didn't have to figure out if she was gonna be alright, he didn't have to wonder not In verse 7, watch this. Covering up because the distraction diverted the attraction. So that you can cover up that which is beautiful for God. See, you're not looking over here because you're distracted over there. Deceived by the distraction. door and go to any tree in the garden and eat of any tree in the garden and all of them are good because everything God made he said it was good and it was good and then and then here come the servant talk about look look at the look at the tree look at the why can't how come you can't have that one Look, she looked at it. I mean think about this. And he does this so that he might deceive her. Lord help us. He also goes against the will of God. And they're hiding from God. how easy it is and how crazy the hiding experiences happen. I wouldn't be in this place if it if it wasn't for that woman you gave me. It's that woman you gave me. It was the serpent. Nobody wants to own their blame for what they've done. People are still making up excuses why they didn't do what they were supposed to do or why they were wrong in what they did. Nobody wants to say I was wrong because I was distracted and I should have been attracted to you. My my devotion to you that I was supposed to have. And go all through the files and pull up the old text messages from you know years ago. He already knew that a man was going to be distracted. To the distractions in our relationships. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Had they reacted properly, then the action of God would have been favor and blessings on their life. When we react to the distractions properly. The covenant had been broken. Covenantal relationship with each other and with God, and ultimately, God is coming. By today's message. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Immediately, the two of them, Adam and Eve, who were greatly attracted to each other, the distraction now causes them to cover up. To create deception. The woman is being deceived in a conversation with the serpent, and the serpent is telling her that God is keeping something from her, and that God has not given her the best that she could have. So he gets her there and says, look, look at look at it. in in what's not theirs to have. Okay? And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor And bless you and bless you. You're no longer attracted to them. Is the results of sin. Is pulling you away from being attracted to your spouse. Is to distract their attention onto something else while Out of all the other trees, he points her to the one God said, don't eat from. Marital relationships. To deceive so that I can catch you and deceive you, but thirdly, it comes to destroy you. In this whole marital relationship. He was distracted from the attraction that he had to his wife, and now he's been plunged into sin, and he's plunged the whole the whole rest of humanity into sin, and now he wants to blame God. All my fault. There would have been no sin. He's not paying attention that his wife is having a conversation with a snake, and she's having a conversation with a snake, and the thing that the snake is telling her, the serpent is telling her, is against and contrary to what God has told him. Now they're covering up what they at first were not ashamed of. Distractions come to create a venue for deception. distracting her from her husband. You already have what God has given you, which is more than sufficient and more than enough for you to take care of all your need. Oh, that's gonna make me and so then she takes it and she eats it. But because I did not rehandle the distraction properly, I've sinned and I'm wrong. This is way beyond friendly conversation. What I'm excited about in this text is that God does not react. His actions were to make sure that the relationship that he would have with us would be able to be maintained for eternity. There's always going to be distractions. Well, Eve, she engages the distraction. Is through his son Jesus Christ. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And he watch this. And that's why they had to cover up. They have a demonic purpose in s in a sense that these the these are three negative purposes that these distractions play in the text. Deceived. He wasn't distracted. I didn't know what happened. Man would still be able to be, watch this, in relationship with one another. She's focusing on this one. I'm not trying to say he wasn't aware. To this distraction. Think about this. Well, what uh well well it we was just having a conversation it was a friendly conversation. Here's what you need to know about God. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's what it's coming to do. I want to raise the flag this morning. Because they've reacted to the distraction improperly. In other words, he's saying he really not blaming the woman right here. And the reason why God doesn't have to react, because God already knows what the action or reaction of the man was going to be. He already knew that the man and the woman going to he knew all that already. He acted on our behalf to redeem us to himself. And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. She already had more than enough fruit in the garden. You think about all the different kinds of fruit trees that there are, and all the kinds of trees that you could eat from, and all the vegetation that she had to eat from, all the the the strawberries and berries and everything that she had to eat from. And after after a closer look, she disobeys God through the distraction. He's distracted. So we have the attractions for marriage, the distractions in the marriage. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor And and and she's being deceived because God, watch this. John 10:10 says the thief comes not but to steal, kill, and destroy. As soon as sin enters, you know what they did? And they're not they're not hiding in a cave nowhere. But watch this. They're gonna be somebody who's gonna talk a little softer, somebody who's gonna listen a little bit better, somebody who's gonna be more attention She ain't gotta call nobody to come deliver no food or nothing like that. The woman saw verse 6 chapter 3 verse 6. They get distracted away from what they already have and start looking at what they don't have. Herein lies the the picture of marital relationships that have wrongly reacted to the distractions in marriage. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. So what you do is, now this is one of the basic fundamental principles of uh or practices of magicians, okay? She's focusing on this one. He deceived me. If you're attracted to your spouse and you get a chance to look at them and then they start covering up what you're attracted to, you're gonna say, hey, whoa, whoa, wait a minute, take that off. And then another reaction, because this thing just snowballed and this is snowballing down the hill. God didn't have to do that. I mean he wasn't deceived. She's got the I am that I am who is taking care of her, feeding her, taking care of every need that she has. He already knew that he was not going to be obedient. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. The serpent that you're talking to, the serpent that's in your life, the distraction that's in your life, that's in your marriage is coming to steal. It's coming to destroy you. And so now you can walk in the favor of God. But God had already told them: In the day that you disobey me, you will surely die. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. Stay here with me. Deceived. It had been defiled. And many of marriages can testify. Somebody who's gonna draw you in. You you're you're the I don't I I need to see that. In the text, what happens is here is the serpent talking to the woman I want to I want to put you on alert this morning. He doesn't even rise up to say that ain't what God said. And while you're being distracted, they're deceiving you by moving stuff around over here. Watch this. Because they were spiritually dead. But there's a second purpose that I see in the text that I believe that these distractions have, not only to divert attraction, but also to deceive. God is not a reactionary God. We would not be dealing with all the sin issues that we're dealing with today. He verse 12, then the when God asked him, you know, what's going on, he says, then the man said, the woman whom you gave me. I did not handle the distraction. But let me say this about distractions because distractions have a purpose. The distraction sets you up to be deceived. I have no clue what Adam was doing, but he's distracted as well. And then God gave her to him. The distraction comes to take your attention away from you being naked and not ashamed. He was aware. Lord Jesus. He's distracted. And while she's focusing on this one, she loses sight of what she already has. And now while she's focused on that, she says, oh, that looks good to eat. You know, because folk be now you got people that are they they see they know how to investigate Now she already knows she she'd been deceived. God has decorated everything wonderfully. And the text says she looked at it. And they start looking at that man and they start looking at that man and they start looking at that man and they start looking at that man He he knew he was doing wrong, but but watch this. Woo! He already knew. I I violated my covenant with you that I said I was gonna keep until death do us part. We can walk in the favor of God and watch this. She already had more than enough trees to eat from, but now she's looking at this one tree. But watch this. How does the couple in the text react to the distraction? He was right there. It's coming to destroy your relationship. And then when God comes in the cool of the day, I read the text earlier in verse number eight. It's always gonna be some distraction, always a softer voice, a silkier smile, always a serpent, always a serpent, always a serpent bringing distraction. If we react to the distraction properly, God will bless you. And distractions come as a means to draw you away in sin. Lord have mercy. What are you hiding as a result of your reaction to the distraction? That ain't really me on the picture. Your ability to reflect that image of God, your ability to reflect the relationship between God and the church. He's carried away. Then God says to the woman, well what have you done? You're hiding because you've wrongly reacted to the distraction that came. He's blaming God. He already knew that he was going to plunge, he was going to be plunged into sin and he was going to be And so therefore God already had acted Listen, if they have reacted properly to the distractions to their marital relationship. But ultimately, the third thing that I think the distraction creates, not only to divert attraction, so you're no longer attracted. I want you to examine. They hiding in the bushes trying to cover themselves up with fig leaves. Stay here with me. The woman saw that the tree was good for food, that it was pleasant to the eye, a tree desirable to make one wise, and then she took his fruit and ate. So before the foundation of the world, the Lamb of God was slain to take away the sins of the world. She's got the best man in the world. While you're looking at that man or that woman that you can't have And and it doesn't stop there because the deception she's deceived. Many of you can testify that there are multitudes of distractions that come in marriage after all the Because the text says she gave to her husband with her. Now you hiding. Instead of him being totally enamored with her, he's sitting under a tree in La La Land and she's talking to a snake and he's not even paying attention. Same pattern. He acted on our behalf. If it had not been for the blood of the Lamb, we would not be able to come back together in a holy That's a great question. Stay here with me. But God acted to make sure that in eternity man would still be able to be in relationship with himself. The way he reconnects us as brothers and sisters and and in in a in a new marriage. He's distracting us into being destroyed. Not only is, and I'd ask you this morning, think about this in your own marital relationships for those of you who are married. God made her out of the best man that he created. It's your fault, God. What is it that has come as a distraction in your marital relationship that causes you, you know what, I you just not attracted to them the way you were. Let me let me read that for you. Because even in marital relationships, you see the same thing. I was distracted. And then he begins to talk about that. And watch this: as a result of their reaction, then ultimately they got to cover up. So it moves the attraction from being attracted to wanting to cover it up. Door dash and nobody ain't got to come. I want you to think about if the distractions that are distracting you, what's distracting you right now The distraction comes and she gets enamored with it. They're covering up what they first were attracted to. He he points to her focus on one tree out of all the trees that she had to eat from. That's you. The one that was fine as wine, the woman that It was the serpent. Adam blames God, Eve blames the serpent He does not react to what happened. Because watch this, what God assured is that the way he brings us back together into one body. And the reason why some folk wake up and and they wake up in a bad relationship and wonder what happened is because you were And they they be pulling the stuff all they got it all. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together She's got everything that she needs. You hiding your cell phone. We pray that you have been richly blessed He's distracted right away Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. It's coming to destroy your family. They're not saying, you know what, it was me. And while you were paying attention over there, something else was going on over here. But finally, finally, it's the re- I want to look at the reaction of man and the action of God. I want I want to look at that. That's a great question. As soon as they had taken from the tree that God told them not to take of, and as soon as sin enters into this whole relationship, Do you realize had had had they reacted properly? org or contact our church office at 301 The best way to deceive someone, the best way to deceive someone. There was no longer purity and holiness and sanctity between the man and the wife and God. There would have been no sin. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Woo! That's his whole purpose. He's saying God So now he's blaming God for his poor reaction to the distraction. She blames the serpent. So Adam, he he responds, his reaction to the distraction is he also sins against God. She has no reason to be talking to nobody else, looking at nobody else All the trees were good to eat I didn't handle it well. In the marital relationship, we have to be cautious and careful about these distractions. Always from that day forward to be one with one another and to be united with one another as one flesh. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Welcome to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. And she's looking at it and she's focusing on it. This ain't friendly. The distraction leads her into disobedience. I don't know how they got my phone. And here's the same thing for us. Help me, Jesus. It's a distraction, but it's a distraction so that he can deceive her. So now it moves you from being attracted to your spouse. And while they're talking, watch this. But she would the the but the distraction came to deceive her. Nobody's accepting responsibility. She can go right out her front She's there and it says But but they have no problem now because of sin That's what that's what the enemy comes from. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. You hiding you hiding your your your your records from your from your bills That's right there in the text. That's man's reaction. And watch this There would have been no death as And the woman says At the high my God, God says, Where are you? I should have been talking to you. And we learn that God's actions are always favor to us. Folk hiding. Stay here with me. She engages the distraction. They're hiding. Ultimately, He's coming to reunite us all together in one body called Christ. Lord, have mercy. It just kind of gives you an idea I left my attraction to you, my commitment to you. He was right there with her. All my fault. First of all, the first first thing I think And they keep looking at what they don't have and they start examining the good But watch this. He's put her in paradise God didn't have to react. They got the whole track. He acts. m. The woman said the serpent deceived me and I ate. They hide themselves from God. Yes, you do And so now they're hiding from God. Now he's bringing you their stories. That's why the serpent shows up. They took of the fruit and they ate. There's at least three purposes that I see that the distractions have in the text. at the Legacy Center. Because this is what happens in a whole lot of people's relationships. And this pattern of behavior is still going on today. Watch this. But then the text says, and she also gave to her husband who was distracted. And while she's focusing on it, watch this. The One Degree of Andy podcast. You you covering up And he ate. He didn't have to, he didn't wake up on, man, what what He's coming to destroy all of that in your relationship, in the marital relationship. They they go into court with the whole record book If we react properly I should have been solely committed to you, like I said I was. She believes the distraction. No people don't want that, nobody wants to accept responsibility. Now he's bringing you their stories. Stay here with me. And so you're hiding stuff Y'all still here with me? And it's like, man, I'm over here. So now they're hiding from God. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I'm Andy Christman. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Because ultimately, what they're really trying to cover up. What distraction And so distraction comes. Spiritually, they died right at that moment. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. I'm Andy Christman. But the enemy comes to destroy. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get. They blame it, all kinds of other stuff. I'm because I I I I was naked. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. God is your fault. There's all kinds