Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. Amen. Amen. Genesis chapter twenty five, beginning at verse nineteen, the word of the Lord reads as follows. This is the genealogy of Isaac, Abram's son. Abraham begot Isaac. Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah as wife, the daughter of Betheel, the Syrian of Badam Aram. The sister of Leban, the Syrian. Now Isaac pleaded with the Lord for his wife because she was barren. And the Lord granted his plea, and Rebecca his wife conceived But the children struggled together within her, and she said, If all is well, why am I like this? So she went to inquire of the Lord, and the Lord said to her, Two nations are in your womb, two peoples Shall be separated from your body. One people shall be stronger than the other, and the older shall serve the younger. And so When her days were fulfilled for her to give birth, indeed there were twins in her womb. And the first came out red He was like a hairy garment all over. And so they called his name Esau. And afterwards his brother came out, and his hand took hold of uh Esau's heel So his name was called Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old when she bore them. So the boys grew, and Esau was a skillful hunter, a man of the field. But Jacob was a mild man dwelling in tents. And Isaac loved Esau because he ate of his game, but Rebekah loved Jacob. And Jacob cooked the stew, and Esau came in from the field, and he was very weary, and Esau said to Jacob, Please feed me with s with that same red stew, for I am weary. Therefore his name was called Edom. But Jacob said, Sell me your birthright of this day. And Esau said, Look, I'm about to die So what is a birthright to me? Then Jacob said, Swear to me of this day. And so he swore to him, and he sold his birthright to Jacob. And Jacob gave Esau bread and stew of lentils. And then he ate, and he drank, and he arose, and he went on his way. Thus Esau despised his birthright If you flip over to chapter 27, want to read a few verses over there as well, beginning at verse 1, chapter 27. Now it came to pass when Isaac was old, and his eyes were so dim that he could not see That he called Esau his older son and said to him, My son, and he answered to him, he said, Here I am. And then he said, Behold, now I am old, and I do not know the day of my death Now, therefore, please take your weapons, your quiver, and your bow, and go out to the field and hunt game for me. And make me savory food such as I love, and bring it to me, that I may eat, uh that my soul may be blessed, and and that my soul may bless you before I die. Now, Rebekah was listening when Isaac spoke to Esau, his son. And Esau went to the field to hunt, game, and to bring it So Rebecca spoke to Jacob, her son, saying, Indeed I heard your father speak to Esau, your brother, saying, Bring me game and make me savory food for me, that I may eat and bless you in the presence of the Lord before my death. Now therefore, my son, obey my voice, according to what I command you. Go now to the flock and bring me from there two choice kids of goats, and I will make savory food for them uh for your father such as he loves. And then you shall take it to your father, so uh and that he may eat it, and that he may be bless you before his death And Jacob said to Rebecca his mother, Look, Esau, my brother, is a hairy man, and I am a smooth skinned man. Perhaps my father Will feel me and and I shall seem a deceiver to him, and I shall bring a curse on myself and not a blessing. But his mother said to him, Let your curse be on me, my son. Only obey my voice and go get them for me. Last verse, verse 41. So Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing with which his father blessed him. And Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father are at hand. Then I will kill my bride. Pray with me. Father, I pray that you would have your way in this time this morning. That you would make clear our understanding of your word, but also the application to our lives. Lord, if there's anyone who doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, let today be the day that they surrender their heart and their soul to you. God, the enemy is busy destroying and killing But your word still goes forward to bring life everlasting to those who are willing. And so, Spirit of the God, draw men, women, boys, and girls, such as only you can do. I pray, God, for those that just need to hear from you today. Speak clearly into their lives. Edify them. Father. Above and beyond everything else that transpires today. I pray that your name gets all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. Lord, I stand as an instrument Use me, God. I need your strength. I need your help. I need your clarity of thought and speech that we might celebrate before your presence the living word of God in our midst. It's in Jesus' name I pray and I thank you. Amen and amen. Catherine, we've been on a journey through a series of messages entitled Relationship Therapy Amen. Today, as we continue to move on this journey and look at this relationship therapy, We find ourselves here in this text of Genesis chapter 25 and Genesis chapter 27, looking in on this relationship of Isaac and his wife and Jacob and Esau and the whole family deal that's going on there. And I do want to remind us that as we are moving through this Series of messages entitled Relationship Therapy. These are not just messages and ideas that are conducive and addressed to married couples and honey boo-boos and stuff like that. Doesn't matter who you are, if you're human, we've got relationships that we have to deal with. Amen. And so these messages should speak to you no matter who you are and where you are. But in this particular one here in Genesis, we find this family, and whenever you talk and look into somebody's family, there's something common that happens. And I got a few families here that might be able to agree with me and say amen. But when you start looking in on things that are happening inside families, you always find some family drama. And so uh Rebecca and Isaac have some drama going on in the family. And Esau and Jacob have some drama going on in the family. Help me, God. So our therapy session for this morning is going to be on the subject family drama. Parenting problems. Now, parents, these this text might help us and it might hurt us. Children, those who have parents, which is all of us, this text might hurt us. But it's gonna help us. In the text of chapter 25, we started there in verse 19 and we get this whole genealogy layout. And as I was moving through those first from 19 to 28, those verses, what I saw there was this Parenting problem of parental preference. It's a problem. As the text started out it says the genealogy of Isaac, Abram's son, Abram begot Isaac, and they tell you that I Isaac is forty years old when this all starts. But as I began to look through the genealogy of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, I I could not help but see that there was some uniqueness about And I'm gonna call it a uniqueness, but it's also unusualness about the genealogy of this family, and which gets us to this text and actually moves through and beyond this text because I noticed that Abram. Had a wife who was barren. And Abram's wife, Sarah, who was barren, she came up with a fix. For her barrenness, by offering her handmaid as a means by which to try to accomplish God's destiny But her help caused family drama when Abraham, who did not hesitate, jumped in on The handmaid and then they had a baby and then now they had problems because Sarah was like that woman ain't coming up in here with that boy looking at me sideways. If I'm going she gonna be eating at my table. This is my version of the story. So drama broke out in the family and she got kicked out. Then we have Isaac. Whose wife Rebecca is barren. And she's they're smart enough not to fix their own plan. Maybe he learned from his mother. But they come up with a they they at least pray and they seek God and he seeks God for a child. God gives them two Set of twins, and they have family drama. And then Jacob, one of the twins, he's gonna go get married to Rachel later, who's barren. And because he got tricked into marrying Leah before he could get to Rachel, they got family drama. Lord help me I mean it's all throughout the scripture. And matter of fact, when you turn on the TV today and you look at what's going on in Israel and the Gaza, that's family drama. That's still playing out. Y'all still here? And I know you weren't born in Israel or Gaza or perhaps none of that. But guess what? If we look in on your family Behind the makeup and the perfume and all the the niceties, there's family drama. Amen. Family drama It's everywhere. We all deal with it, and the honest truth about it is most of us are not dealing with the well. So we got this going on, and so by the time we get to verse 22 in the text, notice what happens. Rebecca conceives. Isaac pleaded with God for her that she might have the child. Rebecca conceives. She she has this struggle inside of her. Verse 22. The children struggle together within her, and she said, If all is well, why am I like this? I really could just pull that and just run a whole sermon right there. Because guess what? Sometimes when we've been blessed by God. We still have uncomfortable scenarios that are playing out in our belly. Sometimes what we are getting ready to give birth to causes us discomfort. And we ask the question, just like Rebecca asked the question here, if if everything is well, if I'm walking in the favor of God, why am I like this? And for many of you, as we talk about this whole family drama, parenting problems, we might be asking similar questions. If everything is well, if I'm walking with God, if I'm walking in the favor of God, why Are we going through all this family drama? How come this child can't talk to that child? How come mama and daddy sleeping in separate bedrooms? And how come we got all Uncle Cook Uncle Bubba can't come over no more? How come what's going on? If everything is well, why am I like this? Why why are things like this? It's a great question that she asked and so she She doesn't try to fix it or figure it out herself. She takes her question to the Lord. She inquires of God. And the Lord says to her, The reason why you're having the struggle is because inside of you, there are two nations. That are battling it out inside of you. You got two different people groups inside of you, and the Lord gives her this revelation that one of them is stronger than the other. And the older one is going to serve the younger one. Unlike the traditions of the Jewish culture where the younger should serve the older, the Lord pr reveals to her that the that the older is going to serve the younger. Now, interestingly enough, this revelation, as I read through the text and I was trying to search and seek through and see and find out, but this revelation that she receives The text does not reveal to us that she ever shared it with her husband. Now that's important. It's going to become important. So she she's got insight from God That as to what's going on inside her womb, and she got insight from God about the divine destiny of these children. And so as a result. The preferences begin to be built. Stay here with me. The text says later, in verse 28, I believe it is, it says, Isaac loved Esau. Because he ate his game, but Rebecca loved Jacob. Favoritism. Y'all stood here? And so they begin to separate. They've got their preferences. The text says that Esau was loved by Isaac. Because he loved his game, because Esau was a wild man, while Jacob was a mild man. So here it is. Esau was rough and tough. Went out in the field, built fires, and cut down trees and hunted and stuff. His father said, that's my kind of boy. Jacob was a mild man. The Bible says it nicely. He hung out in tents. So he was kind of uh he was the inside guy. Say he was mild, he was he was soft, he was he was cooking and stuff He was mama's boy. He was he was a mama's boy. And so Rebecca liked him because he hung out he was sitting right there at her, you know. Learning from her, whatever mama said, you know, he was right there. So they had their favorites. And and there this this parental preference begins to create a riff in the family and drama in the family and problems in the family. I do need to remind us that parents are not perfect. Okay? Can can y'all can y'all accept that? Parents are not perfect. Okay? And for those of you who have not yet become parents, you will understand the struggle of parenting because parenting does not come with a textbook And every child is different. Like drastically different. Like God tricks you. He says the first one is one way, and you think you got this, and the next one comes, and they completely the opposite And you're trying to figure this out, it's almost like a trick that God plays on you. But parents are learning as they go. Okay? So we're not perfect. So children, give your parents some grace. Because they're not perfect. They're learning. They didn't tell you that. I'm gonna tell you. They're learning. Trying to figure it out. And your friends are not smarter than your parents. Can I tell you that too? Throw that one out. The second thing I see as we I was walking through this is uh in terms of just parenting problems, is not only the parental preference. But there's also the parental planning because as I look at verse 29, it says Jacob was cooking this stew, and this from twenty nine thirty-four we see this um selling of the birthright thing that happens. And so Jacob Is um he goes, he's cooking like he does. He's a he's a tent man. And so he's cooking, and then Esau comes in from the field, he's tired, he's exhausted, he wants something to eat. So the the stew smells good and he says to his brother, Hey Esau, give me some of that stew. That good red stew that you make. And he says, Um, I tell you what, you can have some of this stew if you sell me your birthright. He said, man, I'm about to die. Okay, well, no birthright. Give me this stew. You can have a birthright. But watch this. But Jacob is careful to say, no, wait a minute. This day you need to swear, kind of declare this thing. This he didn't it's not like a oh you know just a normal conversation. Let me let me read it again. He says But Jacob says, sell me your birthright. That's verse 31. And Esau says, look, man, I'm about to die. And then verse 33, Jacob says, swear to me as of this day. So he swore to him, and he sold his birthright. Now, as I was walking through this, I said, how did Jacob get such insight on birthright stuff, and Esau didn't? So my investigative mind began to tingle and say, What's happening here? But then as I keep reading, I find out that his mother, Rebecca, is a slickster. So I'm going I assume and I'm I think I'm in the right category, Rebecca has prepared him, Jacob. To get, watch it, she's trying to help Jacob to get in the position that God had prophesied was already going to happen. God had already prophesied and told Rebecca when she was pregnant that the older is going to serve the younger. But she's trying to help God to make sure it happens that way. Can I help you parents? You don't need to help God. If God has told you this or that about the child, God is responsible for making it happen, not you. This is why you might not want to force your kids to go to college at the at the place and the college that you want them to go to when you want them to go. Because their journey may not look like the one that you went on. I'm trying to help you here. I'm gonna try to save you some money too. Because some kids go can go to college right out of right out of high school and they go four years and they out or six years and they out There's other children that they get out of high school, they don't know what they want to do. They go back to school later, they get their education, and then they excel those who came right out of high school and went to college But if you are forcing them on this journey according to your plan to try to make it happen the way maybe you saw it happen, the way it was revealed to you that it was going to happen, it's not up to you to make it happen It's up to God. If it's God's revelation, it's God's responsibility. But Rebecca's trying to make it happen so she's schooled her son. Her tent dwelling cooking soft sun. I mean I'm sorry. It didn't say soft, did it? It said he was he was mild, mild, mild, mild is the word. I'm gonna use the word from the text She she has schooled him on how to how to get this birthright from his brother. But Esau doesn't know nothing about birthright. At all. He doesn't even know what he's doing. All he knows, I'm hungry. I need something to eat. And I just came in from the field, and that food you got smells good. It ain't nothing but lentils. But it smells good and he's willing to give up his birthright for some red stew. So the birthright includes three things. It includes what is called the priestly responsibility for the family. It's part of the birthright. It includes having this ademic favor or blessing of being the Satan crusher. Okay? In other words, the the bruise healed that Genesis chapter 3 talks about. So you become that lineage of that. And then thirdly, the birthright Speaks of the line of Abraham that God had promised. So you fall in the line of Abraham's. You have the birthright. You are in that line of the blessing of Abraham. And then when we get to chapter 27, this thing really starts to unfold. Isaac's getting ready to die. He pulls Esau aside, which is his favorite. And he says to Esau, Esau, I'm old now. I don't know exactly the day I'm going to die, but I want some more of that meat of yours before I die. So can you go out and hunt and bring me back some of that meat so I can have some of your meat? And then I'm gonna bless you with the family blessing. Okay? So I'm going to endow upon you this blessing that is transferred usually from the father to the oldest child. So he says, just go out and get that for me and come back. So now the pl this is the plan of The father Isaac has a plan of how he's going to transfer the blessing to his oldest son. Watch this. Now that's that's true the tradition. There's I don't have any indication that he knew What God has said to Rebecca, because it the text doesn't tell me that. But he's going about doing what he would normally do. But can I say this, parents? Secret Blessings and transfers to children can create more family drama. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of senior pastors. Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed. by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance. For uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at three zero one six two seven nine five zero zero. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He says For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your