And I have given it to you upon the altar to make atonement for your souls. And you you just want to bury it and and you want to say the last rites and rituals over it. I'm trying to get us to focus on what this thing is really all about. But ultimately, what they were really doing, they were offering sacrifices to false gods, and Gods were saying, No, don't be just slaughtering animals anywhere, talking about that's my sacrifice. But also he'll go on in verse number five, I believe it is, and he'll talk about the one that's doing it at home. But watch this. We serve to glorify God. Y'all see that? Word of the Lord reads as follows Also you shall say to them, whatever man of the house of Israel or of the strangers who dwell And what the Lord does is he says, Look, and actually if you read through chapter 17, the beginning verse of chapter 17, he's he's saying to them, look, I don't want you doing things for me any kind of way. Some of them were doing it at their house and they figured, oh, that's good enough. There's an order, there's a structure. They had to take blood, and they had to take that blood and sprinkle the blood on him first. somewhere where it ought not be. For your soul. To come up with. You know, pigeon head squeezing the blood out, sprinkling that over the altar. Lambs and heifers and pigeons and turtle doves, Hebrews comes back and says, but the blood of bulls, goats, and lambs could never atone for the sin Himself they had to cut open a bull for him and sprinkle blood on him. From the Great Commission that said, I need to go and tell others about what? Will ever appease Jesus Christ or appease God because no other faith has the blood of Christ to redeem us from our sin. That's kind of heavy. That the whether all where the sacrifice was made on our benefit. John the Baptist needed it. Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Backstage Pass the One Degree of Andy Podcast. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Voices behind the song. By Kettering Baptist Church. Cut off from among his people. Will set my face against that person who eats blood and will cut him off from among his people. Service and into the kingdom of God. Chapters 1 through 7 and also chapter 16. socialized, gets fried chicken dinner as I I kind of kept coming back to this Leviticus 1711 passage and just got kind of stuck there. uh we've looked at here to talk to you for a few moments from the subject matter blood service. seventeen verses eight and nine, he kind of says, Look, anybody who offers the sacrifice if they and and they don't bring the offering, if they don't bring the the sacrificial offering to the tabernacle, then They're going to worship him, how they are to honor him. some Holy Ghost help up in here. Trying to do is help them understand why they shouldn't partake of it, first of all, why you shouldn't be eating it. And you couldn't get any respect from God until you gave him blood where he required it to be given. Sacrifice on your job. Sprinkled on the altar. Lord before the tabernacle of the Lord, the guilt of the bloodshed shall be imputed to that man. you and I. some other entity and some other organization in the name of the Lord. Confusion. For it is the blood that makes atonement for your soul. Is death. Are y'all still with me? And so we need blood in order to serve. Heavy. in blood. Contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. Hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. For one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. Now he's bringing you their stories. And how they're supposed to dress and what what to do with the blood and every aspect of every detail of how they're supposed to serve in the presence of God is laid out throughout those chapters. There's a way in which I want it done. Service. Moment for your souls. I wish I had some help right there. for anybody else and preach for anybody else, he first had to be sanctified and covered in the blood. sacrifice that you brought to the tabernacle had to then go and be sprinkled on the altar because it was on the altar where the presence of God came Text. For your soul. something that's going to appease God as a result of our sin. To come back into right relationship with me, I need something to pay the price that would appease my anger and appease my judgment because the wages of sin Now here's the problem. And since the life of the flesh is in the blood, he gave us Jesus that he might die and provide blood to bring us back to life. life because the purpose of the blood is to make atonement in other words to appease God to please God to clean Cleanse us, to wash us, to purge us of our imperfection. Christ offered himself on the altar. authoritative power. might come into the blood. I'm praying, whether I'm ushering, whether I'm a trustee, deacon, whatever, whether whoever I am, as a child of God, my primary ministry comes from Many candles they burn, I don't care how many chants they chant, I don't care how lost they get in themselves and in their own minds, they will never come into a relationship with Jesus Christ without blood. into the blood of Jesus, we will all continue to be lost and have no capability of serving God whatsoever. Under the blood. Free even today, the blood. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. Of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III. studying and finding uh quite a bit of nuggets of encouragement and wisdom uh as it relates to our service of the animals and sacrifice they can eat and can't eat, what parts are burned inside the temple, what sup what parts are disposed of outside the temple. chapter 16 and actually in Leviticus chapters 1 through 7 what the Lord does is lay out uh even for the priest and and the ceremonial cleaning for them and how they're to be washed and how their garments are supposed to be arrayed. On serving the Lord, coming out of that vacation mode. And uh I'm not I'm gonna cut them off, they won't be accepted. blood now this is biology one oh one without blood there's no life in the flesh but but beyond biology one oh one there there's something more significant take Life. to life. Priest who didn't have to go in and sprinkle blood on himself. My God. to. And here's another one for the reason why no other faith can bring us into atonement with Christ is because no other faith has offered blood. the blood because the price of the blood was Jesus' life. doing. Has not lost any of its power. Ministry at all is so that this lost, dark, dying world will come into the knowledge and into the benefit of the blood of Jesus Christ. Amen. among you who offers a burnt offering or sacrifice and does not bring it to the door of the tabernacle of meeting to offer it to the Lord that man shall be place here as it relates to ministry as it relates to serving God because without the blood you cannot have life in your service. What I what you'll find out is that before the high priest could come in and offer a sacrifice for you, he had to go in and first somebody else had to wash him physically, put water, soap, and wash him down. For your soul. Because when Adam and Eve sinned, they plunged us all into death. you know offering the sacrifices and how he wants it done and how is the sacrifice of service to be provided to the Lord. man of the house of Israel who kills an ox or an a lamb or goat in the camp or kills it outside the camp and does not bring it to the door of the tabernacle of the meeting of the offering of the Oh, I'm in church and I'm I serve on this and I do this and I do that. That man had created. About the price of the blood. So for the rest of the year, you're carrying all the other guilt with you. But you I just I told you from the beginning you can't serve if you're dead. For the next few moments, I want to uh invite your attention to Leviticus chapter 17. Is rooted, is grounded in the blood, and without blood there's there's no life at all. You and I cannot be brought back to life with bull's blood. And watch this. Dead folk can't serve God. And ultimately serving your father, the devil. Because that blood was given on the altar to make atonement for the souls of men and women, boys and girls. Just a little twist on it. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. This and even as I was meditating and we were in prayer, and I thought about Lord, what is this all about anyway? Well, if you bring your offering to the altar of the Lord and you give your servitude to him, then that alleviates the opportunity for you to be serving Well, who came up with that? Uh the the place for the blood was the altar. And between him, there wasn't two winged seraphims, but there were two winged sinners. Some of us want to give blood at home and you're a home time sacrifice person. Maybe I'm part vampire or something, but I need some blood every now and then to just wash me and infuse me to get me prepared to keep doing what I gotta do. And so because the wages of sin was death, I needed something to pay. We ought to sing about the blood, talk about the blood, bathe in the blood, wash in the blood. Because what the Lord is trying to help us understand is that there needs to be some deliverance that takes place. And what he does ultimately, he alleviates the opportunity for them to make sacrifices to false gods. He decided that the way in which I was going to redeem the blood that Adam and Eve tainted in the Garden of Eve was I'm going to use blood, and blood is going to be the required cost. You can't move from death to life without blood because the life of the flesh is in the and so here we go. Every human had tainted blood. Okay, watch this. Everything that we all all of our service ought to be sanctified in blood. Hey, Richard Carn here with Christine Polera, and you know what? But in the the case of Israel, if you go uh back to verses three and verse four of chapter seventeen, it says, whatever Now, why does my soul need atonement? You'll work 12 hours and they won't even pay you overtime. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. basis of what we're calling ministry all about anyway. The first thing that he says here, he says, verse number nine, he says, For the life of the flesh is in the blood. We have a tendency to believe that it was your blood that allowed you to serve, and not his blood. And you need a little blood to cover that mind to bring it back into sanctity and bring it back into order so I can do what I got to do. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. There's a price of the blood, there's a place for the blood. The place of the blood is so critically significant, not just in this text, but watch this. That's the purpose of the blood. Now, and the reason and and the reason why we're serving in the first place is yes, we're serving to glorify God, but we're serving that others who don't have the blood Way back when Paul needed it. But watch this. You need to understand you can't serve God any kind of way because you gotta be covered in the blood. In Leviticus chapter sixteen, actually the Lord gives a very detailed uh guideline for how the priest, the high priest is going, is supposed to go in And he's instituting for them a change in some of what they were doing because some of them were uh offering sacrifices and cutting up animals out in the field and and There's a reason why there had to be human blood shed for us. We serve out of an attitude of gratitude. The blood is priceless. But there on the altar, he shed his blood to make atonement for your sin and my sin. Whose idea was it to use blood? Here's the here's the dilemma. But I wanted y'all to grab I want you to grab hold of that as you move forward. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Now, I can't serve God until I come to life. Because without this blood, their souls will be eternally lost and never be able to come into a relationship with Jesus Christ. As we look at uh Leviticus chapter 17, and for those of you who've been coming to Bible study, we've been going through uh Leviticus as a book I've given you the blood that it might go on the altar so that they can make atonements for your soul. I'm Andy Christman. Why do we do ministry in the first place? Praise the Lord. In the Old Testament, they're offering animals, goats, bulls, sheep, turtle doves. Almost matter of fact, nearly every other faith other than Christianity offers service. And whatever man of the house of Israel or of the strangers who dwells among you who eats any blood, I will And since you're serving me, I have a right to lay out for us how we're supposed to serve him. See see he he was kind of seated like this He he was And he says, look, you can't eat the blood. The price is what we have to focus on first. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And you know, now the rubber gets ready, hits the road, and just getting our minds focused back on service. And the Lord says, no, there's a way in which you are to serve me. So we needed the blood of Jesus. Dusting off the tombstones, resetting the grass, sprinkling anything, sprinkler system, nothing. Because see the purpose of his blood was to make atonement for our sin. That's why in our service, when we serve, when we move forward this year in ministry, we need to value the price of And as I was going through this and I thought about the idea of back to ministry and focusing on getting our minds wrapped back around Then secondly comes back and says, anybody who partakes of the blood. Because there's times when my soul is not at ease. It needs to go on the altar. What are we here for? In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. Pastor, what is atonement? Way back when Peter needed it. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building for a copy of this sermon on CD4 It still has the same soul-saving capability that it had way back when Jesus Price, the value of the blood. We know that the the price of the blood is life, okay? And so therefore, God had to provide an offering on the altar to bring us from death to life. The dilemma is there was no one who had human blood that wasn't tainted. Y'all see that? And so that's why no other faith will ever bring you into atonement or into agreement. Without the blood, without blood, even your worship has no life. So until you pass from death to life, you're just serving yourself. Well, it was God's idea. They slitting the throats of goats and lambs and bulls and sprinkling that all over the altar. And you got no problem with that because you want to be the number one person on your job. Then they then he went in and offered a sacrifice of the blood that you gave, bull, goat, lamb, whatever. And for those who don't give the offering and don't bring it to the tabernacle, because again, like I said, see they're they're doing it in the field. Now his altar didn't quite look like the altar that was in the tabernacle. But the purpose of the blood was to make atonement for our sin. m. We know a thing or two about home improvement. We're not serving to be saved. That's lifeless worship. You can't just offer sacrifices anywhere. or 11 a. No, you're not serving God because God is a is the God of the living, not a God of the dead Watch this. Why why do we all come together? Now, I'm of the strong and firm opinion that a whole lot of us take for granted the value of the blood in our soul Atonement is appeasement. Before we go out to do what we do, we ought to purify ourselves in blood. God God established that in order to appease me, in other words, for you to Now, the last thing he's going to deal with here is the purpose of the blood. For in Adam we all died. Okay? But but the life of the flesh is all caught up in the blood. And so our ministry, whether I'm singing, whether I'm preaching, whether I'm Well, well, why did God come up with blood? m. That's a great question. We gotta understand the price. Because I don't want you serving thinking that, you know what, I'm just doing this. Way back. Because if you take the your blood out of the animal, and that's the lifeblood of the animal. And he kind of lays that out in generality. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. Now he came ultimately as our high We all need the blood. For it is the blood that makes atonement for the soul And he says in verse 11, he says, now the life of the flesh is in the blood I don't know about you, but every now and then my soul just a little bit unstable. Watch this. And now the place of the blood is on the altar. We needed a blood transfusion, and even though in the old testament they gave bulls and goats and lions They had to sanctify him because he couldn't serve God until he first was clean Some of us like to do it in the field. Y'all ever seen any dead folk uh cutting grass around the graveyard? For my smart Christians that say to glorify God. Second thing he says here, he says, Now the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you upon the altar to make atonement. I'd say so Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. So you've got to have the blood to bring you to life. We serve because we're saved. It still has the same power to save, to deliver, to set faith. And before the high priest could go in and minister for anybody else and intercede for anybody else and sing for anybody else and offer anything The blood. I need something to pay that you might move from death to life. The second thing is the place that the blood needs to be ministered He said, I've given it to you on the altar to make atonement It is the thing that gives cleansing or pardon What are we doing? I mean, when you see it, what you really want to do is say ashes to ashes and dust to dust and Why why do we call ourselves saints of God in the first place? I remember I told you the high priest had to go in, he had to get washed, he had to get sprinkled, he had to throw blood on him org or contact our church office at 301-574-340-4 For the life of the flesh is in the blood. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Now remember they only they're only getting an atonement offering one time There's a whole lot of people that think they can't. Well, he's sovereign. There's a way in which you are to approach me He's slaughtering his animal at home and thinking that's good enough for the Lord You just it needs to be on the altar, and God's given us blood on the altar to make atonement for our soul. It cost him his life. As we come through verses 8, 9, and 10 But the life of flesh, the life of our ministry, the life of our servitude came in the blood You know, in other words, are we just coming to church to be churchy? And the blood then ultimately that the pre-priest gathered up from the We'll begin our reading at verse 8. That's what the word of God says. Goat blood won't won't function in your body. It's right there in verse number 11. And this deliverance ultimately is going to come through the blood. He comes up with whatever he wants Let me back up for a moment because if I go all the way back to Leviticus, the first six seven chapters You'll do it on your job. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Then he comes back in verse 11 and he gets very, very specific. Every now and then you drift a little bit and you need some blood. It didn't have the uh didn't have the mercy seat, but there was a seat I need to tell them about this blood that makes atonement for sin. So I need blood to bring you from death to life In other words, I'm not serving to get the blood. We ought to spend some time in meditation. What he begins by helping us to understand Every detail of the entire sacrificial process is laid out in Leviticus But until we come But but God says the sacrifice that I'm looking for needs to have his blood. Now watch this. And the reason we're doing ministry That we do ought to be sprinkled They're throwing up everything in the name of the Lord, cutting up, cutting off uh And now, Pastor Sterling. And so uh he he goes through the whole process there. One was on his way to glory and the other one was on his way to hell. Y'all ever seen lifeless worship? Without the blood, there's no But here's the problem. And he sprinkled it all around enough, watch this, so that it would never lose. It was free to you, but it ain't cheap. You'll sacri Where's the altar? Financial content. How does that apply to you? See, a whole lot of us want to give blood in places God never required you to give I I pause for a moment as I was reading through The last part he says, For it is the blood that makes atonement No, there's a purpose behind what you're doing No, bring your offering to the house of God and make it This this is where I'm getting back Now he's bringing you their stories. And the good news is this: that the blood There's a redemptive picture being painted here in the midst of the We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us And so I want to kind of use that and these verses that But in order for us to come back to life, we needed blood. The altar for us was Calvary. Simple message for a little And every now and then, you know, you your mind might get tangled and drift off The One Degree of Andy podcast. Are y'all still with me? Because human blood brings humans from death Pastor, that that's Well, it's because life came in the blood. I wish I had Dead folk can't serve Are we just showing up to meet our friends and I serve because I got the blood It needs a little blood. That's right. Then he went and sprinkled that on the altar. But more importantly, for you and I, we need to understand They had to wash him first. As far as I know And so God says I've given you a place for the blood That was the altar that we We we I'm Andy Christman. You know, I need an inf Well, we've got to have Not only are they doing it in the field, but That's a great question. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast minutes And that's where I'm going to spend my time, right there in verse 11. Then in chapter uh What are we doing? Then he got dressed in in part of his garments. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. But but Jesus But now the purpose of the blood I don't care how many If you love Christian music, this is your battle. What is the whole What the Lord is trying to