Okay, it isn't gonna happen. So I do know a little about what the Bible is talking about. This DVD study kit is great for individual, small group, or even whole church study, and it's yours today when you support Pastor Rick's Daily Hope with a financial gift. Guidelines. PastorRick. Not preference, facts of life. Now ends in divorce. Backstage Pass. It's all there on that site. Voices behind the song. friends, carefully. And as a result, many people end up in the wrong marriage for the wrong reason. Okay? Would you welcome my participants today, okay? Studley, I mean she's wonderful, all right. The spiritual background isn't right, personality background isn't right, uh, educational background, they don't have the same amount of energy, they don't have the same amount of ambition, they don't even have the same values, goals, or none of these things are, but we love each To be more than just fair, average, good, or even great. DVD study kit. My email is rick at pastorick. The spiritual background isn't right. Thanks so much. Repeat this together. Choose to marry. Now you can add to this list your own experiences. Verses 14 and 15. in the world can you be unified in any other area? Disappoint people. does have a lot of fine qualities, great fine qualities. That's pastorick. Average, good, or even great. That's Pastorick. You don't want to miss a second of this relationship building series. with the Awesome Relationships DVD Study Kit. Well, today we continue with our series called Awesome Relationships. On your shoulder. And not date. Okay, now which means you two guys, you're the leftovers, all right. myth it's romantic but it's a myth in your city in your life there are multiple people God would say that's okay for you to marry Right. And while you're there, be sure to sign up for his free daily email devotional. Awesome relationships cause the world to stand up and take notice, because they are different from many of the dysfunctional relationships all around us. Once again, here's Rick. This study kit is great for individual, small group, and even a whole church study. you in circumcircumstances that would make you romantically inclined. we get along together, how much we we have fun, how much we have in common, doesn't matter all those things. It's first qualification. Wants you to have, unless you're united in spirit. God's got to be at the center. Be unstable. He's not a believer. Be happy. You can do that. the hymn and it's I'll alter him. Now if you've been listening to this broadcast for a while, you know that Rick is always saying that God wants your relationships to be more than just fair, aver Call 800-600-5004 or go to PastorIck. Now he's bringing you their stories. Daily Hope Ministries. Attend church weekly together, pray together, read the Bible together, the divorce rate drops from one out of every two and a half marriages to one out of every 1,105 marriages. Choice. Now, if you're supposed to choose your friends carefully, you should be even more careful about who's gonna be your life partner. It would only take one person to make a wrong decision to break the chain for everybody else. But let's say Margot says, no way, Johnny. So Margot comes over here and Margot marries Daniel. It doesn't work. Thank you. Healthy relationships aren't automatic or easy, but they are worth fighting for. unity that God wants you to have if you're not unified in the number one area of your life, which is your relationship to God. idea. And they tell me how much they've got similar plans. You. When a couple is spiritually unified. Attend church weekly together, pray together, read the Bible together, the divorce rate drops from one out of every two and a half marriages to one out of every one thousand one hundred and five marriages. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. I listen anywhere and everywhere because your messages always encourage me. Video topics include fighting for an awesome marriage, fighting for an awesome family, fighting for awesome friendships, and becoming best friends with God. Or you can just text the word daily to 99000 to find out more. Right now, here's Pastor Rick with part one of a message called Finding the Love of Your Life. Now, some people say, well, I'm not gonna date, I'm just gonna wait. There's a couple of myths about marriage that are out there, and we just need to get them out of the way. Call 800-600-5004 or go to Pastorick. are now available in Korean. Topics include fighting for an awesome marriage, fighting for an awesome family, fighting for awesome friendships, and becoming best friends with God. deal breaker. People have come to me and introduced me to their fiancé. You know, you know, and and I you know people tell me this I'll win him to Christ or he'll change after we're married. Healthy relationships aren't automatic or easy, but they are worth fighting for. Well, I understand Paul. The Bible says in Proverbs 12 verse 26, the righteous chooses his friends carefully. So we're gonna look tonight at what the Bible says is uh God's checklist for choosing the right person. that he desires for you to marry. which you do, and you want success in your marriage, which you do, then you better listen to what God has to say about the kind of person you should marry. Girlfriend's life in order to marry them. And there will be problems. Of your life. your partner rejects. You just go to pastorick. So share some hope today. We're gonna look at them tonight. For me. Oh no. Is not enough reason to marry. All right, now let's just say these are eight eligible bachelors and bachelorettes. Multiple people. But God gives us a list, and I call these a list of must-haves. I have counseled thousands of married couples in trouble and counseled thousands of single adults who are considering marriage. About God. We got different worldviews. DVD study kit. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Or never married. Your choice. Now you take out any one of the legs and the stool's gonna fall over. Can right and wrong be partners? A lot of girls in particular, uh, when they when they plan their wedding, there's a there's a standard. You know that I love reading your notes and letters that you send me. Hi, Don Crow here for Passport Auto Group, a family-owned business with a stellar reputation for Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. That's not very good odds. And it's not only not biblical, it's not even logical. So Johnny is not gonna be able to marry the woman God planned for him, and so all of a sudden he goes very well and says, Kelly, she looks Because the evidence of not following what God says to do is uh is out there all around us. It's your decision, it's your choice. He can't steer. God loves you and has a wonderful man for your life. Sexual intimacy or emotional intimacy that God desires for your marriage. It's gonna get knocked over in enormous ways, all kinds of different ways. The change if it doesn't happen before the marriage, that's when the leverage is on. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Let's give it to these guys a hand. Most important part uh of your life. If you want God's best, I'm just telling you right up front, don't even consider somebody who's not committed to Jesus Christ. com. Now I this week I celebrated my thirty-seventh anniversary. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. So he designed it. First Corinthians, 2 Corinthians 6. You're listening to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. Okay, let's get into it. There's only one day left to get this great resource. Just because you love someone doesn't mean you should marry. I I I used to be really kind of casual about this. And the second one is if I do, who's it gonna be? The problem is nobody teaches us how to do that. That's what that you know that's very romantic. If you've been listening to the broadcast for a while, you know that Rick is always saying that God wants your relationships Now, God doesn't tell you who to marry, but he does give you a description of the kind of person God is not going to put a sign in the sky that says Mary Harry. This four video series and workbook will give you the tools to build an awesome marriage and family, along with awesome friendships and partnership There would be millions, he would say, no way, Jose. We have a relationship to God together. But after watching over a thousand divorces, I'm blunt and I say, you're making the biggest mistake. So we're gonna go over here with Kelly, all right? Oh no. As a pastor, I don't like to hurt people's feelings. Now you can do it and say, well, God, I don't want my blessing, your blessing on my marriage, I don't want your success on my marriage, and I don't want your protection on my will at marriage. com. Okay? And nothing's gonna happen. He's got to be the glue. com with two R's in the middle. I mean I remember uh about ten years ago a guy wrote a book called I Kiss Dating Goodbye. Your preference. But ultimately, it's your choice. I don't care how much I love them, I don't care how much money they've got, how cute they are, how much they make me laugh, doesn't matter how sweet And your marriage will never be as deep as it could be, and you will never experience the emotional intimacy or the sexual intimacy that God It's got to be moving, and then he can go this way or that way, whatever. Personality background isn't right. You can fall in love with all kinds of people. We must have spiritual unity. That's not very good odds. He wants your relationships to be awesome. Be sure to join us again next time as we look into God's Word for our Daily Hope. This four video series and workbook will give you the tools you need to build an awesome marriage and family, along with awesome friendships and partnerships. She's not a believer. Thanks so much. com, click on the listen tab, and you'll be able to download the Daily Hope podcast for iTunes or for Android through an RSS feed. I'm Andy Christman. Then you there's no way you can give your life away to somebody who rejects your savior. God does that with me too. So now that Kelly's married, Jim, who are you gonna marry? What God wants to d to steer you, it's easier to move a car that's moving than one that's parked. And uh the Bible doesn't say that. Number one, the first thing we have to have, my wife and I, or my husband and I, we have to have. Stop forming inappropriate relationships with unbelievers. I love you enough to tell you the truth. And people think that's how it's gonna be. I hope you will share these daily hope messages with your friends. I mean that's nonsense to say I'm not gonna date, I'm gonna wait. So if you know somebody who would like to enjoy reading these daily devotionals in Korean, just email me and I'll send you the link to sign up We may have all kinds of other things in common, but our marriage will be shallow our entire lives. Would you write that down? And God designed it that marriage is a three-legged stool. If you'd like a copy of today's message, including portions we didn't have time for, or if you'd like to sign up for Rick's free Daily Hope email devotional, just go to Pastor Rick. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. I just want to save you some pain. But when a couple is spiritually unified, that's what I'm just talking about. Friend, given the right situation, I could get you to fall in love with anybody. Friend, given the right situation, I could get you to fall in love with anybody. Okay. National survey and reported in Mag uh Marriage Magazine. Hello and thanks for joining us here on Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. com. That's what I'm just talking about. Welcome them out here. And instead I'm Mary Kay. And if you want God's blessing on your marriage, which you do, and you want God's protection on your marriage, I don't care how much you else you've got in common, they reject that. 14, next verse. It's the only problem. You're never going to have emotional unity the way God intended. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. So God doesn't have a bullseye when it comes to marriage. His name is Johnny, all right? Here you say, okay, Brett, Brett and Amy, you actually get together, all right? Just write it down. That's rick at pastorick. Until these are right, you're not ready to marry them, and they're not ready to marry you, and they may not even ever be the right person for you to marry. Today is the last day to get this great resource, so don't wait. God isn't gonna choose your mate for you. You can find out more right now by going to pastorick. Now let me just be honest with you. You'll find this message and others along with more helpful resources All right. And if I can't share the biggest, most important part of my life with my wife, we're living on different wavelengths. One out of every two and a half marriages in America ends in divorce. Nothing's gonna happen. There's a spiritual unity that you're headed in the same direction. And they tell me how much they love them. I'll alter him. There's only one person in the entire universe for me. And they tell me how much uh they think alike in so many different areas. You didn't get a class in school. If you aren't spiritually unified with your spouse, you are never going to enjoy the depth of physical intimacy. Can light have anything in common with darkness? And the second myth is this: there isn't only one right person. There's more great teaching coming up. This what I'm going to give you tonight is the bare minimum. Most people have no idea how important God is to marriage. Love alone is not enough reason to marry. And uh you have encouraged me. Come on out here, you guys. Now, in just a few minutes, we're going to tell you how you can take all of your relationships to a level you never dreamed possible But Kelly, Kelly was supposed to marry Jim Educational background, they don't have the same amount of energy, they don't have the same amount of ambition. Just because you love someone does not mean you should marry them. It doesn't mean you should marry them. They're both believers, and they practice three habits together. In it, Pastor Rick Warren will show you how to take your relationships with family, friends, co-workers, and even God from average to awesome. Do not unite yourself with an unbeliever. And they want me to be happy about their fiancé. And sometimes I just think that God is talking directly to me through your teaching. And if you'd like to let Rick know how this broadcast has touched your life, you can email him at Rick at P Love alone is not enough reason to marry. So don't wait. A one-legged stool will fall over, a two-legged stool will fall over. The first one is this: God doesn't choose my mate for me. Well, come on over here. Now I'm going to give you a list tonight from the Bible of things that must-have you must have in your life and in your mate's life. Because if there was only one right person for everybody in the world, That's a great question. Well then all of a sudden it upsets the apple cart for everybody else on the entire planet. These are not my opinion. You are making the biggest mistake of your life. And here's a note that I got from Paul who lives in Canada. He wants your relationships to be awesome. com to get your copy. Awesome relationships cause the world to stand up and take notice because they're different from many of the dysfunctional relationships all around us By the way, let me write give you one more myth. And as your pastor who loves you, I don't want you to do that. So you just need to clear that one up. All right. I want them to like me. Well, you know, I know you can win him to the Lord later. But there are multiple opportunities that could God would say, okay, it's all right If we don't match on these things, deal breaker. Let me have true confession right now. And the Bible has a lot to say about this. Here's Pastor Rick Warren. Every bone in my body wants to say, it's no big deal. I've done so many thousands of weddings. He's gonna marry Lauren. Hi everybody, it's Pastor Rick Warren with some big news. That means we believe the same thing. Let's put the girls over here and the guys over here. So Johnny here is in orange. And it's yours today when you support Pastor Rick's Daily Hope with a financial gift. That's why Pastor Rick Warren wants you to have the awesome relationship. com to get yours right now. So you can go home and sit in your basement and say, I'm just gonna wait. Thank you so much for writing. Your parents didn't teach you how to choose the right person to marry If you'd like to connect with Rick, just go to PastorRick. com. Uh I like Daniel. Okay. They may not be where a radio broadcast is, but they can always get the podcast. This is why Pastor Rick Warren wants you to have the awesome relationships That's 800-600-5004 or Pastorick. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. So forget that there's some Miss Wright or Mr. And they tell me how much they have in common. God places the responsibility 100% This is what God says are the requirements of the kind of person you should choose. That's PastorRick. There's a word for that. That leaves Johnny out of luck. I fell in love with multiple women before I married Kay. You're never going to have unity in communication because the biggest area of your life It's not there on your outline, but write this down. That's what you get when you cross a croc of the hell with an abalone. God says it's your choice. How can I say if you have committed your life to Christ, Notice it is a choice. And all the dominoes are. God, a husband, and a wife. Okay? com while you listen to today's message Let's say I was supposed to marry a woman named Susan. There's a standard, you know. I think he's a monk today. Love is not enough. But In your life, two of the most important choices you're gonna make are one, will I ever get married? I talk to people all the time are getting married, and I look at them and go, there's no way. All right, Lauren, here we go. You just can't do it. You know, just as Paul mentioned, you could listen to Daily Hope anytime, anywhere, through our podcast. They're both believers and they practice three habits together. Can a believer share life with an unbeliever? As a pastor, I don't like the You can win her to missionary dating is what we call it. They're not fit mates for you. That's 800-600-5004. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Well, i it's just not true. Okay? These are the minimum requirements for the marriage God blesses. If you want God's protection on your marriage, you want God's blessing on your marriage, then And they say, and they start telling me all their fine qualities of their fiancé. One out of every two and a half marriages in America now ends in divorce. Okay? This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope, the audio broadcast ministry of Pastor Rick Warren Given the right situation, as I said, you can fall in love with anybody, doesn't mean you should marry. You see Now, God is absolutely clear about this first one. I want them to be happy. This program is sponsored by Pastor Rick's Daily Hope and your generous financial support. One out of every two and a half marriages in America now Here's Pastor Rick with a letter from one of our listeners. Now your relationship to God should be the biggest And uh, if you'll take out your message notes inside your program, finding the love of your life. I don't want you to end up that way. Bachelor or bachelorette. So obviously, Johnny is over here. I talk to people all the time are getting married and I look at them and go, there's no way. I would like first to repeat com or just text the word daily to 99000. My Daily Hope Devotionals. God doesn't do this for you. Let me show you. And and and let's say There's just no way Uh you you walk down the aisle, you you stand at the altar, and then they they do It ain't going to happen. Number one, we must have spiritual unity. Now, let me give you the hard, cold facts of life. One other myth is love alone They don't even have the same values, goals, or none of these things are going. And then one of them will take me, there's only one problem. God leads us, God guides us, and God gives us Would you like to give me five let me give you five thousand people who tell you that doesn't happen? Go right ahead If you don't have spiritual unity, you're never gonna Now he's bringing you their stories. It takes a lot of other things. I'm going to give you a little demonstration. And It will be shallow. You gotta have the third leg. So one couple actually got together out of see how this how silly this is? You cannot have the ultimate physical, emotional, and sexual Love is a choice. Love is a choice. The One Degree of Andy podcast. It's not only not rom not it's not only romantic, but it's not biblical. Wright out there. And I'm going to willfully ignore what the Bible says. But it doesn't work that way. com and click on his social media links. It takes more than a man and woman to It's a croc of baloney You can look all you want, but it isn't going to happen. He's supposed to marry Margot. They just aren't there. God says you make the choice. And that's what we're gonna look at. And honestly, I can't tell you how many times God can't move a parked car. You've got to have God in the relationship, or it's gonna be Let's look at some verses. I'm Andy Christman. Or just go to Pastorick. com with two R's in the middle. Any of them, if I had married, would have been a disaster. And the good news is too good to keep for yourself It is a total In other words, if you don't have spiritual unity, how Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And I could put That's a great question. The family background isn't right In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. These are the if they don't meet these qualifications. 2 Corinthians chapter 6. The righteous chooses his friends. You guys can leave now. But we love each And their fiancé doesn't The family background isn't right. If you love Christian music, this is your best. com. com. That's a choice.