And it wasn't just to be fancy and fly. I need us to understand that the devil is involved in our destiny because one, he wants to kill you. And again, the devil took him up on an exceedingly high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. And he's declared before man that this is my son in whom I'm well pleased. I'm trying to help somebody here because God said you're victorious, but the devil says, ah, oh, if you victorious, how come you ain't making no money? Just like anybody else. at Kettering Ministries dot org or contact our church office at 301-574-3515 A monopoly on destiny. At Matthew chapter 4. Here we go. Of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. In support of this ministry or welcome. 10 p. in its entirety. Voices behind the song. Look at some verses of Matthew. Jews and Herod, of course, there was gonna be no other king but him, and so therefore he pretended like he was interested too. to have children. He's using us in the United States alone to destroy the destinies of 1. That's Pharaoh's edict. In John chapter 5, verse 16, he heals a paralyzed man on the Sabbath day, and they sought to kill him for healing a man on the Sabbath day. The master of the sea. And he says it twice because God said you're my son, but I don't believe it. him tempting him. By causing you to use your supernatural ability that God has given you to take care of yourself. If the temptation was put it in and I'll take you further down, you wouldn't have played. On CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering B. Happy. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling the Third. Life of Jesus because the enemy's desire is to work against us in our destiny by either stealing Is that after Jesus was born and his star appeared, and the wise men went looking for it? Understand this because like Christ, you and I were born with a destiny attached to our life. And pretty. That he's threatening the destinies. To it. At the age of two, this decree goes out: kill every male child, two years old and older, in Bethlehem and in all the districts around. Because he's a child of the devil. In Matthew chapter 12, I discovered that he healed another man whose hand was withered. In John chapter 5, verse 30, when Jesus declared, I and my father are one, the Jews sought to kill him. to destroy and kill you in your destiny. Freak accident, some disease, some sickness in your body, something that went on, and somebody that broke in the house. Some demons that are working to destroy and kill you to keep you from what God has for you. But I need you to understand God has great plans for everybody He brought on this earth. said to him, Away with you, Satan, for it is written, you shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. like he did Jesus, but also he will tempt you like Jesus was tempted. To this, and suddenly a voice came from heaven saying, This is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. Serve. By the Holy Spirit, after he's fasted 40 days and 40 nights. Craving. For his own purposes and to satisfy what the flesh is craving. destroy you. Destiny. the revealing of the destiny. He was exceedingly angry, and he sent forth to put to death all the male children who were in Bethlehem and in the districts from two years old Y'all still here with me? on the brink of God saying, This is my son. something that was very interesting to me in this this time when I read it. If you are who God said you are, God said you are his son. And you eat candy and chocolate and cookies and all that, and then you go take your insulin shot. In jeopardy, you throw yourself off the temple expecting grace to cover you, and that car ain't supposed to be doing 95 miles an hour in a 35-mile zone. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. On Andy Christman. Eve, and the first part of the messages was entitled Driven by Destiny, which is the theme in Genesis chapter 32. Killing or destroying. Verse number 16, it says, and after he found out, then Herod, when he saw that he was deceived by the wise men, Kill those that have destiny attached to their lives, and he does not want them to accomplish what God has for them to accomplish. In Mark chapter 4, verse 35, on the Sea of Galilee, the devil tried to drown him in the boat, but he didn't realize he was dealing with Destiny's too through crime, through drugs, through through violence. He can keep you from that which God wants you to accomplish in life. Stance. And I'm not trying to give him more credit than he needs, but oftentimes if it's not the devil, is some of his comrades. And in their hands they shall bear you up, lest you dash your foot against a stone. The plan of God to assure that everything that was written in Scripture would be fulfilled. and to use what God has given you so you can satisfy yourself. I'm guilty too. And then the parents start saying stuff like this when you were conceived. If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, He shall give His angels charge over you But you're using your gift in the club to roll up on young ladies to say baby. And in their hands they shall bear you up. You know God will take care of you. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. m. And as we looked at those distractions, the ways in which the enemy will distract you, amen, from your destiny. So, for those of you that think all the devil doesn't exist, yes, he does. Y'all still here with me? From the very birth of Jesus, from the very entrance into the world, the devil had plans for his destiny. And then God said, This is my son, and then he's fasting for 40 days, 40 nights. That's what he's tempting him. Set him on the pinnacle of the temple. And I'm not saying that from a theological perspective. The thief does not come except to steal and to kill and to destroy. He's spoken of a whole lot in Scripture. The devil was planting seeds in the minds of your parents to destroy you because he knew that there was a destiny attached to you at conception. The devil has plans for the destinies of children. And when he had fasted 40 days and 40 nights afterwards he was hungry. Whole lot of stuff I could say about that. In chapter 3, that sets the tone for all of chapter 4. He's tempting him. How you do? Use the supernatural God-given gift. What the devil does is takes him up. To the penthouse by just matching up six numbers. Y'all thought the devil didn't hang out in church like he was afraid of church? From a spiritual perspective, now from a physical perspective, he's also telling people the same thing. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And under according to the time which he had determined from the wise men that Jesus was born. So at birth, what he did was he has planned to destroy, to threaten, if you will, the life of Jesus, and the devil at birth attempts also to kill many of us. Then the devil took him up into a holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple and said to him Because the it this whole process of temptation for him always has to be angelic. That just passed. Kill and destroy. No, you were born with a destiny attached to your life. Because the devil had plans to threaten your destiny when you were conceived. And in our country, each year in the United States, one point two million children's destinies are being destroyed. Threaten his life because he wants to kill him. I want you to jeopardize your reputation as a child of God. Live like a fool, even like even though you are a Christian, because the grace of God it will cover you. He's tempting us as he tempted Jesus. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts Sunday at 2. And that they may have it more abundantly. But I really want to let God have his way in this passage so that we can really get the full weight of what is going on in our lives. And then when we do at least accept something that God has for us to do, we want to minimize it and want to water it down and act like it's not much. Then the devil left him, and behold, the angels came and ministered to him. He takes him in the church and he takes him up to the pinnacle of the temple and he says to him again In John chapter 10, verse 10, a very powerful uh verse of scripture lets us know that the devil has three purposes. Steal, to kill, and to destroy. At the very beginning of his life, his destiny was threatened by the devil. In Jesus' life, at the age of two, he has plans to kill him. And he says, if you are the Son of God, command these stones to become bread. To satisfy what the flesh really is craving. Misuse the protection that you have from God. I'm not financially ready. What in essence he's saying to him, he says, now, if you are who God said that you are, I'm gonna tempt you That's what the text says. But he takes them up. Throw yourself down. But grace will cover you. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Matthew chapter two. When I was growing up, the word devil was used a whole lot more than it is in church now. I believe God has destiny for everybody who comes into the world. I'm trying to tell you how he tempts you. He comes for three reasons. We just had a one-night fling and I'm pregnant now and I need a way out of this. Three thousand three hundred and fifteen abortions a day in the United States. 138 abortions per hour every hour for all days of the year in the United States. But if I take you up and offer you up a little, it becomes temptation. And now Pastor Sterling. And in Matthew chapter 4, verses 1 through 11, it tells the story of Jesus' temptation. You can't tempt him by taking him down, but you can tempt him in the flesh by taking him up. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. He said, If you are the Son of God, command that these stones be bread. Whole lot of us at birth, let's just I'm just gonna be honest and plain and and maybe y'all can relate to this, maybe you can't, but let me just tell you what happened when you were b when you you were conceived. We have no visual on the devil. Not only that, as I looked through the life of Jesus, I found out that there were many other opportunities and occasions that they tried to kill him He didn't know that Jesus could come up and stop and talk to the wind and tell the wind stop moving, but he tried to kill him in the boat. He's not afraid to come in and tempt you right in the church. Driving on the bellway, there's a reason why they set the speed limit the way they have it. 30 a. That's his decree that goes out. That's temptation. Nowhere in scripture does it ever give record that the devil came to make you prosperous nor to make you happy. He's tempting him. He's threatening your lives, even as he threatens the life of Christ. The devil is using him to try to destroy, try to kill Jesus before he gets on his journey to his destiny He's tempting him to use his ability to take stones and turn them into bread. He took them to the holy city. And so in those kind of words, and many others like them m. Go ahead, throw yourself down from the pinnacle of the temple. He's after this. And his plans are depicted in John 10. I got something a little heavier that's that's more relevant for today to deal with, but I do need you to know that this was 8. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. And then on last we were together in Genesis chapters 37 through 40, the distractions to your destiny. Go ahead. 30 a. I want to talk on this morning in this fourth part of the series of messages from the subject matter, the devil and your destiny. What we will find there that in the very beginning of the life of Jesus that he was threatened by the Then he comes back again. You've been gifted with good looks and you're using your good looks to jump from woman to woman and man to man. How many times has he tried to kill you? You had the temptation of taking your economic condition from where it is in the basement. And so what happened was the angels told the wise men, leave out some other way. I'm not making enough money to have this child. You have a destiny attached to your life and the devil doesn't want to see you accomplish it. The temptation is to use what God has blessed you with so that you can satisfy yourself. He's hungry, the Bible says. m. That's what he does. And he's being used by the devil. And then verse 5 says the devil once again took him up into, listen to this, into the holy city. 4. I'm saying that because your doctor told you to stay off of it or you're gonna have a heart attack. Didn't nobody know that before? This is the devil in your destiny. He challenges what God says about you and causes you to begin to doubt it as he's tempting you. For it is written, he shall give his angels charge over you. 30 p. To steal, to kill, and to destroy. And watch this. Misuse it for yourself. He essence is in essence same to him. And I want to talk about him and your destiny. You think he's afraid of crosses and afraid? Get it, man. All the way from Genesis to Revelation, you see the devil in the scripture But across the world, 42 million abortions are happening in our c in this world that we live in every year. That's why he came to steal, kill, and destroy. God sent you here for a predetermined reason If you look through these few verses, you look at verse number four, Jesus was led up. The devil took Jesus to church. m. And I need us to grab a hold of this because I think we happen to kind of tiptoe through life thinking things are just happening by happening. I want you to see something else. And now when the tempter came to him, he said to him, If you are the Son of God, why does he say that? I'm trying to help us right here because a whole lot of us are doing that today. Put your life in danger. and 7. And God has said, This one belongs to me. If you could have gotten six numbers, the temptation was to take you up. In the same way, we see this similarity of the story of Moses, when Moses is attempted to be killed as well. We don't believe he exists and we live like he doesn't. This time when I read it, there's a couple things that I want to point out for you. To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. And so I'm going to challenge what God has said about you On this morning I want to start our reading in John chapter 10, verse number 10. But He was threatened. All of that we've read so far. Some of you have been tempted this morning as folk walk by you and they smell good and they. Throw yourself down. That's a great question. They had come and they sojourned, they stopped by Herod's place, told Herod what was happening, and then they told him that we were looking for the king of the 30 p. Live like you want to live. But now we know. In chapter 4, we read the story, and I read it a million times if I haven't read it once. And you are you already measured the value. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Nowhere in scripture does it ever annotate that he has come. He's after your destiny. 2 million children in abortion. And the Pharisees and the Herodians said, kill him for healing a man whose hand is withered. That in the process of these temptations, in each occasion. I'm taking you to church, but from the highest point in the church, I want you to jeopardize your high position. For additional information, go to our website And he said, Well, when y'all go and find him, come back, tell me about it, because I want to worship him too. He tempts him again, secondly, to misuse your kingdom protection. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. I'm too young to have this child. There's a multitude of ways in which he is threatening the destiny and trying to destroy, trying to And Jesus said unto him, It is written again, you shall not tempt the Lord your God. m. Outside the United States, if I were to include, because I don't believe the United States has a Now, in the life of Christ, for those of you that don't want to talk about abortion, I can add a whole bunch of other ways that he's threatening Turn the stones into bread. Through a car accident, motorcycle accident, some If he can kill you, he can keep you from your destiny. If you are the son of God. Can I read that for you? Then he took them to the holy temple. Nah! For a copy of this sermon 10 to steal, to kill, and to destroy. Now when the tempter came. So watch this. Okay. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And he has declared it before heaven. And that comes in chapter 3, verse 17. God's grace will cover you. I'm not really in love with the father. Not not not some. How many times has he attempted to take your life? He's the creator of the world. Take control of it. Okay, you don't get it. He walks right up in the church Go ahead, throw yourself down. Herein lies the problem. So we learn from the life of Jesus that the devil threatens him. So he tries to kill him. Second movement of this text is not only do I want you to see that in as it relates to the devil in your destiny, that he will threaten The grace of God will cover you. If I can destroy you, if I can mess you up, if I can man you and keep you from being able to fulfill your In essence, what you're doing is throwing your life in the dangerous balance, expecting grace to cover it. The following program is sponsored by Kettering Baptist Church. But you put your own life Let me see if I can fix it up for you. You weren't just born to be mama's baby boy and mama's baby girl. So he's led of the Upon the declaration of God saying, This one belongs to me, now the devil goes to tempt him. Then the Holy Spirit led him into the wilderness to be tempted. See how he tempts us? We began this series of messages on a New Year's Amen. You said if I lose, I only lose a dollar. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. But he answered and he said to him, It is written that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God. And we went from there to Genesis chapter 37, speaking from the subject matter. Tempting him. Take control yourself Because the reality of it is that he has plans for your destiny. When you were conceived, your mama and daddy start talking. And we attribute a whole lot of stuff to chance. It's right there, verse number six. Don't go back to Herod. Now He could have done it, but it is the temptation that's laid before him to misuse his gift. There's some places that you aren't tempted by because it doesn't take you up. He wants to kill them before they get In other words, you take control. And he said to him, All these things I will give to you if you fall down and worship me in Jesus' name. When the scripture says, All my gifts that are given are for the benefit of all and not for the benefit of me. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message. Let me make it real plain. This didn't just come pop in his mind. I'm saying it because your health won't take it. m. And he's telling Christians this every single day: throw yourself down. I'm not sure whether it's because we've now become more educated, more sophisticated. Most of us don't believe God has something for us to do. or 11 a. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. It's not a good time in my career. The second thing I noticed in life of Jesus, I look at Put your life in danger because God's grace will cover you. We've been tempted and we're taking the bait, misusing what God has given us as a gift. Because he can't Tempting him You know you ain't supposed to be eating pork. And that is when we move into chapter four, something happened Do what you want to do with what you have. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message, financial contributions. I'm trying to help you understand. Now he's bringing you their stories. Don't let him know what is going on. You've got the gift to be able to speak eloquently to people. And it wasn't just incidental. m. And as we look at this today, I want to kind of look in on the Get rid of them because there can be no other king but me. Wednesday. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center. I have come that they may have a life He's tempting you to put your life in danger because he wants to That's a great question. The One Degree of Andy podcast. The first thing as I look at the life of Christ, look over at Matthew, we're going to But in the life of Jesus I read it over and over and over again, but I saw God didn't give you that for your purposes to satisfy your flesh, but the enemy is tempted. Praise the Lord. The devil is working through him Y'all still here Use the gift that God has given you to take care of what your flesh is. He's trying to destroy the destiny of Jesus in the same way he's trying to. You've been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. You weren't just born to be perfect. I'm Andy Christman. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. But he didn't really want to worship him, he wanted to steal. He's trying to keep you from destiny. 42 million. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And so they left out some other way. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. I'm trying to help us to see. And if you look there in chapter 2. Now he's bringing you their story. The One Degree of Andy.