Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord from Proverbs chapter 31, beginning at verse 10, reads as follows: Who can find a virtuous wife? For her worth is far above rubies. Her heart, the heart of her husband, safely trust her, so he will have no lack of gain. She does him good and not evil all the days of her life. She seeks wool and flax and willingly works with her hands She is like a merchant ship, she brings her food from afar, and also rises while it is yet night, and provides food for her husband and a portion for her maidservants. She considers a field and buys it from her prophets and she plants a vineyard. She girds herself with strength and strengthens her arms. She perceives that her merchandise is good, and her lamp does not go out by night. She stretches out her hands to the distaff, and her hand holds the spindle. She extends her hand to the poor She reaches out her hands to the needy, and she is not afraid of snow for her household, for all her household is clothed with scarlet. She makes tapestry for herself. Uh her clothing is fine, linen and purple. Her husband is known in the gates when he sits among the elders of the land, and she makes linen garments and sells them and supplies sasage for the merchants, and strengthens and strength and honor are her clothing, and she shall rejoice in the time to come. She opens her mouth with wisdom, and on her tongue is the law of kindness. She watches over the ways of her household and does not eat the bread of idleness. Her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praises her Many daughters have done well, but you excel them all. Charm is deceitful, and beauty is passing, but a woman who fears the Lord shall be praised. Give her the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates. Amen Father, thank you for the Word of God on today. Thank you for this opportunity we have to open it up to Scripture. I pray for strength and guidance and wisdom and clarity of thought and speech. As I preach this gospel on this morning, Lord God, shall anyone who doesn't know you come to know you? Shall those who are drifting in fellowship restore And renew the broken fellowship. I pray, eternal God, that you would speak in such a way that each person would know that you are speaking I know that there is a difficulty on this morning for some people, Lord God, but I pray even in the difficulty in their hearing that you would remove the barriers and speak clearly to their hearts. Remind them that you still love them and that you still care for them. Help them to understand that you have not forgotten them. I pray, eternal God, that you would edify this body and glorify yourself. And when it's all said and done, Lord God, we will give your name. The glory, the honor, and the praise for you alone are worthy of it all. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen. And amen. Once again I want to say Happy Mother's Day to all of our mothers on this morning. We are grateful, uh so grateful for each and every one of you. I think we all should be keenly aware that without you we wouldn't be here. Absolutely. Even though the woman came from the man, the Bible says that every one of us came through the woman. Amen. And so we are indebted to you in a multitude of ways. On this particular day of Mother's Day, we realize that there are mothers who are mothers by birth, there are mothers who are mothers by adoption, as well as mothers who are mothers by compulsion and choice. In other words, somebody left some kids for you. You wasn't really choosing to be a mother. They just left them there, and then you had to be the mother. Amen, somebody. And then there were those who chose to be. And so we appreciate you no matter how you came into motherhood. We want to appreciate you and thank you on this morning. And let me say mothers fall into a variety of kinds and categories, if you will, or classes, if you will. Some are good and some are not so good. And some are rich and some are poor, some are easygoing and slip anything past them, and then there are others that you ain't getting nothing past them. They are the strict disciplinarians, and so uh there's a variety of types of mothers out there. Um some mothers out there actually playing mother and father Uh through some circumstances that they have found themselves in as single parents. They are trying to play both roles. And I need um children, I need um and regardless of how old you are as a child, to understand that when a person is put into position that they have to play mother and father, sometimes you don't get the soft side. Amen. Because they're trying to keep you out of trouble. And they're trying to do it all by themselves. And so they might be a little more stern, they might be a little more harsh than somebody else's mother who has a mother and father. And so you got to give them some grace because they are doing what they can with what situation they have. And so we pray for them as well. But I do just want to encourage us to give them grace. Sometimes people are a little hard on the single parent mother because she wasn't the Disney type dad. Amen. Y'all know what I'm talking about. In other words, she wasn't always taking you to the amusement park and buying candy and cake 'cause she was just trying to feed you. Amen. And she was trying to keep you out of jail and keep you from being getting pregnant and keeping you off drugs and trying to Trying to do the best she could with what she had. And so we appreciate those mothers as well. There are also a group of mothers who never gave birth to a child at all But yet they have stepped in and been the guiding light, the stable support and encouragement, the wisdom bearer the shoulder to cry on, the one in which you could always depend to go to, and yet she was a mother to you that never gave birth to you. And so we as well want to honor and appreciate those mothers as well because again, as I was saying, there's just a whole host of categories of mothers that we have in our lives But regardless of what the position is or what kind of a mother or what class she may find herself in, I I do want to um uh say that I believe that each and every mother is worthy of some honor. And I believe that we ought to encourage them as often as we can. Amen. In fact, I I cringe to think that we only think about it once a year that you would honor your mother, that you would bless her just one time a year, but I think that um even as I was Uh sharing with one of the musicians this morning, he said, I don't just do that one time a year. This is all the time. And that's the way it ought to be. I want to encourage you on this morning through this text as I talk to you from the subject matter, give her her praise. In the process of performing premarital counseling, one of the things that I share with The perspective of husbands is that women suck up praise like a sponge sucks up water And I encourage my prospective husbands to make sure that you are always filling your wife's sponge with praise. In the marital scenario, my encouragement is to fill your wife's sponge with praise because if you don't do it, someone else will. I'm already preaching way better than y'all saying amen. And in the scenario of this mother on this morning, I would suggest that there are some mothers with dry sponges. Who don't get the praise on a regular basis from their children, whom they have made great sacrifices for, whom they have uh robbed Peter to pay Paul to make sure they could do some things and have some things. And so I want to try to encourage us on today to fill up some mother's sponges with praise on today. Because I I'm just a firm believer that they are uh enormously worthy of it. In this particular text, the king Lemule shares with us some insights that his mother gave to him about being, first of all, an honorable king, how he was to live as an honorable king. His mother's advice. And then how he was to choose an honorable woman as his queen and mother of his children. That's what Proverbs thirty-one is really all about. It is a king sharing with us what his mother shared with him about being an honorable man and being an honorable king and choosing an honorable wife. And the question was presented here in the text, who can find a virtuous woman? Or wife, if you will. Now, preceding that, the uh Lemuel shares that Uh his mother had told him, Don't give your strength and your honor to just any old woman. Lord help us right here But she gives him some advice as to how to choose the right kind of woman. This really is a great recipe for those of single men out there that are trying to find somebody This is a great text to exegete and find the right woman. Amen. With authentic parts. I'm just saying. It's in the text, it really is. And so as I picked up in verse ten of the text is where he begins to share with us what his mother shared with him about this virtuous wife and mother. Because though he begins with the word wife as you move through the text You gain the great insight that this is not just a wife that the advisement is regarding, but the advisement is for a mother of children. But in a biblical, true biblical way, before you get the mother, you need to have a wife. Y'all can catch that one later. That's why we start the text with who can find a virtuous wife. She don't be looking for a mother before you look for a wife. That's good right there. That's good. That's that's just good. So in the text what we discover is that a A virtuous mother, first of all, he lays out for us the characteristics of a virtuous mother. The characteristics of a virtuous mother Mother. A virtuous mother is not virtuous because you put the title on her as being virtuous. It doesn't come just by saying, oh, she's virtuous. She's a mother, she's virtuous. No. Um what the text helps us to understand is that there are characteristics of a virtuous mother And the characteristics of a virtual mother are not necessarily the ones that we as men And perhaps children would chase after when we were looking for a mother or a wife. Can I just be straight with this this morning? Men, sometimes our pursuit for a wife has more to do with uh anatomy than it has to do with uh the other issues of this text. Amen, somebody. We're focusing in on the things that can be grabbed and held and stuff like that. We're not necessarily looking in on the characteristics of this text, but the text helps us because the things that we are uh migrating to Um not just um anatomically, but in terms of the beauty. We want that pretty face, we want the short hair, long hair. red, yellow, blue hair, whatever it is, but we're drawn visually to s a certain attraction, but the attraction might not make her the virtuous mother of the children that you want to sire. Help me, God. Um, and so what Lemuel's mother does for him is she gives him some wisdom about the characteristics to look for. King, don't just be looking for the blonde girls or the thin girls or the fat girls or the the the 36, 24, 36 No, Lemuel, there's more to a woman, there's more to a good and virtuous mother than the size of her clothing and the size of her garments. No Lemuel, she's given him these caracteristics that might help him. And sometimes as children we also probably wouldn't even choose some of these characteristics if we were gonna choose the one that we wanted to be the mother. We want a mother who's gonna feed us all the time and and be soft all the time and and keep daddy off of us all the time and and just agree with us all the time. But the m the Mule's mom says that ain't the kind of mother that your children are going to need. Are some characteristics she lays out in the text that his mother had given to him. And as I was beginning to walk through this text, I I first of all saw that Uh one of the characteristics, the first characteristic, if you will, came in verse number 10, and that characteristic is that you're looking for in a virtuous mother. A virtuous mother has a value that is uh incomprehensible. In other words, her worth is more than money can buy Lord have mercy. Um I think about my mother and I think about my wife and I think about how priceless they are to me. Lord have mercy. Their value is more than rubies and diamonds and pearls Their value is insurmountable because I wouldn't sell them for any price. If you asked me how much are they worth to you, I would tell you they are priceless. Now can I talk to us for for real for real? Now you oftentimes don't get to that until you live through some things with the people. And and when I look back on what my mother brought me through and the things she did to help me and the things she did to be patient with me, and I think about the way my wife has been to my children and how she's been to me as a wife and how she's been supportive. I'd say I can't find a better one. Oh yeah, she's priceless. She's priceless. Don't even look that way. They are not for sale. Her value, her worth is far above rubies. Her heart, the heart of her husband, safely trust her, so she uh he wouldn't have no need of lack and gain. She does him good and not evil all the days of her life. Her care for her husband is another characteristic of the virtuous mother. She has a care uh for her husband such that she has committed her life to doing him good and not evil. I love this. This is good stuff. I'm not let me see if I can how I can say this. Um the the the woman who has made a commitment of her life that regardless Some of y'all know some mothers like this that regardless of how the husband did her, she did not return evil for evil. My God. This is part of what makes her priceless. She loves him and she commits to love him and do him good and not evil all the days of her life. She takes good care of her man, her husband. Another characteristic here in the text is that she works diligently and uh the way she uses her hands By the examination of her hands, you can probably see the labor of her love. Help me, Jesus As I walk through the text, it says, with her hands she seeks wool and flax and and willingly works with her hands. She's not afraid to get her hands dirty. She'll wipe snot off your face with her hand. Y'all y'all know what I'm talking about? Y'all ever seen mothers I I don't know how they do it. Even when I was my kids were little and my wife would just go Just wipe stuff with her hand. She'll reach all in their mouth. She just with her hand. Something about a virtuous mother. She'll use them hands and she'll use them to labor and to work flax willingly and She's like a merchant ship, the the text says she she goes and brings food. She uses her hands and and goes afar and gets food and and drives all the way to this store and that store. And if the price is too much, she'll go to another store because she knows She's got to stretch what she has to make it work. But she uses her hands to get what's necessary so that the family can have what they need, Lord have mercy, and that they can go on and sit down at the regular time and eat like Like everything was okay and not really ever realize how much it took her to do what she did as she labored over the over the pots and as she Cut up beans and and as she as she boiled this and she baked that and she seasoned this, all this work that she did with her hands so that her family could be satisfied. Her hands are are an integral part of the characteristics of of who she is. She she rises while it is yet night And provides food for her household. And not only for her household, but also another portion for the maid servant. She's laboring and working with her hands. She compromises her sleep. In order to get up early enough. I uh what this text reminded me of is the holidays would would come about and and and sometimes my mother would would start the meal the day before, but oftentimes she would get up very early in the morning Lord help me. And and and she'll she'll get up early in the morning while everybody is still asleep and she'll put something in the crock pot or something like that. And she'll She'll get it started. And and my wife does the same thing sometimes when she's cooking, she'll get up early and and I'm thinking, What what is that smell? I'm laying there just having a good old you know sleep and all of a sudden the aroma of the food starts coming upstairs Lord have mercy. And and then she eases back in the bed. And I'm thinking somebody is downstairs cooking. And and I don't really I at that point I hadn't realized she would had already been up early And got these things started so that by the time everybody else got up, it would be well on its way. Y'all hearing what I'm saying? Anybody had a mother like that She labors with her hands. She's working to make sure all the things are taken care of. She uh considers a field and buys it. She Uh from her prophet she plants a vineyard, she's laboring with her hands, even in the soil, to plant a vineyard, to plant plant to plant I know this doesn't happen to the modern day women because they don't plant nothing no more but back in the day Lord have mercy they they used to have gardens Amen. And they would plant beans and and potatoes and they would dig in the soil. They go outside and and fight the flies and the bees and the mosquitoes. And they would be out. Anybody got a country mama? Y'all know what I'm talking about. And then she would preserve stuff. Amen. And when it was time to eat it, you didn't go to shoppers and wagmans. No, you went downstairs to the freezer. Amen. And you pull that stuff out the freezer, and when you pulled it out the freezer and she cooked it, it tasted like it just came out the field. Y'all hear what I'm saying? Now we call it organic. Back then we called it food. These are the characteristics of this virtuous mother who works labors with her hands and the tax Let's us know that she girds herself with strength and she strengthens her arms and and perceives that her merchandise is good. Her lamp does not go out by night. She stretches out her hands to the distaff and her hand holds the spindle and she works and she labors and she extends her hand to the poor. Yes, she reaches out her hands to the needy, even when you didn't have enough. Amen. I'm I'm just only talking to a few people. When you didn't have enough mama had a way of stretching what she had to feed other people that had less than you had Amen, somebody. She cared enough, not just about her own family, but she cared about her community and she cared about other people. Now this is a virtuous mother. This is this is the characteristics of a virtuous mother who who took care of her family and she had uh she had extra to to take care and look out for others and even looked out for the poor. And and what's amazing to me is sometimes when you were growing up you were thinking you were poor, but there were people that were worse off than you were. And mama was giving stuff to them and you thinking, why are you giving stuff to them? Because we we need that. But God's got a way when her heart is for the Lord and she's doing the work of God and God has a way to make sure that you don't lack nothing. And look at you now, you healthy. Amen. A little extra healthy maybe even. Them few miss meals or whatever didn't bother you at all. You you good. You you alright. Praise the Lord. characteristics of this mother, she her worth is priceless, her care for her husband is impeccable, her work with her hands is diligent. She has, if you will, um a way that she uses fabric in the text. Pick it up at verse 21. She's not afraid of the snow because she uses the fabric to make sure her household is clothed. With Scarlett. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.