In other words, God has predestined that you will succeed. But but the Lord says, Jeremiah, don't be uncertain because what I did when I made you, when I crafted you, when I created you, I created you perfect Jeremiah, do not be afraid of their faces because they're gonna look at you funny. I need you to know you matter to God. I needed you to have to handle all of that because where I'm taking you, you need some mental toughness. He had you on his mind. Be certain of who you are and whose you are and that you will win because you matter to God. He knew us. And set us apart while we were still sinners. You can have this, you're gonna have that, all kinds of stuff is gonna come. Lord, if there's anybody who has walked in and under the sound of my voice, doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, God today. I need to get in line with the plan you have for my life. That your life was going to take the way he made you was fearfully and wonderfully. In their fingerprinting. Whatever I tell you, whatever message I send with you, Jeremiah, you're gonna give that message. Jeremiah. and drop you off in an assembly line. Have mercy and bless me, save me, sanctify me, ordain me, set me in Kingdom Building. Voices behind the song. This is what he says. Hidden from you. And that you would fulfill what he has purposed for you to fulfill. That God. fingers nor your ten toes match each other and nobody else created on earth will ever have the exact same fingerprints or toe prints that you have When I have made you perfect for the assignment. Response to Jeremiah is so definitive. Now, I'm gonna say it this way. And God told Jared, told, told Jonah, Jonah, get up and go to Nineveh. know that story. finally start praying and saying Lord I think I'm gonna do what you told me to do. gonna capture you Jeremiah but you you're gonna need some deliverance but I'm going to deliver you Jeremiah you will be successful and how do I know that because I'm with you that's what the Lord Lord says Jeremiah, you will be successful, for I am with you to deliver you, says the Lord. The success is up to God. Watch this because no matter what comes, hell or high water, he's with you. Because you matter to God. Don't worry about it because he's with you. Lord help me here. Lord help me here. And then, Lord help me here. I know everybody is saying some people are saying, well, Pastor, I wish I had been born in another family because the family I was born in was taking you to a place. I know you matter because help me here. to the time that was yet to come. Jesus didn't die till two thousand years ago. Who you are be based on what God says about you, not based on what people say. As Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the Spirit of Excellence us no easy road. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. chance. you have your your your pathway of life is ordained of God I need us to hear this God has already ordained the pathway of your life watch this hold hold your finger here I want you to turn back. here in the text and there's this pre-incarnational setting apart that we see in the text but here's the part that you really got to grab a hold of there is a predestinal uh oh pre predestinal success that that god has already put in place Uh uh I cannot speak. ministry if you will. Qualified. Think that you can't do what God says you could do. For the assignment that's in front of you, and there is no way that you're going to fail, Jeremiah. You shall go to all to whom I send you. Give you you shall go to everywhere I send you. And tell us that our pathway is going to be successful. There is no failure in him. He's gonna bring it to pass. weed and minnows and dead fish decomposing stuff for three days. It's the hard way because they were uncertain if they could accomplish it. Because God is with you when you're going through hell in the classroom and your classmates are trying to trip you up and try to make you look a certain way Worry about it because the Lord is with you. Complete the assignment and be sure about what God has called you to do because He's with you. years ago but before the foundation of the world my bible says he died just for you when they nailed him help me Jesus to that rugged cross Me apart, so I could be here this morning to meet you in the legacy center, to talk to you online, to preach to you on the radio, and tell you he lives. About the quality, I qualified you. with the voices behind the song. are different and there's differences about the their skin, their height, their weight, their eyes. I ordain you a prophet to the nations, and listen to Jeremiah's response of uncertainty because there is this preconceptional knowledge that we you and whatever I commend you or command you uh to speak you shall speak. you to deliver you says the Lord Jeremiah your uncertainty is pouring out I hear you Jeremiah saying you're not sure about this thing I hear you not saying that you're not you're not you're not convinced about it about you're going to succeed i'm giving you an assignment but you shall go and you shall deliver the message and you shall be successful jerry God fashioned you just so you could have finished the assignment. Don't let their faces frighten you, Jeremiah. That you gotta be uh kind of attuned to. tough the family I was born into was hard the family I was born into wasn't easy but I needed you to go through that Because he looked down through the eons of time before the foundation of the world, before Genesis chapter 1 and verse 1. He allowed them to bury him in a bottle or two because you matter to him. Jesus, help me God. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Today, draw them to yourself that they may come and say, Lord, I need to be saved. With his purpose today. And I thank you. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. I know you matter to God because he formed you with his own hands. Let's go back to 14. You were conceived. Yes, sir. Well let me tell you the best I got after he died on the cross, he went into Landover, saved the wretch like me. located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. You're going to be successful. Are y'all hearing me? The selected one that we would send to a whole nation. Because you matter. Yes, Lord. And he has set the path of your life in order such that you will succeed. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. navigated everything to get me where he needed to get me so that I can have all the things happen in my life. And wonderfully made. Be certain of that. But let your will be done in this place and we'll give your name all the glory, all the honor, and all the praise. I don't know how I got here except to know that God ordained it before I was born. God has so uniquely crafted us that even among identical twins, the fingerprints are different. You got to be certain about who you are. Being yet formed, and in your book, they all were written, the days fashioned for me. To do a work for him. So even I look back now, I know he was God that got me here. When as yet there were none of them. You might go to some of the places that I send you. I'm going to deliver you. And so there are other priests and prophets that would be more qualified and of age and maturity that would be For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. I mean ain't nothing out there but cold weather open fields big giant rabbits running around When I was made in secret and skillfully wrought in the lowest parts of the earth, your eyes saw my substance. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. He had to do all that to get my attention because there were too many other things distracting me here, and he took me all the way to North Dakota to get my attention to say, I've called you to preach my gospel. I want I want to read it just a couple verses out of Psalms 139. Jonah had already been predestined by God. When they bully you on the playground, don't worry about a thing because the Lord is with you. And we need to be certain that he can accomplish it in and through us. Your assignment is just be obedient to God because God is going with you. And then in order for you to have life, Lord Jesus, he breathed in you his own breath. He lives and you matter. I don't care how you were conceived, you were not an accident from God. Praise the Lord. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Jeremiah, there is pre-incarnational setting apart of you. You're not here by your own uh pursuit. For you formed my inward parts. He did it the hard way. On the third day, with all power in his hands, because you matter to him He orchestrated all that because preaching wasn't nowhere on my radar or agenda. I'm not sure, but I think if I had never left this area and God took me, sent me to North Dakota where ain't nothing out there. Because you matter to him. You can do it the easy way or you can do it the hard way. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Do you realize that? You are important to him. Lord, have mercy. I don't think he got the right person. And Jeremiah, this word that's used here of youth is really a young adult because Jeremiah is somewhere between 20 and 25 years old. And if you're in him, there's no failure in you. I know it doesn't look like it's gonna work out the way you want it to work out, but I stop by to let you know you can be certain of you. It's gonna come. I'm not just with you till the end of the test, I'm with you till the end of the age. Because your path is predestined, and you're predestined to success. You need to be able to deal with some some negativity. Don't care if they turn their back on you, it doesn't matter. They didn't create you. And we could be certain of us because Before we even could see. Listen, when you talk, uh, when you when you when you accept what God uh gives you to do, don't worry about the success of it. And I laid out your path. No, he individually, specially made you and crafted you and shaped you I need you to understand something. When you came into the world, in order for you to uh finish and accomplish your assignment, he picked the family, Lord Jesus, that you were going to be born into. He says, I'm with you, Jeremiah. Say yes to God. Lord have mercy. He's making intercession. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. You ain't like nobody else. It's so certain. He knew you, Lord Jesus. They're gonna be ugly. You are important to him. You matter to him. In this life, you will have trouble. You matter too much to him for him to leave you, and so therefore you can go on and You got ten fingers and ten toes, and God was so careful in making you unique that He made sure that none of your ten Because when he made you and he crafted you and he created you, he created you like nobody else, Lord. Marvelous are your works that my soul knows very well. Listen to Jeremiah when he responds. I could go to 13, but it's just a whole lot. For I am with you to deliver you, Jeremiah. And so therefore he's with you. He's sitting on the right hand of the Father right now And Jeremiah, uh, you you're gonna tell them the message I tell you to tell them. Uh huh. Because in Christ, and if you are born again, you're in Christ. No, no, no, no. God says to Jeremiah, don't say that you have insufficiencies or inadequacies So he ended up in the belly of a fish for three days, three nights, turned upside down with a bunch of sea And I want you to be clear that you are not an accident from God. No. God formed you. And and prophesied that city. Because Jeremiah doesn't, God doesn't say Jeremiah, Jeremiah, um, don't say that you're a youth because you might be able to succeed. You will be successful, but Jeremiah, I'm gonna have to deliver you. And he gave his own life on a cross. He knew every every good thing and every bad thing. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. Whether they talk about you behind your back, he's with you. He's not gonna leave you, he's not gonna forsake you, he's always gonna be with you to complete the assignment But when it comes, remember this. Jeremiah, let me just read it to you. You need to be certain about you. He he says to Jeremiah very very emphatically, very commandingly, Jeremiah, you They're gonna be sneering at you and stuff. Draw them today, Lord. You covered me in my mother's womb. Lord have mercy. You matter to him and he died for you. I had a divine counsel in heaven. Trust me, trouble will come. It was because he preordained and purposed my life. And whatever God began in you, he's going to complete it until the end Even for the days began to be numbered. They just got to know you. I I I cannot speak for I am a youth. And Jeremiah says, I'm I'm really not the one I can't speak, but the Lord rebukes Jeremiah and all of you who Lord have mercy. Praying for you. That's a great question. He put in you everything you need that you might accomplish the assignment. Oh have mercy. Even those who have identical twins, we call them identical twins. And he sounds just like us. Jeremiah, this isn't this is not anything to be uncertain And I want us to understand something how careful God was when He made you. That's how we that's how we respond. When they pierced him in his side, he had you on his mind. But but Lord, I'm not qualified. God's will, God's desire, his purpose for your life is that you would have everlasting life. Before the days even came into existence, God already had fashioned the direction. Pastor, how do you know I'm important to God, Lord? And he has knowledge of you. I want to talk to somebody this morning. That's a great question. He had already been set apart by God. Psalm 139. No matter what it is, what the assignment is He has for you. Listen to what God says to Jeremiah. In other words, Jeremiah, you will not fail the assignment that I And Jonah said, I ain't going to Nineveh. I want you to know something. In secret nobody saw it. And so when you're on your job and they stab you in the back and they're trying to get you written up, don't worry about it It only manifests. Do not be afraid of their faces for I am with you Father, in the name of Jesus, thank you for your word. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Jeremiah, before you were born, I formed you, I shaped you in the mother's womb. Then I shaped you around what you would need to finish this Be certain of who you are. All the little pieces of my life God orchestrated to get me right here where I am He says, But the Lord said to me, Do not say I am a you, for you shall go to all to whom I send you Notice something he says to Jeremiah in verse 8, I believe it is. If you read the whole psalm later on, but let me just read some of the verses in Psalm 139. He created you, he crafted you around his knowledge of you If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. I'm trying to help somebody here. Jeremiah says, uh, Lord God I wish I could get it out like I feel it this morning because I need somebody here. Yeah. I don't care if your mother gave you up for adoption, you're not an accident from God. No. Y'all know the story of Jonah? You're gonna have court cases, you're gonna have accusations Praying for me. Before we even broke the wound, he set us apart I laid out your path, what you were gonna do, how you where you were gonna go. Draw those who are weak and hurting. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. You are not an accident. Jeremiah, you will be successful. Because the pathway that I'm on is going to lead me to hell and destruction. And God fixed it. Pastor, how do you know that? When you're going through hell in your marriage, don't I want you to not be afraid of the assignment God has given you because He's with you And based on his knowledge of you Please join us again He knew you before you were even born, before you even conceived. I I I just wonder how many people are in the belly right now. That means you're gonna get in there's gonna be some trouble. Lord Jesus. Lord, I no, I qualified you. I'm with you There's all kinds of differences. Jeremiah, God, God's responsible In him, there is no failure. I need you to hear me this morning That's what the text said. I'm going to back up to verse 15. Jeremiah, I'm sending you with a message they don't want to hear. I'm going somewhere else. Two thousand years I spoke to myself, and I agreed with myself, you're qualified You're here where you are. Oh Lord God He had already been called by God to be the prophet to go to Nineveh. Lord Jesus, help me God. He knew us But he's a young adult and he's young in the priestly ministry It's in Jesus' name I pray m. And so unique you've been created that you don't even have two fingers that match. We thank you in advance for uniting with us God didn't promise I'm or 11 a. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. God is certain about his path for us Jeremiah, you're gonna be successful, and even when trouble comes, and it's gonna come. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message How can you say that of us? You shall do that, you shall speak to them. Call Calvary. He was buried for you. God worked it out. My frame was not hidden And he got on the boat and went somewhere else. You matter to God. Praying for us. I will praise you, for I am fearful In secret, he formed you and shaped you because you mattered to him. Well, because before The vocation You can be encouraged, you can be certain because the Lord is with you m. Then there's also another hint in this text Now he's bringing you their stories. I d I'm not You're not going to fail. You are not here by child at our new edifice called the Legacy Center. God made you just so that you could accomplish the assignment org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. It was not in my plans. You matter to God. Now he's bringing you their stories. They are not identical. The One Degree of Andy podcast. How can you preach to us Christians? Have mercy. Lord Jesus. God Draw them to yourself When God made you, He didn't make you like anybody else Let Pastor, what do you mean? He says to Jeremiah, Jeremiah The One Degree of Andy podcast. Because we matter to him. And then he I know he matters. You're not going to turn back. I set it in a He got up for you. And I know, Lord Jesus, you matter to God. So Jeremiah I'm Andy Christman. Do I He got up Bless his name. org No, you're a very intentional work of God. You and I matter to him Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. They're fingerprints. I'm Andy Christman. I don't know who I'm talking to this morning, but I need somebody. You must have your chronology mixed up. Get in line Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. I know you matter because he made your fingerprints different. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. You shall do what God said you're going to do. He looked out in In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down You matter to him. Pastor, that ain't enough for me. He didn't form you in a group and a Yes, my You matter to him. You can Lord