Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to 1 Samuel chapter 15. We'll begin our reading at verse number 1. The word of the Lord reads as follows. Samuel also said to Saul, The Lord sent me to anoint you king over his people, over Israel. Now therefore heed the voice of the words of the Lord. Thus says the Lord of hosts, I will punish Amalek for what he did to Israel and how he ambushed him on the way when he came up from Egypt. Now go and attack Amalek. And utterly destroy all that they have, and do not spare them, but kill both man and woman, infant and nursing child, ox and sheep, camel and donkey. And so Saul gathered the people together and he numbered them in Tellium 200,000 foot soldiers and 10,000 men of Judah. And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and he lay in wait in the valley. And Saul said to the Kenites, Go and depart, and get down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them. For you showed kindness to all the children of Israel when they came out of Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites. And Saul attacked the Amalekites from Hivelah all the way to Shur, which is east of Egypt. He also took Agad, king of the Amalekites, alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword. But Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep, the oxen, the fatlings, the lambs, and all that was good, and were unwilling to utterly destroy them But everything despised and worthless they utterly destroyed. Now the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying, I greatly regret that I have set up Saul as king. For he has turned back from following me and has not performed my commandment. And it grieved Samuel, and he cried out to the Lord all night Verse 16. Then Samuel said to Saul, Be quiet, and I will tell you what the Lord said to me last night. And he said to him, Speak on. So Samuel said, When you were little in your own eyes, and were not head of the tribe of Israel, and did not the Lord anoint you king over Israel? Now the Lord sent you on a mission and said, go and utterly destroy the sinners of the Amalekites and fight against them until they are consumed. Why then did you not obey the voice of the Lord? Why did you swoop down on the spoil and to do evil in the sight of the Lord? Saul said to Samuel, But I have obeyed the voice of the Lord and gone on the mission on the Lord sent me and brought back Agad, king of Abamelech, and I have utterly destroyed the Amalekites, but the people Took of the plunder, the sheep, the oxen, and the best of the things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice to the Lord your God in Gilgal. So Samuel said, Has the Lord so great a delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice. And to heed than the fat of rams. For rebellion is as a sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness as the iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he also has rejected you from being king. Father, I need you that you might declare clearly this word in our presence on this morning. That we might grow thereby, that we might be drawn closer to you. And Father, if we don't know you as Lord and Savior of our life, there's any that might be amongst us or who hear this word, I pray that you would draw them by your spirit. That you might cause them to come into relationship and fellowship with you. Spirit of the Lord, I pray that this word will come full with strength and understanding, conviction, that we might grow to be more like you. To look like you, to act like you. And Father, even to be encouraged by your word. Accomplish whatever it is you desire your word to do on this day, God, and we will give your name the glory and the honor and the praise. I stand as a vessel, Lord. I'm only a vessel willing to be used by you to accomplish your will. So Lord, speak through these lips of clay. They are willing to be used by you. Speak, God, in such a way that your word is clear. Allow me clarity of thought and speech, that your people might be edified, the devil horrified. In Jesus' name. Amen. This book of Samuel tells the story of Saul, the first king, and Samuel, the last judge. It also gives, in brief, the beginnings of David's life as David comes on the scene as the new king to be In this text, we're going to see the failure of this first king Saul, who places the value of material possessions above the value of obedience to God. A lesson that many have to learn and a difficult and painful one that he has to learn. Saul had no problem here in the text. Disobeying what God had told him, but rather putting before the Word of God his own desires and to actually steal What belonged to God, which God had declared as holy to himself. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter, stealing a little from God. This is probably the first of some messages I want to preach some stewardship type messages. I'll just title this series of messages, Handling the Holy Properly. Most, if not all, of us are aware and know that God has declared 10% of Your gross income as the tithe and is holy to God Within the last few weeks, you probably obtained two documents that will help you with this situation. One of the documents you received was I think it's called a W-2. And the other document that you received, well you you should have received, was a giving statement from the church. If you didn't receive a W 2 or 1099, that means you didn't work last year. Or at least you were not working on the books. You was getting money under the table. And if you didn't get a giving statement From the church, that means you didn't give. So this is how it worked. You use these two documents to help yourself Find out whether or not where you are. And so if you look at your earnings statement, it'll say you your gross income was Whatever. So let's just say it's 40,000, 85,000, 150,000, 200,000, whatever it is, 300,000. So they'll have a line on there that says this is your total gross earnings Now, so what you what you should be able to do is take that that that column and compare it to your giving statement. And your giving statement should represent as a minimum 10% of that gross Income line. And so the the best way to figure out, because I know some of us didn't do too well in math, so I'm gonna make it real easy. So I was really good at math. All you need to do is if you move the comma. From your gross salary over one place to the left That would represent 10% of your gross salary. Y'all still here with me And so let's just say hypothetically you made sixty thousand dollars. Well, when you get your giving statement, we move the comma over one, so your giving statement should say as a minimum. 6,000. Now I know this is a house full of some some heavy hitters and hard rollers. So 60,000 ain't even in your you made that in the first three months. So for the heavy hitters, if your column says 300,000, amen, you just move it over one to the left, step to the left, slide to the left, just one column. And so your giving statement should say 30,000 as a minimum. Okay? Because that that's the tithe. Which God said is holy and is holy unto him. Y'all still here with me? Now, just in case Your giving statement does not rise to the level of that ten percent What it means is that you, like Saul, have stolen a little from God. Let's see what we can what we can learn from Saul's situation First of all, as I read through this text, I see that there is first an exaltation by grace. To the position of anointed. Samuel comes to Saul and he says to Saul in verse number one: The Lord sent me to anoint you king over his people, over all of Israel. Lord sent me to anoint you as king. Now I need you to understand something about this anointing that Samuel is about to do to Saul. It is it is it is truly by grace That Samuel is sent by God to anoint Saul as king over Israel. Stay here with me Because in chapter 13, if you go back and read through the story, you'll find out in chapter 13, Saul was given a responsibility that he he's he's supposed to be managing some Stuff and and he's he's waiting on Samuel to get there, but he's too anxious and he won't wait till Samuel gets there. And so he goes in outside of the lines in order what he should have been doing And he goes in and he offers, uh, he goes in the temple and he's not supposed to be. And so he goes in and does some stuff as as the role that Samuel should have been doing as priest. And he so he violates his position And God at that point is angry with him, and Samuel is angry with him, and so um this now comes after that. Now, after God is now so Sam Saul is getting a second chance So this is a grace opportunity. There's no way, Saul, you should be being anointed as king. So this is grace. This is grace. So God. Is now gracing Saul to be anointed as king over all of his kingdom. Grace. Now watch this. In the same way, you and I are living in and walking in grace of being anointed. Lord Jesus. None of us deserves to be anointed by God. Thank you, Jesus. But because of his grace That he loved us so much that he died for us and he provided salvation for us and he embraced us even though we were wicked Desperately wicked sinners. He loved us anyhow. He embraced us anyhow. And then once he embraced us as his own, he anointed us as his own. But none of us deserves to be anointed. Don't get that twisted. None of us. For every born-again child of God, let me help you with this because a lot of folks say I'm I'm born again, but I ain't anointed. If you're born again, you're anointed. But no, God has anointed every born-again believer. So you're anointed, but your anointing is by grace. You don't deserve it. You don't deserve to be anointed to be an administrator. You didn't deserve to be anointed to be a musician or a choir member or whatever giftedness that God has given you. You don't deserve that. It's all by his grace. Matter of fact, if we look at the text of this The fact that God has entrusted Saul with all that belongs to him, his whole kingdom. He says, Okay, Saul, I'm anointing you to be king over my whole kingdom. That's grace. And so this this anointing it came when the anointing came, when God anoints um Sam Samuel anoints Saul as king. There are two things that come along with the anointing. One of the things that comes along with the anointing is some guidelines. He says to Saul, he says, now, therefore, heed the voice of the words of the Lord. Guideline. Listen to God and heed his voice. Now I know heed is a word y'all might not use too commonly. But he means obey. Do what God says. I'm anointing you as king over all of Israel, but listen to his word and do what he says. Saul, years from now, people will celebrate your name because you listened to God and did what he said. Saul, the throne will stay in your family if you listen to his word and do what he says. Saul, God will bless you coming in and bless you going out. If you listen to his word and do what he said This is the guidelines for your anointing. So the anointing came with the guideline, but it also came with an assignment. Here's the assignment picks up in verse number two. It says, Now thus says the Lord of hosts: I will punish Amalek. For what he did to Israel and how he ambushed him on the way when he came from Egypt. Now go and attack Amalek and utterly destroy all that they have. Do not spare them, but kill both man, woman, infant, nursing child, ox, sheep, camel, donkey. In other words, wipe them out. Kill everybody. So watch this. So so um God says to um to Saul, Saul, the the the assignment for you I want you to go and I want you to harem. It's the Hebrew word harem. I want you to harem uh Amalek. And what that word means is I want now it's it's been 500, almost 500 years Since Amalek has snuck up behind Israel and attacked Israel when they were leaving Egypt. And God told them then, I'm going to repay you for what you did. Now it's almost 500 years later, and God said, now is the time. I'm going to repay Amalek for what they did. But watch this. But I want them to be destroyed as uh as a holy offering to me. He wants Saul to go in. And Saul, I want you to understand something. Now Saul gets this. We don't get it because we don't understand. When you translate to English, we lose stuff. When he says utterly destroy to us, that just means go in and wipe out everything. But the word harem is a is a holy word in Hebrew. It means to wholly destroy them. For a holy purpose because it's holy to God. And so what God is saying, I want you to destroy everybody and everything in Amalek as a holy offering to myself They belong to me. And I've waited 500 years to get them back. And now is the time that I want them offered up to me as a holy offering. Everything and everybody in Amalek is mine and I want them all destroyed. That's where God is So now, so Amalek and all of its pieces and all of its parts are to be a harem, are to be a holy offering to God. And God says, and he gives instruction, the assignment to Saul, who he has now anointed as king by grace. To go in and take care of that. And so it sounds like, as you kind of start moving through the text, it kind of sounds like Saul got it You get to verse 4 after he gives them this instructions, and this is some harsh instructions. Kill the babies, the nerfs, and infants, the ox, the shamps, just kill everybody, everything. Don't leave nothing. Saul gathers all the people together and he numbers them. I've already provided you with what you need to do to accomplish what I've given you as an assignment. You don't need to count it Don't count the money, just do what I said do. I've given you everything you need to take care of you and to make sure that you can do what I just told you to do. But but Saul starts counting the people So he counts the people and he figures okay we got enough and so Saul came to the city, goes to Amalek, lays wait, waiting for the people there, and then Saul he does one his good part. He talks to the Kenites that are there in Amalek and he says to the Kenites, you Y'all not didn't come to destroy you, so y'all can get out while you can, because we can ready to destroy this whole city. And so he goes in. So it sounds like things are going pretty well. Then we get to verse 7. So now, as we look at this, first of all, I want to keep this in your mind. This exaltation of Saul to this position is by grace. So he's he's become anointed by the grace of God. And watch this. So I want you to understand this, and as I walk through this text, the temptation is the next thing that I want you to see the temptation of the anointed. Because once you've been anointed and you've been entrusted and empowered, there's going to be some temptation Okay? So so I want you to see watch watch this temptation of the anointed that that jumps in the text. Picks up a verse number seven. It says, so so No, no, remember, God has just said, I want you to go in and take care of all the stuff, all the amalek, all the people kill everything, kill everybody. Now, what God has just done That is that's interesting to me as I look at this text. What God has just done, He's taken all of Amalek, all the women, all the children, everybody, the sheep, the camel, the ox, the donkeys, the fatlings, everything And he said to Saul, Saul, I'm going to put that in your hand. I'm trusting you with it, Saul. All of Amalek is in your hands. Saul, but I want you, Saul, to listen to what I'm saying and obey me. Go in and destroy it all as an offering to me. And it's a holy offering to me. Here's a temptation. He has all this in his hand. It doesn't belong to him. It belongs to God. God has made it clear. This is mine. is holy and I want it to be offered to me as a holy offering to me. Y'all still hear? And so he's he's got that. And so here's where temptation comes. I got all this stuff. God ain't looking. That's tempting, isn't it? I mean the Amalekites, they done amassed a lot of stuff in 500 years. Oh, did you see that big fat lamb that just walked by? That's lamb chops for a week. Y'all get the picture And and and all the the the s the gold and the silver and the s that that we found when we go in and attack them and they go in and they attack and they found all this stuff and it's oh Temptation. Am I right? So listen, when God puts all of this possession, all of Amalek in the hands of Saul, the temptation starts to rise up in Saul. And listen, Saul is not unique in this. When God puts all the resources in our possession, the temptation starts to rise there too. Because we start thinking, you know, God ain't really, he's not really keeping track of 10%, is he? And it's tempting to take what doesn't belong to us Like for Saul, it was tempting to take what now doesn't belong to you. And that's called stealing. That's why I wanted to make, I wanted I gave the title of the sermon, Stealing a Little Bit. It's not just taking a little bit, it's stealing. Saul is tempted. To take the good stuff. Listen to the text. It says Saul went in and attacked all the Amalekites from and he's running them all the way down from Amalek all to Hivelah, all the way to Shur, which is east. Of the e east of Egypt, he also took Agag, the king of the Amalekites, alive. Now we got a problem. Why? Because Agag was not supposed to be kept alive. But watch this. Here's where temptation rises. Saul is going to take Agag as a trophy. So he can go back home and brag. Look what I did. Look, look what I got. I conquered the king of Amalek, and I got him, and he's gonna put him on display so that he can brag and boast about what he did, even though that doesn't even belong to him. Can I move this over to our life? Sometimes we're looking good on what belongs to God. We're arrogant in Bragging and boasting about what we're driving, what we're living, and where we're doing and what we what's happening, but you're doing it on somebody else's resources Those are not yours. That's God's resource. That's God's holy. And you're living and looking fine and fabulous off of something that's holy unto God. Here is Saul, and he wants to be put himself up in this position like look first of all look what I did and ain't what he did is what God did through him. And then and then he wants to he wants to stick his chest out about it. And so he he takes this king alive so he can have a trophy, so he can parade him in front of all his people so that somehow, watch this, that he'll get some some credentials. Man, Saul, you the man, dog. Look at that. Man, you got no king. You got man, you on top of things. Same temptation that hits us. To steal a little from God so that we can look good and brag about it. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor. Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed. By today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909-Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman of 4Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast. One Degree of Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy. Andy, wherever you get your podcasts