Genesis chapter 11, and we'll begin our reading at verse 1. And it came to pass as they journeyed from the east that they found a plain in the land of Shinar. God, if there's any that don't know you, save them by your amazing grace. Your strength, preach through me, God. That if any don't know you, they come to know you. But most importantly, Lord, that your name will be glorified in all that is done and all that is said. And then on last week we came back to uh to finish off the story of Hezekiah in 2 Kings chapter 20, picked up uh from there and did verses 4 through 11, spoke to you from the subject matter, priority of proof. And then God starts all over, and now the people and the nations are multiplying. And they say, come, let us build ourselves a city. If I didn't say it this way, you stopped and you got you an apartment. So far too many of us are stopping and being satisfied with priority me, in other words, putting our own priorities above what the plan of God is, and we always are going to come up short You come up short of God's promise, even as they did in the building of this city. But when I keep reading here in verse 4, I see that they not only decided we're going to build a city, they said, and a tower whose top is in the heavens. It's not that I need it right then and there, but you know, my tool people, you know, you always need to have tools. I look around my home and I have everything I need. So in other words, we don't need God to look out for us. And that's what this power represents. Let us make a name for ourselves is is priority me saying I I want to be above God. It says avoid God's will. And we've made it all about us. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Voices behind the song. That one who's looking for wisdom and direction for their life, I pray God that you would speak to them and give them the wisdom that they stand in need of. And so as we've been walking through this series of messages entitled Prioritizing Our Lives, we found out last week, in terms of prioritizing proof, sometimes we get to the place where we just need That was a blessing. But with that, the deadly contamination of sin continues to spread. Then they said to one another, come, let us make bricks. A place in Shannar and then build yourself a city. Let's let me see if I can say that another way. And they they go off and they say, Well, no, we're going to stop right here and build us a city right here. We're gonna make a theme for ourselves. And we're gathering stuff and we're gathering stuff and we're gathering stuff. And we exalt ourselves above God is a dangerous place to be. And so you see the character of the sin nature of Satan is manifesting itself in us through this priority me. That is still in man. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. To make it about them. Because I don't care about what God says. And what happens here in the text that opens this whole thing up is in verse 5 when the text says, and the Lord came down to see the city. No sin will be withheld from them. Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Go down there and confuse their language that they may not understand one another's speech. Alright, if you have your Bibles with you and you should, I want to invite you on today as we continue our series of messages entitled Prioritizing Our Lives. And they said, Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower whose top is in the heavens. But the Lord came down to see the city and the tower which the sons of men had built. from there over the face of the earth, and they cease building the city. Proof and proof is what we have as a priority. And then the preservation or present presentation of God through his actions. It is me that said it, and and and I can do and will do what I said I was going to do. Pushes their priority to become about self. We look at here um the whole earth is is of one speech and one language kind of lay that all out it came to pass that they journeyed to the east all the families are moving together they're traveling together From the east and they found this plain in the land of Shinnar and they dwelt there kind of packed up say parked right here Too many people of God build their cities in these plains when God has bigger plans for them Is taking control. When our our plan becomes a priority over God's, we're always going to come up short of what God intended for us to have. You stopped when you got your associate's degree. It didn't include, it didn't prepare them for the growth that was going to happen that would allow them to spread out and cover the whole world. Because that was God's plan. And so listen when you put priority me ahead of God and you disobey God, again, you keep coming up short. And God's plan is saying, no, don't stop here. I mean, and and the the the the thing that again this priority me, the problem with priority me is it begins to exalt yourself above God Priority me not only causes you to come up short of the promises of God, but priority me also causes you to exalt yourself above God. That you've been building degrees and putting degrees on top of degrees and you've got this all the your your your your your your um Citations on the wall and all your degrees on the wall, and you feel like you know what? But, you know, sometimes when you're building up these stuff and you're putting all these things and you're gathering all this stuff together, it's like building a tower of self-sufficiency. And you're building a tower with all this stuff that says, I really don't need God. where we can really are technically exalting ourselves above God. And so, but notice that in the text, the tower that they want to build is, they want the top of the tower to be in the heavens. And we've got the ability to take care of our own self. We were we were big and bad and did whatever we wanted to do and we felt like you know what I got this and then we got out there and got in some trouble and realized whoo I do need God by that time it was too late Well, Priority Me causes us to abandon the protection of God in the arrogance of the belief that I got myself covered. You know, I I can watch out for myself. That's what he says in the latter part of verse 4. Of the enemy who poisoned us in the first place because even he wanted to be like God. That's in us. They said in their text, let's build this city, let's make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered. Priority me will not allow you to avoid the will of God. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. And the tower which the sons of men have built. And they all have one language, and this is what they begin to do. Because there the Lord confused the language of all the earth. Alright, we um started this journey in 2 Kings chapter 20. Perform miracles in order to let us know and give signs to let us know. And yet it happened such that the evil of the men of the earth had become so great that God sent a flood on the land to destroy all except Noah and his family A lot of people have a very selfish priority. The problem with priority me. There's a series of consequences that are going to unfold. They were not to stop in the plains of Shinar. In the plains of Shinar, you gotta be reminded that in chapter 9, verse 1, they were instructed by God to fill the earth. You end up short all the time. Another problem with their decision to disobey God and putting priority me first is the city that they were building lacked vision. All that God wants for you to have. In the city that they wanted to build, they wanted to build his tower. I can build my tower. What have you built in your life? Is it your stuff that you're stacking up? Okay? Because in this time of the era biblical era, the tower of a city was a place that you would go up and you'd have vigilance so you can see out and you can look around Causing men to continue to try to put his name above the name of Christ. The pride is manifesting itself through priority me. You're always going to come up short of the promises of God. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. So finally in the text, we pick up a verse, the lat the last part of verse 4, it says, Lest we be scattered abroad over the face of the whole earth. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Uh Genesis chapter 11 and beginning at verse number one. You know, build you know make some bricks, make some stones. So priority in me is is problematic. dot org or contact our church office at 301 627 nine five zero zero Then they said to one another, Come, let us make bricks and bake them thoroughly. And here in Genesis chapter 11, this text is the story of Babel, pretty familiar story for most. To become selfish. And pushes us to do things that are not in line with what God called us and asked us to do. That the problem of priority me pushes us to do. And we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. The problem with priority me is that when I use what God has given me to make it about me, And we'll put a tower on it and all that. To sacrifice all that God has given them to make a name for themselves. So, the word of the Lord from Genesis chapter 11, beginning at verse 1, reads as follows: Now the whole earth had one language and one speech For the city they were building. Okay, so is that where you are? But I want to caution you about these towers that we build, because these towers can be very dangerous. So they want this child to go up to the heavens, which represents our vigilance will be divine vigilance. Priority me says I don't I don't I don't care what God says. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. I'm cutting my losses. Priority me, when you put priority me first, when priority me is above God, it says I'm gonna avoid the will of God. In this life, we always gotta be careful about putting our own priorities above the priority of God. Priority me pushes people in business, in ministry, in community, in family. The last thing I want you to see that priority me, the problem of priority me is not only does it cause you to come up short of the promise of God, to exalt yourself above God, but also to avoid the will of God. The will of God was for them to cover the whole earth. The priority me says, I think I can do this without God. It's in our blood. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Would you pray with me this morning? Is this the tower of your finances? Let's make a name for ourselves. And you buying stuff and you buying stuff, you know, and I mean my my wife gives me a hard time all the time because when I go to like Lowe's or Home Depot, I'll go through the tool section and and I might pick up a tool and she said, What you getting that for? One language, and they had the blessing also of a restart of humanity. Even after God restarted creation, the sinful nature is still there. All right. And prior to me says, I'm gonna do it my way instead of doing it God's way. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. It's about we start prioritizing ourselves based on what God has given us. And so the priority of the people became very selfish. Do whatever you can to get outside of God's will. What towers do you have that you built in a sense in essence in the city that is short of the promises of God, but also causing you to exalt yourself above God? It represents that we covering ourselves. No selfish attitude will be withheld from them. I don't care about what God's will is. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Give me clarity of speech, clarity of thought, and allow the word that comes from my mouth, God, to go into the hearts, minds, and souls of those If any have drifted in fellowship, they restore the broken fellowship. God's plan was to multiply them that they would cover the earth. His character is has been transferred into our sinful nature. I look out for myself. Far too many of us stop prior to getting to the full benefit of where God is trying to take us because priority me Praise God for our youth this morning. Eternal God, we thank you for your grace, your mercy, your kindness. And so many times that we're doing the same thing, we're taking the blessing that God has given us, the favor that God has given us, the gift that God has given us And the Lord said, Indeed, the people are of one language. I have food, I have clothes, I have I have everything I need. Okay? So the city that they were building lacked vision. And God said, My plan was for you to keep going, get you a doctorate degree. I'm moving on. I need you to prove yourself, God. And when I build my tower that reaches into the heavens, I have no need of God. We're gonna build a city and um we're gonna build a tower. Don't I don't you ain't gotta be praying for me? You're always gonna end up short of what really God had for you. I'm preaching way better than y'all saying amen. We'll look out for ourselves. But this is a danger of priority me because priority me says I don't need God. Is that that is that what priority me has caused you to build your tower? So actually, what they're doing in the fact of coming up with this great idea, because they were so full of pride, hey, we can build ourselves a city and And the problem with the city that they're building in the plains of Shannar is they didn't think about the future You know, because some people are stacking up money and they stacking it up. I don't care if God says I need to stay here and fight. I pray, Lord God, that you will speak to that one who's discouraged today, that you might encourage them through the Word of God. Means my name should be higher than the name of Christ. Now, this is where it becomes dangerous for them. I want to talk to you from the subject this morning in the third part of this series from the subject matter, the problem with priority me. Just I got the apartment. And oftentimes if you ask people, why are you buying that? That's priority me, but the priority me is dangerous because when you get to priority me, you're outside the will of God. They had the bricks and they had their asphalt for mortar, and they they began to do that They were supposed to be scattered. I know God is saying look it's it's not gonna be the easy route this time. Everything is about me. I'm so highly educated. org and remember to reference the title and broadcast date. We're gonna build ourselves a city here. Genesis chapter 11, verse 1. I need you to prove whatever you said you was gonna do, you was gonna do, and that's where Hezekiah was. Priority me takes the blessings of God and give that are given by grace. We're protecting ourselves. Priority meat always abandons the protection of God. Giving praise and glory to God, using their gifts to glorify him on this morning. Praise the Lord. And from there the Lord scattered them abroad over the face Even though God has started all over, the deadly contamination of sin did not stop. He says, We want to make a name for ourselves. And then secondly, you're going to exalt yourself above God And so God then takes from that point and he confuses the language because listen Therefore, its name is called Babel. It'll put us in a mindset that we'll exalt ourselves above God That was not where God had instructed them to go. So this building of the city represents disobedience to God. It didn't have vision for the future. Now, the tower says that we have our own way to heaven. And we should have what we want. I don't really have a need for God. Act not only to confirm our faith, but to let us know that this is proof. It's about me, me, me, me, me. Not unlike today. The sin of saying I can handle it all by myself. Humanity got to start all over. You don't gotta be, you know, I don't need God. Now, nothing that they purpose to do will be withheld from them. That's a great question. And so in our text today, I will look at three things. I'm good. I really don't need anything else. First, it pushes us to come up short of the promise of God. Go further. Because you know in this world we love gathering stuff. I don't need God. And they have one language. Looked at the first three verses there. Secondly, they come up, not only do they come up short, And then as I kept reading, it says, let us make a name for ourselves. If any have need, God, of edification, they be edified. We got this city that that you know that that that is big enough to handle us now, but it's still coming up short of what God's plan was for them Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome Priority me says I want this and I want it now. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministries of Kettering Baptist Church. Priority me says let's avoid the will of God. Lord, as we look into your word on today, I pray that you would open up the scripture to our understanding, speak to our hearts We'll have the ability to go up into the tower and we can look out all the way through the heavens and see everything For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web I don't care if God says that I need to go the long way around. Alright, so that's where we kind of have have gathered ourselves and kind of walked through thus far. Their city says, okay, this is good. So God showed through his actions what he was going to do. Because God has said, go conquer all the land, cover the earth You know, it's always better to have it and not need it than to need it and not have it And so the problem with Priority Me is that, first of all. But God's plan was for you to have a home that you would own. They'll say, I need it, or I might need it. That's a great question. The text lets us know that they had the blessing of one language. I think a lot of people struggle today, and we see in our society. But watch this. And the Lord said, Indeed, the people are one I yield myself to you in Jesus' name. And we see the people here of the earth, and they're this is about a hundred years beyond the time of the flood I got more for you. I got this. And that's what's happening in the text. And it's all about me. And that's dangerous. It would it would hold the people that were there now. And you got your money stacked up so high that you feel like you know what? I got more than enough of everything. And when you get there, let us know you're there by saying amen So the Lord scattered them abroad If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And so in our text, we see that the pride of the people Well wait a minute. And this is what they begin to do. I'm so smart. Priority me saying, I got this. They had brick for stone and they had asphalt for mortar So they get a restart of humanity, they got a single language Alright. Okay? You stopped and you said, you know what, I'm doing good. But when they stopped Far, far too many Christians. So we'll have heavenly vision We spoke to you from the subject matter, you shall not die, as we looked at Hezekiah's situation I mean they got they they got it going on I got this. God did not say, travel this far, find yourself a good spot. Let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered abroad over the face of the earth. Father, I just lean and depend on you today and ask your favor to be rested upon this word. Is that the tower you've been building? I have no need to depend on God If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And they dwelt there. They had one language, it was a gift from God. The building of this city represents disobedience to God. And nobody can tell me I can't have what I want. And in this, I want I'm trying to help us understand: in this disobedience to God, when we become the priority Because you never want to exalt yourself above God. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries I don't need God. You were supposed to be scattered. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered abroad over the face of the whole earth And some of us, unfortunately, have found that out after we went too far. Because your vision is going to come up short because your vision doesn't see. It's all about me. And even he was going to exalt himself above God. So when you when you put priority me in front No, no, priority me. It's not healthy. We okay. And the sin that flows through our veins has never ceased. We're witnessing the sinful nature Now there'll be nothing withheld from them. I wonder what towers you have. And so sometimes that becomes the tower that we build that keeps us in in a place where m. Priority of me says I'm taking a shortcut You gotta go through some suffering and you're saying no priority me says I don't I'm I'm not gonna suffer. We don't want to be scattered. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. I'm I'm it's me, it's me. I can be like God. Amen. Okay? I'm I'm so educated, I don't need God And we saw in that text last week the promise of God from His Word. It is continuing to spread. Far too many Christians The city that they were building, so they say we're gonna build us a city Is it the tower of your your education Now he's bringing you their stories. And now, Pastor Sterling. But God says, No, that's not okay. And so priority me says, I don't need God. It's not beneficial. or 11 a. So listen, when you put priority me above God's will. I'm gonna rent me a car. That's priority me It would handle the number of people they had now, but it Come, let us go down and Amen. And the providing by God of signs and miracles. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Praise the Lord. When we put God, when we put me as a priority above God They used the one language, they used the blessing of God of one language. We don't want to do what God says do. We don't need God I got that cover. That's the that's the character of Satan. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm up there. Today I want to dig into this particular text in Genesis chapter 11. But all that comes from the sin This is the proof that And in fact, pride cost their priority The tower also symbolizes a divine vigilance. m. I'm exalted above him The One Degree of Andy podcast. at the Legacy Center. So I'm up there with God. But God said, No, I want you to own the dealership. I'm Andy Christman. Let's look at verse the first few verses here. Well That's not enough. Let me say it like this. I want to invite you today to Genesis chapter 11. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. We want to do what we want to do. I don't really need God. I'm Andy Christman. My plan is for you to get all of this. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Priority me won't allow you to see. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. In fact I need you, God. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. I don't need nothing. That's what priority me says. I'm I'm I'm getting out of this. God I'm good. I said I might need it. He says