You need to know it's God that's saying surrender. You need to know it's God that's speaking to you. And God, why would you take a good king away? I want you to preach until these people get tired of hearing you preaching. And and Pastor, how do I? of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Voices behind the song. Or surrender to himself. that I might allow you to be an ambassador in another place or space. And everybody else was wicked, and he was the good one, and the Lord took him, and then he says, but but he says, It was in that year that I saw the Lord. We ain't talking about good things. And the validation that it was the presence of the Lord comes a second way for Isaiah, and that is in the presence of God there are these angelic Isaiah is in the presence of God, and when you're in the presence of God, you can no longer hide what God already knows I trust the preparation. When Uzziah died. Uh uh verse he says, I I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I say? That is the voice of the Lord. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III And also I heard a voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And he touched my tongue with it and said, Behold, this has touched your lips. developed a great little bond between each other because y'all been working together for 45 years and and you still don't want to retire. And so he has to keep he keeps checking with us and asking us, do you do you do you trust me? And you probably can if you're honest with yourself, you can testify the first step it might be hard, but the second one is harder. He's calling us to even deeper relationships with other people. But he's still calling. Host, Lord help me, of all kinds. Because the very throne that he sat on, and on the very ground that he was on, was so holy they were not even worthy to land or stand or even look at the glory of God. And the presence of God makes you be honest about your sin. Because you can't accept the call with the distraction in your life. The Lord was stripping that away from Isaiah even when Uzziah died because Isaiah had such an affection for his for his family, who was the king, and he looked at that king Uzziah as the highest king because he was the best king in Israel. Now watch this. Hear my send me. Keep on seeing, but do not perceive. What the Lord says when God is speaking to you, when God is penetrating your heart, when you're trying to pretend that you don't hear him talking to you, you've got to trust up. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. down with the voices behind the song. Do it until God said it's over. And I said, Woe is me, for I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. And shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyes and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart and return and be healed. God, as I stand to declare your word, give me strength to do what you've called me to do. And I know that according to your word, your word will not return void. That not only that you hear it, but that you also will respond. You have to learn, if you're going to trust him in the calling, you've got to trust God's presence in the call. That God's presence was there when he called. God is calling us to do God things. Isaiah has this vision and he saw what could not be seen. They don't understand even in Isaiah's case, Isaiah, you saw what could not be seen. And with two wings they flew that kept them in the atmospheric surroundings of God So verse 4 says, the post of the doors were shaken, and they cried out, and everything. That he was in the presence of God and that he could trust God. So you'll know his presence is in the call. I'm not good enough. I can't go talk to Pharaoh. And Isaiah begins to pour it all out. Because we don't trust the God who's calling you. When God calls him, and if he calls you, you also have to trust him. That's why you saw me in the temple high and lifted up. He says, Isaiah, what I need you to do, I need you to trust the voice of the Lord. Don't only trust his voice, trust his choice. Then finally watch this. I want you to keep preaching. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Sundays at 10 a. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. It's in you to know what he's calling. He's giving us assignments and the choir members you might be thinking how long God how long we gotta stand up here in the choir sing I say, he wants to, but this he's just like us. You can trust him with your challenges, your troubles, your children, your finances, your jobs, your careers, your marriages. Chapter 6. And the post of the doors were shaken by the voice of him who cried out, and the house was filled with smoke. For my eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. Worship of declaration holy, holy, holy. Not only did you not pick the right person, you even came to the wrong community. you, I I needed to validate. Isaiah says, I realize I've got to testify this. And what he's doing, listen, listen, he's preparing you for the call that he has on you And he picks it up and he brings it to me and he says, uh he took that and he and he and he touched my mouth. And he allows us to serve and do whatever it is by grace, not by our qualification. With two, he covered his face. And I said, Lord, how long? And his robe filled the temple. And the high holiness of God. Woe is me, I'm undone because in other words the judgment of God be on me. The presence of God causes you to be begin to acknowledge I'm not whole. And we see this throughout scripture. I didn't really even know this story when I got call when I acknowledged my call, but I too told the Lord I got a bad mouth God And at the time I was still drinking and I was like, I drink and I cuss, disqualified. He makes his excuse and God does further preparation. What God is doing is he's giving Isaiah the opportunity to step up to the plate, to trust him. That he might speak the very word and oracle of God to the people of God. Finally, we have to trust God's plan to fulfill the call. Trust that he's put something in you, that he's been working something through you, that he's taken you through some things so that you will be the most qualified person to do what he has for you to do. Sing till you can't sing no more. High and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. You might have your holy and divine way. Lord, save someone who's lost. We move from there to 1 Kings chapter 17 and John chapter 3 verse 16 and we talk to you there from the subject matter: Do you trust me with your children? I believe that one of the reasons why God keeps asking us, do you trust me? He was high and he was lifted up. He was in the position and the posture of the of the one who is above every other name I lie, my lips ain't clean. We all lie and slander. That I I declare it was undone, he touched my mouth with it and said, Behold, this has touched your lips. And your sin is purged. Send me. Keep on seeing, but do not perceive. And one cried to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The houses are without man and the land is utterly desolate. Catherine, we've been on a journey of preaching through a series of messages entitled Do You Trust Me? Part two, we went to Exodus chapter 14 and we talked to you there from the subject matter. I want to talk to you from the subject matter on this morning. You went to church, but now you need to join. In this text, the first movement that I see here in the first few verses when he says, In the year the King Isaiah died, I saw the Lord high and lifted up, he was sitting on a throne. Because they couldn't look on the holiness of God. Is the Lord of hosts. I'm trying to help us to understand something that when we get the call of God, you need to make sure you're in the presence of God. Because he trusts that the calling happens in the presence of God. Alive coal, which he had taken with tongues from the altar, and is is flamin' hot. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Whole earth is full of his glory. Spirit of the Lord, I pray you bind up every spirit that's not like you. We started in Genesis chapter 12 and we talked there from the idea, do you trust me enough to move? Move forward in the job and in the career and in the place that I'm I'm calling you to, uh, that that I might use you in another area of service where You see, God keeps asking this question, do you trust me? To learn to trust you. Last week when we were together, we were in Matthew chapter 8, and we asked the question, do you trust me as captain of your sea? He's the king of kings and lord. Our roadblocks, our fences, our borders that we put up around our hearts and around our heads. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Yeah, I know you you got saved, but now do you do you trust me to join a fellowship of other believers? There's a lot of voices calling you to do a lot of things, and a lot of things that the voices are calling you to do are not of God. The s the the angelic beings worship God with a with a trifold If he couldn't do it, hey, back to my plans. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And then the Lord begins to lay out the plan. He's saying, I'm calling you. We're talking about God things. I don't know. I saw him high and lifted up, and I heard his voice. Israel is in such a wicked condition. You gotta trust his plan. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. We'll begin our reading at verse 1. And as he's calling, he's asking, do you trust me to go with me? And and so he he's in his presence and he begins to do what we do when the calling comes. I don't know if it's God's voice. And that's why I'm praying so hard this morning that God will use even this sermon to talk to you clearly. When God called Moses, Moses says God. m. If this is you, if this is really if I'm getting this message clear, take it away from me. And He took a good king away, Isaiah, so I can get to you. How long, Lord? I was in the temple. It's a community thing. Let me tell you something about what the Lord will do. at the Legacy Center. I stutter. Make the heart of his people dull. Above it was the seraphim, and we have the whole imagery of the seraphim, and they're there before the throne of God, and and they are saying back and forth: Holy, holy, holy. Reclaim someone who's drifting in their fellowship. You can't get any more perfected than His holiness. You need to know it's God that's saying, give me your life. How long I gotta serve? And then on this occasion, Isaiah says, I saw these seraphim, and they were above him, and they were they were all around, and they had six wings, and with two wings they covered their face. Trust the plan of God. I do things with my lips that cause them to be not acceptable to God I need you. He's above everything. He said, go and tell this people, keep on hearing, but do not understand. Listen to verse 5. He's calling us to spaces and places that we're not comfortable with and perhaps we're not, we don't really want to go. The first thing I think that we need to probably look at and delve in here, not only for the text purposes, but for our own, as we ask the question, do you trust me in the calling? You you question you get to learn God's voice by spending more time with Him. With two, he covered his feet, and with two, he flew. And he answered, and he said, Until the cities are laid waste and without inhabitants. I was there to worship God. Look at the text. Isaiah said, what's the plan? I bless you, God. Because he's he's calling us to the next step, the next stage, the next area of service and ministry and kingdom work and I have a stuttering tongue. And I've been preaching now 40 years, and I say, Lord, how long? When what's the plan? I'm God, my mouth is filthy. And the world wants to splice it for you. It's part of what we do. The creation is subject to the creator, and so the creation knows the voice. Do you trust me in the calling? And he says, look, go and tell this people. I'm asking of you. I know you've been in your space with your with your colleagues and your co-workers and and y'all have This call, I need to make sure that the presence of God is in the call And the whole earth. We don't trust his preparation. In other words, keep preaching, keep preaching, keep preaching, keep preaching. We've got to trust the voice of the Lord. Preach until these lands become desolate How long I gotta stand at the door? But I do believe God is calling. Isaiah says it was the year that King Uzziah died. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services And he keeps asking you, even after you take the first step, do you trust me to take the second step? He says in verse 5, because my eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. And then the Lord asks this question: He said, Whom shall I send? Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. And so I've got to move you from the distraction. And it's critical that Isaiah's mouth is clean because God is calling him to a prophetic ministry. If he chose you, trust that he knows what he's doing Then one of the Seraphim flew to me, having in his hand live coal which he had taken with tongues from the altar. It's not a reference to the Father, Son, Holy Spirit. You can trust him. Spirit and presence of God manifest itself on this morning in such a way that we cannot deny that we've been in the presence of the Lord. It's in Jesus' name I pray and I thank you. And Isaiah heard everything Isaiah heard, everything he saw, made him sure, made it clear to him. Isaiah says, So I said, Woe is me, for I'm undone, because I'm a man of unclean lips. It's this movement along the way that gets him to a place where he can say, Here am I, send me. We all messed up and jacked up. That's a great question. The word of the Lord reads as follows: In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting on a throne. And with two wings they covered their feet because they were not worthy to even land in the presence of God. I'm higher than Uzziah. I'm pleading with you. Do you trust me when your back is against the wall and your enemy is pursuing you? And so how am I going to can't be me. Part of the preparation is stripping away people and passions and distractions from your life. The text says, verse 6, one of the seraphim flew to me having in his hands. That you would clear the atmosphere that the very Word of God might travel in the way that you desire it to travel. Your iniquity is taken away, and your sin purged. So, Lord, I pray that even now that you prepare each one of us to hear from you. We gossip. But in three days, he took it away. You're thinking about yourself. Isaiah said, I saw the Lord. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome What we gonna do here? How long are we gonna be in this? Make the heart of this people dull and their eyes heavy And while I was there to worship God, God showed up. That's a great question. Because I'm a man of unclean lips. Stand at the door and serve until you can't serve no more. And he begins to be honest about his sin, but he has to trust the preparation for the call. Israel had all these other wicked kings and Uzziah was a good king. If if you need me to help to get that same redemption to the rest of Israel, here am I. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. And who will go for us? Let me tell you this. You need to know it's God that's saying it's time to let go. Trust his voice. Praise the Lord. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Okay? Cause us, Lord, to leave this place edified. And I put this prayer before you with expectation. But I told the Lord this, I said, Lord, if this is I'm drawing you. is because He's always calling us to some place or stage in service. He's calling people to salvation. We we run with a story. To follow me? That's gonna be Isaiah's assignment. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Would you pray with me this morning? Because you were putting him above me. I'm not complete. And he says, look, Isaiah, I just need you to just go out and preach. Above it stood Seraphim. Keep on hearing, but do not understand. I heard your voice, Lord. And he said, Keep preaching, Sterling. God is thinking about how many others He can reach if you just be obedient. When's my retirement package coming? Matter of fact, I grew up with filthy-mouth people. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Speak through these lips of clay, words that are clear, words that penetrate and permeate. But but but I cannot do you trust me to move you somewhere else And the devil is stepping and cradling the line and saying, it's okay, you're doing good things. And for many of you. No, it's a reference to the completeness and the absolute deity Trust The angels are declaring and giving witness and testimony. And then he then he executes the call on his life. And you've got to trust his voice. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. You can trust him with everything. To be a follower, to be a disciple of the Lord. There's a lot of voices that we're hearing today, and all the voices that you're hearing are not God. And we begin to disqualify ourselves from the call. What Isaiah probably didn't realize was that God had begun preparing him for this call. So you can hear his call. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Let me say this to you that You've got to trust that the call that I received came from God. Everything that was created is full of his glory. Let me tell you this: whatever it is that God is calling you to, he will prepare you for it. I'm not I'm I'm not I'm dirty Lord Father, we need you in this place that He's calling people to service. Sometimes when you're trying to explain to people what you saw, Nobody seen the Lord and lived. We talk about people. Both. Amen. I've got to separate you from that which is distracting you from me. I didn't say they weren't good. You went and got the degree, but now you gotta go do the work. Trust the preparation of God. I heard you saying, it's in verse number eight. I went to the temple, I went to worship, I was grieving, I went to to worship God, and in that year I saw God. God has created us to know His voice. Uzziah was his relative, and he trusted his relative because he was the good king, he was the good one. My statement was really trusting that he could do it. Today I want to conclude the series in this particular text. He begins to disqualify himself. And then I said, Hear my. But let me say this too because I'm this really gonna help you. And who will go for us? I cuss. Now he's bringing you their stories. And most of all, it's my desire, God, that your name would be glorified. And now, Pastor Sterling. Just keep preaching. Do you trust me to Gone. I stand here to say to you, you can trust him. He's calling people to deeper relationships with himself. God knows And I needed you to know I'm the king that sits on the throne The One Degree of Andy podcast. There's a lot of voices calling you to do good things, but not God things. My everybody in my family cusses. Now he's bringing you their stories. The whole earth is full of his glory. He is the Lord, high and lifted up. Do you really trust me to do that? Your iniquity is taken away. Each one had six wings. He says, I heard The One Degree of Andy podcast. He's pouring this out because he's in the presence of God. If God calls you to it, He'll prep, He'll prepare you for it. I'm Andy Christman. And he begins to talk to him. Do it until God said it's time. Listen to him start testifying. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. We've got to trust his voice. I'm Andy Christman. I want to invite your attention to Isaiah. org None of us is ever qualified. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. And then they declare Now, watch this. Trust the choice of God. They have this conversation that's going on. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. org. He said