Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord from Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 30 reads like this: And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Father in heaven, we find ourselves in need of you that you might speak clearly through these words today. Father, there's a word that needs to come forward that would rescue someone from the destruction that is right before them, the judgment that is coming upon all who do not believe. And so I'm praying, God, that in the process of preaching on this morning, that you would save someone who is lost and drifting away in their sin. I'm praying God that you would draw someone who has already come to know you, but has fallen out of fellowship that might be restored today. I pray, eternal God, that in the process of preaching this morning, that you would edify this body and that you would most of all glorify yourself. That all that is said and done, Lord God, might be pleasing in your sight. Spirit of the Living God, I stand as a vessel and instrument always in need of you. And if I am to fulfill the assignment that you have before me today I need you, Lord. I need your strength and I need your power. I pray for the clarity of thought, the clarity of speech. And Lord God, that the words that I speak might be understandable in the ears of the hearer. Have your way, dear God. And I'm waiting and I'm depending on you that you might be glorified and have your way. In Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation of your coming. Amen. So on this morning, we find ourselves in this passage here in Ephesians chapter four. And this passage by itself alone brings both confusion and clarity to our uh theme of walking in the power of the Holy Spirit. It brings confusion in the sense that alone by itself it's difficult to comprehend fully How I can avoid the egregious act of grieving the Holy Spirit It doesn't really tell me. So I'm confused there, uh, but on at the same time It gives clarity to me because in this brief text we learn that the Holy Spirit Is not a dove as in the form he appeared upon Jesus at his baptism Nor is he uh the wind as he came uh rushing into the room where the disciples were gathered on the day of Pentecost. No, this brief text gives clarity to us to see and to understand that the Holy Spirit has personality. As the very personality that is possessed in humanity. And so, therefore, we can glean and understand that the Holy Spirit is a person. And in fact, he is the third person of the Trinity. We have the personhood of the Father, we have the personhood of the Son, but now we understand clearly from this passage all by itself. That there is a personhood in the Holy Spirit, that the Holy Spirit is not a thing and it's not a it. It's a person. Now, just in case I have some high scholarly theologians that are evaluating my words, I need you to understand this. I am not saying that this is the only passage whereby we can get clarity that the Holy Spirit is a person. I just need to throw that out. I feel some some some naysayers just Saying you can't develop doctrine on one passage, Pastor. No, you cannot, but I will help you to understand there are multiple passages that help me to understand that the Holy Spirit is a person. Amen, somebody And so uh this clarity that we have and this confusion that we have needs to be worked through And I'm going to attempt on this morning to to to walk us through, to have better understanding when we leave this study in this time. uh of this uh confusion and work through that confusion so we can have clarity in both areas so that we can know how to walk in the power of the Holy Spirit. Now the Holy Spirit in uh whose power we've been encouraging you to walk in, and we see here is a person, and this person of the Holy Spirit who's living inside of you, who never ever will depart from you And who is, even according to this passage, he is the seal That's on you and the sealer of you until the day that God comes for you. Somebody should have shouted right there, right there. Um that's that's that's shout worthy because if the Holy Spirit who has all the power of God Is responsible for keeping you until God comes for you. It frees you to understand I'm not the keeper of myself. Lord, help me somebody. I feel good about that. Because on my best days, sometimes I fail at keeping myself. But I thank God to know that I've got a Holy Spirit. That's keeping me, that has sealed me and is the seal on me that nobody can break. And he's sealed me to be the child of God until God comes for me. That ought to help somebody to write about there to understand that you can't lose what you have in Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. And so this This same Holy Spirit, who is the seal and the sealer, the one who will guide you into all truth, the one who uh will protect you from dangers, seen and unseen. Uh this this this person uh I'll I'm trying to give you some some some some relative connection to him and help him Help you to understand how how affiliated you are with him and how associated you are to him. This Holy Spirit who dwells in you, who is the one who opened up your eyes to the fact that you were blind and the First place. The one who drew you out of darkness and into the marvelous light, this same Holy Spirit is it is him whom Paul says in this text of Ephesians: do not grieve him. The Holy Spirit, this one who's sealed you until the day of redemption. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter. Grieve not the Holy Spirit in your walk. Now, I need to define some terms. I need to get us all on the same page first before I dig too deep into this. First of all, I need you to understand what it means to grieve. When we talk about grieving, uh we're talking about to bring uh displeasure, to bring sadness, to uh to cause sorrowfulness. um to hurt, to bring hurt to uh someone as it relates to our behavior or uh incident or occurrence in this case, we we can grieve someone by our behavior, by the way we uh respond. to them or the way we act towards them. We can grieve them. And I'll say this. Maybe this this gives me the this gives me the best picture. Um that when you have uh a mother or a father who loves you or a spouse or someone who really I mean they really, really love you. Um And if you've ever been in that place where you love someone, you you understand what it feels like when they disappoint you That's the idea of the grief that we're talking about. But but I want you to take it to another level because it's not just the The grief that we have, because even the love that we have, that we love one another with, does not compare to the love that God has for us and the sacrifices. That he's made for us. And so to grieve God or to grieve the Holy Spirit takes this to a whole nother level Y'all still here with me? And so I want you to understand the whole process there of grieving. And so Paul, what he does in this book of Ephesians, he takes the first three chapters of the book. And he kind of speaking to the saints at Ephesus and all those who are faithful wherever they may be, everywhere He he talks to them about the standing that they have in Christ Jesus. Um he helps them to understand the benefits of this position that we have as believers in Christ, as children of God, as reading. Redeemed uh from the lostness, and as those who have been brought into this family of God, and he lays out for us all of the benefits, and even as Um we heard earlier in the the earlier scripture that was read in Ephesians chapter two how we were once lost in our And so He lays all that out in the first three chapters in terms of our standing as Christians in Christ. And then in The last three chapters of the book, chapters four through six, he spends that time addressing the walk of the believer. So in other words, as a result of all that you have Benefited from the love of God and the work of God and the sacrifice of God and the grace of God because you have been saved by grace It's not of yourself. It's not of your own works. It was God who did this for you. And Paul says, as a result of all that, now here's how you ought to walk so you don't grieve him. Y'all still here with me? And so he spends uh chapter four, five, and six on helping us to understand how we ought to walk, how the believer ought to walk so as not to grieve the Holy Spirit. Y'all still here with me? And so when we talk about this walk, I think this is this may be of some value as well. Walk is the Greek word uh parapateo. And parapeteo means to live. It's the way I live life, the way I walk out life, how I live this life. And so when we talk about walking, we're talking about living of life. How do you live this life in such a way that you don't grieve the Holy Spirit? The first thing that I believe I can extract from this, and I was I did I I went back to beginning of chapter four and I pulled this out because as Paul is helping us to understand how we are to Walk so as not to grieve the Holy Spirit. In chapter at the beginning of chapter four, we gain this idea. That we are to walk endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit. Okay? We are to walk. We are to live our life in such a way that we seek and we endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit. Paul says in chapter 4, again verse number 1, he says we ought to walk worthy of the calling that we've been called with. I'm trying to see if I'm gonna make it, y'all. I'm I'm I'm um we're to walk worthy. That is to to walk in a way that is balanced to what you've received. In other words, based on all that God has done to save your soul. Based on can I can I take y'all to the cross? Based on the whipping and the beating that Jesus took And the the the sacrifice he made when he went up Galgotha's hill based on the the pain that he endured when he hung on the cross And he died for you based on him having to go into a borrowed tomb to prove to you that death No longer had no control over him nor you based on all that he's done to take you and draw you by his Holy Spirit out of Darkness away from the things that you wanted so badly, and based on all that he's done to adopt you into his family and to call you his own and to place his Holy Spirit inside of you and to give you all the power based on all that. that he's done, you ought to walk in such a way that it balances off That's what it means to walk worthy. He says you need to walk worthy of the calling that we have And the calling wherewith we've been called. Somebody might be saying, Pastor, what do you mean called? Well, you might not realize it, but that when you were in darkness, it was this power of the Holy Spirit that called you by name out of your darkness. I know you was you was calling it something. Something something was drawing me. Something was speaking to me. Something. No, it wasn't something. It was somebody It was the Holy Spirit that was drawing you out of darkness. Lord help me, God. And He was drawing you out of darkness into the marvelous light. He was drawing you out of death into life. Lord have mercy. He was drawing you out of sin into righteousness. He was drawing you out of the hands of the devil into the hands of God. And he was calling you, and you've been called, and so as a result of our calling out of these uh uh destructions, he he says we ought to walk worthy of that. And live according to that and in a balanced way that we don't disrupt the unity of the spirit Lord help me God because when we walk contrary to uh the worthiness, it grieves the Holy Spirit and it disrupts the unity of the body. Lord help me. So he says, verse number two, he says, With all lowliness, this is how we walk worthy of the calling. With all lowliness, he's gonna give you some four areas. He's gonna say lowliness, gentleness, bearing with one another. And with long suffering. I know all of these are hard. Thank you. I'm glad somebody's listening. If we're gonna walk endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit, we need to understand that this walk is gonna be hard. But watch this. I'm gonna say this to you: the only way you're going to fulfill it is you've got to walk in the power of the Holy Spirit Because you're not going to do it in the power of your flesh. Y'all still here with me? So you gotta walk lowly, that is with humility, not prideful, because when we walk in pride, we disrupt the unity of the body. Because pride says, I'm better than you. But we're all brought into this body, not because of us, but because of him And so we're going to walk lowly in humility one with another. We're going to walk gentle, that is, with meekness, having our emotions under control. Whew! Somebody should have shouted right about there. This is how we can grieve the Holy Spirit when our emotions are out of control, especially that one called anger. Lord Jesus. So we're gonna walk in meekness, but not weakness. Because we're still walking in the power of the Holy Spirit. Lord help me, God. There is a time to get angry. We saw Jesus himself even get angry. There's a righteousness of anger that he exhibited, and there's a time for everything under the sun. But but we're not walking around just getting mad all the time, having our emotions out of control, and we up down everywhere all the time. No. We gotta walk with gentleness, walk with long suffering towards each other Walk with long suffering towards each other. Walk with long suffering towards one another. That means I've got to be patient with you and you've got to be patient with me. Because because if we were honest, we none of us is perfect. All of us got some isms, some schisms, some up and some it and some at. All of us got some mess. All of us have some stuff that ain't quite right yet. And so, and even if it is right, guess what? We might not be rubbing each other right. So we gotta be patient with each other and long suffering with one another. This is not an excuse for you to keep acting a fool, but it is Lord help us here. It is to help us with clarity and understanding that we just can't write each other off, as some may have already done with some of our families and friends. That grieves the Holy Spirit when you write off those whom Christ has saved. Woo! Endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit. Bearing with one another in love, learning how to be tolerant and patient with each other, bearing with one another. In love. Didn't I tell you at the beginning? I know what y'all saying, man, I can't do that. Yeah, um, it's gonna take the power of the Holy Spirit in order for us to do to walk this way. To walk endeavoring to keep this unity of the Spirit, it's going to take us allowing the Holy Spirit to have his way in and through us. All of these attributes In this text, in this desire for us to walk worthy of the calling and to walk keeping the Spirit in the unity of the body of peace, requires the Holy Spirit to be working in us. We can only do this. We can't do it. I can say this over and over and over and over. You can't do it. You can't do it. You can't do it without the power of the Holy Spirit. Alright? So it's going to require that. If we're going to keep the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace, which he says there in verse number three, yeah, it's going to require the Holy Spirit to do that. Gotta be working in us. Now, the moment we disrupt the unity in the spirit, and watch this. When the Holy Spirit saved you and me, um, he saved us all and baptized which means put us all into one body in Christ Jesus. And he brought us together and made us one. And so when we violate each other, we disrupt unity. Well, when we go against each other in the body of Christ, we disrupt the unity of the Holy Spirit that He has brought us all together and made us one. Are y'all still here? Paul says, if we want to avoid grieving the Holy Spirit, endeavor, seek, try, work at, strive to maintain and keep the unity of the Spirit. Secondly, he says, we need to walk having put on the new man. As you keep moving through chapter four of Ephesians, what Paul is going to do is he says, beginning in verse 17, and I'm I'm trying to pull all this together as not to deal with every single text here, but every single verse here, he says This I say therefore and testify in the Lord that you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk In the futility of their mind, having their understanding darkened, alienated from the life of God, because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart, who being past feeling. Have given themselves over to lewdness, to work uncleanliness with greediness. If I'm going to live, if I'm going to walk in such a way that I don't grieve the Holy Spirit, I've got to decide today I've got to make it up in my mind that I'm not going to walk the way I used to walk. I've got to put off the old man and I've got to walk in the power of the new man. And he's going to deal with it in latter text. Let me walk you through the beginnings of this because the idea here is that W all of us have experience in the old man. All of us. Don't don't look at your neighbor funny. That's you too. Everybody. Everybody's got experience in the old man. Let me let me read a couple more of these verses. He says, but you you have not so learned Christ, verse 20. If indeed you have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus, that you put off concerning your former conduct, the old man, which grows corrupt according to the deceitfulness, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that you put on the new man which was created according to God. In true righteousness and holiness. That's the objective right there. The objective is that I'm not living like I used to live. Now, what he says from the beginning, he says we're to walk no longer as the Gentiles. Now, the understanding here, he's writing to This this he from prison in Rome and he's saying, hey, look, these the you know what it was to be a gentile. To be a gentile was to was to not even know God. That that automatically was those who didn't know God. And he says, We're not going to keep walking like that. We're not going to walk any longer, like as if we don't even know God. We're we're not we've got to change that behavior because if Christ saved you. And died for you and gave his life for you, you can't keep living like you used to live Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed By today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He says Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.