Father in heaven, we honor you on today. In other words, what I'm saying is, in order to acknowledge these are your children, you've got to, you can't keep living like you're single. I'm pleased with this is the one whom I sent. I wanted the teachers to know that this child, the one sitting in this chair right here, he's got or she's got someone representing them. I wanted to know what their condition and health were and what you were recommending because these are my children. Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Voices behind the song. I pray, eternal God, that as we declare the word on this morning that it might be an a word of edification, a word of strength, a word of encouragement that might lift someone's head. That might encourage someone to know that you care for them just as well. Praise. Uh spewing out his uh his suggestions of what ought to happen, God interrupts him and speaks from heaven and says, This is my beloved son. beloved son. And a sense of of pride for our own children that we don't let them get grouped in with everybody else. I wanted them boys to know this is my daughter. Lord help me God. Where God the Father says, this is my beloved son. with the voices behind the song. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And you would illuminate their spirit that they might be drawn out of darkness today and they may come into the marvelous light of your salvation. I declare that you have power, and I pray that you will use it on this day to draw someone who's drifted in their fellowship away from you, God. have read in your hearing is takes place upon the occasion when Jesus has climbed the mount And while he's on the mountain praying, the Bible says that he becomes transfigured, and his robe shines so brightly And so it involves acknowledgement involves emotionally supporting your child and adjusting your schedule. These children, as a means of acknowledging their mind, I'm responsible for them. This phrase beloved, my beloved, when he says my beloved, it is it signifies having an intimate non-sexual relationship. That you would get the glory and the honor and the praise. Many fathers get a bad rap, and some, some, deservingly so. But I need to point out on this morning, and every father who is here in this place, and every father listening to me would testify that being a father is not easy. or even without a an adopted father. And then when the child came, can I just be for real? This is real stuff. And when I speak of acknowledgement, I don't want to limit acknowledgement to a verbal expression. Is financially supporting to a reasonable expense. The children that you produce and not just financial because money ain't everything. Because remember, Peter's getting ready to he wants to build tabernacles here. The second thing I think that we can glean out of this text is not only that he acknowledges his son, but he was affectionate with his son. And fathers, in following this motto of God, the Father, towards his son, I think we need to also be affectionate. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Praise the Lord. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. Great need of your power that you would give me the clarity of thought, the clarity of speech, that your word might go forward in such a way that your name gets the glory and the honor and the praise. And verse number five reads as follows. A high mountain, the text says, and he's taken with him Peter, James, and John, his close inner circle, and he goes upon this mountain to pray. to build a tabernacle, three tabernacles, one for Moses, one uh for for for Elijah and one for Jesus. And then if I would go backwards to some who are much older now. And I look at what was going on back then, the role of the father in some situations was That's what it meant to be a man. There are some things, I'm going to just pull out three things that we can glean that help uh I believe will help us to model our fathering role or parenting role after as fathers. One, he does it publicly, he's not ashamed of his child. And all the praise. based on where they grew up, what color they're skin, based on a whole lot of factors that don't have nothing to do with what they can accomplish, they get pushed into a group. I don't know why, but I would I would show up at the school and I would go and sit in my kids' classroom and even and and I would because those were my children. And I was not going to allow my children to be grouped in with everybody else's children. bailouts and help. To live in poverty when their father was affectionately present in their life. The brilliance of light. And it is on this occasion while he's praying and being uh transfigured that uh Peter, who always has something to say. It is difficult. Father example. says that twenty-five percent of all the children being raised in the world today, those are grown up now that have no male figure, father figure in the home to model themselves after when they come to adulthood and produce children of their own. There were probably, and I'm and I don't want to make this sound like it was just in the olden days because it's still happening. Some were even taught and and learned that that was the role that a man should have. Being acknowledged, first of all, by his father. Public acknowledgement of your children is a great thing for fathers to do. reality of my father just acknowledging that I'm his means a lot. Of being with mama. Because acknowledgement goes beyond just saying, yeah, he's mine or she mine. Lord help me. Watch this. That this is my son. Matter of fact, when the fathers show up, they almost want to call the police because they they know something is strange going on. So no go. But I didn't want my children to be treated any kind of way. Because these are my children. That's a term that's used when when little girls don't have the affection of their father and they seek the affection in older men. Handle that stuff, turn the other part over to the wives. six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. uh declares and he begins declaring how awesome an experience this is and it's good for us to be here and his desire In fact, one of the highest in the nation happens to be right here in Maryland. To be produced and formed in the womb, but when the child came, they were nowhere to be found. Somebody wrote a song, I can't remember who it was, but it it said Papa was a rolling stone. Pastor, why you say that? Can I get some single mothers to say amen up in here? Um some of you probably are familiar with this process how when your children go to school they happen to just get Somebody who cares about them. It's here. You will learn a lot about your children, and you would help your children from a lot of trouble if you take time to listen to them and listen to their stories and figure out what's happening in their lives. That affection is the role and the responsibility of the mother. Are more likely to live stable lives. In whom I am well pleased, hear him. are without a father in the home. Adjusting your schedule, your work schedule, your fun schedule, your video game night, your football night, your your basketball night. Can I can I translate that to us as fathers? And if if you don't go, you'll be surprised at what they'll be telling your children and what they'll be giving your children. Intimate. Intimate. Mothers i I don't know, for for most part, mothers just it's kinda automatic and it's like just get it. Because their father was not affectionate towards them. He was affirming of his son. Affection goes beyond words. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. It's in Jesus' name I pray, and I thank you in advance for what you're going to do. A generation of people, at least 25 percent nationally, that's one out of four, and sixty or more percent in some areas in some pockets And so he had he had children everywhere. Y'all still here? Well I I got I I got a lot of material here. Locally and in smaller pockets, the number statistically can go as high as in some places up to 70%. Seventy percent of the homes that are without a father in the home. You gotta hurry up because it's gonna be crowded. Don't don't get flaky on me, but boys need the affection of their fathers too. And in far too many of the lives of those who are currently fathers, they really didn't have a good earthly As we look at this text on this morning, I believe as we look at the relationship that God the Father has with God the Son. In this text, as Jesus is um Being a good father is to take from the model the acknowledgement of your children. Misunderstood, uh misdirected, poorly executed, and and if we can just be for real, for real, um That's the model that some grew up with. This is good stuff. Less likely to find themselves in trouble over and over and over again when the father has been involved and affectionate in their life. You are the father. Y'all still with me? There's a void in in the the girls and there's a void in the boys when the father's affection is not there. Less likely to go to prison, less likely to become pregnant before marriage and wedley. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. They were providing what was necessary for the child to come into the world And he says, No, no, wait, hold up. And I'm I'm going to suggest this, and I know it will completely interrupt the whole system, and that is that fathers, we go to the school and let the administration know He says, he says, this is my beloved son. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. To accommodate spending time with your child or children I I think we've got to we've got to step out and and acknowledge and keep our children from getting grouped in with everybody else. There's an intimacy between God the Father and God the Son. I I I used to go to my my kids, I go to doctor too. That's non-sexual intimacy with our children. It really is difficult being a father and especially when you don't have a model to follow. God the Father, he acknowledges his son. Notice what I didn't say. That's what God the Father does here in the text. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. And we we just got we get overwhelmed with mama's love. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Because there's a whole lot of people whose father don't need to acknowledge them. Don't put my son on equal terms with Moses and Elijah. I can't believe y'all not shouting. Not just the private acknowledgement, but the public acknowledgement of your children. He acknowledges his son when Peter is trying to make his son equal with Moses and Elijah. So God the Father, he he acknowledges his son uh here in the text, and he speaks interrupting Peter because Peter wants to group him in with everybody else. Intimacy requires listening to them. We thank you for being our Father. And so I think acknowledgement includes reasonably supporting financially God the Father acknowledges his son. I'm serious. This is why Jerry Springer made a living. It goes a long way. And as he is there praying and talking to the Father, there appeared also with him Moses and Elijah. I'm not that's not everybody's excuse. Go sow your wild oats. God, I'm praying that you would save someone from the darkness that is prevailing in their life. 25% that's a national statistic. I didn't say to a minimal court ordered expense I think God does us a great service in in doing the public acknowledgement of his child. It goes beyond just saying it. This is the one who deserves all the glory and all the honor. But he didn't want to take the responsibility that came as a result. I'm serious. Just because the court says you only have to pay $50 a month, that's not reasonable. I I don't have time for it all. He wants to build equal three equal tabernacles to acknowledge them equally. And please, fathers, go to their medical appointments as well. Help me God. That would never have happened if if men would have taken responsibility and acknowledged this is my child. I think we need to have such a a sense of integrity No, you're not gonna treat her like everybody else. And I wanted to know because I'm responsible for them This was years ago. That is without a biological father, without a stepfather. He acknowledges his son by making sure he's separated from everybody else. God said, I am well pleased with my son So, Spirit of the Lord, I pray that you would use me as a vessel in your hand to accomplish your will on this day. The first thing I think that I think we can glean out of the text, he says, verse 5, when his voice comes, his voice says, This is my We thank you for the grace that you have provided for each and every one of us to even be here on this morning. You've heard the term daddy issues. Yes, sir. And I think that children, listen, children need their father's affection. He is affectionate with his son. They they'd ask me, who are you? And in the same manner, boys While he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and suddenly a voice came out of the cloud saying Listen, children need their fathers' affection, and I know that for many of us we've been taught as fathers. It helps the child and brings me to my third and final point. My children are grown now, but they were surprised that the father would show up When when my daughter started dating and guys started sniffing around the house. Can can I'm really gonna help you right here. But did you know that children with affectionately involved fathers? We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building That's a great question. This is my son. I don't understand this world right now. Y'all gotta get to dinner Amen. For a whole lot of people that can testify here in this legacy center and who are viewing via live stream, the simple That's a great question. And he wasn't taking care of any of them. And in that model Well, wild oats produces real children. Then he wanted to say that ain't mine. Now intimacy requires time being spent with them. I want to take a few moments on today and talk from the subject matter, the model father. No. Our responsibility is to go work, bring the money home, pay the bills. Listen to this. But the the 2020 census And I love him and I care for him. Hear him. Um hearing their stories, even though you might not be interested in the story. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message Hear him. But there's there's but there's a void when father's love is not there. One, because it teaches them how to appropriately express, appropriately express affection to other men. No, you're gonna open her door. Let me give you more more clarity. He made a living, I don't know how many, 20 from some years he was on TV talking about you are not the father. Mothers they they just loving all over you, kissing all over you, hucking all over you, like mom get off of me. It requires action, gifts, and support. org or contact our church office at 301 If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. A great thing to model ourselves after in I was acknowledging them. I'm just really kind of confused about all the stuff they're doing, but you go to the medical appointments because those are your children. There's a whole lot of people whose father he enjoyed the benefits I remember going into the schools for my children. But thirdly, he says here in the text. This is real statistical stuff. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And so we are dealing Part of acknowledgement. Children could have all the money and all that, but if they don't have you, they still are lacking something. I love that. They're not the same. Less likely to do drugs and be strung out. Now he said this is my son. Because when the it's it's one thing when the mothers show up, they expect the mothers to show up. I said, I'm the father. Would you pray with me this morning? I wanted the school system to know And wherever he laid his hat was his home. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Father This passage on this morning that we Are y'all still here? And God the Father says, no, he acknowledges that specifically this is my child. There's a whole lot of daddies, but not a lot of fathers. You gonna walk her to the no, you don't just gonna no you this is my daughter. Thirdly, which I think probably almost more importantly, I won't necessarily say most, but I'm praying that you would shine your light from heaven. And and and so while he's I'm trying to help us in this model because I believe, but when God acknowledges his son, I love that. org. Whether they please you or don't please you. This is the one whom No, you, no, I don't know who you've been with. Draw them back to you, Lord God, that they might have sweet fellowship once again with you. Y'all still here with me? We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together Lord have mercy. m. It is our prayer on today, God, that as we declare your word in this place Now he's bringing you their stories. And now, Pastor Sterling. at the Legacy Center That's nationally, but They are less likely You've got to adjust these things around Lord help me, Jesus. I would go and sit in their classroom. Now he's bringing you their stories. The One Degree of Andy podcast. The One Degree of Andy podcast. There's a couple things I think is interesting about that Lord help me, Jesus Listen anyway. Less likely to commit suicide. I need you, God. And so there is an intimacy here in the text. And I'm gonna be out of y'all way so y'all can get get to where y'all gotta go. Y'all y'all remember that I'm Andy Christman. I'm Andy Christman. The word of the Lord from Matthew chapter 17. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. I stand in You can't do that anymore. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. I'm speaking up for my child. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Great example for us. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down