Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Matthew chapter 8. We'll begin our reading at verse 23. The word of the Lord reads as follows. Now, when he got into a boat, his disciples followed him. And suddenly a great tempest arose on the sea, so that the boat was covered with the waves But he was asleep. And then his disciples came to him and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us. We are perishing. But he said to them, Why are you fearful, O you of little faith? Then he arose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. So the men marveled, saying, Who can this be that even the winds and the sea obey him? Would you pray with me then this morning? Father, we bless you in advance for what you are about to do in this place. I pray that the power of your presence would manifest itself through the preaching of the gospel, that lives might be changed. That Lord, you might meet us on the pages of our life this morning, that you might speak to our right now situation. I pray for the salvation of those who may be lost. That you might save someone, God, whose life is destined for destruction. That today, God, by the preaching of the gospel, you might deliver them from that destruction. That is yet to come. Spirit of the Lord, I'm praying that the power of your presence would manifest itself through this preaching today, that if anybody has drifted in their fellowship with you, God, that you would draw them by your supernatural power. God, I pray that you would break through every chain and barrier that we've put up that has kept us from hearing clearly from you and that Your spirit might speak so clearly, God, today, that we cannot deny that God has spoken to our spirit. Lord, I'm praying that you show up in an extraordinary way and that you might use me, Lord, to accomplish your will. I need your clarity of thought and of speech, that the word might be clear, that the very oracle of God might be spoken, that our spirit would know. That the Spirit of God was present in this place. Have thine own way now, Lord, for we need you. In this day and in this hour, we need you. So Lord, have your way in Jesus' name. Amen. Catherine, we've been preaching through a series of messages entitled, Do You Trust Me? We began in Genesis chapter 12. We spoke there from the subject matter. Do you trust me enough to move? Then we moved in part two, and we were there in Exodus chapter 14, and we spoke from the idea: do you trust me when your back is against the wall and your enemies are pursuing? Last week when we were together, we were in 1 Kings chapter 17 and John chapter 3, very familiar verse 16, and we spoke to you there from the idea: do you trust me with your children? This text on this morning, we find Jesus and his disciples crossing the Sea of Galilee. And in many ways, this is picturesque of life itself. We are on a sea called life. And we don't always know what will come up on the sea. But one of the things we realize about being on a boat on the sea, as well as hopefully a learning in life. Is that the sea of life as well as the being on a boat on the sea, there is always the challenge of keeping your balance. There is unstability and unpredictability of your footing And your balance. And so we're we're we're we're we're wrestling with keeping balance and staying uh stable, if I can say that, as the sea presents different challenges to us from time to time. And what it reminds us of our vulnerability and our need for some stability or or someone or something that can stabilize our life. I want to talk to you from this subject matter this morning. Do you trust me as captain of your sea? Because on this sea of life, we need a captain that can stabilize the boat. The text starts off by saying, now when he had got into the boat, his disciples followed him. The first movement I want to talk to you about and maybe encourage you in is that of the path to a paradox of peace. The text says, now when he got into the boat, that's Jesus, Jesus is leading his disciples. Disciples, the word disciple means followers. His followers follow him into the boat. If you are a disciple of Jesus, And he gets in the boat. If you're a disciple, you follow him into the boat. Because he's leading you somewhere. But you are not the leader. You are the follower. And so he's leading them and they they follow him and they get in the boat because he got in the boat. And when I talk about a paradox of peace, I'm talking about a place where you ought to be losing your mind, but in that place you have peace. There's a paradox. And Jesus is leading them onto this boat to a paradox of peace. He's leading them to a place where they ought to be screaming and jumping up and down. But it's a place of peace. I'm trying to help you right here. Because if you're following Jesus, he's doing the same thing in your life. He's leading you to a place where everything around you is telling you to lose it. Everything around you is telling you it's unstable, but he's gonna lead. Lead you to a place where there's peace. The followers of Jesus will get there, those who won't follow won't get there. And so he's leading them to this paradox of peace. It's it's a conflict. And so In the text they get on this boat, him and his disciples, and this great storm comes up and on the sea, and and the boat is You know, being covered with waves and and and winds is blowing and so in the middle of all of that that's going on, the text verse 24 says he was asleep. But he's leading them up to the dur down this pathway to a paradox of peace because while the storm is raging, they going crazy, but he is sleeping. Now, there's two people that can do this. One who's suicidal and running from God, like Jonah. This is exactly what Jonah did. The boat was being beat up. The waves were dashing. They were getting ready to sink. And Jonah was down in the boat sleeping because he was suicidal and running from God. But the other person that can do this is God Himself or someone who's following God. If I'm following God and He's on the boat and if He's sleeping, I can sleep. So they've been going through some stuff with Jesus. And so they've gotten into this rhythm. And they've they've watched Jesus heal the centurion's servant. They've watched Jesus go uh to Peter's mother-in-law's house and heal him. These they've watched Jesus r you know heal the sick and give sight to the blind and and they they're used to that They've gotten into this rhythm of ministry and they're continuing to follow Jesus. They say, Well, you know, we kind of got this thing. And then they get on the boat, and they're dealing with the rhythm of the boat. And then suddenly Storm comes up. That's life right there. You get used to the rhythm of life. You're used to the rhythm of marriage, and suddenly papers come in the mail. You get used to the rhythm of raising children, and suddenly a storm comes up with your children. You get used to the rhythm of ministry, and all of a sudden, suddenly a storm blows over in the ministry. And literally in their text, they're used to the ministry, they're used to what's going on, they're used to being with Jesus, and suddenly this storm comes up on the sea, so that the boat was covered with the waves. But he was asleep. He had found and was cuddled in this place called peace. If he can sleep and I'm with him and he's the one I'm following. Then I might as well go to sleep too. Verse 25 takes us to the next movement. It says, and uh then his disciples came to him, awoke him. uh saying Lord save us we are perishing wait a minute disciples you're followers of Jesus and They start feeling the boat rocking and they start seeing the waves coming and they was coming over top of the boat and all of a sudden the the followers change seats. They start panicking because now they're not following anymore. Now they've changed seats and they've assigned themselves as leaders. Now it's my responsibility to get us to the other side. No, no, no, no. You a follower. If I'm a disciple of Jesus, I'm a follower. It's not up to me to drive this ship. I gotta let him be the captain of my ship. Let him handle things. Let me tell you something. The seat that he sits in is way higher than the one we get He knows what's coming. He knows what's going. He knows the distance. He knows the speed. He knows exactly how to handle his business. Matter of fact, I'll just stop. I'll let you know he's God. But when we start trying to get in his seat, then we start panicking about the situation because we have a poor perspective of what's really happening. Notice what they say to him. Now, Jesus is on the boat. He's asleep. They wake him up. And they say to him, Lord, save us! We're perishing. Now if I'm Jesus, I'm thinking, God, y'all just messed up my good nap. And you think you need saving because you have a poor perspective of what's happening. And now you're you're crying out to Jesus and disturbing his rest because you think you're perishing. But it's all because they've got a poor perspective of things. Whenever you have a poor perspective, you will start to panic. And the poor perspective comes because you're not trusting God. If I trust God, I will know He's never failed. And if the Lord has never failed, I can trust Him. They don't trust him, so they start panicking. Now he wakes up and says, verse 26, why are you fearful? O you of little faith, what should their faith have been in Their faith should have been in the word that he gave them. He told them, We're going to the other side. He did not say, I'm taking you out into the middle of the sea so I can drown you. Matter of fact, what about us? He told us I'll never leave you, nor will I forsake you. So why are you panicking? He said I'll supply all of you need. Not some. Not based on who's in the presidency, not based on the government's economy, not based on the world's ability to pay you back. No, it matters not based on the world's system at all. I'm gonna supply all of your needs according to My riches in glory. And my riches in glory are inexhaustible. So if that's true, if I believe that, why am I panicking? I'm panicking because I have a poor perspective of things. And I can't see everything that God sees. Why why why are you all so fearful? You have a little faith. Your lack of faith, your lack of trusting is creating opportunity for this panic to take place. And so they're panicking because they have no faith. And we will panic when we don't exercise faith. And so he he he gets up and he says you guys got a little faith. And he gets up and then he moves them to the last movement of this text. He says, the text says, then he arose, he rebuked the wind and the sea. And there was a great calm. Great calm. So the men marveled saying, who can this be? That even the wind and the sea obey him. We started this thing with this pathway to a paradox of peace. He's leading them to a place of peace where they it it's chaos all around but peace in the midst of it. There's the paradox. And then in on their way there, the there's the panic from poor perspective. They they think they're in the driver's chair, they but they don't have the right perspective, so they start panicking. And then we get to this final movement here in the text, which is what I call the predicament of a precarious belief. Watch this. He arose, he rebuked the wind and the sea, and there was this great calm, and the actions of the captain created a predicament for these disciples. Here's the predicament. Who did you think he was? What did you want him to do when you asked him to save you? Matter of fact, let me say this. When you ask him to do something, did you really expect him to be able to do it? This is our problem too. We ask God all kinds of stuff and we don't really believe He can do it. We're we're we find ourselves in a position we have what I call here in I it it's a it's a precarious belief In other words, what is this a conflict inside of us of what we really believe him to be able to do and who we really believe him who he is And it happens in situations like this when we can't comprehend how did he do what I just asked him to do That's because there's a conflict in who you believe him to be. If you believe that he is God The omnipotent one. If you believe he has the power over land and sea and sky, if you believe he created everything out of the breadth of his mouth How is it that you would be amazed and marvel that he would be able to tell the sea to sit down and the wind to be quiet? Because we we we say okay, yeah, but I believe he's God, but he can't I don't know if he could do that. Murray Martha had the same problem. Our brother's been dead. Oh, four days now. He's thinking by now. Jesus said move the stone. But but see earlier they're able to say, oh you you're God, we know you're the Son of God. Um, you know, Peter, oh yeah, thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. All that, all that out the mouth stuff, all that. Talk off the top of the head, but do you really believe he's God? Do you really believe that he's able to do impossible things? Do you really believe he's able to do what you ask him to do? They got this predicament of of a precarious belief, which is something I think we need to wrestle with as Christians. Who do you believe him really to be? And so they they wrestle with this and they they come back and they marvel saying, who can this be? He came through, he met the challenge. Who could do this? Who is able to talk to the win and the win obeys? Or to the sea that the sea obeys. Who's able to who's who's who is this dude on the boat with us? Now watch this. When they were in the rhythm of ministry, they already had figured out what he was capable of. Mm-mm-mm. But when the storm came, when suddenly the storm came, now they've watched this, they've put him in a box. To what they remember he could do on land. Oh yeah, we know Jesus he can heal people. We know he can give sight to the blind, but This is on the sea now. We this is a different situation. We got water coming and wind blowing and storms and I ain't never seen the water just stop and the wind just stop. Never seen that. So they they put Jesus in a box and they only understand that he can do what they've seen him do. Does that sound like anybody you know? Is that the extent of your faith? Is your faith only big enough to what you've seen in the past? Or if he's God and I believe in him, is my faith capable of saying I Believe with all my heart that God can do what I ask of Him, even if it seems impossible to man, and even if I've never seen it done before. This takes our faith to a whole nother level. Now here's the interesting thing, and I'm gonna be out of your way. They asked the question, who can this be? And they go through all this storm situation, and Jesus quiets the storm and he silences the sea and everything goes flat and everything is calm and they're just marveling and they're still trying to figure out Who can this be? Guess what happens when they get to the other side? They meet two deep demoniacs, two men who are demon-possessed. Two men who are demon-possessed. And the demons say, Son of man, have you come to persecute us before time? The demons knew exactly who he was They've been walking with him, riding on boats with him, going through villages with him, and they don't even know who he is. But the demons called it out right away. Y'all don't believe me it's right here in the text. Let me let me read it for you. Verse number twenty-eight, and he came to the other side in the country of uh the the the the Gergigesons, and there met him two demon-possessed men clothed coming out of the tombs, and they were exceedingly fierce. so that no one could could pass by that way. And suddenly they cried out saying, What have we to do with you, Jesus, Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before time? They not only know who he is, they know what he's capable of. And they knew he was about to cast them into utter oblivion. And they say, Lord, please let us go have some of that pig over there. Can you cast us into the swine? And the swine was smart enough to get off the mountain. The demons went in the swine and they ran off the cliff. Listen, what I'm trying to tell us, we have to understand we serve an Almighty God. We can trust him to be the captain of our sea of life. We need him on this sea of life we have. We can't do it ourselves. We don't have the ability to navigate. We don't have the seat that's high enough to see what's coming. We don't know how to change the direction. We can't control the wind or the sea. We can't control the heart of the king. We can't do any of those things, but he can. So here's my question with your life, saved or unsaved, do you trust God to be the captain of your sea? Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.