Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled that there was a famine in the land, and a certain man of Bethlehem, Judah. Went to dwell in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. The name of the man was Olimelech, and the name of his wife, Naomi The names of his two sons were Malon and Chileon, Ephraithes of Bethlehem, Judah. And they went to the country of Moab and remained there. Then Elimelech, Naomi's husband, died. And she was left and her two sons. Now they took wives of the women of Moab, and the name of one was Orpah and the name of the other Ruth And they dwelt there about ten years. Then both Malon and Chileon also died. So the women survived her, the woman rather survived her two sons. and her husband. And if I can throw in verse six, then she arose with her daughter-in-laws and that she might return to the country from Moab, for she had heard that in her country, uh the country of Moab, that the Lord had visited his people by giving them bread. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we bless you for this word and we bless you in advance for what you're going to say to us. Remove the barriers, God, that would hinder us from hearing from you on today. For I believe, God, that you have a strong word to talk to your people about. I prayed, God, in the process of preaching, that you would give me clarity of thought and clarity of speech, that the very words, God, might penetrate the soul and spirit. And if someone doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, I pray, God, today that you would draw them to yourself, that they would come out of darkness and into the marvelous light. I pray, dear God, for that one who has drifted in their fellowship, who has walked away from you, Lord. I pray you would draw them by the power of your Holy Spirit, God, back to you, back to a place of close and sweet fellowship. Lord. I pray that you would edify this body and that all that is said and all that is done in our time of preaching, God, will most importantly glorify you. For God, this is all about you. And my desire, Lord, even as you use me as a vessel in your hand, my desire, God, is to bring glory to your holy name. So, Lord, glorify yourself in this preaching hour and as you give grace and strength. We will surrender and say yes to your will. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen Ketteryn, have you ever found yourself uh trying to escape from one situation only to find yourself in a worse situation? I mean we could go through a whole array of things. It's the old abdic kind of out of the frying pan and into the fire. Trying to run away from this and then you ran into that. What it reminds me of is in Amos chapter 5. Amos said there's a man who's running away from a a lion only to run into a bear. And then when he runs away from the bear, he runs in the house, leans on the wall, and gets bitten by a snake. Every now and then life seems to play out these kind of scenarios in our And perhaps yours is not as severe as running away from a lion or a bear or bitten by get being bitten by a snake, but perhaps maybe you Have been in a situation where uh you were still trying to get away from one thing and ran into another situation and then when you got into that situation you realize you know what I'm not in the right place. I'm out of I'm out of place here and And this is not really where I was trying to get. Amen. Um, it I mean, it it's a different crowd than I expected it to be. It it's a different vibe than I expected. I mean I I thought if I went back to the club, even though it's been twenty years, I thought if I went back to the club it would be the same music, but this ain't what a I'm just playing with y'all. I'm playing with y'all, but you know you get there and it ain't what you thought it was gonna be, and and things are different. The dress code is different, the way people act is different. The worship maybe even is different. You just realize, because every now and then as we're running from one thing to another, we get to a place and we realize we're really out of place. Sometimes it's not as bad, like I said, as being beaten it being bitten by a snake, but at the same time, sometimes the process, the snake is in it too. Lord, I'm I'm I'm I'm feeling it this morning. I'm I'm really trying to get y'all there, but just give me some time. In this text of Ruth, we find there's a a lot of good stories in Ruth. There's a lot of um there's a lot of good preaching in Ruth and And as we kind of begin to walk through, I think I'm going to preach a few messages out of Ruth. So we're going to do a little series. I'm just going to call it Walking Through Ruth. But there's a lot of very interesting and powerful stories in this book of Ruth and a lot of characters who look like us and act like us. Amen. And and some of the things in Ruth, um, they're not immediately uh n noticeable until you dig underneath the scene a little bit and then you you can get the real gist of what's happening. In other words, the one good thing about the word of God, it's not like a novel. You can't just read it and that's it. God is saying something underneath the something that's being said. Lord help me, Jesus. And the process of preaching is such that if I go in, I'm going in to exegete. In other words, I'm trying to break it apart into small pieces. I'm tearing off the top surface. So you can look beneath the surface and see yourself and your situation. Help me, God. So that God can speak to your heart and you can acknowledge what God has said and you can respond. to the calling of God on your life. Are y'all still here? It's a lot in my head, but I'm trying to get it out. So y'all pray for me as I try to get this out this morning. In this particular text uh that I've read in your hearing, I I want to talk to you from the subject matter this morning out of place. Because as I was alluding to earlier, there are often times we We find ourselves in a place that's not comfortable, not watch this, and not because we just wanted to be a certain way. But it's not comfortable because we're out of place. Let me see if I can fix that another way. There's a place that you're supposed to be according to the divine plan of God. But because you're running from the chastisement of God, or you're running from the will of God, you find yourself in another place But you know, or at least you're figuring it out that I'm really out of place. I just want to talk about that This morning from this these first verses here in Ruth about being out of place. Y'all okay? Y'all still here? The text begins here in chapter one. By us witnessing this man, Elimelech, and his family, attempting to escape the judgment of God. The Bible says that it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled that there was a famine in the land. The land that we're referring to is in the land of Israel, in the promised land where they had been deposited by the grace of God. But the time came, and there's a lot of great information here that's not immediately understood, but I'm gonna dig it out for you Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled. That gives us a timetable, and that timetable is a time when men did what seemed right in their own eyes. Amen. Matter of fact, in the period when the judges ruled, it kind of looked like today. I'm preaching way better than y'all saying amen. When everybody did whatever they wanted to do and they justified what they were doing by some pretense that had nothing to do with God. In fact, if you read through the book of Judges, that's in your Bible too, there are what are known as Jewish sin cycles. Where the children of Israel go through this cycle of sin with God. And they go through it over and over and over and over again, these Jewish sin cycles where They sin against God, and then God responds by punishing them. And they go through a period of punishment or Or or judgment or captivity, and then they get to a place where they cry out to God and they say, God, we're sorry, and God forgive us for what we've done And then God responds and he comes in and he rescues them and he delivers them from the consequences of their sin. And after a season, there's silence and there's Peace for a little while. And then guess what happens? They go back and they sin all over again. And you go right back into the cycle. all over again. And they do this over and over and over again in the book of Judges. And so Ruth says that this text happens during that time frame. when the judges ruled and when the people did whatever seemed right in their own eyes. But there's something else here in the text that helps us to understand the the Highlight that I've placed on this first movement of the text that they were attempting to escape the judgment of God, and that is in the latter part of the first half, it says that there was a famine in the land. Now, in Leviticus chapter 26, we learn that before the children of Israel were to go in the promised land, the Lord said to them, Now, this is how it's going to work. If you keep my word, I'll bless you. When you go in this land, I'm giving you my word, I'm giving you my instructions, I'm giving you how you are to live, how you are to worship, how you are to treat one another, and how you are to honor me You ought to be holy for I am holy. And he gives them all the layout and gives them all the instructions. He says, now when you go into the land, if you obey me, I'll bless you. I'll bless you coming in and I'll bless you going out. I'll bless you in the city and I'll bless you in the field. I'll bless you wherever you go. But if you go in this land, this is my version of the story. And act the fool. And act like it wasn't me that brought you here. And act like it wasn't me that delivered you out of the hands of the Egyptians. And and it wasn't me that brought you through 40 years of wilderness wandering and and your feet didn't swell and your clothes didn't wear out. And you get in the promised land and you act. Crazy and you don't obey my rules, then I'm gonna curse you. I'm gonna curse you when you go and I'm gonna I'm gonna curse you when you come. I'm gonna curse you in the city and I'm gonna curse you in the field. And one of the consequences of their disobedience, Leviticus chapter 26, verse 19 and 20 says that I'll bring famine in the land So here they are in the land, and they've been disobedient to God, and God brings famine on the people And actually, I believe that the text says that the sky would become like iron and the soil would become like bronze. So in other words, ain't no rain coming out the sky and ain't no crops coming out the field. I'm locking everything down because y'all have not obeyed me. That's a consequence. It's a judgment that God is bringing on Israel. And so in the text, when we walk into this text, we find out that the reason the things are moving that and what's happening here is it in the text is in that time when the children of Israel were doing whatever they wanted to do However they wanted to do it, and there was a famine in the land because God was bringing judgment on the land, and during this time a certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to dwell in the country of Moab. Where is he going? He's running from the judgment of God. Oh, so God, you ain't gonna let crops grow over here. Well, I'm going over there. Get ready, get in your business, so prepare yourself. During this time, this man, watch this, this is interesting, a certain man of Bethlehem Judah. Now, Bethlehem is translated house of bread. And Moab is translated land of lust. Stay here. He's in the promised land that God has planted him in. A land that was flowing with milk and honey, and because of their disobedience, God brings judgment. There's a famine in the land, there's a drought in the land. And so as a result, he decides that I'm going to escape the judgment of God. But I'm leaving the house of bread and I'm going to the land of lust. Woo! Jesus, that's preachable right there. Because how many people have left the house of bread to chase the land of lust? And only because of the consequences of the judgment of God that were coming upon you for being disobedient while you were in the promised land. Listen, this man takes his family and he leaves the house of bread. And it's not just any house of bread, it's God's house of bread. Where God brings bread for the people. Well, God makes sure he feeds them. But listen to this: even in a famine, if you were an Israelite, you should know that God has a way of feeding you even when there's no food to be had. For 40 years your forefathers were eating bread that fell from heaven. And if there's a famine in the land, God's still gonna take care of you. But because of the judgment of God, he wants to escape the judgment of God. So he packs up his family and he says, We're going to Moab, the land of lust. And the land of lust is no doubt a place where his belly can be satisfied, but his soul cannot. Can I talk to somebody this morning? Oftentimes we are not far different from this man who tries to escape the judgment of God. We leave the house of bread and chase the land of lust. Help me God. Matter of fact, as I was thinking through this text, I was thinking about how um when covet hit that that there was in some sense a famine in some Houses of God. Some houses of bread. There were some churches that that that shut down during COVID and and for some it was almost like a famine. Like there was bread to be had, but it wasn't maybe had at a place that was comfortable or where you were used to going. I'm gonna see if I can fix this. And as that famine happened, because we couldn't get out and we couldn't go anywhere, COVID did a few things. I don't have time to talk about all the things I seen COVID do. But COVID did a few things. It revealed the people who were chasing God, and it separated them from the ones who were chasing church. Yeah, yeah, it did. Because there were people who said, well, church, there's a famine at church, so I'm going to leave The house of bread where the word of God can be disseminated. I'm not talking about that same location because there was more than one location disseminating bread Let me say it like this. There were multiple dispensaries where the word of God was going out. But but they said to themselves, well They're not having church at my church no more. So let me go and feed myself in the land of lust. And they became Netflix superstars They became consumers of Amazon. com. I'm preaching way better than you saying amen. They began to learn that there were apps that you could download on your phone and you can watch and consume hours upon hours when you were supposed to be working from home doing other stuff. That you had no business doing. I'm well up in your business by now. And so they began to indulge themselves in the land of lust. Help me, God. And there Bellies began to get full with the things that were in the land of lust. And even here we are four years later, and they haven't left the land of lust yet Just because there was famine, they abandoned the house of bread, and and now they're indulging themselves in the land of lust. But let me let me help you here. There's nothing in the land of lust that can satisfy your soul. Amen, Jesus Yeah, there's women out there in the land of lust. There's men out there in the land of lust. There's a new sh there's a new pair of shoes every week. There's a 50% off discount. There's there's membership. There's There's new movies coming out every all the time. Just all the time. New stuff. All the time. Hey, we got something new for all the time. But it'll never satisfy your soul Y'all hearing what I'm saying? This man took his whole family. He leaves the house of bread and goes to this land of lust to escape the judgment of God. And as you look at the text. He's already began to experience the judgment of God, and that's revealed in the names of his sons. Look at verse 2. Verse 2 says: The name of the man was Elimelech, the name of his wife was Naomi. The names of his two sons, Marlon and Chilion. Now, Marlon means sickness. So the first son was already born sick. Second son, named Chilean, means consumption. So that the famine and the sickness was already consuming him. And they named the sons according to what was being experienced. And so as they were experiencing this, they were already being impacted by the judgment of God, but they were not dead. When God judges you, he's not trying to kill you. You don't have to run to the land of lust to try to get away from the judgment of God. God's not gonna kill you. Now sometimes he will kill you, but it ain't gonna be slow, it's gonna be quick. But they run and so his he's already being impacted and so he Makes up in his mind that there's a better place that we can go to. And I'll say this to you in all sincerity: never exchange the house of bread for the land of lust. Do y'all hear me? It can't help you. It cannot help you escape God's judgment. I want you to think about this. The God who's judging is an omnipresent God. Which means he's everywhere. There's nowhere you can go to escape him. If you run to the land of lust, God is there. Are y'all still here? If you take wings like an eagle and soar into the highest parts of the sky, guess what? He's there too. The psalmist says, even if I make my bed in hell, behold, he's there. You cannot escape the judgment of God. The best thing you can do is take it like a man or take it like a woman. Matter of fact, I'll say it like this. You did the crime, go ahead and do the time. This man, he has now, in his attempt to escape the judgment of God, he's taken his family out of place. Verse 3 gives you another clue. Elimelech, Naomi's husband, died, and she was left alone with her two sons. He tried to escape the judgment of God, got to Moab, and died in Moab. Y'all still here with me? You can run in the land of lust all you want, but you will die in the land of lust. You cannot escape the judgment of God. He goes to Moab and he dies there in the land of lust. And then watch this. After he's brought his family there, he's no longer there. So guess what happens? His family begins to now adapt to the land of lust. After attempting to escape the judgment of God, they begin adapting to the land of lust. Listen to this. Verse 4. Now they took wives, this is the two sons, they took wives of the women of Moab. The name of one is Orpah, the name of the other is Ruth. And they dwelt there for ten years. The sons. Have now begun to take on the pattern of the land that they are in. And as you hang out in the land of lust, you begin to take on the characteristics and adapting and adjusting. to the characteristics of the land. According to Deuteronomy 7, verse 3, the children of Israel were forbidden to marry strange women. They were forbidden to marry outside of Israel. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.