Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. By Kettering Baptist Church. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. Here is Moses. A man who's been kicked out of Egypt because of his previous sin. He killed a man in exile. He's got a life sentence. And then God goes and get him from the backside of the desert while he's tending somebody else's sheep. And then he says to this stuttering shepherd, I need you to go and talk to Pharaoh. No, I don't want you to talk to the lower level folk. No, I want you stuttering And shepherd go to the chief man, and I need you to talk to him and tell him to let all my people go from out of Egypt. Lord have mercy. And you got to understand that everybody in Egypt was being used as slaves and servants to build up Egypt. So it's not even probable in logical thinking that Pharaoh would let all them free labor go. God says, you stuttering Moses, go. And Moses, they're not going to listen to me. Then they they I d I I stutter. I'm not eloquent of speech. But then there's an unspoken issue I believe that Moses has. It's an issue that's similar to some of our issues. Moses has the issue that I've been there already, and I tried to do this already. Because you gotta remember what happened to Moses was Moses was being raised as a son of Pharaoh. Moses was there if you will, and he went out and saw the Israelites being oppressed by the the Egyptians and he ended up killing this man in a sense to deliver his people from the oppression that they were being oppressed with. Watch this and in his fleshly effort to help these that were being beaten by the whip he kills a man buries him in the sand And the next day, another Egyptian comes and says to him, Who do you think you are? Are you gonna kill me too? Because see, Moses didn't think nobody knew what had happened. Are you gonna kill me like you killed the other guy? And so Moses says, Look, I I tried to rescue these people, and the same people I tried to help rejected me. And God, you want me to go back to the people who rejected me and try this all over again? Nah, I've been there. I got a t-shirt to prove it. I'm not going back. I'm inadequate. Them folk ain't gonna listen to me. They don't want to hear me. They not gonna respond to me. And for some of us, we've got the same Rejection playing in our head. I've been there before, tried that before, it didn't work before. And God is saying, Look I'm not sending you in your own flesh. I'm sending you in the power of the Almighty God. You're going for me this time So in his mind, he's inadequate because of what happened in the past. It's a new assignment, Moses. I know you're unskilled. I know you're not qualified, but I specialize in using unqualified people. So he's in that adequacy are expressed all before God. All of his excuses are poured out before God. The final thing that I want you to see in this text as we talk about this catalyst. For claiming the corridor for Christ. Because here is the strength of the text. Verse number 12, he says. I will certainly be with you. And this shall be a sign to you that I have sent you. Listen, when you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God on this mountain There's two things I want to point out here about this final movement of the text because we've seen that oppression experienced by the people and the inadequacies expressed by Moses. But finally The eternality is exposed in God. Eternality is exposed in God, which helps you to give a great sense of the catalyst that you have operating on your behalf. He says, first of all, to the inadequacies expressed, Moses, God responds I will be with you. Moses, I know you're inadequate. Ketterin, I know you're inadequate. Live stream listener, I know you're inadequate. But I will be with you Lord Jesus. And watch this. I know that that doesn't really mean a whole lot to most of us. You kind of hear that. Okay, yeah, I know the Lord is with me. Yeah, yeah. But I still Feel inadequate. Well, let me help you. When the Lord says to Moses, Moses, I am with you. He comes back and he says, Watch this. The comfort of my presence comes. In this prophetic insight that I'm going to give you. Moses, when you have brought the people out, for those of you who are not familiar with English, The phrase is in a past tense format. So God, speaking right now to Moses, says to Moses, Moses, when you have brought them out. Lord Jesus. Moses, I'm talking to you prophetically, Moses. Here is the proof. Here is the sign that what I've given you as an assignment, I'm able to do it Moses, when it's done, here's the sign: you're going to come back, you and these people, and you're going to worship on this mountain that I'm talking to you from. You and the people are gonna worship on this dry mountain called Mount Horeb. You and the people when you have brought them out, Moses, not if you bring them out. When you've done it, here's the sign. Here is the prophetic sign. And in order for God to speak prophetically, he has to have the ability to know it's gonna happen. Wow, wow, wow. Now he says, when you brought the people out of Egypt, he says, I'm I'm I'm I'm gonna be with you, Moses. But but watch this. He says, You you have the company of a God who is eternal. And as an eternal God, I've already been to the time. Lord, watch this. I've already been to the time when you've already brought them out. And I see. That you and the people are worshiping right here on this mountain. But let me step back here to where you are. I'm gonna be with you. Don't don't be afraid to do what I've called you to do. Don't be afraid to step out and and embrace the assignment. My my my watch this I am the eternal God. And so watch this. He he's gonna further bring his his reality to Moses that's gonna help Moses and he should help us even the more. Because in verse number 13, after he says to Moses, Moses, I'm gonna be with you. And he says, After you brought these people out, here's the sign. He says, Then Moses asked another question. He says, Indeed, when I come to the children of Israel and say to them, the God of your fathers has sent me to you He says, now they're gonna ask me what your name is. What do you want me to say? What do you expect me to say? Here it is. This is where God gives the power. Here's the power of the punch right here. And God says to Moses, I am. Who I am. I gotta take my time here. Moses, you need to understand something about the one who's speaking to you. Moses, you need to understand something about the catalyst who's driving this assignment. Because Moses says, I'm not just driving the assignment. I am the eternal God who's going to accomplish the assignment. Lord, have mercy. Moses, I am Who I am. Let me walk you slowly through this. I am that I am. I am A self existing God. M Moses, I I exist of myself. I came out of me. Lord Jesus. I'm not only self-existent. Nobody made me. I am That who I am. I exist without any creation. I am not only the self-existing God But I'm also a self-sufficient God. In other words, Moses, I don't really need no help being God. I'm God all by myself. I don't need no deacon board to help me be God. I don't need no committee meeting to help me Be God. There was no assembly in the atmosphere or the other stratospheres to decide I would be selected as God. No, I just am Who I am Lord have mercy. I feel like preaching this here, but I'm trying to help you Understand the one who says he's with you, he exists of himself, and he's got power of himself. Nobody gave him power. He is the power. And if he is the power, and he's self-sufficient In other words, he sustains himself. How much more can he sustain you when you're going through doing an assignment that he gave you to do he's more than sufficient if he can sustain himself From Eon's past into Eon's future. Surely he can help you. clean your corridor to tell somebody that Jesus Christ is Lord. Surely He can do it because Lord have mercy. Wait a minute. Wait a minute, wait a minute. He says, Look, I I am who I am, but the the I am who I am has more than just Lord God help help me Lord. It has more than just the the prophetic insight about it. It has a timestamp on it. In other words, when we read this text and he says, I am, the way he says this word and is that I am always in the I am. Lord, have mercy. In other words, I always have been in the I am state. Right now I am who I am. And matter of fact, Moses, when we get to where there will be, I still will be, I am. Matter of fact, Moses, while I'm standing here talking to you from this burning bush, I'm already over here at Mount Horup And I'm over here at Mount Horeb with you and the children of Israel who have already come out of Egypt, and I am who I am Moses, you want to know what to tell them when you go back into Egypt? Go and tell them I am have sent you Tell them that the eternal God, who is self-existing and who always is in the present tense, tell them that's the God who sent you. Lord have mercy. Now, I don't know if y'all are really catching this or not, but if God is all of that, if he is always in the present tense, that means he's never behind. Lord, have mercy. He's never catching up. If I can help you, Lord Jesus. In other words, when you get in trouble. God is not responding to the trouble you got yourself into. God is ahead of The trouble you got yourself in, he's behind the trouble before you got into it. And he's walking with you while you're getting in it. Lord Jesus. And watch this. And because he is the great I am The self-existing and the self-sufficient and all-sufficient God, whatever the problem or struggle or challenge that's in front of you, because He is with you. He'll take you through it. Okay, all right. I I I see some folk don't believe that. Let me see. If if God is all this that he says he is, and he says, Moses, I'm sending you to go to them, why would God send you where he couldn't keep you? Lord Jesus. Why would God lead you where He wasn't able to sustain you? Because if God if God were to lead you into a battle and God couldn't win the battle, then God would have to give up his title of being God. Lord have mercy. I was watching some boxing last night. On TV and one of the guys was, I don't know, some kind of a champion or another, but he put his title on the line. To fight someone else who had the potential of taking his title Watch this. He didn't know whether or not he was gonna win the fight or lose the fight. But he went into the fight with the expectation Of winning the fight. And what drove him, more likely than not, to take the fight in the first place was the money. And the necessity by the box and commission that you have to defend your title. Stay here with me. With God, when He goes into the ring Lord Jesus. He's not going in with the the possibility that he might win. And that he might retain his title. Because before he goes in, he's already the I am who's been in the fight. And he's already the I am that already sees the end from the beginning. And the beginning from the end. So he already knows Where I take you, I'm gonna be victorious because I am God and I'm not giving up my title because nobody gave me the title. Help me, Lord. I am who I am all by myself. So when you go to claim your corridors, you've got the help of an eternal God. You've got a God who has eternity in his possession, and he's able to let you know that you're going to be victorious when you go. And so we've got the confidence to go. We've got a catalyst, a conquering, capable catalyst who's leading us. to claim what he is. And if I can say it this way, the Lord He says to us, you go. Claim what's mine. Moses, go and get my people. Go and claim what's minds. But watch this. But I'm gonna really be the one claiming. You just need to be the one going. Watch this. You're successful when you go. The claiming is my responsibility. Lord have mercy because I'm gonna work through a willing vessel that's just willing. To go and say, Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. I'm looking for somebody who's not ashamed to let the world know That he is the one who died on Calvary's cross. He is the one who gave his life as a ransom for all. I'm looking for somebody to go. And so God says to Moses, Moses, I've chosen you go. And he says to you and I, go. I've chosen you to go. And I've empowered you to Go. I've given you the spirit to live inside of you. And so it is the spirit in you that's gonna conquer the world outside of you. I just need you to go. And conquer the territories that I put before you. Conquer the corridors that I put before you. Conquer the communities that I put before you. Take over the inheritances that I've set there before you. I'm your catalyst. And I'm a capable catalyst. And guess what? And I hate to say this, but God really doesn't need us. He could do it all by himself. But he chooses to use incapable beings. He chooses to use inadequate beings He chooses to use flawed beings. He chooses to use fractured beings. He chooses to use Messed up, toe up, toe-down folk to do the work that we might join him in the work of the ministry. Help me, Lord Jesus. And at the end of the day, we ought to be able to say thank you, God That you chose to use me because I know within myself I could not have done it had it not been for the Lord Come on y'all. Who was on my side? I know it never would have happened. Never could have come to pass, but because I've got a capable catalyst Because I've got an I am God, I can conquer any corridor that's before me. Ketteret, I want to challenge you. Walk with God. He's capable. He's capable of conquering the corridors. All he needs is some willing vessels to say to him, Lord, I'm willing to go. I'm willing to go and share the story Jesus Christ came, born of a virgin, lived 33 years, died for my sin and yours. Buried in a borrowed tomb, rose again the third day with all power in his hand. Ascended to glory, sat down on the right hand of God, and is now making intercession for you. Nicodemus asks the question, Lord, what must the man do? How can I enter into the kingdom of God? And Jesus said, You must be born again. So how is that possible? Can a man enter again to his mother's womb? No, that's not how it happens. Nicodemus. Nicodemus, you're going to be born of the water and of the spirit. But you must Be born again. You mean Lord? I can't be good, I can't do good great deeds, I can't be a charitable person. No, no, that's not how you get there. You must come in. Through the Spirit. You must come in through the adoption that I'm going to provide because I am going to give my life. And he who believes in me should never die, but have everything. Everlasting life. And he lays it out for right there in John chapter 3. We've been going through it in Bible study. John chapter 3. Gave my son for you That whosoever believe in me should not perish, but have everlasting life. That's the message we take to the world around us It's not hard. Simple message. Trust me, people all around you are starving to know the truth. I challenge you Because you've got a catalyst in the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the great I am God, Elohim Jehovah Himself is walking in you, living in you, in the fullness of the bodily dwelling in you, the whole Spirit of God, all Him dwelling in you, moving you forward to accomplish His will. That's all he's asking of us. And he's capable. And he can do it. We just got to be willing. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. Someone here, maybe today, doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life. Maybe there's someone here today, God, walking in darkness and need to come out today Maybe today is the day that they've heard you crow you you you they've heard you calling to them in the midst of their darkness and and and and they their desire is to come to the light. Lord save them today by your grace. Maybe there's someone watching. By a live stream, and they're there in their home, they're there in their their office, they're there at the coffee shop. They're listening to the word of God, and today, God, they they're hungry for the living bread. God, save them today. Said in your word, if we believe in heart and confess with our mouth, Lord Jesus, we shall be saved. So maybe, God, there's someone that just needs to confess today Believe in their heart that God raised them from the dead. Your word says we shall be saved. Lord, they just repent. And be converted that their sin may be blotted out. God, bring them to a place of repentance today. Bring them to a place of belief today. Bring them to a place of surrender that they may say, Lord, come into my heart. Save me. Fill me with your spirit. Redeem me as your own child. Lord, do what you desire in this place. Save those who are lost. Reclaim those who are drifting in fellowship. Maybe some are already saved, but they they're not connected. They've walked away. The fellowship is broken. Reconnect the fellowship today, God. Bring them to a place that they might repent and reconnect with you. Have your way in this place, and we'll give your name the glory, the honor, and the praise for it. In Jesus' name we pray and we thank you. Amen. Praise the Lord. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-574-3515. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. There is a devastating disease crippling children. Andy Christman Afore Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage. Age Pass. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.