Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. We talk about some who are driven by money. There are some people that are not happy and they don't want to hear that God is going to bless you or has declared to you that He has even better plans for your life. Joseph goes back to them. They say, are you gonna rule over us? Because they already was mad. But here's the deal. Look at what she's doing. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our Spirit-Fill Worship services Sundays at 8 a. At Kettering Ministries. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. And where you're destined and inevitably going to achieve and accomplish, your past struggles cannot hold you hostage, nor can your current struggles cause you to give up. And they hated him even more. And so he told it to his father and his brothers, and his father rebuked him and said to him, What is this dream that you have dreamed? Voices behind the song. Shall your mother and I and your brothers indeed come to bow down to the earth before you? And this is where you're going to end up. Your current struggles, no matter what you're going through right now, you're not going to quit on getting to where you're going when you're driven by destiny. And when you get to your destiny without the struggle, you're not prepared when you get there. You can be driven by a whole lot of other things, but when destiny drives you, even when you fail, you're gonna get up and keep pressing on. Gonna pick up a few more out of this text today because I'm trying to focus on the destiny God has for us because we've got a lot of other things that drive us in life. And I want to kind of glean from that and see if we can talk on this morning from the subject matter, the revealing of destiny. Through the dreams to Joseph, what it is and where it is he's going to take him, what's going to happen in his life. And then thirdly, there are those who understand it. Verse 5 says, Joseph had a dream, and he told it to his brothers, and they hated him even more. They don't want to hear your aspirations that you're going to do better than they are. Praise the Lord. And I pondered that and I meditated and I wondered, why do you want them to hear it so badly, Joseph? The destiny that God has for him because his destiny is going to be a blessing to them. You probably heard this too. And what's getting ready to happen in me, this destiny that I'm on, is not because of me. You gotta let folk know how you're gonna come into what you're coming into. But here's the key. Here's the key. But in reality, they're upset with God who sent the dream to tell Joseph that this is the destiny that I have for you. So I need us to hold on to this idea that as I reveal my destiny, one, nobody may not want to hear it, but two, nobody may even believe it. Because here it is, God is not like man. Unless he's a little slow. And said to him, What is this dream that you have dreamed? But here it is. So he tells them the dream. Own life, they won't believe it for your life. Well, how come you can't believe it from me when it happened to you? First they hated him, then they hated him more, then they hated him even more, and then the text says then they envied him. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Pastor Sterling. Then behold, my sheath arose and also stood upright, and indeed your sheath stood all around, and bowed down to my sheath. And said, Look, I have dreamed another dream, and this time the sun, the moon, and the eleven stars bowed down to me. In other words, when God sets a divine destiny in our life, it's not without struggle. Perfect. You want people to tell you how good you look and how you know nice your matchup is. Some of us are traveling down some roads and some side streets that we really shouldn't be on because we're not driven by God's destiny. Because you're going your own way. Oftentimes when God reveals what it is he has for us, we first of all don't understand what he's saying Because we're busy people. God said this is what I'm doing for in your life. The first movement of this text is that in the revealing of destiny, nobody wants to hear it, especially when they already hate you. When we come to this part of verse number five, the text already told us his brothers didn't like him. Who are already jealous of him because he's parading around in a coat of many colors that they don't have. When they're already jealous that you've got a job that they wish they had. Nobody wants to hear it. He doesn't say it this way, but this is really what's happening. They don't want to hear it though. And so they really didn't like them anyhow. His brothers asked this question because they don't believe it. You're the 11th son. The vision you just had, the disclosure you just gave about your destiny that you want to sit there and tell us about, we don't believe it because you're not qualified to reach it And they hated him for his dreams, and they hated him for the words that he spoke. About the destiny that God has for you and what God is bringing you into, they're gonna hate you even more, not just for what you said, but they're gonna hate you for the dream itself. I'm trying to help us because the enemy is going to use folk that are close around you, sometimes even your own family, to tell you, I don't believe And I know you can't see it yourself, but if you could see it yourself, it wouldn't be a divine destiny. When algebra without the tray got you. I have dreamed another dream. We don't want to hear your dream, Joseph. But I need to help y'all right here because even if the one who favors you rebukes you don't let that stop you because of all the people of the text who should have understood that this is possible, it should have been his father Jacob because Jacob was also the younger son and God had prophesied that I'm gonna cause you Jacob to rule over your brother who's older than you so watch this sometimes the people who have already received the greatest blessing and seen the most awesome things of God work in their Should be the one that would accept our dreams, should be the one that accepts the vision that God has given us, and they don't even accept it. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. his brothers and his father and his family to keep them alive. destiny God has for you, folk around you are going to begin to envy you because even though you're still living in the ghetto, you're acting like you're living at Wall Street. Even though you're still poor, you're living and acting like you're rich. It reminds me of Jesus' mother. But his destiny ended up blessing the whole world. Or shall you indeed have dominion over us? First of all, when you're driven by destiny, your past struggles cannot hold you hostage to where you're going. The struggle is going to help me get to my destiny and be ready when I get there. On this morning, I want to continue looking at this theme driven by destiny. Joseph is the first son born to Jacob and Rachel, and that son became Jacob's favorite boy. And some of you spent many years on that job because the money was good, but you don't even enjoy the job. Sometimes it starts off good because you it's an educated knowledge, but then after that, because you're driven by knowledge is any kind of knowledge, and then you become nosy because you want to know everything Destinies for us, and if we are prudent, we would allow those destinies to drive us in life And if we are driven by those destinies, not only will we fulfill what God has for us, but it'll save us from going down some roads that we don't need to go down. Our own thing is driving us, and we're doing it our way. To Joseph, what destiny he has for him. There's no way, God, that what you just showed me that that could be for me. They don't want to hear what Joseph has to say, and people are not going to want to hear your destiny that has been revealed to you when they already don't like you. God gets the glory. Secondly, verse number 8 says, And his brother said to him, Shall you indeed reign over us? People that you tell your destiny to that God has revealed to you, they don't want to hear that you're getting ready to do better, and they're not going to believe that you're going to do better. No, that's not gonna happen because you don't qualify to rule over us. You're not wise enough. But you need to tell them, don't hate God for blessing me, because when God blesses me, He's gonna bless you because my favor becomes your favor But don't be discouraged because the people don't want to hear it. Keep pressing on, keep moving forward. Joseph, we we don't like you dude. And secondly, we don't believe it because you're not qualified. All they focus on is the bow down part. In the midst of you, so that he could be beneficial to you. Because now it's really growing up in you into reality. To be at a different place. Mary's name to have a name that was above Joseph's name to be exalted and to be favored by all the community and all the people and all that jealousy that would have gone on with that. By the destiny God has for you. and ultimately declared, I'm not letting go until you bless me. And you know, so we're driven by all kinds of things in the natural sense. I think in this process of the revealing of destiny, we need to be forewarned about a few things. Not me. Some of them are kin to you as these are akin to him. When you failed math, when you haven't made it out of algebra two trigger analysis Now it takes believing God, not believing you. We hate you. Has for you even though folks don't want to hear it, even though folks don't want to believe it, even though folks don't want to accept it, but you begin to walk and act like you really do believe it, they're going to envy you because they're going to get jealous that His father didn't completely dismiss it. Our preaching what we've been actually referring to is that place that inevitably you will get to. As we kind of look into this whole idea of driven by destiny, we've learned and gleaned some things about destiny and Because eventually somebody's gonna tell you you ain't enough. I don't believe that God's gonna do it in you. If people can look at your life and say, Yeah, I can see all the little pieces. When you get to where God is taking you, God's going to use that to bless so many others. Just in case the matter might be true. We began a series of messages and preached from the subject matter driven by destiny. When I get promoted, I'm gonna be able to help you. They don't want to accept that what he just told them is even going to come to pass. Y'all need to hear this one. Because he met his destiny. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. There are some folk that are just driven by attention. We on food stamps together. His destiny became a blessing to his mother and his father and his brothers and to you and to me, and we all have to now bow because he was lifted up. It's not important for other people to believe it. What God is doing, God is clarifying for Joseph what he's going to do, and how the favor that is being put on Joseph is going to be beneficial to the whole family. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. I'm not doing that. I want to invite our attention on this morning to Genesis chapter 37, beginning at verse 5. And we don't really take a lot of time, one, to listen anyway. When they hate you because of the dream, it's not that they're really hating you. They're already upset. God's not concerned about them accepting it. They already hate him. You're not qualified. And you keep dreaming these dreams. And so they don't want to hear Joseph's plan. Now he's the favorite. They don't have no parts of it. org or contact our church office at 301-574-3515. Doesn't matter where you are or where you've been, but this is the destiny that God has for you. Look at what he's doing. Here's the last one. And so you're on the run from the destiny that God said he's going to have for you. We don't believe in your dreams, Joseph. And then people begin to envy you because you're no longer doing what we do. So he said to them, Please hear this dream which I have dreamed. Your drive in life is to get paid. So he says to them, Look, I have dreamed another dream. Are you gonna have dominion over us? I'm gonna call you to preach. But now in this particular text, what we're going to get a chance to see is God is going to reveal In Jewish tradition, it's the first who has all the rights and who has all the privileges. And so now you're telling us about your dreams, and we don't want to hear it. They already don't like him. We hate you, man. But don't stop being driven by the destiny because people who are spiritual or people who are favored in your life have turned and told you, I don't believe it for you. He kept the matter in mind. Because you know as well as they know, ain't no way you're supposed to get there. He doesn't tell lies. But when you start working, you got a job, get a promotion, look like you beginning to pull things together. Verse number 9 through 11 picks up and he says, Then he dreamed still another dream and told it to his brothers and said, Look. And now you're telling us that the sun and the moon, Sun, moon, that's mama, daddy, and all the lemon, that's all of us. Mama and daddy and y'all gonna bow down to me. And his father rebukes him. They got it. Joseph is saying, My destiny is getting ready to bless all of us. Don't be discouraged because the people don't believe it. You're not rich enough. You need to believe it. We don't want to hear any more of your dreams. Praise the Lord. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. You like to be the center of attention. And you say, God has shown me I'm gonna be in a position where mathematics is gonna be my whole life cycle. He acts like he really believes he's gonna rule over us. Leave us alone. Her name was Mary. And guess what? In fact, Joseph was telling on them anyway. Are you gonna reign over us? You're not smart enough. And so Joseph is told, man, you're not enough. His destiny blessed all of us. They understood exactly what God said, where their destiny is, what they're supposed to be doing. What they don't realize is that God says, I'm gonna raise him up. And I'm not talking about getting in debt either. And guess what? And he dreamed still another dream. So they hated him even more, for his dreams and for his words. They're upset with the dream and they're upset with the words of the dream. But thirdly, watch this. They already hate him. That's why you gotta keep on pressing and being driven You're gonna be this, you're gonna be a pastor, you're gonna be a teacher, you're gonna be a this, you're gonna When I get in a better position, I'll be able to bless you. They don't see that part. That's when we know it's God that's doing it. But listen to me, sometimes it happens this way. But in the spiritual sense, I believe that God has set certain Now they're fine with you as long as we're struggling together. We don't want to hear your stuff. Stay here with me. Mm-hmm. Shall me and your mother and your brothers all bow down before you? Who do you think you are? You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Everything you do is all about money. And so when we hear it, it's like, huh? He's concerned about you accepting it. And there are some that are driven by power. And he doesn't play these tricks on us to tell us one thing and send us somewhere else. Now you know you're in trouble when the one who favors you rebukes you And Joseph then, therefore, is going to reveal to his brothers and his father what destiny God has for him. And listen to me, when you start living and being driven by the It was the destiny of Jesus to go to the cross, to die on the cross, and to be exalted above all his brothers and his sisters, to have a name that was above. And we look here in Genesis chapter 37, and we've now moved from the life of Jacob to the life of Joseph, his son. You're gonna go through some rough patches and some places and some turmoils that you don't really need to go through Ultimately that's what he's gonna do. He pondered the issue. And when they tell you you're not enough, let them know you're right, I'm not enough, but he is Yeah. They don't want to accept it. But look at verse number six. That's a great question. But the struggle, getting there, is gonna help you be powerful when you get there. Nobody wants to accept his dream. And the Bible says, even though she heard what the angel of the Lord said, she couldn't believe it. They're hating the one that sent the dream. They already don't believe him. But we discovered a few things about people who are driven by destiny. I know we don't like to go through no struggles, but I want you to understand your struggle is a part of your destiny. You say you end up being a mm-hmm. We didn't believe your first dream. There are some people in our lives that really don't want to see us do better. You're not whatever enough. You're the 11th child all the way down the pedestal. And I believe that God still reveals to us what his plan is for our life. And I come to the conclusion that Joseph wants them to hear Here's their pretense for saying that It's because of him. And he went to his brothers that hated him. See, because people only want to see the part that's gonna make them mad For additional information, go to our website So we don't believe it. You already pranced around with that coat of many colors. If nobody else believes what God said, you believe it. You have to believe it and keep walking and keep being driven to it. There's other that are driven by excellence. And then God spoke to him in a dream, and he goes to his brothers who already don't like him. I'm talking about you've got an attitude like you already mentally have prepared yourself So they hated him even more And in this case, God's going to use the destiny of Joseph to bless Why do they envy him? They don't want to hear it when you tell them God has revealed to me I'm going to be the manager of this department. What was that? You're not tall enough You're 11th child. First of all, we don't want to hear it because we hate you, man. Now, even though his father rebukes him, but his father does something else. It has nothing to do with the people, has nothing to do with your like or dislike. You like to be the one that everybody's looking at. The dream you just had Even though folk didn't want to hear it, they didn't want to believe it, and they didn't want to receive it You like to be in control. That's basically what he said, because it didn't take a genius to figure out what he was saying in the dream, what the dream meant, and you didn't need an interpreter. And then thirdly, we also discover that your struggles will lead you to fulfill your destiny. If you could tell people about where you're going and they can believe it so easily, maybe it ain't God that's sending you there And so you've got to keep pressing on and being driven by the destiny that God has shown you. His brothers now, they envy him If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Joseph said to them, Please hear this dream, which I have dreamed. And we keep on going. Sometimes you got to tell people where you're going because where you're going is going to be a blessing to them. And he's enough to get me there. And this time the sun, the moon, and the 11 stars bowed down to me And so they begin to become envious. There we were, binding sheaves in the field. So I just want to warn you, in the revealing of your destiny, some people are not going to want to hear it. Because now, Joseph, you're not just talking the vision, you're starting to believe the vision, and you're starting to walk in the vision, and when you start walking in the vision that God Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. And so when you're driven by that destiny, when you're living to fulfill what God has said about you and of you And so therefore we don't begin to function and move or be driven towards it In other words, just because I'm going through struggle doesn't mean that I'm still not going to accomplish where God said I'm going to be. Now I do believe, even as God does in this text, he's going to reveal When it's hard to believe. They wasn't doing what they were supposed to do. You're 11th. When you begin to tell people Oh yeah, I can see that. You're far down the road, and it's not gonna happen. So, in other words, God gave you the vision, God gave you the dream, so it's God they hate, so they're hating God for blessing you. Don't want to hear about him. Like in that sense, maybe what this boy is saying has some validity to it. The word of the Lord reads as follows. And let me back up a moment and define destiny. I don't want to hear about your second dream. And his brothers envied him, but his father kept the matter in mind. But you hating on me because God is blessing me. But when you get there, you can say, I told you, God told me I was gonna get here. And his brothers envied him. He told to his father and his brothers, verse number 10, and his father rebuked him. Sometimes we go to the person that we think should be the one that will understand You gotta hold the range. And I know he gotta know that they hate him by now. But they have decided I'm not going to do it. And you dance favor. Here's the second movement of the text. And so he tells them anyway. And they've told you that too. m. You like things to be done well and excellent. Yeah, you good, you good at math and and I can see you being a mathematician and oh no, no. You're not qualified. Two, I think a lot of times we don't believe it could possibly be for us. or 11 a. You like to be the one that's always fresh. And now, org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Then he dreamed still another dream and told it to his brothers That and you said oh no, uh uh You way down the road. You're not qualified to lead over us, reign over us. Now he comes back and says, I had another dream. m. We don't want to hear. He ran back, told it, fall. Now Joseph had a dream and he told it to his brothers. We're driven by our own. Matter of fact, Joseph, we don't really like you. You gotta set at the top and all the time. Now Now he's bringing you their stories. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center. Not only do they not want to hear it, they're not going to believe it. How many folk in here have been told you're not enough? He forces them to listen. And he says, please hear my dream But his father kept the matter in mind. The One Degree of Andy podcast. And they ask these questions, two questions they ask The text says, verse number 11, his father kept the matter in mind. And his brother said to him, Shall you indeed reign over us? Now, herein lies the problem You'll take a job you don't even like just to get the money, because money's good. When we talk about destiny in the context of Everything you do, you are driven to make sure it's done He was tattletale What you need to do is be praying for me He presses them. That's not going to happen, Joseph. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. I'm Andy Christman. Are you gonna rule over us? We all bow down to you, Joseph. But when he died Then there's some that's driven by knowledge. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. She didn't want to receive it, but she held it in her heart. Because ultimately, where you're going is going to bless other people. Please hear the dream. If you haven't been told that yet, keep on living. Now you had another dream. Daniel didn't have to show up for this one. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. That's gonna take God. I can understand that. And when you get there. Amen. You just always got to know. Ugh. Anybody can tell you what this meant. But when they can't see it.