Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord from Lamentations chapter 3, beginning at verse 40, reads as follows: Let us search out and examine our ways. And turn back to the Lord. Let us lift our hearts and hands to God in heaven. We have transgressed and rebelled. You have not pardoned. You have covered yourself with anger and pursued us. You have slain and not pitied. You have covered yourself with a cloud That prayer should not pass through. You have made us an offscoring and refuse In the midst of the people, all of our enemies have opened their mouths against us. Fear and a snare have come upon us. Desolation and destruction My eyes overflow with rivers of water for the destruction of the daughter of my people. My eyes flow and do not cease without interruption Till the Lord from heaven looks down and sees, my eyes bring suffering to my soul because of all the daughters of my city. Would you pray with me, Father? Thank you for your word. Thank you for this occasion and opportunity that we have, Lord, to stand and declare your word on today. I pray that in the process of Your word being shared that someone might come to be saved today. I pray, God, that someone might return in their fellowship, restore the relationship they once had with you. Spirit of the Lord, I'm praying that in the process of preaching this morning you will give me clarity of thought and speech. That you would allow God, my mouth to speak what thus saith the Lord. And God, that all that is done and all that is said, we give your name glory. It's my prayer, God, that you would be exalted in the midst of all that takes place. That your people will understand and comprehend what it is you'd have for them to see or hear or understand today. We are in need of you, God. So as I stand, strengthen this weak vessel, anoint me for the purpose of this assignment on today. To accomplish your will. And I'll give your name all the glory, honor, and praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen We have been on a journey through this book of Lamentations, just chapter three, speaking actually from the subject matter. Lamentations chapter three. We started this journey at the beginning of Lamentations at the first twenty-six verses and spoke from the subject matter: Great is thy faithfulness. Last week when we were together, we went from verses 27 all the way to 39. We spoke from the idea what you need to understand to survive God's punishment. And that was that we had to have a proper response to God's punishment. We had to have a proper perspective of God's punishment. He wasn't trying to kill you, he's trying to encourage you and love you. And thirdly, that God has power over our woes and our wellness. So whether it's good or whether it's bad, because we belong to Him, God has the power over it all. So on today, this last part of these mini series. What I've been trying to do is to uncover and expose for us some beauty of Lamentations and also some understanding. I wanted to try to help us to understand better what Jeremiah was saying and trying to convey to us in chapter 3 specifically. And so uh in in all of my efforts I felt somewhat inadequate in articulating it best, and so I uh decided to invite a special guest. Who can probably do a far better job than myself in dealing with this last portion that I just read? And he's gonna come and and and we so we got a visit from Jeremiah today. Hold on. Well, good morning. Catherine Baptist Church. Your your pastor. Asked me to come and share some light on the text that you've been studying. And so bear with me It's been a number of years since I wrote that. If you allow me to introduce myself My name is Jeremiah. I'm the son of Hilkiah. I come from a family of priests. God came to me around the age of twenty, and he said to me, Jeremiah Before your mother and your father got together, I knew you. I formed you, Jeremiah, in the womb, and I fashioned you, and I ordained you. To be a prophet to the nation of Israel. In fact, what God did was he touched my mouth And he put his words in my mouth. And he told me, Jeremiah, you're going to speak what I have put in your mouth. He also warned me that if uh as I go to to prophesy to warn Judah And Israel about their ways that they would not receive me well, but rather they would come for me. And come for me they did. For forty years as I told them to turn from their ways, for they were wicked. And They were worshiping false gods and they were doing all manner of things. And I warned them and they came and they tried to kill me several times The king put me in prison. They threw me in a ditch and left me there for dead. They they stoned me and God told me that he would be with me. And I thank God he was with me. I was on this pathway of doing what God had ordained before I was even born for me to do. And they hated me. When I wrote Lamentation, I wrote it to make sure that everybody in the future Would know that we ought to mourn our sin. And we ought to look to God and be grateful. That he doesn't punish us according to what we've done. I wanted everybody to know that God is a forgiving God. And all that was necessary was to turn back to him. And so I was blessed by God To leave after going through captivity with the in Babylon. And I was blessed to be able to go on home and and live with him until your pastor Call me back here. Pastor Sterling and I just had a brief conversation and he shared with me that sin still happens among God's people. And he shared with me his his attempts to try to articulate from the words that I wrote and he said, well, Jeremiah, you could do a far better job. Than I can. And so I made it here today and I'm gonna do the best I can To help you not have to endure what Judah endured. When I think about this Message that I wrote, I realized that it is of absolute necessity For Israel, but also for you to examine your ways When I say examine your ways, what I mean by that is consider what you've been doing. Take a real deep introspective look at your life and acknowledge the sin in your life But then take action related to it. When I was writing Lamentation chapter 3, I asked the question, which I think you all dealt with last week. Why should a man complain? When he's getting chastised from God, when God is correcting him less than he deserved. When you examine your way and acknowledge, yes, God, I've come up short, I've lied, I've cheated I stole whatever your situation is, then there is some requirement For you to do something about it. When I was writing my encouragement to Israel, and I'll share this with you Repent and turn back to God. Go back to God and do something about it. Don't just keep doing what you're doing. Because judgment is coming. You can lie and fool your pastor, but you can't fool God. I realize that the Holy Ghost will convict you of sin and point you to what is righteous and just. I've looked in on you all from glory and I've seen that you are a nation That calls wrong right and right wrong. I've looked in on this nation of people and realize that God has been gracious to you. He's allowed you to come from so far and be the what you call yourself superpower Of the world. But this is a wicked place. Even in your judicial systems and legislative systems, it's foul. You degrade the name of Jesus in ways unthinkable. Examine your ways This is what I came to say, because judgment is coming. I kept on writing, secondly, say, look at The response of God as related to the children of Israel I warned them over and over and over again. They told me I was crazy, that God was always going to just look the other way. Babylon was never going to come and Babylon came and God allowed it to happen and Babylon came in to undo Israel in a land that was given to them. They were enjoying the milk and honey of God. And they rebelled against God and they turned their backs on God. And the response of God was that God did not hold back. God came just like he said. And he began to execute judgment. And he did not relent from his judgment. It's a horrible picture in my mind that I cannot shake and I never will forget watching a heathen nation come in Snatching our children away from their parents, killing fathers and mothers, and slaughtering people in the streets. Taken the best and the brightest to the king's house. The inability of them to undo now what God had warned was coming And now they were facing what I had been prophesying for 40 years. God's response was that he covered himself in anger. God wasn't listening. He had blocked himself with the clouds And the response of God was to not listen and not hear any prayers of the people. The response of God was to allow our enemies to come in and pursue us and kill us. And I, as the prophet of God, who had the protection of God, was left to watch In horror, as my people were being slaughtered, separated, as the temple of God where we used to go to worship, was being stripped of its gold. And of its silver. The stones, the diamonds, and burl and onyx were stripped from the ephods of the priests. They just pillage the house of God. God said to me, Jeremiah, don't mourn these people. This is my hand moving. The response of God to sin that people have been warned to turn back to Him. And they didn't. God's response was that his mercy to some degree ran out. And he began to allow punishment to come Now, you might be saying, Jeremiah, we know all about that, and we we understand God's gonna judge, and we save now, Jeremiah. Can I let you in on a little secret? The fact that you're saved doesn't protect you from the judgments of God nor the chastisement of God. In fact, God will chastise you because He saved you. Here's the last thing that I that I want to say And I hope y'all can get this part as well because in all that transpired, in all that Went on in Israel. I want you to hear the prophets Response, the prophets pain to all that was going on. I wrote it in this third chapter I won't read it for you because you already you already heard it read But what happened to me, I did not understand. I want to let you in on a glimpse Of the pain of the prophet. Maybe it allows you to hear my pain as the prophet Jeremiah to a people. in Israel who would not listen to God. But it also might help you hear the pain of your own pastor. I didn't know when God called me and he put his hand on my mouth, that not only could I not say what I wanted to say. I could only say what he put in my mouth. What I didn't know was that God would give me not only his words. to speak to his people. But he would give me his heart for his people. And when I watch Babylon come in and destroy Israel and tear down the temple and drag the people into captivity where they would be for 70 years. It broke my heart. I cried. I cried rivers of tears. I couldn't help myself. The more I saw, the greater the pain And what hurt me the most was I had warned these people it didn't have to be this way. I told them for 40 years I had been preaching and prophesying and declaring God's word to them and telling them God is going to judge you if you don't turn around. But God is merciful and he wants you to turn around. I cried and I kept crying. I cried day and I cried at night. And my tears just kept flowing. I couldn't do anything. I couldn't stop God from doing what he was doing. I couldn't stop his judgment. Perhaps your pastor knows that same thing. Because when God called him, he also gave him a heart for you. To watch out for your soul, to preach only what thus saith the Lord. And when you sin against God When you live contrary to the warning that your pastor preaches every Sunday morning, that Jesus Christ came into the world, gave his life To erase and wash away all of your sin, to keep you from ever having to go to hell and be cast into a lake of fire. Jesus did it. And he offered his gift of everlasting life for you for free. You don't have to work for it. You don't have to tarry for it. He gives it freely. When we hear that story in heaven, we rejoice. And because I only assume that most of you who would gather in a church building come out on a rainy day Dress yourself up, sit in your same old seats every week. I would assume that most of you are probably already saved. But don't take that for granted. I want you to keep on living for Jesus. I want you to avoid the judgment that's coming and escape as much as you can. The punishments of God. Because you don't have to go through all those punishments Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down. with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.