Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Ephesians chapter 4. We'll begin our reading in verse number 1. The word of the Lord reads, Therefore, the prisoner of the Lord beseech you to walk worthy of the calling with which you were called. With all lowliness and gentleness, with long-suffering, bearing with one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. Let me skip down to verse number eleven. And he himself gave some to be apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come to the unity of faith. And of the knowledge of the Son of God to a perfect man to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ That we should no longer be children tossed to and fro, carried about with every wind of doctrine by trickery of men, in the cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting. But speaking the truth in love, we may grow up into all things, into him who is the head, Christ. from whom the whole body is joined and knit together, by every joint supplies according to the effective working by which every part does its share causes growth of the body. For the edifying of itself in love. that you put off concerning the former conduct of the old man which grows corrupt according to the deceitful lusts, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that you put on the new man, which was created according to God in true righteousness and holiness. Would you pray with me? Father, we thank you. We bless you for this morning, for this opportunity to open up your word. We are in need of you that you might speak clearly This morning, God, to every heart and every soul that's listening, God, I pray that you would speak beyond the barriers that we may have erected and get to the core of our heart and our beings so that we might If need be, God, surrender our hearts and our lives to you. If need be, grow to be what you've called us to be. If need be, God. Commit ourselves to faithfulness in ministry and service and if need be, God, to unite with this branch of Zion or some other where we can begin to grow in the wisdom and knowledge of God. But Lord, it is my prayer and the process of preaching on today That you would edify this body and that you would allow us to grow in knowledge of you. And you, God, would use this opportunity to transform lives, not just for today, but for eternity. Spirit of the Lord, I stand in need of you as I stand to declare your word, and so help me, God, with my thoughts, with my oration, Lord, that my mouth might speak clearly the word of God, that the word of God might be heard in the ears of the hearer. In such a way that they would know it was God who was speaking and not me. Lord, save someone who's lost, reclaim someone who's drifting above and beyond everything else. Glorify yourself for you alone. Deserve all the honor and all the glory. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen. This morning, Kettering, I want to continue a series of messages that I began on last Sunday entitled Grow Up. We started that series in Hebrews chapter 5, and we spoke from the subject matter, the elementary principles again. In this text of Ephesians, the Apostle Paul teaches that growing up as a Christian is associated with love. and unity with others. In fact, in chapter four, verse two, he says, the whole idea here is that with we're we're coming we're he he wants you first of all to walk according to the calling wherewith you've been called and you've been called to Christ, but you've been called to grow up in Christ. Lord help me here. And he says we ought to do it with all lowliness and gentleness and long suffering, bearing with one another in love, endeavoring to keep the the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace. He says, therefore, there is one body and one spirit just as You are called in one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God, and Father of all, who is above all and through all and in you all And and he's so he's he he lays out kind of as a survey for us the idea of growing up has to do with growing up in love and growing up in unity with one another. and growing up in such a way that we will fulfill the calling that we have. And so I want to use this text to talk from the subject matter from babes to maturity. As we laid out for you clearly on last week, that the redemptive work of the Lord allowed us to be able to come Into a relationship with God, to be reconnected to God, to be born again unto God. At that point, we are babies in the relationship with God. We don't really know how to interact with God. We don't really know how to act at all with God. We don't understand the dynamics of God. And so we're babes in Christ. And so I want to kind of try to help us to understand how do you move from being a babe to being mature. And let me say this: it doesn't happen by osmosis or by the passing of time. So sometimes we think just because people got gray hair and they in the church that they are spiritually mature. No, there's a lot of gray-haired babies in the church. The question that most would probably ask, and what I want to answer for you here today, right out of this text, I want to answer the question, how we grow up Verse 11 says, and he himself gave some to be apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastor teachers. What God did for the body of Christ is that He gave gifts in the form of these gifted men. Apostles and pastors, teachers, and prophets. He gave them as gifts to the body that they might help teach and equip and prepare the babies. So that they can grow up in the church to do the work of the ministry. Pastor, how do we grow? We grow. By the benefit of the gifts that God has given to the body. God gave us pastors and pastor teachers so that they could teach us how to grow up God gave us evangelists so that they can go out and share the gospel. God gave us these apostles so that they can lead and guide and give direction so that we can grow up So that we can be edified, so that we can understand this new kingdom life that we have. But if these gifted men abandon their assignment And start becoming entertainers. And they begin to seek fame and fortune for themselves If they abandon their assignment and they focus in on politics and prosperity instead of the sound foundation of the preaching of the word, then how Can the people ever grow up? One of the problems we have with the church right now is that many have left the assignment of preaching the gospel. And I'm gonna blame two people for that. Three people. I'm gonna blame the devil. I'm gonna blame The fake preacher, and I'm gonna blame you for listening to them. Because if they weren't gathering up a crowd of you listening, they wouldn't keep coming out with that stuff. If we stop listening to garbage, they'll stop putting garbage out. I'm of the firm opinion that we're struggling in the church growing up. Because the people have grown an appetite for that that tickles the ear. And as a result of the lust for lucrative living. Preachers have abandoned the gospel for entertainment. And they have learned to say what you want to hear. And so the church can't grow up when you've got the people who are supposed to be teaching them the scripture, not teaching them the scripture. And when I get up to preach, I don't play with the Bible. I already know. When I spend time in the Word, In some senses, I gotta compete with a bunch of foolish people out there. Because I already know, and because I've talked to some of y'all, some of y'all listen to some people that they just not preaching the Bible at all. And you go, oh, but he's so he's so happy. He's such a happy message. Yeah, a happy message. Happy message will not get you to heaven and it won't help you grow up. So how do we grow up? We grow up, verse sixteen says, when every part of the body does its part. Y'all see that? From whom the whole body joined and knit together by what every joint supplies, according to the effective working by which every part does its share, causes growth to the body. We grow when everybody does our part or our share of the work or labor or assignment, our part, not somebody else's part. Each of us, when we do what we are gifted to do, edify each other, and we together become strong when we all do our part. So we help each other grow, but God's giving gifts to the body so the body can grow. But everybody has to do what they've been gifted to do so that we can grow. That's how we grow from babes. And up. This process of growing people up, it's weighted on all of us. It's not on just you or somebody. It's on me too. That's why I have to stay in the the word. That's why I have to study to make sure I understand it so I can make it understandable to you. That's why I have to dig in the context of the passage. That's why I have to go to the historical backdrop. That's why I have to understand the dynamics and the Greek and the Hebrew. That's why I had to go to school. That's why I spent hours and hours studying and and researching and delving in and digging in, not for the purpose of a degree, but that I might be able to take you from degree to degree in my teaching of the word of God so it makes sense to you and not just you who are highly educated and highly sophisticated but I wanted to make sure that I could bring it to the child so the child can get it Second thing. What are we growing up into? Glad you asked. It's right here in the text. It says verse 13. Till we all come to the unity of the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and a perfect man to the measure and the statue of the fullness of Christ. There's four things he lists there that we're growing up into. We're growing up into unity in our faith. Our faith needs to be in the same God. Not oh I believe over here and I believe over here and it's okay for everybody to believe whatever you want to believe. No unity of the faith Growing up means you're growing up into a unified understanding that we have one Lord, one faith, one baptism. The world wants you to believe everybody's okay. You know, whatever you do, you do. You do you, you do me, and we all gonna make it to heaven. That ain't true. That's a lie from the pit of hell. One Lord, one faith, one baptism. That's it. We're growing into the knowledge of the Son of God. I love this. We have to grow up to know who he is. When we accepted Jesus Christ, for the most part of us, we really didn't know a whole lot about him. We had you know a few stories. We didn't really know him Growing up is growing up to know him. Part of growing up is the hell you're going through right now. Because if he doesn't let you go through this hell, you'll never get to know him and what he can do when trouble hits We're growing up thoroughly to a perfect man. We're growing up into a man who is without sin. Watch this. You've already had your sin eradicated, but now you have to live it out. It's a sanctification process. You're growing up into living without practicing sin every day. If I can say it this way, five years into your salvation, If you are growing up, you ought to sin less. Some habits by now you should have grown out of Because you started getting to know him better. The more I know him, the more I realize he is everything I need. When you get to know him, you grow up. From different kinds of behavior. So we grow in the knowledge of Him, we grow in the unity of the faith. We grow to a perfect man who is without sin, and we grow to the measure and the stature of the fullness of Christ. That is, we grow up into the image of God. What was the original purpose that God created us for in the first place? that we might reflect his image. Verse 14 comes back and it says, says this, it says, that you should no longer be children tossed to and fro, carried about by every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, in the cunning and crafty, deceitful plottings that they're always working. But watch this. So so we ought to be growing up in such a way that we're growing solid in doctrine. Now, I know that very few churches that you ever go to will ever teach you doctrine. As a matter of fact, when I started teaching doctrine here, they told me, why are you teaching doctrine in a black church? Black people not interested in doctrine. And I said, this is my answer. Y'all know I'm bad like this. I don't come at me again. When God has told me to do something. You can't challenge me when God has told me to do something. You can challenge me any other time, but when God has told me to do something, you better watch yourself I said, this is my answer. I'm not preaching your gospel. And what he told me to do is to teach his word. Help me, Lord Jesus. If I could say this like I feel it, if we had more preachers, Lord Jesus, who would stand flat-footed And preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. Preach the word of God. Preach the doctrine of God. Stay with what the word says. We wouldn't have so much confusion in the church right now. You got people preaching stuff they don't even believe in their selves. They preaching stuff so that they can get more members. They preaching stuff so they can get more dollars So they can have a better reputation. No, no, no. But guess what? Here's what I'm afraid of. I have to stand in front of the God who spoke these words, who trusted me Lord, help me, Jesus. He trusted me, and I was not trustworthy. I am not worthy to be trusted with the holy word of God, but he trusted me with his holy word and he called me to preach his holy word. He trusted me to say what he said. And he trusted me and I Got to stand before him on the judgment day because he trusted me with his word. I'm not concerned about pleasing people, I've got to please the one who enlisted me. I I gotta preach doctrine because doctrine is the synchronicity of scripture that helps me to understand how to live out this spiritual life. Pastor, what are you saying? What I'm saying is when you teach doctrine, doctrine is scripture supporting scripture. Supporting scripture. Supporting scripture. Watch this. In the context of which it was spoken. It helps us and gives us guidance as to how to understand what God requires of us and how we are to walk Worthy, which is what Paul asks us to do in verse 4, chapter 4, verse 1. How do I walk worthy of my calling if I don't understand doctrine? If I don't understand how is the church supposed to function? How are we supposed to act? How are we supposed to react? You need doctrine for that. How come we don't have people running around with snakes and talking about hey, come get bit by a snake? Because that ain't in the scripture in the context for us to establish as doctrine. That is not a doctrinal belief that we should follow. I mean you need doctrine so that so you're not following everything that people say do. You n you're not Lord Jesus, you're not throwing money at the altar and turning around seven times and expecting a paycheck in ten days. That that ain't in scripture. Come on now. It might sound good in the moment. They might hype you up and get the hype man out there to get you all hyped up, but that ain't in the Bible. That's not scripture. That's not doctrine. That's not solid. That's not the word of God. And so we need solid doctrine so we can stop getting caught up in all this foolishness, these various winds of doctrine by the trickery of men, the cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting. With solid doctrine, he says, we will no longer be tossed around. So we're growing up into solid doctrine. Into unity, into the knowledge of the Son of God, into a perfect man, into the measure and the stature of Christ Himself. I'm growing up into solid doctrine. Verse 15, I'm growing up into Him in all things. Speaking the truth in love, we may grow up in all things into Him who is the head. Christ. I'm trying, my growing up, your growing up is growing up into Christ. So eventually we should all be looking like little Christ. So if I look in the mirror and I don't look like Christ. And if I if I listen to my language and I don't talk like Christ, and if if my reactions and my responses aren't like Christ's responses, I still got work to do. Are y'all hearing what I'm saying? So so don't think oh I'm grown now. I'm I'm I'm a mature spiritual I got it all me and Jesus like that. No, you're not. If if you don't look like him and act like him and react like him And you don't talk like him and walk like him and and and you don't you don't move and you're not like him. So that means you you're still growing to the maturity that we're seeking. So we're trying to grow to be like him. Because watch this, his spirit is in us, and when his spirit is in us to grow to let him have full control of us. That's a journey that we're on. And part of it is the wrestling match between the old flesh. First Corinthians says this. It says, I really want to talk to you as spiritual, but I can't You're still behaving, he says, like mere men, like unsaved people So what Paul is literally saying here, he's pointing us to the condition from whence we come into this body. We come into the body of Christ as mere men and women. Carnal, fleshly, and that's why when people get on your nerves, you still cuss them out. That's fleshly. When we grow up We start realizing I don't need to cuss you out. God heard what you just said. And in the text, what Paul says here in verse 21, he says, Now if indeed you have heard him, if you and have been taught by him, as the truth is in Jesus, that you need to put off concerning your former conduct, the old man, which grows corrupt according to the deceitful lusts, So the old man is growing too, but he's growing more corrupt and more deceitful. But he says in verse 23, and be renewed in your spirit of your mind. That you put on the new man which was created according to God in true righteousness and holiness. So here it is. What are we growing up from? I'm growing up from being carnal and fleshly. But I'm also growing up from the old man having control of my life. I'm growing up to the place that now I gotta renew this mind. It needs to be refreshed. And it needs to be refreshed multiple times a day. And so in our mind, we still have old stuff in our mind And we need to refresh our mind. And what I use to refresh my mind is the word of God and the worship of God. So when I begin to read his word, I get something new in my mind. And I begin to worship God. It allows the Spirit to flush out the old stuff. And when I'm worshiping him and I'm getting in his presence, it allows me to feel his presence and to allow him to have full control. Because now I realize it's no longer me, but it's him that's In control. So I need to renew my mind and I need to take off the old man, tell the old man you don't live here no more, you don't have control no more, you don't get a say anymore, and put on the new man who is Christ Jesus and let Christ reign and let Christ rule and let Christ have dominion in my life. If we're going to move from babes to maturity, we need to know how to grow. We need to know what we're growing to, and we need to know what we're growing from. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down. with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.