Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. We want to invite your attention on today to Colossians. Chapter 3. We'll begin our reading at verse number 8. The word of the Lord reads as follows. But now you yourselves. Are to put off all these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy Filthy language out of your mouth. Do not lie to one another, since you have put off the old man with his deeds. And you have put on the new man who is renewed in knowledge according to the image of him who created him. Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcised nor uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave nor free, but Christ is all and in all. Therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, long-suffering Bearing with one another and forgiving one another, if any one has a complaint against another, even as Christ forgave you, so you also must do. Amen. Amen. Father in heaven, we need you on this morning that you might declare a clear word in our midst. Speak from on high to our hearts, not just for hearing, but for doing. We might find ourselves in the center of your holy and divine will. Lord, if there's any here on today that don't know you, save them by your amazing grace. If there are any, Lord God, that are drifting from the fellowship. God, renew the broken fellowship. Restore it today. Heavenly Father, we bless you in this place, and I yield myself as an instrument in your hand. Accomplish Your divine and sovereign will in this place. We'll give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. Speak now, Lord, to our life, to our death. To our right now situation. It's in Jesus' name I pray and I thank you. And all the people of God said together, Amen. Amen. Praise the Lord. Katarine October Domestic Violence Awareness Month. and called intimate partner violence. Believe it or not, not very often is this subject matter talked about in church. Theory is The misnomer that children of God, worshipers, church people don't have this issue, but they do. And the sad news about it is that they have it at the same rate as non Christians, as unsaved people. Domestic violence is manifested in multiple ways. It may be seen in the term of physical violence, which is is act the actual physical violence that takes place or even the threat of it. Sexual violence, actual sexual violence or the threat of it. Emotional or psychological abuse, which oftentimes comes through verbal means, name calling, put-downs, shaming. malicious threats to one's emotional status or feelings and emotions, stalking excessive voicemails, text messages, emails, monitoring every move that someone makes. either through m spyware, social media mechanisms now we have that people are following and tracking people every move that they make, checking the mileage on the car. Um all that kind of thing falls in the area of stalking, manipulating a person's activities and their attitudes, using these technologies technologies of today to control a person and keep track of them. Financial abuse is another way in which it manifests itself through the withholding of uh funds and and I'll say without any viable or loving cause, ruining someone's credit intentionally Preventing them from getting a job or even keeping the job that they have. There is spiritual abuse, manipulation through spiritual means. Always reminding you you're supposed to be a Christian, but at the same time they're acting like a hellion. Misuse of the word of God to control someone. To keep them in the context that they want them to be in. Sometimes that manifests itself in the way they dress. They may be telling them through the scripture, you gotta dress a certain way. You have to marry a certain person You have to have so many children. Overall, it is forcing the law of the scripture without exercising the grace of the God of the Scripture. Domestic abuse happens on every level to every kind of person. It happens between Current and former spouses, girlfriends, boyfriends, sexual partners, dating partners, and even parents today you need to watch even this amongst your children in their relationships. Some quick statistical data for you. This comes from the uh 2017 CDC, one in four women and one in seven men will experience severe physical domestic violence in their lifetime. One in ten women will be raped in their lifetime. Eight percent of men will experience some violent sexual encounter on them other than rape. Domestic violence affects black And white, gay and straight, the rich, poor, educated, the uneducated, the saved, the unsaved, the church and the unchurched It is running rampant through the land, and the longer the church stays quiet on the matter, the worse it gets. Because if I, as a pastor, don't deal with this subject matter and pretend that amongst even our own congregation, it doesn't happen. Then I am allowing the enemy to come in and run rampant amongst the people of God and cause the people of God to think that somehow this is normal. And so I think it is of necessity that we deal with the subject matter, talk about it, open up the box, and help people sometimes even to understand that what you're doing Is domestic violence, and what you're doing is a means of control that is out of the normacy and out of the biblical desire of God. And so we've got to talk about it. We've got to deal with it. Because as much as this is a problem among all these groups of people, it should not be a problem among The child of God. This should not be a problem among church people. It should not be a problem among those who have been born again, those who have died with Christ. Those who have been raised again with Christ, those who are walking, living, moving beings because of Christ, those who have the power and presence of the fullness of the Godhead bodily dwelling in them. This should not be named amongst us, but it is. And I again I'm just a firm opinion is Because we don't talk about it. We act like it doesn't happen. We pretend that that's just for the other people. But no, it happens in church as well. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter. Stop the violence. This is personal. And I think that in light of what we see going on around us, we've had a very traumatic and very publicized scenario of domestic violence where a 31-year-old Capitol Heights uh woman uh was doused with gasoline And set on fire in the bathtub while she's seven months pregnant by her boyfriend. The article that I read in regards to her story said when she ran next door to bang on her neighbor's door to get help, she was still on fire. This is the level that domestic violence takes people to. And I know that sometimes in the midst of what people are dealing with, they say, oh He loves me, she loves me, they would never do that. Let me just tell you something about domestic violence. It starts small, but it keeps getting worse. So you can't keep ignoring it, pretending like all that's that was just a little something. They didn't mean that. No, they meant it. And it's going to get worse the more you allow it to happen. I just need to educate us. Because I know for the lot of young girls and young guys come into this scenario and they they think it's okay and it's funny and because the person comes back and says they're sorry that everything is okay, but every level just keeps getting worse. And after a while, it's not just a punch in the arm, it's a punch in the face, or it's a broken arm, or it's a broken rib, or you are on fire. And so we've got to deal with this and understand the dynamics of it. So this thing is personal, and if it's not personal, it ought to be by now for you. And so what the Apostle Paul does for us is he talks to us about this standing that we have. He first of all kind of lays out for the child of God where you are in Christ, where you've come from, where you where your standing is. in Christ and that you have died with him, you've been buried with him, you've been resurrected with him, you are standing with him, you are walking with him. You are to be walking in the newness of the new person who you are in Christ Jesus. And as a result of that, your behavior patterns ought not be the way they used to be. When you were unsaved, there was a certain way we expected you to act. But now that you are born again, now that you are saved, there should be a difference in the way you conduct yourselves. So as we look at the text on this morning, when we look at Verse number eight. Paul's already been laying out all these things before them. And verse number eight he says, but now you yourselves, this is what I call the personal address, you yourselves. And I think this is important that we identify the you yourselves. Who is the you yourself? Who are you talking about, Pastor? I'm talking about this morning again because this is personal. Now let me say this. This information, this insight is good for everybody, and everybody needs to hear it. But because I'm making it personal this morning, I really want to focus in on the child of God. I want to Really talk to the Christian. I really want to talk to the person whose name is written in the Lamb's Book of Life. I just want to make it personal. So this is a personal address. To you yourself, Pastor, who is the you yourself? You yourself is the bloodwash, the born again. And if you find yourself anywhere in here, you'll know I'm talking to you You, who is the you yourself? You, the the child of God, the churchgoer, you, the deacon on the deacons Ministry, you, the trustee, you, the minister, you, the choir member, you, the band member, you, the pastor, you, the bishop, the apostle, you, the saint of God, you, the re Fiend of the Lord you the worship leader, you, the justified, you the saint, you, the professor, you, the cashier, you the doctor, you The lawyer, I'm talking to you. I'm talking to you, the truck driver, you, the police officer, you, the FBI, CIA, DIA, agent, or or employee, you The janitor, you, the welfare recipient, you, the millionaire, you, the middle class, you, the business owner, you, the unemployed, you, the missionary, you, the associational worker, you the Layman, you the waitress, you, the CEO, you, the contractor, you, the teacher, you, the business owner, you, the homemaker, you yourself. That's who we are addressing this morning. You yourself. This personal address is to you yourself. I like the way Paul says that. You yourself. It's like a double emphasis. He didn't just say you, he says you yourself adding that emphasis, child of God, regardless of where you are or who you are or who you're with in life, Paul says, I'm addressing you the child of God. You yourself is the is the personal address and he moves from the personal address to what I call a personal admonishment. It picks up in the latter part of verse eight and into verse nine. He says, you yourself Goes on. Put off all of these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy language out of your mouth, and do not lie to one another, since you have put off the old man with his deeds. Here is Paul's personal admonishment. And before we dig into his admonishments here, I want to look at one thing. In James chapter 4, verse number 1, says this: Where do wars and fights come from? How come we fighting? How come we arguing? How come we can't get along in these relationships? Where do they come from? Do they not come from your desire for pleasure that war in your members? James says, look, these wars, these fights, these disagreements come from a desire that's in us. To do that which is contrary to God, we have a desire to fulfill the pleasure of sin. And sin is all that that is contrary to God. And so when God says you ought to have a right relationship with people around you, That mirrors my relationship with you, sin says, No, you need to hurt those people around you. You need to damage those relationships around you. You need to pervert those relationships around you. That's what sin says. And so Our fights, our wars, our struggles come from this internal struggle that says, I don't want to do what God says do. I want to do what I want to do. I want things my way. That's where it comes from. And so in his personal admonishment here in our text, he says, look I need you to put away some things because our desire is our pleasure for sin is for anger. Some people just like being angry. Can we just be honest? Some people just be mad for no reason. They just they look mad all the time. And they mad for no you if you ask them what you're mad about, they I ain't mad about nothing Just mad all the time. They angry all the time. That's that's that sinful desire. Some people just like that. Be in control. Amen. They want to control everything all the time That's sin. That's a sinful desire. Because God is in control, not you and not me. Y'all hear what I'm saying? But sin says I don't want God to be in control. Sin says I need to be in control. And I not only need to be in control of my situation. I need to be in control of you, and so therefore you better do what I say do. Can I can I just throw something in here parenthetically? If you're not married to somebody, don't feel like you are obligated to do anything These young people running around talking about but he's my boyfriend and this is my girl. That's so that you're not married to them. You have no Covenant relationship with them. You have no binding agreement with them. And guess what? They can walk away from you tomorrow and don't have to pay no rent. They can walk away from no obligation. Boyfriend, a boyfriend. You got a girlfriend or girlfriend. Even the word is kind of crazy And all of a sudden they want to control where you go, how much money you spend, who you looking at, who you talking to on your phone. They just a boyfriend. I'm sorry, I'm gonna get into this. Y'all might be mad when I'm done, but I'm gonna gotta talk about these things. Control. And control comes, can I talk for real? For real? Control the idea and the desire to control comes from a sense of insecurity in yourself. It's not because the other person has a problem. No, the problem is you. You want to control because you're insecure yourself. Oh have mercy. So there there's this this lack of proper knowledge about who you are and who the child of God is. Genesis 117 says that we were created in the image of God and after his likeness. So we have this image of God. We are created in the image of God and after the likeness of God. Psalm 139 reminds us, have we not been fearfully and wonderfully made? Amen. And so sometimes, watch this, sometimes we need to know Who we are, one, so that we don't stand for other people treating us a certain way Lord have mercy. And two, if I understood who I was, I also wouldn't treat you a certain way. Because if I understood I was created in the image and after the likeness of God, then I wouldn't be behaving like some. Something other than God. Lord have mercy. And if I knew that I was created wonderfully and fearfully and beautifully made, and God in his sovereign plan, even before the egg man egg mat sperm even before I was shaped and crafted in my mother's womb according to the psalmist in 139 God already had a plan for how wonderfully I would be how beautiful I would be if I understood that I would not be allowing somebody to call me out of my name and talk down to me and depress me about what they thought about me. I don't care what you think about me when the God of all creation says I'm fearfully and wonderfully made Sometime we gotta know who we are. And let me say this, don't determine who you are by what you see in the mirror. No, it there's more to you than the skin and the flesh and the fake hair. We've been crafted and made in the image and likeness of God and after his image. Paul admonishes since you've been created in the image of God, since you uh you you you You you you've you've come out of darkness and since you died with Christ and been raised again with Christ, since you've done all that, Paul admonishes, he encourages, he presses the the child of God forward to say to the child of God, take off the old habits. It's right there. Verse 8. Take off all these. Anger, wrath, malice. blasphemy, filthy language out of your mouth. Take off. Take it off. Get rid of. Take that idea here that he talks about taking it off is like taking it off like a dirty shirt. Get that thing off of you. That's not who you are anymore. That person who's who's wrapped up in in these behavioral patterns of being angry all the time, mad all the time, and being a one who exercises wrath and And malice, got ill intentions in your heart, blasphemy, and Lord have mercy, filthy language out of your mouth. Mm-mm-mm. Christians, born-again children of God, ought not be cussing each other out. Let me say that another way. Let me let me bring it down because so so y'all can really get it. If if you're a born again child of God and your spouse is a born again child of God. How are you gonna call them some cuss word when they were created in the image of God? And in the likeness of God, are you saying that they mirror the cuss word because their God mirrors the cuss word? Do y'all catching this? This is how we end up blaspheming God. You blaspheme God by calling your spouse, by calling the other child of God, out of their character and out of their name. Because that's what you're saying. That's what God is. So what you say about them, you're saying about God. And when you say that about God, you're blaspheming God. I hope you're catching this. Filthy language out of your mouth. That ought not even be. How you gonna come to the house of God on Sunday morning and you got hallelujahs in your mouth? And you're singing on the choir, and you playing on the band, and you preaching from the pulpit, and you ushering at the door, and you counting the money, and you praying for people, and you you showing people around. You don't know, you all the ministry stuff, and then when it comes time to say something to the person who you stood before. For God coveted and committed your life to either that or you're on your way down that road, and they're a child of God and you child of God, and yet out of your mouth comes some filthy, nasty, unholy Language coming out of your mouth. And don't you dare call it French. No, that's filthy communication out of your mouth. Paul said, take it off. That ought not be amongst the children of God. And when we're doing that to one another, we are defaming the image of our God. Now, watch this. What does the unbeliever think when two believers Are treating each other that way and talking to each other that way. What do your children think when you call a near daddy out his name? When you call in their mama, their mother, the nurture of their life out of her name. I'm sorry, y'all, y'all, y'all looking at me like y'all mad. I told you you just might get mad. I don't even care. This is personal. This is personal today, okay? This is personal because in the house of God, these things ought not be. We have got to stop the violence, and we've got to stop it now, and we gotta stop it by talking about it and understanding it. And so this is a personal thing. We gotta deal with it. And it's uncomfortable. And I know there's probably some folk gonna go home with with elbow marks all in their side today. And you probably want to scoot over right now Keep from getting that elbow. He's talking about you. He talking about you. It's okay, but we're gonna we gotta deal with this. We gotta walk away through it, but Paul admonished us, get our act together You've been born again. You've been bloodwashed. You've been bought with a price. Christ paid too much for you to act like that. To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. Praise the Lord. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our Spirit-Fill Worship services Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office. At 301-574-3515. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He sits Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.