Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling I want to invite your attention to Genesis chapter 50. We'll begin reading at verse 15. The word of the Lord reads When Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, Perhaps Joseph will hate us, and they actually repay us for all the evil which we did to him. So they sent messengers to Joseph, saying, Before your father died, he commanded, saying, Thus you shall say to Joseph, I beg you, please forgive the trespasses of your brothers. And their sin. For they did evil to you. Now, please forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of your father. And Joseph wept when he spoke to them. And then his brothers also went and fell down before his face, and they said, Behold, we are your servants. Joseph said to them, Do not be afraid, for am I in the place of God. But as for you, You meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, in order to bring about as it is this day, to save many people alive. Now therefore, do not be afraid. I will provide for you and your little ones. And he comforted them and spoke kindly to them. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we honor you in this place. We thank you for your incredible grace, Lord. I pray you bless our opportunity now to declare your word. Speak clearly, Lord, in the lives and the ears and the hearts of people on this morning, that if any don't know you, that they would come to know you in a personal way. Lord, let your word go forward in such a way that it pierces and penetrates our heart and our circumstances and our situation. Let today be the day where the Word of God intersects with our life and we realize that you are attentive to where we are. Father, I pray that you would speak encouragement. I pray that you would speak wisdom. I pray that you would Allow me to be used as a vessel in your hand to accomplish your will. Father, I need you on this morning. I need your strength. I need your power. I need your clarity of thought and speech. Lord, use me As a vessel in your hand to accomplish your will in the name of Jesus Christ, I pray. And I thank you in advance for what you're getting ready to do. In Jesus' name. Amen. Katerin, we've been on this journey through a series of messages entitled Family Dynamics and just looking at different aspects of the family. We started our journey in Esther. Chapter 4 spoke there from the subject matter, a sacrifice to save the family. And then in 1 Samuel chapter 3, we spoke there from the subject matter out of the same house. And then we moved from there to John chapter nineteen, and we spoke to you from the subject matter on Mother's Day, behold your mother. And the last we were together, we were in Judges chapter seven, spoke there from the subject matter, a small army will do. In this particular text, we find Joseph's family probably produces some of the most colorful family dynamics in Scripture. In fact, Joseph was born into a family that was drama already. His drama didn't start at his birth. His drama started before he was born. Let me let me give you the idea. Joseph's father fell in love with his cousin. First cousin. And his uncle promised him that you could marry her if you work for me for seven years. And after working for him for seven years And the wedding took place. He woke up the next morning, not with Rachel, who he had fallen in love with, but the other cousin, Leah. And so he he works on and he finally gets to marry Rachel. And so his Father, Joseph's father, now has to deal with baby mama drama with his auntie. Because his father and his aunt thought having children together and were married, but his mother, which was his father's cousin, ain't this kind of messy? He loved her the most, but she wasn't having no children. And then finally, she has Joseph. That's how Joseph's family It started before he ving was born. And so Joseph is born, and he's the favorite child of his father and his mother And he's also favored by God and gifted by God with his gift of dreams. But now he has dreams, he has been gifted with the interpretation of dreams. And so as a result of his gift and a result of him being favored, his brothers hate him, they despise him. And he has to deal with that, but at the same time he's getting favor from his father, favor from his mother, and they hate him. And the drama of his young life doesn't Stop there. It keeps on going and it just follows him. It if wherever he goes, it's more drama, more family drama. Even when he thought he had escaped his family drama, his family drama comes and catches up with him later on. His family who had gotten rid of him and pretended like he was dead, he now has to come to them to ask him to save them and to give them food. That's what brings us where we are. Joseph moves from Canaan to Egypt to Potiphar's house to prison and then back to the palace and to the second in charge of all the Egypt. And he's not even an Egyptian. That's God. And then while he's in this great awesome spot, here come his family. So I want to talk to you on the day from the subject matter surviving family drama. Joseph's brothers did him wrong. They severely mistreated this boy. They threw him in a ditch. They were gonna kill him. Then they decide, no, let's let's make some money off of him. So they sold him into slavery. Then they faked his death. And his father's grieving all this time, and they let all this play out the whole time. And so later on in the life journey. They end up going into Egypt because Joseph isn't there in Egypt and there's no food anywhere else in the that they can get. So they have to go into Egypt where Joseph has P saved Egypt by interpreting the dream of the king and letting them know there's going to be seven years of famine and seven years of plenty. And he told him in the seven years of plenty, save so that when the seven years of famine come, you'll have plenty to eat. And so everybody else in the land were who were in Canaan, which was Joseph's brothers and his family and his father who were in Canaan, they have to come to Egypt to get food because there's nowhere else to get food. And Joseph is there and he recognizes them. But now he brought them into Egypt and they were prospered in Egypt. And then their father dies. So now the brothers realize our covering is gone. There's some people in your family who are being covered by Big Mama. Big mama won't let you won't let you talk bad about them, but Big Mama she still pulling stuff out of her giving money to them So when that's happening and you watching it happen and you getting up going to work every day, then something happens to the house or something happens to the car, then they turn to you because you got a good job. Then you got that family member who's laying up in the house doing nothing. Y'all know this story. As a born again Blood wash, nothing but the blood, wash, child of God, worshiper who loves the Lord, you are fired up And you got a few things to say that don't sound Christian. Amen. Somebody. I want you to understand how we survive. How can I survive this kind of drama Because it's everybody's family. Don't just think don't think man Pastor He just talking about me. No, it's I'm talking about all of us because everybody who got family got drama in the family. So here they are. And the covering is now gone because Jacob the father dies. And so now the brothers are scared. Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, and they said, Perhaps Joseph will hate us and may actually repay us for all the evil which we did to him. So you have all this drama that has gone on. You've got these brothers who know they have done their brother wrong and they hated him. And then when they were out working, taking care of the livestock, Joseph went looking for them. He couldn't find them. So he went on a couple of days' journey and he finally caught up with them. And when they saw Joseph coming, They start conspiring. What are we gonna do with him? And and one of them said, Let's kill him. This is their own brother. So they want to kill him. So they take him and they throw him in a ditch while they're having lunch that he brought for them Then one of his brothers, the oldest brother, he says, No, I'm I'm gonna get him out of the ditch because I we really shouldn't kill him. By the time he gets to that point, they already have figured out another plan because they saw a parade of of people coming and they said, Well They'll buy him, so why should we just kill him and get nothing? Let's sell this dude. So they sold their brother for 20 pieces of silver to take him to Egypt as a slave. And they took the coat that he wore, the coat of many colors, covered it up in lamb's blood, and took it home to their father and said, is this Joseph's coat? And they pretended like some wild beast had eaten him or killed him. His father grieves. This is what they did to him. And so now Joseph He has now left the position of favorite child who has been pampered in a sense by his father to now being a slave and dragged off to a foreign land. Drama He said, You gotta deal with all this. Then he, of course, he he gets there and he got to deal with stuff there. Now you in another place, you got to deal with all this. People only thinking you you a slave, dude. You have no value, you not no prince And so now fast forward, dad is dead. Now they're afraid. They say he's going to hate us, not just for the fun of it. But it verse verse number 15, he might repay us for all the evil which we did to him. So now, here's one of the first ways you deal with Surviving family drama. Let the guilt that they are already having eat them alive. His brothers are dealing with guilt. Let the convictions of God that's on them for the wrong that they've done, let it eat them up. I'm trying to help us survive because sometimes we don't survive family drama and we get drawn into it because we get in our flesh. We would repay For the evil he had done. Oh, I'm gonna get you now. Ain't nobody here to protect you. Mama ain't there now. Now what you gonna do? But one of the best ways To overcome the drama is not to engage in it, but let the Holy Spirit work on them. The Spirit is already working on them. They already got conviction about what they've done and they're worried, they're concerned. Let it eat them. And so they're they're worried, they're concerned because they they have this fear of the retaliation. But the second thing here is they have this request for forgiveness. It picks up verse 16. So they sent messengers saying to him, Before your father died He commanded, saying, Thus you shall say to Joseph, I beg you, please forgive the trespass of your brothers and their sin, for they did evil to you. Now please forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of your father. I could be completely wrong. Lord forgive me if I'm wrong, but that just kind of sounds made up. It sounded like they're trying to create a smoke screen to help themselves. But here's one thing that is indicative to me that perhaps they are in great fear. And that is when they have this revelation that the covering has been pulled off of them and their father Jacob is gone, instead of them going to Joseph, whom they themselves in his face did wrong. Instead, they send messengers. It always amuses me when folk will do you wrong to your face, but when they want to apologize, they send messengers So what happens is when the people send you the message that says I'm sorry or your mama really wanted us to get along and we really should look out for each other. What y'all do is y'all say, Well let me pray about that and see if that's The second thing I think that is helpful in overcoming family drama, and it might sound simple, but it's powerful. Sometimes you need to go ahead and weep. Just go ahead and cry it out. I mean some some stuff that goes on in the family is so hurtful. It's so painful You just need to go ahead and cry it out. Joseph, he's overwhelmed, the attitude of his brothers and the drama that's going on in his house and his family, and all he can do is weep. He weeps, he cries about it. And you might say, well, Pastor, what good is that? Listen, God gave you tear ducts and tears for a reason. Release it. Because otherwise, you're holding in the pressure. And the pressure that you're holding in is destroying you. Let it out. Free yourself. It's okay to cry. I don't care if you're a man or a woman. Cry, let it out. Some of the stuff you can't even comprehend why your family would do you that way, and so all you can do is cry, go before God, get in God's face. God, help me understand this. Cry before the Lord. Let it out. Release it. Let me take you to another man who did the exact same thing. His name was Jesus, and he was dealing with family drama too He was dealing with his own who would not receive him. He was dealing with his own family who hated him and despised him. He was dealing with a whole nation called Israel, whom he had loved and whom he had Taken care of and who he had brought from a mighty long way and he had done everything for them and put them in a place where they could grow and put them in a position that they could prosper and put them in a place where they had favor with God, and then when he comes to them, they don't receive him. And while he's looking over humanity, and humanity is rejecting him, the Bible said Jesus wept. Here's number three: You've got to learn how to speak peace or calm to the chaos. What Joseph does before this chaos becomes out of control, he speaks peace to it and he says, Do not fear. Sometimes we have to take the lead because you're a child of God. So take the high road, child of God. You represent the King of Kings and Lord of Lords who sits on high Speak some calm into the chaos. And then what you do is you teach good theology to the troublemakers Just right here in the text. Joseph said, Am I in the place of God? I'm not the one who forgives sin. You want forgiveness for sin? That's not me. I'm not God, and so I can't forgive your sin. In fact, you don't even need to be afraid of me because I'm not the one that brings judgment as a result of sin. That's good theology right there. Sometimes we got to help people to understand it ain't me that you need forgiveness from. You need to go to the Lord. I know you offended me. I know you did me wrong. I've already had my conversations with God. You need to do the same So that you can clear your own heart and clear your own mind. I can't clear your mind for you. God can forgive your sin. I'm not in the place of God, Joseph says Then he comes back and says, But as for you, you meant evil against me. You had a plan and a strategy to work evil against me. You wanted to destroy my vision. You wanted to dismiss my presence. You wanted to defame my name. You you wanted to disrespect my father's love for me. You wanted to disregard God's plan that He had to even bring me to this place. You you wanted to devalue my life down to 20 pieces of silver. And so you had this evil plan for me, but God Woo! That's the fifth thing that's gonna help you overcome family drama. But God, when everything is going wrong. But God. When you're treating me wrong, talking about me behind my back, but God. When you've got a plan and a scheme to destroy my life. But God. There's a butt God operating in all of our lives and every child of God ought to get excited about the butt gods in your life Joseph said you meant it for evil, but God had another plan. You gotta know the purpose God has for you. And when you come to that understanding that God has purpose for my life. Who have mercy, Jesus. You understand that it doesn't matter what the enemy plans against you, there's a butt God waiting As much as God has a plan for you, the devil has one too. And the devil tries to work in and through whoever he can, even if that's family To get you to a place where you're messed up, where you're mixed up, where you're troubled, where you're out of sync, where you can't keep get your bearings about you, but God. And when God steps in, he says, wait a minute I've got another plan. I've got another direction. I've got another way to handle this. And we've got to come to the understanding that all that I go through, all the trauma I'm dealing with, God Has a plan. God is working it out. God is fixing it. God is moving in the midst of it. God knew about it before they even conspired to do it. God has a plan. And if we can just Wait on the Lord. Wait till he reveals his plan and his purpose. I guarantee you, you don't have to custom Nobody out. No, you stay a child of God. You continue to live for Christ and die for Christ. You can stand and you can be sure that God is gonna work this thing out. I know they think they getting over on you, but they can't get over on the child of God You got a strong tower. His name is Jesus. You got a fence that they can't get over His name is Jesus. You've got a wall that's all around you. He's got ministering angels watching over you. He's got keeping power that's keeping you you just keep on trusting God you had a plan for my destruction but God he has another plan When you sold me for 20 pieces of silver, you devalued me. But God Had already determined what I was worth before I was shaped in my mother's womb. He already had determined my end from my beginning. But God, when God has a plan for you, can't nobody. I said nobody can stop the plan of God. But this is how God works. He took all your plans and wrapped them up into his plan. You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good in order to bring about as it is this day. To save many people alive. You thought that dream that I told y'all about was just about me and you You got in your feelings and said, no, we ain't never gonna bow down to you, Joseph. But God had a much bigger plan in place. That even through your evil deeds, God would put me in position so that many people would be able to live and not die in this famine. And what God did in Joseph's life is that he brought him to this place where he has to deal with all this drama, deal with all this mess, deal with all this confusion. And then he brings him to a place where his own brothers are afraid that he's going to crush them. Joseph says, God's plan for me was that I would be in this spot. To give wisdom to the Egyptians that for seven years you're going to have bountiful blessings of crop. But then it'll be followed by seven years of the worst and most severe famine that you'll ever experience. Joseph not only interpreted the dream, but then Joseph said, you need to find somebody who could manage that. And the king said, Well, you seem pretty smart. So we're going to put you over the management of all that. So Joseph sets up a plan to manage how we're going to preserve In the seven years of plenty, so that everybody can stay alive during the seven years when there's nothing. Joseph is promoted to the second in charge over the largest kingdom that was existed at that time. And now he's making decisions to save the people, not only in Egypt, but to save the whole nation of Israel Y'all gotta see this picture. Listen, the reason why I'm drawing you the bigger picture is because Joseph could have got caught up in the minutiae of the family drama, but instead He recognized there's a bigger thing working here. So God brought me to this place so I can save many alive. Instead of hurting his brothers, crushing them, starving them to death, which he could have done. He took care of them. Listen to verse 21. Now therefore, he said, do not be afraid. I will provide for you and your little ones. And he comforted them. And spoke kindly to them. God settled all the drama, just like he did with Jesus. Jesus had to deal with all that family drama. It was God who stepped in and settled it all. He let Jesus go through all the drama of being rejected and being mistreated and being talked about and spit on and mocked and Even to the point of death on the cross. But why did Jesus have to go through all of that family drama? Same reason as Joseph. So that he can save many alive today. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at kettering ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he says Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.