Because what I'm trying to show you is Jesus is fulfilling everything where the law was too weak to accomplish. Pastor, how do you know that? And we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. This is your backstage pass. I want to invite your attention on this morning to Romans chapter eight and also Luke chapter two. What Paul says here, there is now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. The cooler today and says, Adam, what have you done? Verse three. Voices behind the song. And we depend on this morning for the opportunity and occasion of preaching. To those who are in Christ Jesus, who walk according to the spirit and not according to the flesh. There is now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. Luke chapter 2, it says, and when the eight days were completed for the circumcision of the child. Israel represented the peeling away of reproach or the removing of sin. Him was given to him before he was even conceived. Sin could be forgiven and covenant could be established. Now, the sacrifice that you were to bring, according to Leviticus chapter 12, was you either brought a lamb, or if you couldn't afford a lamb, you bring pigeons or turtle doves. When they brought Jesus, they didn't need a lamb because he was the lamb. People have been blaming each other and other folks for a long time. That's the last movement. See, we were all under the law of sin and death. At 301-574-3515. Minister in the Spirit of Excellence. Your pastor Buchus Sterling III. Christ Jesus. Made me free from the law of sin and death. Sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, on account of sin, he condemns sin in the flesh. Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. I am strong, and so I surrender my vessel to be used by you, Lord, for your eternal purposes, that you might declare your word with clarity and conviction that you would allow my mind clarity of thought. Commit because of Christ. that bench who has all the authority to send you to jail for life cannot condemn you because of Jesus. In the likeness of sinful flesh. Here in the text is Jesus. And is connected somehow through the family. was complete they brought him to Jerusalem and presented him to the Lord as it is written in the law of the Lord every male child who opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. Purification was seven days, and 33 days was the woman's purification if she had a male child. Holy, in the form of sinful flesh, after all the patterns of the law and the law and the law, Jesus is walking through and through Submitting himself as a baby to all the issues of the law because what he's literally doing is fulfilling the law. And she took the fruit, ate it, gave it to her husband who was with her, and he ate too, and their eyes were opened, and they saw that they were naked, they were hiding from God. Is now going to turn to sorrow. Entering the world, God gives what I call a deistic theological prophecy by saying to the serpent, the seed of the woman is going to crush your head, but you shall bruise his heel. And he has limited himself to the confines of the body of a baby. Jesus has made me free from the law of sin and death. And he went through and for 33 years lived a life and satisfied all the requirements of the law, fulfilling the law at every point. under the law of sinful man which sin and death, but now we're under a new law which is the spirit of life in Christ Jesus. Verse number four says that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us. And he begins to absorb and wipe up and suck up all the sins that you've committed, all the sins that I've committed, all the sins that will be committed, and he begins to take it all into himself. Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. At 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. And then he says, now look, I've already paid the price, satisfied the righteous requirement that God had imposed on sin. By Kettering Baptist Church. Name was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. that we understand and we have really been hit with the magnitude of the statement. Because of Christ I have no condemnation. through the flesh, God did by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh. Man, because of his sin, that he might even be able to have any kind of relationship with God at all. Flesh, not in sinful flesh. So, even as a child, first of all, what God does is he limits himself in flesh. And pass it on from generation to generation. And so when he goes through this process, the process is bring him to the house of the Lord. That a child is brought to the temple of God and presented as holy, and he is holy. It was just procedural. Now to the husband, you're now not going to just have to tend the garden, but thorns and thistles are gonna grow up in the garden, and you're gonna now have to earn your living by the sweat of your brow. What God was saying there when sin first entered the world is that I'm going to send my son because of sin. Who is all-encompassing. Everything that he did and all that he went through when he healed the sick and raised the dead, it wasn't just so that you would know he was a miracle worker, it was so that we would know he is God who takes away sin. And when he went to the cross, it was on the account of sin. When he got up the third day with all power, it was on the account of sin. His own son in the likeness of sinful flesh on account of sin, he condemns sin in the flesh What Christ did was he came in the form of sinful flesh, but his flesh wasn't sinful. He says, now I need to take sin and condemn sin to the flesh. And so what he did was he says, Father, not my will, but let your will be done. He now begins to take on everybody's sin into this unsin-stained vessel that has fulfilled all the law He walked ahead of you and said, I'll take that too and put it on me. That God had put on a sin-stained body, and it was there at the cross that the serpent showed back up and bruised his heel. Took it to hell where it belonged, buried it there, and after he had got done, shaking out all your sin and all my sin. And heavy leading, and I will I'll give you rest. I paid for your sin. I fulfill the law in my body. Beginning at verse twenty one the word of the Lord reads as follows and when eight days were completed for the circumcision of the child, his name When I think of the fact that I have been freed from the penalty of God's courtroom for any and all sin, and To God. And a name that said, he is the anointed one. Even though he had no sin, and the covenant that he is expressing, that he's entering into, he established the covenant himself. Then to the serpent he says, You're gonna crawl on your belly and eat dust for the remainder of your days. When he bled, suffered, and died. In other words, you've been transferred to another plateau. And so what God had to do, he had to send his son so that he could take and condemn sin in the flesh. And Paul says here in the beginning, there is now, therefore, no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. And all because God sent his son because of sinful flesh. Buried him in a borough tomb, and he took all of the sin, gathered it up in his body, took it to the grave Personally, now he's bringing you their stories. But watch this. Jesus came, was circumcised. When he went to the Garden of Gethsemane and he prayed in agonizing prayer, it was all because of your sin and my sin I commend my spirit. It was to redeem man, to set the relationship with God and man right again. What this is not saying is that you can be in Christ Jesus and walk according to the flesh. The righteous requirements could be fulfilled. Because his mama was human, but his daddy, who brought the blood, was not. There's a penalty to pay. You can't keep living in the vessel with all that sin. Of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. In support of this ministry, are welcome. To redeem us. And so we've been now set free from the legalism of trying to fulfill the law. So in the likeness of sinful flesh he was circumcised in the same manner that every other Jew was. The process of circumcision, one, it removed the reproach of sin, but also it connected Israel to the covenantal relationship that God had with Abraham. That satisfied the requirement of the law. He not only limits himself, but when he circumcised, his circumcision is on the account of sin. So in order for that to happen, something had to be fulfilled. Then what he did after he's fulfilled all the requirements of the law in this pure unseen stain vessel. Chapter two we'll begin reading at verse twenty one. The naming process of Jesus is in the same naming process of sinful flesh. Because it indicates he's deity and not human. To fulfill all the requirements of the law, because the law itself was too weak to do it. Because of sin. It says, For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God did by sending And in my flesh crucify me because the flesh had to pay the righteous requirement He got up with no sin and all power in his hand because he was sent Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. But the primary premise here in Romans chapter 8, the Apostle Paul makes what I believe and I feel is an enormously profound statement that I'm not sure It was because of sinful flesh that God sent Jesus into the world in the first place. No condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. Who opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord, and to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord On the eighth day, bring the child and circumcise the child. So it was him who established the covenant with Abraham, but in the form of sinful flesh, he goes through the law processes Romans chapter 8, verse number 3, it says that not only did God send him in the likeness of sinful flesh, but on account of sin he was sinned. Every child born after Adam needed circumcision because they had reproach. Somebody thought he was down for good, but he was just there to pay a debt that we owed. You have never and will never receive a gift that pays these kind of benefits. Not only the sins that you've already done, but because he was an unlimited God in terms of time. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. God laid down, Exodus chapter 20, a set of laws. God sent him to condemn sin in the flesh. In the likeness of sinful flesh, Jesus goes through circumcision and the naming process in the same way that all the Israel did Because all the way back when sin first entered the world, Genesis chapter 3, Adam and Eve in the garden, y'all remember that, right? Part of the law was every male child that breaks the wound is holy to me, and the child needs seven days of purification. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior Who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. The one degree of Andy Podcast. I want to begin examination on this morning and probably use as primary premise the Romans passage. And your desire shall be for your husband, that is, for his position, for his authority And so he came into the world on the account of sin. And Lord, that all that is done and all that is said and all that transpires might bring glory and honor to your name. He's not just everywhere. Folks, our current campaign with Trans World Radio is helping bring the love of Christ and the freedom of sleep. Let me paint you a picture. I buried it at Calvary. One of the requirements was when you bring the child to present them to the Lord, you need to bring an offering and have a sacrifice before you present them. And now he stands before you and said, Come unto me, all you who are weak. And Adam said, It was that woman you gave me. When he gave up his ghost and said, Father, it is finished into thy hands. Death says, You owe me a body. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. But when Jesus comes, he's not named after Joseph, even though he came in the likeness of sinful flesh. I want to talk from the subject matter, a son sent for sinful flesh. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building for a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web. It is done. On Andy Christmas. In order for sin to be forgiven, you had to shed blood. Because of sin, there were requirements that God had in order for man to be reconciled. But because he came in the likeness, he also had to walk through the law issues of sinful flesh. And usually the firstborn child would either get the father's name or some simultaneous of the family's name org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. But once Christ came, we're now born-again Christians under the law of spirit of life in Christ Jesus. And now I offer to you the free gift of everlasting life. In that time when God now says, Okay, I'm going to bring judgment on you as a result of you allowing sin in. Amen. On the eighth day, the child was named and circumcised, and thirty-three days after the child's purification, which the child You go into the court, and when you go into court, the judge who's been sitting on Now all of this is brought about and all the benefit that we enjoy is all because of a gift that was given After the circumcision and the naming, verse number 22, it says, Now when the days of her purification according to the law of Moses were God sent Jesus not in sinful flesh, but in the likeness, in the simultaneous, in the comparative In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. The word of the Lord reads as follows There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in It is finished. God set a righteous requirement in Romans chapter 6:23 says that the wages of sin is death. For the law of the spirit of life in Christ. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Bucas Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family. He came in the form of sinful flesh. In the likeness of sinful flesh. So have your way, Lord, in the name of Jesus. He's in everything. The law couldn't do it, but Jesus did it. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. For what the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh, God did by His name said what he came to do. When they whipped him all night long, when they ripped the flesh off his body, when they placed a crown of thorns on his head, it was all on the account of sin. Something had to transition us in the place that we were once Father, I bless you on this morning and I thank you for your grace. That's a great question. And while he had all of our sin, his blood was just running all over it. m. In other words, I cannot be condemned in the courtroom of God for any sin that I And if you go through the book of Exodus and even through the book of Leviticus, you'll see all the laws and the requirements that God has laid down for man. The law of the Spirit, the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus. And that statement is this there is now no condemnation. And he said to the woman, Woman, what have you done? It was all on the account of sin. Praise the Lord. or 11 a. Now, in verse number three, I believe it is, he says, What the law could not do, and then that it was weak And because Joseph wasn't his father, he got a name that attached him to heaven. If she had a female child, I think it's 66 days. He's the firstborn. Jesus said, take me to the cross. Sinful flesh names after the father and in the line of the family. Now watch this. This is all as a result of sin entering the world. Who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the spirit Now, the circumcision in Israel But that doesn't stop there because we're talking about an unlimited God who is everywhere at the same time. Romans 8. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message, financial contribution, m. But what he's really saying is when you're in Christ Jesus, you're no longer walking according to the flesh. Over everything. So he came in the form of sinful flesh. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The whole process of doing that is on the account of sin. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership Come unto me. In order to enter into covenant, you had to shed blood. Help me, Holy Ghost. As I read this, I'm hit with the weightiness of that statement because And in the process, I want you to understand he was sent for that purpose In Romans chapter eight, we'll begin reading at verse one and in Luke Now stop right there. He also had a lot of other things that were going on. In other words, flesh has to pay for sin. But watch this. Take away the sins of the world. Present him to God as holy. 1. Now, when the days of her purification, according to And that's why we walk now in the power of the Spirit under the dispensation of grace. That's the whole reason. His naming is on the account of sin. And what begins to happen. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. Remember what I said. The pattern, the process of sinful man was to utilize some name of the family. But in the likeness of sinful flesh. God had to make it possible so that in us Put it in the vessel. I pray and I thank you in advance for what you're going to do in Jesus' name. Even with all the other bloodshed and all the other stuff that happened, it still didn't make the child holy. And she said it was a serpent. Through everything. But watch this: in flesh, he also submits himself to circumcision. His mission, his assignment was on the account of sin. They had sin that was passed on from generation to generation. Romans chapter eight verse. Skip back over to Luke for a little bit and then back The text goes on and says, and the name that was given to him There is now Watch this. Y'all still here with me? Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist. The child that we're talking about So now 40 days after the child is born is brought to be presented to the Lord as holy. He was the offering When they put them in a barrel, too. My first point is that God sent him in For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. It's for your name's sake that we've come and I pray even now, Heavenly Father, that you would speak clear The Satan says I'm going to send my son into the world to crush your head, Satan. And also in Luke chapter 2 Jesus came or God sent him in the likeness of sinful. Now Now he's bringing you their stories. You see, name calling and name blaming, it didn't just start here and now And at that time of sin org or contact our church office Now, watch this. Because at the end, we all must stand before the judgment seat of God. And guess what? That the righteous requirement Y'all catching it? Now, let me back up to circumcision just for a moment. But then God the Father says The One Degree of Andy podcast. Jesus came, brought perfect flesh, and let perfect flesh shed blood, so that It was easy, but because of sin, now it's gotta be a job. Now let me jump you back to Romans. He gets a name before he's conceived. His suffering was on the account of sin. This is the first time ever But watch this If you look at chapter 21 of Luke Just washing it away. And now, Pastor Sterling. I'm Andy Christman. It was because of sin. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. He comes to the woman. And so they crucified him. But Jesus had no sin. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. That's a great question. And and all Your joy in childbearing If you love Christian music.