Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. The following program is sponsored by Daily Hope Ministries. Here's Pastor Rick Warren. A butterfly goes from a caterpillar to a pupa or chrysalis. It's pretty ugly. But when it breaks out, that butterfly is stunning. I so badly want to be that. And I want you to be that. God made you to be a butterfly. God made you to soar. God made you to be beautiful. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope, the Bible teaching ministry of Pastor Rick Warren. Today, we continue in a series called Transformed. In these lessons, Rick uncovers key principles found in God's Word that will completely transform our lives from the inside out in every area, including spiritual. Spiritual, physical, mental, emotional, relational, financial, and vocational. Now if you can improve in any of the areas I just mentioned, stay with us Because in just a few moments, we're gonna let you know how you can have your very own Transform Study Kit from Pastor Rick, which includes a seven-session DVD And workbook. You can take a sneak peek right now by going to pastorick. com while you listen. If you want, you can just text the word daily to 99000 to find out more Right now, here's Pastor Rick Warren with the final part of a message called How to Get Closer to God. Okay, now here's the third step to getting back to God. I get fed up, I own up, number three, I offer up I offer up my life. I offer up myself. I offer up my total being. And this is the third thing that we find this young man did. He got fed up, he came to his senses, he owned up, he says, I've sinned against God, and then he offered up. Now, notice in Luke chapter Chapter 15, verse 12, the Son drifted away saying, Give me my share. And in Luke 15, 19, when he comes back, he returned to the Father saying, Make me a servant. Do you notice any change in attitude there? Hello. He leaves saying, give me, give me, give me, give me, give me, give me. He comes back saying, make me. That is transformation. That is true transformation. When your heart moves from self-centeredness to God-centeredness, that That's transformation. Are you there yet? Are you still in the gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme? What can God do for me? Give me my stuff now To make me your servant. That's the transformation. He returned saying, Make me. That's a heart transformation. And that is the greatest transformation of all, from self-centeredness to God-centeredness. Are you letting God do that? in you. Now, that transformation, it doesn't happen overnight. God is still working on me on this One. And it's going to be your entire life. He's going to work on it. It's never instant, but there is a decision that starts the process. Corinthians 3. 18 says this. We reflect the Lord's glory and are being transformed. That means a continuing process. We are being transformed. Not just once, but on a ongoing basis. It's a process. We're being transformed into his likeness. That word transformed, you know, the Bible was written, the New Testament in Greek. You know what the word there is in Greek? Metamorphosu. Does that sound like anything you know? Metamorphosis. It's the word What's a metaphorphosis? It's when a butterfly goes from a caterpillar to a pupa or chrysalis, and from a pupa or chrysalis into a butterfly. That's metamorphosis. It doesn't happen overnight. In fact, there's that stage where it's sitting there in that chrysalis, it forms that little cocoon. It's pretty ugly. You ever seen one of those. things doesn't look very beautiful to me, but when it breaks out, that butterfly is stunning. I so badly want to be that. And I want you to be that. I want you to be transformed from the lowly caterpillar. Into the beautiful butterfly. That is what transformation is all about. It is metamorphosis. It is going from, you know, when you're a caterpillar, what can you do? Not much. that munch on leaves. Bo boom boo boom boo boom booboom ba boom bo boom and you're stuck on the ground. And I'm sure and caterpillars have looked in the air at butterflies go, you never get me up in one of those things. God made you to be a butterfly. God made you to soar. God made you to be beautiful, not ugly. Beautiful. But you've got to go through the transformation process. And the transformation process is number one: get fed up with the way you've been living. And then own up. Get honest to God. God, I admit it, I have been living for myself. I've been doing it my way. And do that checkup. And then often Offer up myself. Transformation is a process, but the starting point is what the prodigal son said, make me. That's offer up. Make me Me, transform me, change me. God, I don't want to live the rest of my life the way I'm living right now. Change me Romans 12, 1. This is our theme verse, but let me read you the verse before it. Because God is merciful to you. Offer yourselves. Offer yourselves. That's it. I offer up myself. That's step one. I get fed up. Okay, I own up and now I offer up. Offer yourselves as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God. This is your spiritual act of worship. And do you Be conformed to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. No transformation until you do the offer up. Now it's important to notice the Father's response. Luke 15 Fifteen twenty-three Filled with love and compassion, he ran out to his son. Threw his arms around him and kissed him. He said, Bring the best. Bring the best robe, bring the best ring, bring the best shoes, bring the fatted calf. You know, all these things. The father's response, notice, he didn't wait for the son to come home. While he was still distant, he ran out. The moment you just say God. I'm tired of living the way I've been living. God, I'm tired. He will do more than halfway. He will run out to meet you. God is not waiting for you to come. knock on the door. He he's waiting for this moment in your life where he runs out to you. He takes an issue. He throws his arms around you. He kisses you. And he says, okay, look, I know you blew it. Go get the best robe. Get the best clothes in the house. And then he says, go get my signet ring. Do you know why he says that? You know what a signet ring is? In those days, the signet ring was your credit card. Because you take the ring and you'd press it into wax and that was like a credit card. He said, go get my unlimited Black American Express. And bringing out to my son who just blew half of my income. God isn't holding a grudge. He's ready to lavishly pour this on you. Bring out the best. Bring out the best shoes. Do all these things. God has a better plan for your life than you can imagine. When I was a kid, my parents fed me strained spinach and I thought it tasted great. I now think it tastes like turtle spit. But as a baby, that's all I knew, so I thought strained spinach was pretty good until I got a little older and my mother introduced me to Chef Boyer D. Spaghettios. Now we're talking. Forget strain spinach. I've gone to the higher level. And I thought spaghettios were pretty good as a grade school kid until one day I discovered In N Out burger. Now I could have gone my entire life eating strange spinach and not known there was a better taste out there. If you knew there was a better way to live than there is right now, the way you've been living, wouldn't you want to know about it? Yeah. That's what transformation. is all about. People say, well, I'm living the good life. And you are. You live in America. You live the good life. You're looking good, you're feeling good, you got the goods. You know, there's only one problem with a good life. It isn't good enough. You were made from oil. than the good life. You were made for the better life. Life You cannot even imagine any more than that caterpillar can imagine what it's like to be a butterfly. You can't even imagine it. You cannot even imagine it. It is so much better. And there are people who live next to you. And they got the car and they got the cab. And they got the clothes and they're going, I'm living it. I'm living the good life. And they're missing the better life. You're listening to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. There's more great teaching coming up. And if you'd like to connect with Rick, just go to PastorRick. com and click on his social media links. While you're there, be sure to sign up for his free daily email devotional. And if you'd like to let Rick know how this broadcast has changed your life, you can email him at Rick. At pastorick. com. You know, the world is shouting for our attention. They're offering answers to our relationship struggles, solutions to our financial trouble, and explanations to our search for meaning. But the world's promises leave us empty and searching for more. God's word contains the only answers that promise to transform your life from the inside out. That's why Pastor Rick has put together the Transformed Study Kit, which includes a leather-bound interactive workbook and a seven-session DVD. This powerful resource can be used independently or with a small group of friends to uncover key biblical principles that will completely transform your life in every area, including spiritual, physical, mental, emotional, relational, financial, and vocational. The Transform Study Kit is yours when you support this broadcast minute. with a financial gift. Get yours right now by calling 800-600-5004. That's 800-600-000 Or go to pastorick. com. That's Pastor Rick with two Rs in the middle. com. Thanks so much for your support. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope, the audio broadcast ministry of Pastor Rick Warren. Once again, here's Rick. How do I get back to God? I get fed up, I own up, and I offer up. And then there's one other thing I do. Once I come home and I'm enrapped in God's love and he hugs me and he kisses me and he says, bring out the best. All is forgiven. Paul is forgiven. Go get the credit card. Go get the robe. Go get the shoes. Let's have a barbecue. Get that fatted calf. We're gonna have Lucille's barbecue tonight. Okay. And we're giving him the ribs. All right. And it's gonna be great. It's gonna be finger licking good time. All right, here we go. And in that celebration, you now come home, not to condemnation, you come back to God in celebration. Here's the fourth thing: I lift up my praise. And I just go, thank you, God. Thank you for your grace. Thank you for your love. Thank you for your goodness. I lift up my praise. Luke 15, here's what the Father says. We're gonna celebrate. We're gonna celebrate with a feast We're gonna celebrate with a feast of eating and drinking. He was lost, but now he's found. So the party begins. And life becomes a party when life Life comes to transformation. The Bible says in Psalm 68:4, Sing to God, sing praises to his name. Name, lift up, there's that word, lift up my praises, lift up a song to him. His name is the Lord. Now let me just tell you something. For your own transformation, you You need to start singing at church. Some of you just say, I'm just coming to hear Rick. Uh you know that all that's all nice, but you know I I I you know I couldn't carry a tune in a baggie. And you know you many of you are prison singers. You're always behind a few bars and never have the right key I've heard some of you. Okay. You have a voice that could be cultivated, plowed under. But the Bible doesn't say to be pretty in your singing. It says make a joyful noise. You can do that. Anybody can make a joyful noise. You don't have to be on key. You just have to make a joyful noise. For your own transformation you need to I I had a psychologist friend who anytime somebody came to see him for depression, they his first question was, did you sing all of the songs at church last week? And if they said no, he said, then I want you to go and I want you to sing all the songs at church for the next three weeks and come back and see me. I never really understood why he was doing that until this week. Oh, global study came out done by Swedish researchers. And they've done this scientific study that have concluded that the habit of group singing, not Singing by yourself, the habit of group singing is good for your health. It is great therapy to sing with other people. It's good for mental health, they prove. It's good for emotional health. It's good for your social health and it's good for your physical health in all different areas. An extensive study. And they discovered that singing with other people lowers your blood pressure. Releases endorphins, which makes you feel good, improves your mood, builds your confidence, Relieves loneliness, releases negative emotions and stress, and creates positive study emotions Another study showed that people who sing and worship each week live longer. I want you to live longer. Now, it referred to this book, so I went out and bought this book this week. It's called Imperfect Harmony, Finding Happiness in Singing with Others. Others. It's a fascinating study that these guys have done on this. Now the father celebrated. He had a celebration, not a condemnation, a celebration when the son came back home. I'm fed up. And I'm owning up. And I'm going to offer up. And now I lift up my praise. And we're going to pray. party and we're gonna celebrate and we're gonna sing. First Corinthians 11 24 says this on the night he was betrayed, the Lord Jesus took bread and he He spoke a prayer of thanksgiving. And he broke the bread, and he said, This is my body, which Is given for you. Do this to remember me. He said I never want you to forget how much I love you. So I'm going to give you two symbols to remember: my death, my burial, and my resurrection. And those two symbols are baptism. And the Lord's Supper. If you haven't been baptized, you should be baptized. It's one of the ways of saying, I have come home. I'm getting close to God. I'm coming home. And baptism is one, and the Lord's Supper is the other. Now it says he prayed a prayer of thanksgiving before he served communion. The word thanksgiving in Greek is the word Eucharisto. You ever heard the word Eucharist? The Lord's Supper communion is often called Eucharist. Where is that word from? It's from Eucharist is simply the Greek word for thanksgiving. And when we take the Lord's Supper, when we take the Eucharist, when we take communion, we are saying, thank you, God. Thank you, God, for not coming and condemning me when I come home, but having a celebration when I come home. Thank you for your grace. Thank you for your mercy. Thank you for what you've done. Thank you for all the things that you've done. I receive it with thanks, Eucharisto. I am so grateful, God, for your grace. I am so grateful for your love. I am so grateful that you don't scold me, you save me. That you don't scare me, you save me. And I am so grateful as I take these elements to remember what you have done for me. And just as they had the fatted calf, we take communion together to say, Lord, thank you. We receive this with thanksgiving. Let's bow our heads for prayer. Father, when we think of your grace, we are overwhelmed. It makes our hearts Want to sing. There's no way that we deserve this kind of reaction, this kind of celebration, this kind of welcoming when we come home But we come to you and first we say we're fed up. We're fed up with the way we've been living. We're fed up with life without Christ. We're fed up with doing it all on our own power. We're just fed up with all of that. And we own up. We realize that you haven't moved, but we have And the reason we're not close is because we've allowed other things to cloud our vision of you. We have allowed idols. In our lives, we have loved other things more than you. And that has made you feel distant. But we come back and we we own up to our sin And then we offer up ourselves. We're not saying give me, give me, give me anymore. We're saying make me, make me, make me. If you've never accepted Jesus' gift of salvation, say, Jesus Christ, right now, I accept your gift of salvation. Thank you for loving me and dying for me on the cross. I give myself back to you. I offer up myself to you. Make me your servant. And I ask you to transform my life. In your name I pray, Jesus. Amen Hi, this is Pastor Rick. If you just prayed to accept Jesus Christ into your heart, congratulations. You're now my brother or sister in the Lord. And you need to tell somebody, and why don't you tell me? Write to me rick at pastorick. com. Just email me rick at pastorrick. com And tell me your story. I would love to read it. And by the way, I'll send you some free material to help you start in your new journey with the Lord. God bless you. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. Now if you've missed any part of this broadcast, including portions we didn't have time for today. Simply go to pastorick. com and listen online anytime. Or download the Pastor Rick's Daily Hope podcast to your smartphone or tablet so you can listen on the go anywhere you are Rick's gonna be back in just a moment with a final word of encouragement, so please stay with us. You know the world is shouting for our attention with answers to our relationship struggles. Solutions to our financial troubles, and explanations to our search for meaning. But the world's promises leave us empty. and searching for more. God's Word contains the only answers that promise to transform your life from the inside out. That's why Pastor Rick has put together the Transform Study Kit Which includes a leather-bound interactive workbook and a seven video session DVD. The video sessions can be used independently or with a small group of friends This kit will help uncover key biblical principles that will completely transform your life in every area, including spiritual, physical, mental, emotional, relational, financial, and vocational. The Transform Study Kit is yours when you support this broadcast ministry with a financial gift. Call 800-600-5004 to get yours, or you can visit pastorick. com. That's 1-800-600-5004 or Pastor Rick. com. Thanks so much for your support. Now, here's Pastor Rick with a closing word. Hey everybody, I've got some really big news I want to tell you about. Our Daily Hope app has been completely redesigned. And it's available now. I want you to get this Daily Hope app. you suggested and asked for. The devotional is now easier to read. It's got a darker font. The option to increase the font size is there. We've made it easy to share this devotional with other people. You can even broadcast it right from your phone. It's really cool. To get the app on your iPhone, visit the iTunes App Store and search for Daily Hope with Rick Warren. To get the app for an Android device, visit the Google Play Store. And search for Daily Hope with Rick Warren. Now, the official Daily Hope app has our yellow and blue sunburst logo. You're familiar with that? Our app is a convenient way to get your daily dose of daily hope. I want you to get this app today. So download the app now and get Started. Be sure to join us again next time as we look into God's Word for our Daily Hope. This program is sponsored by Daily Hope Ministries and your generous financial support. Andy Christman of 4Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist. Personally, now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this This is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.