You're the big boss, you're the big cheese, and everybody needs the project that you're working on, and it has to be done tomorrow. She she just says, I just need a little bit of my father's time and attention. And if you read the text, you deal with her story, you probably know about it. I'm talking about the ones that was in the house because all he did was work, came home, sat in front of the TV, drank up here, smoked a cigarette and went to sleep. Begin our reading in verse 18 of Matthew chapter 9. To declare your word, speak eternal God in this place. Jairus comes and he worships to seek life for his child. And if we put Jesus first and understand that if he puts his hands on my child, not the right coach, not the right program, not the right college, You wretched woman, you're wicked, you're you're undone, you're unclean. Voices behind the song. For information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. When he saw her, he said, Be of good cheer, daughter, your faith has made you well. For when Jesus came into the ruler's house and saw the flute players and the noisy crowd wailing, he said to them, Make room, for the girl is not dead, but Today we are dealing with the image of fathers being altered greatly. left country of the Gaderians and perhaps moved into uh Capanaeum. Attribute of a father is that he seeks life for his children. Because he wants life for his daughter. In other words, let me break it down to our vernacular. I look further, what I also see that Jairus does in the text is says, This ruler came and he worshipped him. Request is full of faith. If you would come and if you would lay your hands on her, I know that she will live. I know that in you there is life, and if you can put your hands on her, the life that's in you will transfer to her, and my daughter will live. Is that as you pick up at verse number 20, it says, and suddenly a woman who had a flow of blood for twelve years came from behind, touched the hem of his garment Father Jesus. Um, because there's a lot of people who are starving for their father's time and attention, even though you're now thirty years old and fifty was working as if somehow that is enough. This lady, like I said, she should have been she should have been outside society and she didn't really have privilege to come to him, but she came because she just needed a Because you've got daddy issues. Encourages her. of good cheer even though she has interrupted him because Jesus knows the power of encouraging his child Amen. You're my son, you're my daughter, and I love you. Fathers, parents, listen to me. And that's what Jesus does. Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. Spirit of excellence. Voices behind the song. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. to life words that would draw them from waywardness to faithfulness. Seems as if fathers are absent, they're uninvolved, they're disconnected, and in media presentations of fathers we are being Positive attributes of a father. Okay. Seems to be aimed directly at their wickedness and their shortcomings as it relates to the trueness of Scripture. of a father is the ability to humble himself to make sure that his children have life. Put your request forward. Also, very necessary in our case is that Jairus worships first. in crises. As a world and as a country, we're witnessing on the news some horrendous things that are going on. And he goes with the right faith attitude, because a whole lot of us at this time, we might go to the wrong person and nothing happens, but because he wants life for his child, he goes to the right person, and he goes to the right person with faith running over. Jewish synagogue leader, ruler coming to Jesus, saying to Jesus, Jesus, I know I believe my faith says We've got to know where life comes from. Seeks life for his child. Get in the right place and from the right person. Faith has made you well. Here comes a daughter, the text says that describes her as a woman with an issue of blood. Touch the hem of his garment. years old and 60 plus years old, you're still hungry because you didn't get that time and attention. Because you got daddy issues, or you're trying to hook up with somebody who calls you pretty because you got daddy issues, or you're trying to hook up with somebody who you can tag along with and you can depend on. Moment. Was getting to her father. that is in the life of children. Society. arose and the report of this went out into all the land. That you would strengthen me to declare your word. Turning into fathers and shared same-sex marriages and all that, it further gives effort to deplete the imagery of the father. These two daughters and these two healings, and extract from this the positive fatherly attributes that are seen in the text. And so this ruler who is worship leader and trustee in the synagogue has to now leave his trustee assignments. He is responsible for the upkeep and the well-being of the synagogue. His worship leader assignments, and he has to go because his daughter is dead. Right now, I need you. Let me just help somebody who might be in a crisis situation. And when he says if you lay your hands on her, it was understood in that day and time that there was the concept of a transference But if Jesus will put his hands on my child, I know they'll have life. This woman who is disqualified from having a face-to-face with Jesus sneaks up and creeps up behind her father. What you're doing, amen, and give attention to your child, even if they don't have an appointment That we can't be too busy with our other assignments, or perhaps even with other children, that we don't give them the attention sleeping. of our fathers today. But come and lay your hands on her and she will live. And so this ruler, Jairus, as he seeks life for his daughter by first of all humbling himself, Jairus. That's what Jairus does when he goes to Jesus, and he goes to Jesus humbling himself, and let me say this, a great positive attribute. Okay? died. Of power and a transference of what one possess to another by laying hands on them. Don't get me wrong, ain't nothing wrong with Boys and Girls Club, but if Boys and Girls Club is superseding your efforts to get your child life, then you've gone to the wrong place. Help me Lord. Even when they're bothering you, even when you're working on your sermon and they come tugging on you, even when you're doing your homework, or even when you're doing the project, and and even up with people that you shouldn't hook up with because you have a father issue and you trying to hook up with an older dude And you know, fathers, how we are when we got a business appointment. Of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. In support of this ministry are welcome. of two fathers, two daughters, and two healings. Or be adopted into the family of God and have everlasting life. Well come and lay your hands on her. For she said to herself, If only I may touch his garment, I shall be made well. That he's on, and we've got to hurry up and get there. To their needs. Imagine how that makes your child feel when you encourage them even after they've interrupted you. And I'm talking even for those who have children living in the house with you, though your own children, every now and then you just just a word to remind them that you're my child. Jesus knew the power of encouragement. Y'all see that in the text? And he's meeting these needs too. To worship him, saying, My daughter has just died, but come and lay your hands on her, and she will live. Eliminated almost altogether. So that you can assure that they receive life. Don't just point them to a Bible study, go with them to the Bible study. It sets our mind in the right place so that we can request the right thing. from from fatherly love and attention. This woman had an issue for twelve years, and just a little bit of time and a little bit of virtue that flowed out of the hem of her father's garment was enough to take care of her need. Now I know that some of you had good daddies and not me pastor, my daddy always encouraged me. The first attribute, as I look, verse number 18, it says, As he spoke these things, behold, a ruler came and worshipped him, saying, My daughter has just died. To let Jesus know I need you, he comes first and worships Jesus. It helps to set your mind in order and it helps to set the circumstances in order so that the request can one be received in worship and second so that your spirit can be right when you Whole lot of folk never had a good conversation with their father at all. I will include those that don't own their children that you you have produced some that you're not owning. But there is power that is transferred when you own your child. Jesus affirms her. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Is either completely not present at all, or he's some bumbling idiot that has no real involvement in the family life. Let them see that you are willing, even though as a big old strong man, to humble yourself as well to give guidance to them so that they can receive life. She's she's been in this condition of uncleanness for twelve years, and here comes Jesus and He not only encourages her, saying, Good be of good cheer, but he affirms her by calling her daughter. He first of all is not only interested in his child coming into the world and having life in the world, but he is more interested in the fact that his child is able to come in contact with We begin to weep and cry and mourn and we begin to seek out other folks and we begin to act outside the will of God and we begin to do all kinds of things. She just needed a touch. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And to create continuous and ongoing negative presentations of what a father is and what a father should be. They've been hostile to Jesus. He goes against the grain because his daughter doesn't have life. But if every now and then he would have just turned to you and said, You're doing a good job. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Here's the second thing. Amen. Most of us didn't get enough encouragement. Daddy never acknowledged them. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. He was always working. Because attention that we give them at that moment may be what's necessary to heal an issue that's deeply seated inside of them. If you could just affirm your children when they're down, it makes a whole lot of difference. When most people hear the word leprosy, they wonder if it still even exists. And they ridiculed him, but when the crowd was put outside, he went in and took her by the hand, and the girl It's an important appointment because Jairus' daughter is dead. It sets your spirit right to deal with what's happening. And all she needs is a little bit of his time and a little bit of his essence, if I can just But listen, fathers, you got to be willing, even when you've got an important appointment. Or he says, be of good cheer. To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. If your daughter had just died, most of us would immediately begin to request of the Lord what we wanted. But come, lay your hands on her, and she will live. Because here's Jesus. I'm trying to help us, daddy, to understand that just a little bit of time and attention goes a whole long way to dealing with some issues that folk have had a long time. I like that. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the And in the middle of his being en route to handle some business, he has an appointment with Jairus. He could have called her a woman. And so as he he stops, he he stops to meet her need because not only does she have a need of healing, he she's got a need of encouragement. A great positive attribute of a father is that he stops to meet his children's needs. He said he he he first he encourages her, be a good cheer, then he comes back and he affirms her, calling her daughter. You gotta leave what you're doing. Oftentimes we read this text and we only see the blood healing, but there's a whole lot of other things going on in this text. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Let me just tell you, it takes a little humility in order to eat a little crow to say, you know, even though I don't like you, I realize I need you Have your holy way in Jesus' name, I pray. He's a trustee and he's worship leader. It's not in basketball. For she said to herself, if only I may touch his garment, I shall be made well. And if you add to that some of the new legislations and new ideologies of fathers turning into women and women, And sometimes, fathers, that's all our children need. She had she had gone everywhere trying to deal with her issue. He encouraged her. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. And suddenly a woman who had a flow of blood for twelve years came from behind the eyes. And I don't know if you've ever taken the time to do this, but I just kind of noticed some things. I mean, this is an important appointment. And affirm them in just the ownership of being part of the family. A great positive attribute for fathers is that they seek life for their children. The only one that can provide life is the one who possesses life. And it's not just him going. God's word reads as follows. They're not friendly to Jesus because Jesus' gospel so far, his message so far. My daughter is dead, but my faith says, if you, Jesus. I want to talk to you from the idea of positive fatherly attributes. She will live, not that she might live. Words, God, of life, words of encouragement, words, oh God, that would draw someone from death. Worship in crisis situations helps set your mind in the right mode. So he stops. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. He could have he could have just said, What are you doing? He could have done a whole lot of things, but look what he says: he says, daughter, an endearing term. We I mean, because we're serious, you know, we got stuff to do, we got places to go, people to see, and and then ch for your child to interrupt that and for us to be encouraging when they interrupt. And we have accepted that as the norm. And it transfers in a whole lot of folks' lives in the form of hook He said, Look, be of good cheer. Come with me right now. m. After his worship, then he presents his request. It's not in soccer. Daddy never he never affirmed them as his own. The text says that he and his disciples are going. And so for this morning, as opposed to focusing on the negatives of fathers, I want to look at some of the positive Don't just tell them where children's church is, walk them to children's church But the reality is it's not enough and we're we're suffering from depravity I know, oh praise the Lord for that. or 11 a. That's encouragement. But this ruler had the wisdom enough to understand that worship needs to come before request. That's a great question. This is a first father we see that enters into this text. Don't just send them to church. So instead of requesting the death penalty, we'll request life for the one who perpetrated such a crime. What he was in essence saying is that Jesus He's on assignment here. That's a great question. And now, Pastor Sterling. And he will do what is necessary to seek life for his child. While he spoke these things to them, behold, a ruler came He does three things for her. m. It's an imminent appointment. She had tried to fix it every which way she could. This is his responsibility in the synagogue who has, as a normacy, opposition to Jesus. But if we would just worship before we request I appreciate what you're doing. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane High. You ain't got no right. They already know they messed up. It's not in and making sure they go to ballet and making sure they ain't cheerleader practice. But there are some who have not claimed the ones that are theirs. But but a whole lot of folk didn't get that. That's what Jairus, he got this thing. Be of good cheer. Even though he was in the house. God speak in this place that your name would get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. The father who really loves his child is interested in his child living. She's dead. And as he moves into Capanaeum, this text tells the story This is a strong statement of faith. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message, Financial Contribution. And here come your child talking about Dad Daddy. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. He goes to Jesus, whom he and his other partners in the synagogue have opposition to, but he'll do it. Let me help somebody right here. Be of good cheer. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. His daughter is dead, but instead of jumping over worship of Jesus And this lady who has no appointment, who is, who should have been crying out, unclean, unclean. I'm going to talk to a whole lot of folk here in the congregation and on the radio. They just need a moment. And that's Jesus Christ Himself. And so by this Don't you realize I'm on assignment? For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web. Would you pray with me, please? Watch. Praise the Lord. org or contact our church office at 301-574-4 But leprosy does exist. And what I want to do is try to look at this story of these two fathers. Go with them to church. My daughter, he says, is dead. Even when you've got it on the calendar, and even when you're on your way, even with other folk are depending on you, you've got to be willing to stop. Amen. It's a time constrained appointment. Can I just talk about us right now? Good grades, great job, it would have helped you along the way. And the woman was made well from that hour. And this woman who doesn't have an appointment. But Jesus turned around when he saw her, and he said, Be of good cheer, daughter. You're a sterling, you might, you're a sterling child, you my child, you carrying my name. But also he's responsible for the worship in the synagogue. Now Jarus in seeking life for him I understand what you've been going through. But he encourages her. Even in commercials and things like that, the imagery of the father And then watch this. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to First of all, as he stops, he I'm not talking about the dad beat dads that was never around. I want to invite your attention on this morning to Matthew's Gospel, chapter 9. There are some who feel disconnected from life and family because daddy never owned them. They already know they in trouble. He goes to the right person. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of the So he's got other people involved in the process of getting to where he has to go. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast. What that might mean, fathers, is that even though you don't like going to church, you will go to church with your children. He comes, the ruler came, he worshiped him, saying, Now his request, My daughter has just Father, in your name we thank you for another great and glorious opportunity we have to He's meeting needs for He said They just need a touch. Amen. I got an appointment. When you put worship before requests, But only one thing fixed her issue. He says, be Then he affirms her by calling her daughter. Most of us, if we got it, it didn't come from daddy I like this part because what I see here in Jairus's case, which is Fathers, how do we do that? Daddy was too busy And we said, well, he he didn't do it, but but he was So they're not partnering with Jesus, they're at odds with Jesus. In our text on this morning, Jesus has just What do we typically do when we in crisis? Now he's bringing you their stories. I wish I had a few fathers that would go to Jesus for the life of their children. I got something else to do. Now he's bringing you their stories. So Jesus arose and followed him. We're living in a time where it seemed And he says this, even though she interrupted his appointment. She's got a need of affirmation. And that's the depiction of media of Many don't understand, they underestimate the power of owning their children. You need to understand that life comes from Jesus He owns her, he gives her what she needs in a time when she's already down. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Second thing here in the text is I like that. A great attribute is that you're willing to stop and give attention. But affirm them. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Jarus not only does that, but as a Jesus knows the power of endearing terms and how powerful. In this world in which we live, God, bring her back. And here's important, you gotta seek You bothering me? We have to keep in mind But some of us are still suffering because that never happened. His name is Jairus. Now we are moving from Father Jairus to Father Whether we realize it or not, these images and the Sometimes we just lose it. This woman I need you now. I'm Andy Christman. I'm Andy Christman. No life for your child is in Jesus. Leave me alone. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. But you got to worship first. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Get out of my way. That affirmation goes a long way. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a What we see as a positive But if you would just worship But You