If you're going to take it all for Christ, if you're going to get all your blessing, everything that belongs to you, you've got to first and foremost, drive out and destroy your enemies. And that little bitty pebble will give you all the hell you need for a whole day. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. At Kettering Ministries. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Backstage Pass. At Kettering Ministries. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. The Jordan across from Jericho, saying, Speak to the children of Israel and say to them: When you have crossed the Jordan into the land of Canaan, Voices behind the song. as an inheritance among your families. He says, everywhere that the soles of your feet trod, I'm giving it to you all the way down to the river Euphrates. because there are surrounding areas that we have not conquered for Christ. I want you to understand that when God begins to speak to you about driving out your enemies, He's not going to talk to you three, five hundred miles away from your enemies. I'm trying to help somebody right about here. They're standing right across from their place of victory. You can't leave certain things around you. Are y'all catching it now? into a new territory, a new corridor with a new devil has hung out. We get into it, so everything's good, okay. In other words, that devil that used to be a part of your life, that issue that used to be a part of your life, you need to change the locks, you need to throw out the key You need to change the code so that they can't even get to you no more. For you here no more. DC belongs to you. And the worse your eye gets, the worse you can see. We have left too much laying around in the corridors and they have become an irritant to our eyes and a thorn in our side. And they shall harass you in the land. You didn't live all the way holy, you lived part of the way holy, and you thought that was good enough. Keep on coming up as an issue for you. Be. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Verse 50 is where we'll start. And demolish all their high places. Lot you shall inherit according to the tribes of your fathers. This word, whether through the radio, whether through the internet, whether through live streaming, whatever mechanism or means by which they may hear this word, let it penetrate their heart and press them Jesus. Been convinced by God and examination, and as I've kind of taken a backward step to look at what's happening in Christianity today, I see that we become comfortable in going into the land but not conquering all of it. to be alone in his damnation, in his ultimate destruction, without ever hearing the gospel, because we have not claimed the corridors for Christ. By the Jordan across from Jericho, saying, Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, When you have crossed over the Jordan into the land of Canaan, guess what? That's when size didn't matter because I was little like everybody else. And so, in order for me to make a hole, I've got to drive out the enemy. And destroy everything that represents worship for him. Entities with spiritual war, and if we're gonna drive them out, we've got to destroy everything that belongs to him so that nobody wants to worship what belongs to him anymore Destroy all of their worship stuff. So that they don't even have the temptation to go back and worship it again. I was having a conversation the other day and someone said, well, I know what the Bible says, but I have friends who do this. And because he is a spiritual entity, we've got to drive him out through spiritual warfare. A lot. Can I fix it for y'all right here? The deed. So he says, look, dispossess them out the land and divide the land. Change the code on the garage door opener so that the old enemy doesn't have no desire to come back. If we're gonna take the whole corridor, if you want all of your blessings, you've got to take the whole corridor for Christ. But watch this. Two of the children dies, they got eight kids. And sisters, and what sin I didn't deal with, I didn't pass it down to my children and my grandchildren and my great-grand, and that thing just keeps spreading Because we didn't deal with it at the beginning. And you haven't settled out the property and you start passing it down from generation to generation. If we're going to claim the corridor for Christ, you need to hear this part. Of the land. Things you can have is something in your eye that's irritating your eye. Some of you have not written the books that God said you ought to write. Sundays at 8 a. Now he's bringing you their stories. in the land where you dwell. Amen. Through so many trials, through so many tribulations, through so many turns in the road, and so many dangers, some of which we didn't even know existed. Speak your word. to do what you've got before them to do that they might accomplish your assignment in their life. Accepted it even as Israel has in the text. This promised land that they're pursuing is the is the foreshadow of a of a land that we receive when Christ died and rose again on the cross. Now, in this text, there are, if you will, some instructions, some guidelines that help us to know what we need to do to claim the corridor for Christ. When you get over there, don't make friends with your enemies. Y'all say in the text, let me let me read it back to you. You will catch the land. To make a hole for the running back behind you, you've got to drive out the defender in front of you. Drive out all the inhabitants out of the land and destroy all their engraved stones, destroy all their molded image, destroy everything that they worship Destroy everything that means something to them. I love this. And compromises with situations and compromises with scenarios. So we first of all we've got to drive them out and destroy our enemy. idea of taking it over and leaving no provisions for the previous owner to have any claim on the property. You can't let some stuff hang around. And we've got to do that with our heart because our heart has been spliced by this world to accept worldly stuff and not live for God and take the whole corridor for Christ. And watch this. Family member dies, has no will. You keep going down the line and after a while you got about 40, 50, 60 folk that own this land. Because it's a mess. t in your eyes and thorns in your side and they shall harass you in the land where you dwell. As I thought to do to them. Now you don't know right from wrong. Then you can take the whole land. Every time we move, we got to deal with them. No, you ain't good. And you've left fear in the land, and you need to drive fear out of the land. Because you haven't possessed what God said you ought to possess. Go in and possess it. Not just the corridor of your life. But in the land that we live in. And he has dominion. under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. That those whom you let remain shall be an irritants in your eyes and thorns in your side, and they shall harass you And so this land lays before them that God is giving to them and he is going to allow them to go in, and as they go in Gotten to a place where they have gotten comfortable with what I'll call partial success. And so we as children have pursued this promised land, but not a land of dirt, but a land of eternality in Christ Jesus. Listen, he says, look, notice. For I have given you this land to possess, and you shall divide the land by an inheritance among all those families. And we're going around thinking that we're going to get this extra, you know, something extra that's going to drop out of heaven while we live like hell. Belongs to you. Now, even if you can deal with the irritating the eye and the throwing the side and you can deal with them harassing you, you can't deal with God doing to you what He was gonna do to them. I want you to be the son, the daughter. And then, I believe, we'll see a complete difference in each and every individual Christian, but not only every Christian. I want to send notice to the devil that we're gonna claim what is ours. the whole corridor for Christ. Baptist Church. Now let the power of your presence manifest itself through the preaching of the gospel that everyone under the sound of my voice and everyone who will hear the That we evaluate our successes of where we've been and our failures for what we have not yet accomplished And so I want to kind of challenge us that we began to conquer what belongs to us. Not just physical land, but spiritual land that God has for us. Then you shall drive out all the inhabitants and destroy all of their engraved images and destroy and demolish all of their high places. I've got to drive out the enemy out of the place that belongs to me. He says, dispossess them out of the lake. I've got to live for him. The door ain't gonna open. That means what I pass down to my next generation is less than all of what I own. I want you to walk in the fullness of what God has ordained for you to walk in. And in this land of promise, the land of promise of the Old Testament is the liberality of the heart from sin in the New Testament. First and foremost, if you look there in verses 50 through 52, he says, now the Lord spoke to Moses, gives Moses his word. I know I know the buttons to push. Get rid of them. Some habits, if you had cut them out, you wouldn't still be dealing with them at the age of 50 and 60 years old. In our text today, God gives a word to Moses for the children of Israel that he is about to give them the land that is in front of them. It is the equivalent, if you will, of being set free in the heart from sin in the New Testament, this land that they are pursuing this Not only do I want you to see that they're standing right there, but I want you to see something else. You know what that means? Everybody's gonna get what belongs to them. That you can't even keep all of what he's gonna bless you with. Are you drowning in IRS tax debt? Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Then you shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, destroy all their engraved stones, destroy all their molden images, and God, was I successful in my approaches of doing what you call me to do? No. No, you've got to go over there and drive them out. Put your name on the deed. Of the new dawning in a new day, leaving the past behind us. I want to talk to us for our Kettering Baptist Church family, claiming the corridor for Christ. So, first of all, you drive out your enemy and destroy your enemy. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. If you don't get rid of them, I've given you the land. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. So in our pursuit, in our walking into the land, in our coming into Christianity, I have The strong Christian life belongs to you. Would you pray with me, please? Declare it with authority and conviction. Because you got too many people involved. Verse 53, he says, look, you shall dispossess the inhabitants of the land and dwell in it. And when you take it over, he says, divide the land. If we as Christians have come into a pattern and a habit of not totally possessing all that belongs to us, then that means that somebody ain't getting what belongs to them. Catherine, we have come to a place once again where we stand at the edge m. I can't compromise. United States belongs to you. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. org or contact our church office at 301-574-3515. You've got to move them out. Drive them out. Because you have not possessed all that God put in front of you to possess. or 11 a. Dispossess them. I want you to notice a few things when God begins to speak to them. When God says, I've given you the land, you're standing right across from it. Not only destroy all of their worship stuff, he says, demolish the places where they used to worship. If you'd learned how to deal with the money, you wouldn't have money problems right now. When he says dispossess the land, dispossess what's in front of you. And if he reigns and he rules and he has dominion, guess what? You will take what's yours. I know you you so sweet and you got a good job, but that's not good enough. Here you are in the place that God blessed you to be, and you can't even enjoy it because you left sin around, because you left folk around, because you left your enemy around, you didn't drive them out, you didn't get rid of it Take it. I'm Andy Christman. If you claimed it all that he gave you, it would be settled and you divided it out amongst those who inherit The whole core now belongs to you. And then what happens when we get into this land of promise? It's locked, close. If you don't drive them out of the land. I want you to be the husband, the wife that God calls you to be. Moreover, it shall be that I will do to you as I thought to do to them. Because when we have claimed it for Christ, then he reigns and he rules. To the larger you shall give a larger inheritance, and to the smaller you shall give a smaller inheritance. Go down to Upper Marlboro and make sure your name is registered on the property. m. It says, now drive them all out. That's what's going on in Christianity right now. You shall dispossess the inhabitants of the land and dwell in it, for I have given you the land to possess. Father in heaven, we thank you for your amazing grace that has brought us thus far. You can't leave some people around you. Oh, why didn't we deal with it? Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Everybody needs to claim every corridor that belongs to them. Watch this. It's all yours. That means they will cross over. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. They're standing right across from Jericho. Property now goes to three children. You can't give provisions for them to come back. But if you leave some in there and don't drive them out, I need you to hear this. But if you don't get rid of them, they'll become an irritant to your eyes, thorns in your side. I'm talking to somebody tonight. Listen, if you're gonna take the corridor for Christ, you've not only got to drive the enemy out, but you've got to take I know I love you, but I can't compromise because I got to take the whole corridor for Christ I want to claim this whole corridor of 301, Route 301. Praise the Lord. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. The word of the Lord reads as follows. Third children dies, they got four kids. I owe the IRS $37,000. Are y'all hearing what I'm saying? And the worse you can see, the worse your judgment is. Can I make it plain to somebody? And we've left vast corridors of property and land that belong to us unclaimed. And you've got to be determined that I'm going to make a way to get to what belongs to me And you even assessed yourself at the end of the year and said, Hey, I did pretty good this year as a Christian. You're standing right next to it. Destroy every place they worship. Secondly, I'm gonna move y'all through this text. Then you come pushing them buttons. But what they taught us in blocking was if you've got If you don't drive them out, here are the constant dire consequences. Let them see and hear you, and not me. The blessings belong to you. Now, I'm let me back up. We have not claimed for Christ. Your name ain't on it. And watch this. Katarine, we've taken some of it, but we haven't taken it all. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website. I want you to notice what he says. Listen, Catherine, when we came into this area upper Marlboro, we moved 10 miles from where we were, but guess what? Drive them out and destroy them. All it needs to be is a little bitty pebble and watch this And you'll be all day long rubbing your eye, scratching your eye. Make sure that everybody gets their share according to the tribe. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. The reason why we in Christianity come halfway. Because if you're ever going to accomplish what God has in front of you to accomplish, you've got to drive them all out, or it's going to Oh, here it is. First of all, I want you to notice where they are. Some of you have not stepped out on your own and walked by faith and done the thing that God put in front of you to do because you're scared He says now watch this. We don't know right from wrong. When I looked up that word dispossessed, it gave the idea He'll bless you enough to divide off your inheritance with other folk and share it with them I want you to be the man that God called you to be, the woman that God called you to be. Watch this. That's a great question. Not just the land of the heart, but the land and the corridors of our surrounding areas. You've got to drive them out of the way. And if you don't do what he says, I'm going to do to you what I said I was going to do to them. The reason why I'm drawing you this picture is because if you've left folk in the land, oh my God. They're right there, right on the edge of where God's gonna give them land. Don't get over there and start compromising with your enemies. One of the children died, they got five kids. What sin my mama had to deal with, if she didn't deal with it, she didn't pass it down to me and my brothers Stuck. But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you, then it shall be Endow me even now, God, with the strength that I need to When I was young, I used to play football, believe it or not. Not just some of them, all of them. I can't leave them in the hole. I'm calling the police. Now if we're gonna take this corridor for Christ, we've got to drive him out You need to lose her number. Stop making excuses because you haven't driven them out of the land. That's what he tells them. Some of you have not accomplished the businesses that God put in front of you to accomplish. Get ready for a Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now the Lord spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the And now God's word is not even as important to us as it should be. Secondly, you dispossess them and you divide the land. This is what the Lord says. I've given you the land. Got you in again. All you gotta do is go in and drive out the enemy in front of you. Verse 53 and 54 says you've got to dispossess and divide the land. See, yeah, let them slip on back up in here. Listen, this is what I believe about our God. And it's a mess. We've got to get on our knees. You've got to drive out those bad habits And there ain't no reason for us to be afraid because God already gave it to us. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services. You will cross over We start making compromises with folk. The corridor belongs to you. We don't know up from down. And therefore the unbeliever is left Even if he does come back, he won't find a place that he can make his own Every blessing you need is readily available for you. All you need to do is walk over there and take what belongs to you, but you've got to drive out the enemy that's in front of you If I have dispossessed you, you can push all the buttons you want. Now the same property that belonged to one now belongs to multiple. You've got to dispossess them out of the lane. Look at where they are. Get rid of everything that would cause them to want to come back and set their temple up again. I've got to live for Jesus. They'll become an irritant to your eye, throwing to your side. Got you again. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. He says, drive them out. This is what comes to mind. God speaks in past tense here. I'm going to read it back to you, 55-56. Y'all hear what I'm saying? In other words, change That's not going to happen. Drive all don't let none of them hang around Got you again. They're in the plains of Moab. Because if I don't move the defender, guess what? You can't live in the fullness of your Christian life if you're leaving stuff around that ought not be around. We don't even know what the Bible says because we don't even read it I can't leave them in the place where my victory is. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. If you don't drive them out, guess what? I want the whole corridor to belong to Christ. They are directly across from the place of victory. And if you wanted to sell it, you couldn't sell it The victory is yours. We've got to turn the plate over. And the more you scratch, the worse your eye gets Painful. Make sure that the locks are changed and the keys don't work no more Oh, you need to block them on your page. This breaking and entering. I I grew a little bit, I did a little bit better. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. There's a place where the enemy used to hang out and worship. Some stuff, if you had driven it out, it wouldn't keep getting you. I want to encourage us to claim the corridor for Christ. Well, Ketter, and I've come to the understanding that Christians have And not only do you drive them out, but watch this: he says, when you get in there, destroy their stuff. Some of you might be familiar with this. The land belongs to you. But if you had thrown away when it was paper, you wouldn't be dealing with it now that it's electronic. Not only have we gotten comfortable with it, we have applauded it and we have God says the first thing you need to do if you're gonna claim the whole court or for Christ. Well, if God has in front of you a land, then we ought to take all of it. And now, Pastor Sterling. And let your glory be revealed that life change might happen He's talking to you while you're standing at the edge of your victory. You've got to dispossess them out of the lane. He says, Speak to the children of Israel, Moses, and say to them, when you have crossed over. Thirdly, there are dire consequences for disobeying God. They're going to become an irritant in your eyes. So as they have become an irritant to you, now your judgment is skewed. But at the same time, I believe it is customary Are y'all still here with me? He says, look, he says, but if you do not drive them out The land belongs to you. They're gonna harass you. And some of us are standing right there on the edge of the blessing God has for us, but we won't drive out the enemy in front of us. . So God says, Look, I've given you this land Drive out that nest and claim what belongs to you. There every one's inheritance shall be whatever falls to him by You you are not you have no ownership here. Now he's bringing you their stories. It's yours. Moreover, here's the here's the worst consequence, it shall be that I will do to you We've got to attack spiritual I believe our God will bless you so much. But God, I thank you that you brought us to this point. And you know what? The defender's gonna get my running back Maryland belongs to you. The One Degree of Andy podcast. And you shall divide the land by lot. But you got to hear this The larger get the larger, the smaller get the smaller, and everybody's gonna get theirs according to They're going to become an irritant I'm trying to help somebody Because what we do is say, well, yeah, I know the Bible says that, but And they still haven't resolved how much who owns. The victory I'm doing better than her over there, and I'm doing better than him over there, and so I'm good. Everybody needs to get their own. But you have to claim. You've got to dispossess every habit They're gonna meddle with you all the time. We moved You need to tell them they know more space I'm trying to talk to somebody right about now You just got to go in and take it Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. And so therefore we are living short of what God promised us. I'm Andy Christman. Turn with me to Numbers chapter 33. That garage door ain't coming open Some folk, if you had cut them out, they wouldn't keep getting you. For additional information, go to our website And I'm going to help you with this. And I want every Christian to claim everything that God has for them. Y'all still hear what I'm saying Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Destroy it, demolish it, get rid of it. That's a great question. They're always gonna keep messing with you. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. One of the worst If you love Christian music, this is your best.