We'll begin our reading in verse 7. And so God is calling Israel in this text through the prophet Malachi to return to him and to reprioritize their giving life. You've drifted away from me and keeping my commandments and keeping what I had instructed you. And he says, and I'll return to you. Now keep in mind, they're not being faithful to God. And when you return to him, he'll return to you. He says a curse is called out upon them because you're robbers. In other words, you can't say, you know what, I'm not gonna give, but I'm gonna just give my service. I know some people say, well, I'm not gonna give the money, I'm gonna give some of my time. Well, you know what? He says, I'm calling out a curse on you. And the law of motion says to every action there's an equal but opposite reaction. Then you're gonna be cursed. Your podcasts And not just in terms of physics and science, but there's the divine laws of God that are at play. We talked about a little bit in Bible study as well, how people have been drifting away from the fellowship and not really connecting anymore and you know, after such period of time we Wow. She sits down with the voices behind the song. Voices behind the song. and pour you out or pour out for you such blessing that there will not be room enough to receive it. I pray for others who are in desire of edification, Lord. And all that takes place, that your name would get the most glory and all the honor and all the praise for all that transpires here today. an abuse of the tithes and the offering the people were uh sinning against each other there was divorce running rampant and they were marrying outside of the uh Perhaps even in their anger or frustration with God, they had begun to be cheap and they were just spending their money on themselves and keeping it to themselves and holding it on to for their own pleasures and doing their own thing. We've also become lethargic in our giving and we've become cheap and selfish in our giving to the house of God. And some people today are maybe in that same place. In the midst of this, when the Lord says, return to me and I will return to you, it helps us to understand the Lord is making clear that when you drifted away from being faithful to me And trying to do things your own way, you're on your own. And he says, now if you return, I will return. Well what are you talking about? And so they they ask this question like they they're completely oblivious to what's happening and they go, well, what way shall we return? And so he calls them to return to him. What you do is you hold it for yourself and go spend it on yourself. And so the whole house of Israel has been cursed. You've shifted in your priorities from giving to the household of God. He says, bring them to the storehouse. You've been cursed. He says, I need you to come do this right. Now here's the question. Well that that whole philosophy has nothing to do with the principle of God. I'm glad you asked. the the the law of reaping and sowing he says whatever whatsoever a man sows that will he also reap well that's a divine principle we can't escape that I mean if you throw out carrot seeds, you're gonna grow carrots. Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. But watch this. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. So praise God. If you have your Bibles with you on today and you should, we want to invite your attention to the book of Malachi, Malachi chapter 3. Bring all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house, and try me now in this, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open for you the windows of heaven Spirit of the Lord, we thank you for this privilege opportunity we have to stand and declare your word. You would speak clearly through my lips, that my mind might be clear, that my thoughts might be clear, that the very words I speak might come as the very oracle of God to speak directly into the hearts of your people. Have no way in Jesus' name I pray. As we dig it into Malachi, Malachi, whose name means my messenger, has his book of prophecy fall in the order of the last book of the Old Testament. This is probably around a hundred years after they've been released from exile, uh, from the Babylonian captivity. Sort of like us where they haven't been able to go to church, they haven't been able to fellowship with God and things are not good economies tough. uh of Israel. uh giving to God and and and and honoring the house of God as a priority, they've been holding it back. Uh, you know, they've been sitting at home and and you know watching uh watching church online and you know sometimes watching, sometimes not, kind of doing what they want to do, drifting away. Guess what? Return to me. In this text, as Malachi begins to speak to the people, he starts off with a call to return, to God speaking through Malachi. They he makes it clear they they robbed him. For you have robbed me, even this whole nation. That is of your gross increase. Money, resources. And and and as a result of the robbery, you've been cursed. Or worse yet, it's like God saying, you know, here's some resources, here's some money. Room enough to receive it. Because the tithe belongs to God. That the resources of God that are needed in the house of God might be there, that the house of God might operate. Now you thought if I held on to it, I would have more than enough to take care of what I needed. Okay? Okay? Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. What you sow, that's what you're going to reap. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Return to me, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. Will a man rob? so that he will not destroy the fruit of your ground, nor shall the vine fail to bear fruit for you in the field, says the Lord of hosts. Father, I pray for those who are unsaved today, who don't know you in the pardon of their sin, that today will be the day, God, that they would ask, what must I do to be saved? Malachi writes to a post-exilic Israel, Israel who has come out of exile. With the faithful remnant. uh of giving to the house of God because they feel like hey we haven't been you know able to worship we haven't been um you know, being blessed like we were normally blessed and maybe there's a little bit of apathy about the fact that they have been in captivity and all that and so you know people are pulled away and and instead of them having And as well, even as Israel, and I think this the text becomes very relevant, very, very pertinent to us even today, uh, where we may find ourselves, because Calls to people to return. Away from obeying God. I also pulled away from being there for you. You've held back that which belonged to me. If you would give me some of yours. From giving to the household of faith, if your uh if your your if your giving priority has shifted, I want you to hear God calling you to return to him. And so God calls them, He says, Look, I'm calling you to return. Now, because because according to Leviticus chapter 27, verses 30 through 33, Leviticus says, the tithe is holy to God, the 10%, the 10% of your increase. It's holy. Or kept it in your own household. Well, there's a whole lot of people still doing that today. Watch this. Don't miss this point because this is how people are bringing curses on their own households. He doesn't say, you know, just bring a trickle. Don't you have to think about it. Try me now in this and see if I will open up the windows of heaven and bless you with more than you have room to receive. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Okay? He says you're going to be blessed going out. That eternal principle of God. Guyana and Ghana and all over the world where you're listening. You've gone away from me and from my ordinances. dot org or contact our church office at three oh one six two seven nine five zero zero Excuse me, if you disobey me, if you don't keep my commandments, if you rob me of the resources that belong to me, if you take the tithe for yourself Again, Malachi chapter 3, beginning at verse 7. They become kind of uh maybe distant with God. And so he calls out a curse on them. In this. It's a principle also that actually plays out in horticulture and in farming. And we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. of the current day situations. I think during our pandemic time, we've probably seen some of the same things happening. You have kept and used that which was God's for yourself. When you know when you were a child and your parents gave you money for Sunday school or for church and you you held back a little bit of it so you can buy some candy or something like that Comes in verses ten and eleven. The Abrahamic covenant. But yet you have. That they're what they're doing in essence and and watch this and and and because it's not their priority, the question is what what what do you mean by robbery? That have been unfaithful and they're cheating and robbing God because they've shifted their priority of giving to God what belongs to Him and they've been keeping it for themselves. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. of Israel and uh just a whole lot of chaos going on in the midst of this and the the he also writes to compare this group of miserly unfaithful folks Reprioritizing our lives. They're still dealing with Persian influence and Persian control uh over them and they're uh lethargic in nature. And he does that for them. The house of God still needs to go on. In essence, right there as a child, you were learning how to rob God because the whole amount belonged to God. This is the law of gravity. Apparently during this time uh there's a portion of Israel who has drifted in their priority. There's also the principles and the law and the guidance that God gave Israel as a nation under the Abrahamic promise. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. You've taken that which belongs to God. Let me see. But watch this. Try me and see if I won't do this for you. Good morning. God had blessed them with all the resources, God had blessed them with the money, they were able to survive uh and to to to still thrive, but yet they had So he's talking about, look, so the tithe is holy and you can't replace it with anything else. You're gonna be cursed in the city, you're gonna be cursed in the country, you're gonna be cursed in the field, you're gonna be Oh, what just another exciting day to give God glory and worship him. You know, economically things are challenging and socially things are a little bit in disarray. Uh he addresses uh in the the book uh of his prophecy the corruption of the priests uh for the priests were were being corrupt they were defiling the temple of God there was a It's like going into the household or the tabernacle, stealing the golden candle arbers and go selling them on online and taking the money and spending it for yourself But he comes back here in Malachi and he calls the nation of Israel. Why does this work? You know, some have equated the law of gravity to say whatever goes up must come down. Listen to this. Try me now. That is your gross. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Because what you've done, you didn't just curse yourself. Wow. Well, there are certain principles and laws that operate in the world that we can, they're inescapable. He says to them in the Abrahamic covenant, if you obey me, if you keep my laws and you keep my commandments, guess what he told them? And once you get there, let us know you're there by saying amen and say it as loud as you can. It's holy as he is. Try God now in this. No, God is saying you robbed me of what was mine. There's there's the law of the law of law of physics. What what ways shall we return? Yet you have robbed me. It does a comparing contrast towards the end. He goes on to tell us that if you sow to the flesh, you're going to reap corruption. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. He makes it real clear. You've robbed me, but you say in what way have you have I robbed you? He says, You've been, you, you, you are cursed with a curse, for you have robbed me, even the whole nation. You've been cursed with a curse. So there's this first of all this call in the text to return. It says, Bring all the tithes into the storehouse that there may be food in my house. You're going to be blessed coming in. He says, return to me, and I will return to you. He says, look, in verse 7, he says, from the days of your fathers, you have you've gone away from me. And then he says to them, listen, he says, now try me Reprioritize, rethink this thing. Good morning, good morning, and praise the Lord. The 10% that belongs to God. And he says, No, as a result, you're stealing. You've not kept them. You literally robbed me. Watch this. If you disobey. There's a called out curse that God puts forward to Israel. You curse where the curse is real, and the whole house is cursed. Why why does this work? The work of the ministry still has to go on. God calls his people to obedience. The Lord says you're by yourself. But then, secondly, in this text, there's also a call-out curse. Alright. Amen and amen. And you've gone away. He calls you to return. A whole lot like where we are right now. Bring it to the house of God. No, no, no, no. And they ask the question as if they don't even know what are you talking about. But they're holding back the part that belonged. The whole nation, even this whole nation has been cursed because of the, because of these few Try me now in this. No, bring it all to the storehouse. The law of gravity says if you walk off a cliff, that guess what? You've robbed God. There's a call challenge to prioritize your giving. So the word of the Lord this morning reads as follows: Yet from the days of your fathers, you have gone away from my ordinances and have not kept them. They want to grow in you. But I want to talk to us from the subject matter today, reprior to our reprioritizing our giving life. You can't throw out carrot seeds and expect cantaloupe to grow. And you're the one that drifted away, not me. Watch this. org and remember to reference the title and broadcast date. You're going to be blessed in the city. But you say, In what way have we robbed you? You are cursed with a curse, and you've brought the curse on the entire house of Israel. You've robbed God. Because it doesn't make sense. And he says, return to me. But because it's not because giving and being faithful to God is not a priority to them, because their priority is not giving to the household of God, they don't even realize. Return to me because you've robbed me. The curse comes from the fact that No. So guess what? You know how how how do we come back like as if they hadn't done anything? Now you've been cursed because you've taken what belongs to God. And then he says, as a result of you drifting away, there's a curse on you. And watch this. Praise the Lord. No, it's not your service that that we talk about. Familiar passage of scripture that we want to read this morning as we continue preaching through our series of messages entitled You've drifted away. It's not something I was generously asking you He says, now bring all the ties into the house. But so why does this work? But you said, in what way shall we return? I pray you edify them through the Word of God. Comparing these miserly or cheap unfaithful people with those who are faithful in Israel. Well guess what? Thank you, praise team, for blessing us this morning and encouraging our hearts and setting the atmosphere for worship in the Word this morning. That's a great question. Because again, you know, they've gone through this whole period of time where I'm not with you. And it's holy. They're bringing curses on their own families because they refuse to honor God with what God has put in their possession and God has said, bring it to my house. They've withdrawn their resources of the support of the house of holida faith. Bring all of it to the house of God. Do it now, and I'll open up the windows of heaven for you and pour you out such blessings that you will not have room enough to receive. We're really excited about that. But God says, No, bring to me what's mine, and I will then bless you with more than you have room enough to deal with. The money is God's. You've taken that which was holy to God. You know, we've been taught from children a bird in a hand is better than one in the bush Um I believe is Newton's law number three. You brought the curse on the whole house. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web You're going to be blessed in the field. We want to know that you are with us on this morning. We can't escape it. He says, whatever you sow, that's what you're going to reap. Some people are have drifted in their priority of giving to the household of God. And yet, you know, the people in Israel, they were holding back their money. While you're out there holding on to the resources of God And what was mine was the tithe and the offering. God gave it to you so you can put it in the place, so you can get it, put it into the household of God so that the ministry of God could go forward. And see what He will do. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministries of Kettering Baptist Church. He calls you this morning to challenge you, calls you a challenge to re-prioritize your giving. And this is not like an option right here. That's a great question. And I hope you're hearing it this morning that if you've drifted in your priority. Cursed going in, you can be cursed going out. Try me now in this Watch this. Why why does why is why do we get blessed with more when we give God what belongs to him But as he writes this book, he writes to rebuke the formalism And he says, look, he's calling them to come back. The offering was given to you by your parents, so you can put the whole thing in the offering plate and you held back some so you can go buy some candy And he says to them, Look, If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. On this morning You've fallen off into the dark space. There are, even as God lays out in Galatians chapter 6, he talks about But if you sow unto God, there's blessings in the sowing unto God. But if you return to me, I'll return to you. He says that there may be food in my house. Um they've been uh being cheap about it. Come back to me. Now, I know we read through that and we kind of blow past it, but I don't want you to miss something They say, well, in what way? Um, when the offering plate comes around, I want you to put my part in for me, and instead of you putting his part in for him. Wherever there's an action, there's an equal but opposite reaction But there's some inescapable laws that are at work in the world around us. And try me now in this, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven for you and pour out such blessings that there will not be I am in need of your strength. And you've set your giving priorities on yourself and not on me. He says it's holy. You're going to be Alright, so But Father, most importantly, I pray that you would be glorified in all that transpires. The final movement of the text. And God makes it clear, he says, You've robbed me. And you want to know in what ways? Don't hold back any of it But because you drifted away, I pulled away also. So you can't replace the tithe with your talent or your time. In tithes and offering. And watch this. There's a called out curse in verse number 9. He calls out a curse upon them. That's called stealing. And as well, again, they're still dealing with some oppression. Okay? If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. God says, I know you've you've you I I called you to return to me. So I can hear you all the way from North Carolina and South Carolina and Texas and This is not like a suggestion. They talk called the law of motion For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. So, Lord, use me as a vessel, as an instrument in your hand to accomplish your will. And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes S bot That's a principle you can't escape. And even though they've been released by Ceres So your whole household is now cursed as a result of you robbing God. If you throw out orange seeds, you're going to get oranges. And you can't substitute it for anything else. And when you look at it, it says like, look, you've robbed me. You've gone away from me. I call the curse out on you Gravity is gonna cause you to fall to the ground. m. We're talking about the increase. That's not gonna happen We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. I'm in need of your grace today, Lord, that Watch this. And he says, You've robbed me, and as a result of your robbery, I'm calling a curse out on you. It was sanctified, set apart, holy unto God, and you have taken it and used it on yourself. Bring all the ties into the storehouse. Watch this. That's resources. Now he's bringing you their stories. And God makes it real clear: you've robbed me in tithes and offerings. or 11 a. And now, Pastor Sterling My God. And you are cursed with a curse, for you have robbed me, even this whole nation. And it was holy. He says, no, this is like a command. We're talking about funny He says, You are cursed with a curse They've been uh spending their money on themselves. The One Degree of Andy podcast. You can't escape Why is this robbery? Amen. And he says to them, hey And He's calling them return back to faithfulness. Look at verse 8. Now he's bringing you their stories. You've shifted your priorities. That there may be this the necessities might be met in the house of God. Reprioritizing our giving life They were spending it on themselves. m. at the Legacy Center. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Would you pray with me this morning? I've called you because you you've you've drifted away. I'm Andy Christman. He says, You've robbed me. Watch this. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Bring the tithe to the storehouse They They were doing their own thing When I thought about this, I thought about you know how. Now watch this I need you, Jesus. I'm Andy Christman. You've committed robbery In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Will a man rob God? Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your. And as a result of them not doing it. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. And you know He asks this rhetorical question.