Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety and now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Luke chapter twenty-four. Uh beginning at verse one. Resurrection Sunday morning. Hallelujah. The word of the Lord reads as follows. Now on the first day of the week, very early in the morning They and certain other women with them came to the tomb bringing the spices which they had prepared. But they found the stone rolled away from the tomb, and then they went in and they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus, and it It happened as they were greatly perplexed about this, that behold two men stood by them in shining garments. And then as they were afraid and bowed their faces to the earth, they said to them, Why do you seek the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen. Remember how he spoke to you when he was still in Galilee, saying, The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and on the third day rise again. And they remembered his words. And then they returned from the tomb, and they told these things to the eleven and all the rest. And uh it was Mary Magdalene Joanna Mary, the mother of James and the other women with them who told these Things to the apostles. lying by themselves, and he departed, marveling to himself what had happened. Now, behold, two of them were Traveling the same day to a village called Emmaus, which uh was seven miles from Jerusalem, and they uh talked together and all of these things which had happened. So it was while they conversed and reasoned that Jesus himself drew near and went with them, but their eyes were restrained so that they did not know him. And he said to them, What kind of conversation is this that you are having one with another as you are as you walk and are sad? Then the one whose name was Cleopas answered and said to him, Are you the only stranger in Jerusalem? And have you not known these things which happened there in these days? And he said to them what things? And so they said to him the things concerning Jesus of Nazareth, whom was a prophet, a mighty indeed and word before God and all the people And how the chief priests and the rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and crucified him. But we were hoping that it was he who was going to redeem Israel. Indeed, besides all this, today is the third day since these things have happened. Yes, and certain women of the our company who arrived at the tomb early a st astonished us uh when they did not find his body. They came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels who said He was alive, and certain of these who's uh those who were with us, and they went to the tomb and they found it just as the women had said, uh, but him they did not see And he said to them, O foolish ones and slow of heart, believe in all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and entered into his glory? And the beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the things of Scripture, the things concerning himself. And then they drew near to the village where they were going, and he indicated that he would have gone farther. But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us, uh, for it is uh now towards evening, and the day is far spin, and he went in and to stay with them. Now it came to pass as he sat down at the table with them That he took the bread and he blessed it and broke it, and he gave it to them. Then their eyes were opened, and they knew him, and he vanished away from their sight. And they said to one another, Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked with us on the road, and while he opened the scripture to us. Father, thank you for the word of God. It's so rich. It's so full. We need it, God That it might give us instruction for living. We need it on this day, God, that if someone may not know you, they may come to know you in a very personal and intimate way. We pray, eternal God, that through the power of your Holy Spirit you would manifest yourself through the preaching of the gospel on today that you might Encourage our hearts as we celebrate your resurrection. Spirit of the Lord, edify this body. Glorify yourself. As I stand, God, I stand in need of your power that I might proclaim your truth in a way that you desire. Have your way in and through me, God. And we will give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. It's in Jesus' name I pray and I thank you. Amen. I want to say welcome to Resurrection Sunday morning, and it is that I am always very careful not to call it Easter, because I think in the terminology Easter you lose the impact of what this day is really all about. I understand the secularism and I understand the the the synergism that happens in the midst of our uh Christian and experience and secular world and all the other things that go on, but I think that This day and this experience that happened for us who are the children of the living God, and for everyone who will ever become a child of the living God, we need to remember the resurrection. Can't forget that this is the day that he was resurrected from the dead. Because here is the reality: if Christ had not been risen, you and I would be without hope. We would still be lost. We would still be endowed to the debt of sin, and we have to repay it at some point. But thanks be to God, he paid the sin debt for us, and so therefore we have been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. Somebody should have said amen right about there. And so we have this hope now in Christ Jesus because of his resurrection and because he has been raised from the dead. But if he had not been raised, we are indeed a people who are most pitiable, as the scripture says, because our Hope is hopeless, is futile, our faith is futile, our preaching is empty, our experience of worship is in vain. If Christ has not been raised from the dead, we are miserable people. But he has been raised. And so we celebrate him on this morning as I prepared this message and as I was reading through this text. I was kind of riveted by the question in the text, by the angels that was presented in this text, and the question is this, why do you seek the living among the dead? Let's talk to you from this idea, why do you seek the living? Among the dead. And as I was massaging through the texts to try to seek answers to this question, first I found out that these ladies, the answer for them is They went to this tomb out of obligation to a cultural practice. To fulfill the obligation of a cultural practice of preparing the body of the Lord We know from the scripture that they did not have time when they crucified him because the Sabbath was fastly approaching. Sunday morning, very early in the morning, they got up and they went to the tomb with over 100 pounds of spices to adequately bury him. They were not looking for a living God. They were looking for a dead Christ to bury him well On Resurrection Sunday morning, there's a whole lot of people that are going to some dead places, and I'm not talking dead because the worship is not on fire. I'm talking about buildings. Buildings don't live, they have no life in them, it's brick and mortar. They're going to brick and mortar buildings not to seek a living God, but they're going because that's the thing we do on resurrection Sunday morning. We we dress up. We get our hair done that week before. We make sure we've been to K and G and get our alterations and everything straight. Amen. Because this is the thing we do on Resurrection Sunday morning. And those who don't ever come to church any other time other than Christmas and maybe Mother's Day. Resurrection Sunday is the other day that they make it because this is a ritual thing we do and we show. up in a dead place only for a ritual practice so we can say we've done it again. You go out of the ritual because it's the thing we do. Because we don't come in, we don't enter his gates with singing, and we don't enter his courts with praise. We come in waiting for a choir to stimulate us. And we come not to seek a living God. But why do you come if you're not seeking a living God? They come sometimes out of ritual, just like these ladies. And they came To bury him and to wrap him and spice him so that he can be buried well. And sometimes in our ritual practice of Church service, we come for the same reason. Just to bury the memories of a Christ who died 2000 years ago. We didn't come to experience him in a new way. These ladies, interestingly enough, and I applaud them, they got up extremely early in the morning and carried a hundred pounds of spices to a tomb. To prepare a body that it might be buried well, why do you seek the living among the dead? They did it out of ritual and out of practice of wrapping up the body and bising it so it wouldn't smell and and preservation of it. But I think it's better to seek a living God out of a relationship with Him. They went and told the rest. We didn't find him. He's not there. And guess what? Nobody believed them. Because the words you speak when your relationship with God is ritual is unbelievable. And you say, come on, go to church with me. That's all you got to talk about. Let's go church. Let's go to church. You ain't talking about a living in God. You're not talking about experiences you've had with him. You're not talking about how he changed your life. You're not talking about how I once was lost and now I'm found. You're not telling people your testimony that I was a drunkard. I was an alcoholic. I was a pimp. I was a hoe. I was a whatever. No, and now look at me. I'm born again. I'm saved. My life has been changed. That's what happens when you have relationships with a living God. Why do you seek the living among the dead? Then the text says that Peter jumped up and he arose, verse 12, and he ran to the tomb, and stooping down, he saw the linen clothes lying by themselves. And he departed, marveling to himself. What had happened? Why did Peter go to the tomb? Why did Peter seek the living among the dead? Peter went because his last experience with Christ was not good. Peter went out of guilt because his last experience with Christ was that he had denied him three times. He went because he was hoping that he can get a second chance. Some of us understand that we've messed it up, and our experience with the Lord hasn't been a good one, and so we go seeking Him for another chance. And so they go and they run he runs to the tomb seeking this opportunity that he might get another chance with Jesus because he messed up the last one. Here's the good news, y'all. God is a God of second chances. But you have to seek him as a living God. Don't seek him as a dead God in a tomb. Seek him as a living God who has new mercies for you every day. Why do you seek the living among the dead? Peter goes to this tomb to seek him. He went there hoping that the Messiah was what the ladies had said wasn't true. Well perhaps, I mean we could throw in all kinds of reasons why he may have gone, but he may have even gone because he didn't believe these ladies, and he maybe thought they went to the wrong tomb. He goes to see for himself. Has Christ really risen? I tell you what really blows my mind out of this text. Nobody really remembered what he had said. He told them I'm not going to stay in the grave. He said, Tear down this temple and in three days I'm going to raise it up again. He told them that The text, even the angels remind them. The Son of Man said, I'm going to be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified, and on the third day rise again. Even the angels remind them. And the text says, the ladies, remember. His words. But while they were going through it, while they were in this empty moment of expectation that Christ has been crucified, and and in their minds it's the memories of Friday and and what they saw on the cross and how they how they mutilated him and how they beat him. Him and how they abused him. That's what's in their mind. And so surely he can't be alive. So they go to the tomb. And Peter runs to this tomb with guilt. But he doesn't go there. Seeking a living God. He goes there not believing these ladies, but when he when he gets there, the text says he he marvels to himself of What had happened. He doesn't understand it. Then there's two other guys here in the text who are walking down the road to Emmaus. And they're on their way to it, mayus the seven miles travel, the Bible says on the same day. And they're they're part of the group that have been following Jesus. There's some of the disciples, and Cleopas is one of them. And and while they're While they're walking down the road, and some would say, Well, Pastor, they didn't go to the tomb. You're right. And on the surface, it seems as if they are not seeking the living among the dead at all. On the surface it seems that way. But I want to dig a little deeper because watch what they are doing. They're trying to hold on To what they used to know about him. So what they're really seeking, they are in essence seeking a living Christ among dead memories. They're talking about it. Verse 14. All these things which had happened. And so it was while they were conversing and they reasoned that Jesus himself drew near and he went with them. You know what I like about the Lord? He shows up in your conversations even when you don't even know He's there. And while they're walking along, trying to recall the memories and trying to hold on to Him through the memories of things they experienced in the past. He shows up. When I walked through that and I was beginning to unpack that, it just reminded me how some people haven't had a new experience with the Lord lately. They're still living in the past and they're still wondering why didn't they sing that song that we used to sing back in 1972? You're still seeking a living God in a dead place, in the dead memories of your past. And it's not to say you don't have good experiences and good memories in the past. Thank God for your memories of the past, but we serve a living God and our living God. God gives you new mercies every day. New experiences every day. In fact, God, I thank you for yesterday. I thank you for yesterday's experiences, but I know you're gonna do something awesome today. I can't wait. I can't wait. But if you keep reading the text, and the reason why I kept reading the text because I wanted you to see this, they already had heard the story that the women had been to the tomb. It wasn't like they just got up on Sunday morning and said, let's go to Emmaus. We're going to forget Jesus, all that's over with now. Okay, let's just go to Emmaus. No, they already heard the story that these ladies have been to the tomb. They already knew that. And they already knew that the ladies had come back and said Jesus is not there. And they already knew because they rehearsed in the hearing of Jesus. Because Jesus says, What kind of conversation are y'all having? And why are y'all so sad? They said, dude, where you been? Are you the only stranger in the whole town that doesn't know about what just happened three days ago? And and Jesus, I love the answer that he gives. What things? It's like it's like he says, tell me the tell me what you what you do recall. Tell me what memory you're holding on to And they say, let me read it for you. Verse 19. And he said to them what things? And so they said to him, the things concerning Jesus of Nazareth. Who was a prophet, mighty indeed and word, before God and all the people, and how the chief priests and the rulers delivered him and condemned him to death and crucified him. But we were hoping. See where their hope is? Their hope has been dashed from the crucifixion day And it's like so what God's doing, He's causing them to reveal where their hope is. And their hope is in is it has been dashed, it's over. We were hoping he was the one who was going to redeem Israel. Besides all this, today is now the third day since these things happened. To you and I doesn't mean a thing. To the Jew, it means there's no hope at all left. Because they believe that the spirit could hover around for a few days, but after three days it's over. And so there's no hope left. That's where they are. Jesus, he says to them, look, y'all missed it. You're still stuck in memories. I'm not dead. I'm a living God. And he begins to open up the scripture to him from all the way from the Old Testament, from Moses, all the way, the scripture says from Moses, that is from the law, all the way back. From the law all the way back. And then he begins to reveal to them through the scripture. And he walks them through the scripture and shows them how the scripture was talking about himself. And they still don't get it. And and the text says, he says, oh foolish ones, oh slow of heart Slow to believe in all that the prophets have spoken. Everybody's been telling you what was going to happen, and you don't still don't believe. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? Shouldn't this have happened according to the scripture? Should not all that was prophesied about him happen? They don't get it They go on and they have this still conversation with Jesus and they don't know his Jesus. Like some of us. Jesus is talking, we ain't listening. We don't even know Jesus is talking. And then he's he's getting ready to go on. He says, no, no, no, come on. We want to stay here. It's getting late. So he stayed, he sits down with them And he begins to talk to them and he breaks bread with them. Shouldn't that have flashed their memory? He breaks bread and blesses it and says it almost sounds like communion being happening all over again. They don't get it. You know when you when you're stuck in old memories, you just don't get it. Y'all hear me This is why you keep seeking the living among the dead, because and when you're seeking the living among the dead, you're stuck in old memories and you can't experience anything new. Because there's nothing new to a dead body. But a living God, there's something new every day. He sat down on the table with them, he blessed the bread, he broke it, he gave it to them. Then their eyes were opened. Verse 31. And they knew him. At that moment. Flash is Jesus. And at that moment he vanished. And they said to one another, Did not our hearts burn within us? While he talked with us on the road, well if that was true, why didn't you know you were in the presence of a living God How he opened up the scripture to us while he was opening up the scripture. Why? Oh, my heart was burning inside of me because something was being stimulated in me that I was in the presence of a living God, but I was so stuck in my Memories. And my memories were only that he died on Friday. My memories were only that he was crucified and he used to be a good prophet and a good teacher. And that's how the world is still remembering him. He was. And the reason why we're struggling so much in our society and culture today is because we're not seeking a living God. And so my question is the same as the angels. Why do you seek a living God in dead places? Why do you seek the living among the dead? And maybe even a better question is, why do you think he's still dead? When every day he's showing you that he's still alive. These ladies, they sought him out of obligation of a cultural commitment. Peter sought him out of guilt and perhaps hope of a second chance. The three they sought him in the memories of their mind, and they held on to the memory of him being dead. I want to encourage you on this resurrection Sunday morning to realize that our Savior is not dead. He's very much alive. He's very much available. He's very much risen. Just as he said And the scriptures are true. And the reasons why, when you're reading the scripture, your heart is burning, is because, not because the pastor's reading it. No, it's because the Lord is speaking to you. Wow, you're traveling along your road. And why is it important to keep reading the scripture? Because we need our hearts to burn to remind us that God is not dead. He is still yet alive. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web Please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. At the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-627-95C. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family Minister in the Spirit of Excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the songs. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to 1Dree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.