Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And Ezekiel is a prophet who prophesies to the nation of Israel while they're in captivity. There would it be full of dry bones because everything in the valley that's in a vulnerable place is going to become prey to the predator. And so he says, God, you know. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. This morning, Kevin, I want to invite your attention to Ezekiel chapter 37. I'm gonna try to help you right here. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Voices behind the song. And you shall know that I, the Lord, have spoken it and performed it, says the Lord. O my people, I will open up your graves and cause you to come up from your graves and bring you into the land of Israel. Spirit of the Lord, it's my prayer on this day that you would speak to that one who walked in today, who has broken fellowship with you, God. God, for that one who came in discouraged, I pray you lift them up today, that you would lift up their heart, lift up their head, instill in them hope Lord God, to accomplish your will, that your word might go forward with power and authority. And even though we're going through the delay of the answer to prayer, what Daniel said is in a means of comforting us is that God heard you and God loves you. It doesn't seem that God is answering him, but yet your answer is just delayed. Uh God will console you. is to prophesy to them, speak the word of God to them, first of all, to remind the generation that's born in captivity, to remind them why they why are you here in the first place? And so he he prophesies to let them know why they're still here. For the messages that Ezekiel shares in the book of Ezekiel are mostly coming from signs and visions. uh is dropped down in the midst of this valley of dry bones. Uh don't call us, we'll call you messages, and and so everything seems to be falling apart. Hope the bank account is dry, the ministry is dead, the marriage is dead, the sex life is dead, the relationships are dead. Now that's important because a valley is a vulnerable place. You need to survey your surroundings and identify what is it that you literally see as you're deal as you're dealing with what's going on in your life. that it seems like you ought to throw in the towel. Let me help you right here. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. But did God say that? For the second half of today's message. The hand of the Lord came upon me and brought me out in the spirit of the Lord and set me down in the midst of a valley. And so I answered, O Lord God, you know. I will put sinew on you and bring flesh upon you, cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you shall live. Thus says the Lord God, come from the four winds and breathe and breathe on these slain that they may live. Father in heaven, we thank you for this word on today. To speak a word, God, in such a way that there's anyone here today that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, God, that this would be the day that they would turn their heart over to you the broken fellowship that they would come and return back and say, Father, I failed you. Listening via live stream or listening via the radio broadcast. There in Joshua chapter 1, we spoke to you from the subject matter, walking through hell with the word. Is spiritual warfare going on in the heavenly places that is a wrestling or a tussling match between the angel that was bringing the message to Daniel, who was Gabriel? We spoke from the idea delayed response while walking through hell. Going on to get the message to Daniel. around us seems to be dying or dead, dry or dead. uh a valley of dryness and a season of dryness in their life. Uh pointing up to that picture of what's actually literally going on in the lives of those that are in Israel that are in Babylon Babylonian captivity. A hell situation that everything around us is dry. uh for a new job is dry that just doesn't seem to be any hope doesn't seem like nobody's calling. Helps us by first of all saying to you, survey your surroundings. uh by the spirit into this midst of the valley, sets them there. But in this valley is dry bones, which watch this. You're in a place of vulnerability, and your vulnerability is going to cause you to be amongst the dry bones. These were not just bones in a valley. And I was lifted up and I went all around, and behold, there were very many bones in this open valley, and indeed they were very dry. today you need to call it like it is this thing has been dead for a while it's very dry This valley of bones are the bones of human beings, and in this valley, there's nothing but bones. It means that everything that the maggots didn't get, that the ants have gotten, and it means that the sun has scorched everything else. what he sees and he identifies them as very dry. The answer that Ezekiel gives as he uh surveys the surroundings, he comes to the conclusion that I And the question is, Ezekiel can these bones live? It's not just critical to the text. Now it seems like he's deflecting. Can't answer based on my own knowledge, but rather I'm going to answer based on my faith in a God who has the answer. There's no sense in me trying to rest on my own wisdom or my own knowledge, whether or not it can live. Because they believe it's dead, and oh, they can see that it's dead, and they're letting the lawyers get paid because they thought it was dead when God hadn't said it's over yet That you do what God has told Ezekiel to do. The Lord says to Ezekiel, Ezekiel, I need you to speak to the dry bones, speak to the inanimate objects, speak. This sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. You know, my financial picture is dead. Through hell. And indeed they were very dry. Thus says the Lord God to these bones. Then you shall know that I am the Lord. Indeed, as I looked, the sinews and the flesh came upon them, and the skin covered them, covered them over. But there was no breath in them, and also he said to me, Prophesy to the breath. So I prophesied as he had commanded me, and breath came into them, and they lived and stood upon their feet an exceedingly great army. And then he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. God and let them know that the end has not yet come. The answer may not have come yet, but God loves you and God heard your prayer from the very first day that you prayed. The second message that Daniel gave was a message of warfare causing delay. Walking through hell with good company. And the prince of Persia who was blocking the message that was coming to Daniel. And then thirdly, he prophesies to let them know that there is still hope. God's going to bring judgment on the very people that are oppressing you right now. about what's going on and all they see around them is is is that there's no hope, there's nothing going on. Nothing seems to be working and it seems like God has abandoned them and everything around them seems to be dry. When you see dryness all around you and everything around you seems to be dead or dried up, hope seems to escape us. He says, first of all, he says, all I see is dry bones. Just on my last bit of strength to hold on. In the open valley, and then the Lord asked him a question. In other words, what do you see as you're going through what you're going through? At your marriage, when you look at your relationships, when you look at your bank account, when you look at your health, if it's been that way a long time, stop pretending like it just happened yesterday is bones and the bones are dry, which means that the buzzards have had time to eat all the flesh off of them. I'm gonna help you and me on this one. bones live can this situation be turned around can life be breathed into this mess can it change Watch this. God, I'm not smart enough. of daily life, first of all, survey your surroundings. I need to do this and I'm okay with letting my credit be bad for seven years and having a mark on my credit for seven years because it's dead and I can't do nothing about it. Say our bones are dry, our hope is lost, and we ourselves are cut off. When I have opened your graves, O my people, and brought you up from the graves. Who is the Christ I pray? Thirdly, the message was a message of consoling that the Lord uh understands uh despite the fact that there is a delay. Because even though prophet after prophet had come to them and said to them, the Lord's going to send you into captivity if you don't turn around, you don't turn around, God's going to bring judgment. But I think what Ezekiel does in the process of this text is he helps us in this problem that we may be having, this walk through hell of dry bones. Hell kind of situations when we're walking through the valley and the valley is full of dry bones. is detailing everything he sees. Detail it. And dead. Bones in the valley were uh very dry indicates that they have been there for a long time. office at 301-627-9500. So during the period of exile, Israel, like many of us, uh is is is they they're lost and they've lost their hope and they feel like you know what God doesn't care and and they're worried and they're stressed out vision of what's coming, you and your enemy is probably on a heel looking down on you and and you're in a place of vulnerability and he says, I'm in a valley That in the one to two hours of counseling, I'm gonna fix these very dry bones. Y'all still here with me? It's a great answer, but it's an answer that represents his faith. Did you trust God and say, God, you know whether or not I can get out of this or not? When you're assessing your situation, when you're surveying your situation, can you just be honest about what you see? Life into this object. So God has a way to comfort you even while you're waiting for the answers to your prayers. Ever been there? This morning I want to talk to you from the subject matter hope of life while walking through the hell of dry bones. While walking through the hell of dry bones. You know whether or not you want this to live. Can I just pause for a moment and let you know that some things that die need to stay dead? Whoo, I'm really on your street right there because some of us are wasting a lot of time trying to resurrect stuff that really needs to be in the grave. God can cause that which is dead to be resurrected. See, folk get in financial situations where they they get in over their head and there's more money going out than it is coming in, and then they finally come to conclusion Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Some of our situations, the reality is it's real dry and it's been that way for a long time. And it was full of bones. It's a key question because the question speaks to your faith. And the likelihood is it's not going to get resolved in a one and a half to two hour counseling session. They did not listen, so they ended up in captivity. Some stuff you just need to go ahead and kick dirt over top of it. This morning we find ourselves in Ezekiel chapter 37, uh beginning at verse 1. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. The second thing I think that we need to do after surveying our surroundings is you need to speak life to your situation. Born, died, is dead. And so he says, I see these dry bones. What what's in the surroundings? Instead of you trying to figure out whether or not it's dead and it needs to be dead, why don't you check with God and see what God has to say? Or did you say that? God will console you with a touch. And so they go down to the court and they get a lawyer and say, I need to file bankruptcy because my my my financial picture is just dead. So they survey the situation or the surroundings, but he does it with honesty and integrity. It's critical to your situation. It seems like he's just giving a, you know, kind of a s not not a real answer, but a you know just past the book answer. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. But what we really have to come to realize is that this thing been dead a long time. I know it feels like you're done with it, you had enough, but the question is, can these Ezekiel's answer is perhaps sometimes misunderstood. Speak. And they say, you know, okay pastor, I'm coming. And oftentimes, the reason why there's a delay in our response from God is because there's warfare blocking the answer to your prayer. I'm not wise enough. Because a lot of times people come for counseling and they pretend like what they're dealing with just now happened. Praise the Lord. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Amen. You do know that life and death is in the power of the tongue. See, we've already made up your mind, because you use your own intellect, use your you use your own knowledge to say, you know what, I can't overcome this, and so therefore And again he said to me, Prophesy to these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. We thank you for the preaching opportunity. Everything around us is either dead or dry. Hope is dried up. These were very dry bones in the valley. It's a place of vulnerability. He says, again, he said to me, Prophesy to these bones and say to them, Oh dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. I'm in the valley. And in saying so, he says, Lord, I'm putting my faith in an omniscient God who knows everything. All I see is bones. And so Ezekiel is in captivity with them, and his assignment there in captivity with them First of all, Ezekiel says, I found myself in a valley He says there's a lot of bones, and it's in an open valley. Uh because I'm in a vulnerable place, Lord help me here, and and and it's a place of high vulnerability, it would make sense that in this valley So I prophesied as I was commanded. And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And then the last time that we were together, we were in Daniel chapter 10, and there in Daniel chapter 10. Surely I will cause breath to enter into you, and you shall live. So, Spirit of the Lord, I pray that you would have your way in this time, that you would anoint me afresh for preaching, that you would give me strength. I don't have enough intellect. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. But he also prophesies to let them know that there's yet hope in your situation. So while they're in 70 years of captivity, Daniel, uh I'm sorry, Ezekiel prophesies to them to let them know that God is going to bring judgment even on the Babylonians who are oppressing you right now. Lord God, we just ask that you would bless this time that we have with you, that you would get the glory and all the honor and all the praise. He touched Daniel's lips. Then he caused me to pass by them all around, and behold, there were very many in the open valley. The question that God is asking you this morning, I know you walked in walking through valleys of dry bones. There's bones all around, caused them to pass by to to see everything, so he can survey it all. And amen. There's bones everywhere, and the valley is full of dry bones. And then he comes back and he says, as the spirit kind of took me around and Then watch this. What I would suggest to you and to me when we're going through these dry bone Begin our reading at verse number one. And so as we go through these dry valley hell walks. Secondly, as it picks up in verse number four, I would suggest Put a cross on it. And for twenty-one days there was a fight that was If you look there in chapter thirty-seven, verses one and beginning, the hand of the Lord comes upon him, brings him into this Do God what you desire to do to each one under the sound of my voice, whether here in the sanctuary And so down in Daniel chapter 10, what Daniel gave us was a series of messages. And this valley of dry bones is uh picturesque of the nation of Israel walking through That's a great question. Like many of us, we walk through or we go through seasons and times of dryness when everything There's no prospect of new relationships. Uh we meet we let me just use marriage for example. And so this picture that we see that is is kind of I'm sending out resumes but everybody's sending back So, what do you do when the hell that you are walking through is a valley of dry bones? But while I'm here in this place of vulnerability, in this valley, in the midst of the valley, I'm in the middle of the valley. Because when you see bones all around you, the hope of any life seems to go away. You know, God, whether or not it's your will for it to live. Hope is dead. Now, it's helpful for you to be a little detailed in what you see, because as you walk through this text, what you'll realize that Ezekiel Father, I've come short of you. Prophesy, son of man, say to the breath. There's a question that God poses to Ezekiel. And so, God, I'm going to put my faith in your answer. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. You know whether you have plans for me to have this thing turned around or not. The word of the Lord reads as follows We pray that your Spirit God would be here on this day to empower me to do your will and your work. Are y'all still here with me? This morning we find ourselves in Ezekiel chapter 37. I will put my spirit in you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land. Why is it taking so long? He touched Daniel's spirit that he might be strengthened. They're in Babylonian captivity. And so he shares this vision with them that God allows him to see as he And like us, sometimes we look around us and we find ourselves like walking through It speaks to your faith as to where it is, and it speaks to your faith as to who it's in. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. They don't have to give up. We started this journey preaching through this series, walking through hell in Joshua chapter 1. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. As I prophesied there was a noise, and suddenly a rattling, and the bones came together, bone to bone. And and they have in this particular text of Ezekiel, uh Ezekiel shares with them a vision that God has given him. Now, this question is critical to the entire text To continue our journey, tune in next week. They indeed Whew, help me, Lord. I would suggest that it would be helpful for us first and foremost to survey our surroundings And the fact that these Ezekiel doesn't see any flesh. org or contact our church So it's been there a long time. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Therefore prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold From there we move to Daniel chapter 3, and the second part of the series spoke from the subject matter. And what we discovered there is that there are times when you're going through hell situations that you have prayed and Would you pray with me? It's an uh an extremely vulnerable place. No, I'm going to put my faith in a God who knows the beginning from the end and the end from the beginning. Can I talk to somebody? There's no We give up. But if it is the will of God m. We've been preaching over the last several weeks in a series of messages entitled Walking Father, I want to have that sweet relationship that we once had before. You don't throw in the tile. Everything around us seems to be dead or dry or or just hopeless or 11 a. I'm preaching way better than you saying amen. And so what Daniel revealed to us is that there It means that the bugs and the maggots have had a chance to eat everything that was left over that the buzzards didn't get They're there because of their disobedience. I mean when you look But did you check with God? And now, Pastor Sterling. Your vulnerability is going to cause some of your situations to be dry. Uh y we we we want counseling pastor and so they they expect Lord, help me here. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Can I help somebody here? And if you think about this with me for a moment. m. Ezekiel doesn't see any meat. But the reality is In other words So they've given up hope because Ezekiel's answer is, Lord God, you know. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. I'm praying, God, that you would restore We feel like I'm kind of Now he's bringing you their stories. Then you shall know that I am the Lord. God is still working and he will restore Israel ultimately. Because a whole lot of folk are running down to the courthouse That's what Ezekiel says, God, you know. The One Degree of Andy podcast. He says Somebody needs to hear that even this morning. You need to assess your situation. Can I help us? And so what Ezekiel does is he says And behold, he says, there were many What do you see? And he touched Daniel with truth that Daniel might understand fully what God was up to. I ain't making enough money. And and and and again in the valley you have no you have no no no Y'all, y'all, y'all must be talking about y'all First, a message of comfort regarding the delay. Because some of you this morning are in a valley yourself. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. He doesn't see any skin. I know that your stuff is dried up and it's been that way a long time. I'm Andy Christman. Hope of life. I'm spending too much money. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. You need to All he sees In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. It's in the name of Jesus God renew the broken fellowship. I got too much debt. It's dead. For a copy of I know that