Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. Pay attention to this. God shows up for this audit. Adam comes up with this lame. story. Causes where are you at a m uh um uh well um I was afraid to come because I was naked. And I like the way God responds. He says, Who who told you that? See, it's not that God didn't know. It's God is forcing him to acknowledge the error in his stewardship. But just like us, he's trying to pretend that he's doing such a good job in trusting and taking care of what God has given him. This is my imagination, okay? When God comes out, where are you, Adam? Well, you know, I was gonna come. I heard you. I did, I did, I heard you And I was gonna come, but there was this nakedness thing. It just it it just kind of showed up. I mean, all of a sudden, I looked at Eve and she was naked. And she looked at me and she says, ah, Adam, you naked too. So I was hiding, Lord, over here. I was I was in the figs. We was gonna get some figs because we like figs. We eat from the fig tree every day. And we was gonna eat s we was gonna be eating some figs. And so s when we realized we was naked, we just said, well, we since we had the fig tree, because we was eating that fig fig tree, God, we was eating at the fig tree. So we just decided to take some fig this is just my imagination. We just decided to take some fig leaves and cover up the places where we felt like we were naked. But we heard you and we heard you was coming. That's a lame story But it's the kind of story that we give God too. God asked them who told you and they get they they go through this whole blame game thing. Notice in the text. This is us too. This is why I love going back to Genesis because Genesis shows us everything about us. Shows us the beginning, how it's supposed to be, but it also shows us the error. Because now that man is in sin, now that man has violated his stewardship. He is not taking responsibility. The man says it was that woman that you gave me. Literally, what he's saying, God, it's your fault. That I messed up because if it had not been for that woman that you gave me, I would have been a good steward. You gave me that woman, she made me mess up. So he's really blaming God. For messing up the stewardship of his property. So then God says to the woman, which is to me a little bit it's a little strange that even God even bothers to address the woman, because if I was God, I would just slap the man and say, shh, shut up Man up and take responsibility, you lying. But God turns to the woman and says to the woman, What is this thing that you've done She also does not take responsibility because guess what? She has now learned from her leader how to deflect. Who's her leader? The man. She said, the man I take responsibility, why should I? And so she says it's that serpent. That you it he was he was friendly at first. We was talking, talking to the serpent. It's the serpent. It's the it's the it's the blame game I remember we we grew I grew up I have I have five siblings so six of us and we grew up whenever something happened in our house Wasn't me. So my parents had a they had a solution for that wasn't me thing. My parents solution was called the good suffer for the bad. So what my parents would do is they'd line all six of us up and everybody's gonna get a whooping. Lord have mercy. So so in other words, everybody suffered. For the sin of the one. Guess what? That was good theology for me to help in clue to understand this because guess what? The good are suffering for the bad. We all are suffering because of the sin of Adam. Adam's sin got pastors at all. We all are now engulfed in sin, born in sin, shaped in iniquity because Adam messed up. Eve says with serpent. Serpent looked around, he ain't had nobody to blame. God begins to issue out judgments for failed stewardship. But here's something I notice. Out of all the trees That were in the garden. And I can only imagine there were millions and millions of trees that bore fruit. And man had opportunities to eat of all kinds of fruit. Watch this. One piece of fruit was missing from one tree in the middle of the garden Now, human logic says, God won't miss that. That's what human logic says. God won't notice. When God comes in the cool of the day, He notices. He notices that one fruit off of millions of trees. One fruit is missing. And God says, Adam, where are you? Because when I was auditing my property. That was was given to you in very good condition. I noticed that one fruit was missing off of the tree. What tree? Out of all the millions of trees, God, what tree are you talking about? The one tree I told you not to eat from. One fruit is missing from the tree. Pay attention to this, y'all. What that tells me is that you can't slide nothing past God I don't care how small it is. I don't care how insignificant you might think it is. When God takes audit, he audits everything. He knows everything he's put in your care. He knows everything he's entrusted into your stewardship. And he He's gonna hold us accountable for every single solitary thing that he has given us to take care of Everything he's gonna hold us accountable for. We don't get to slide nothing past God because all of it belongs to him. He knows every violation and in fact the violation shows up on us as sin. So God knows when he looked at Adam, he saw that Adam had violated the stewardship. He knew that one fruit is one. They didn't eat like a whole bushel of fruit. They ate one fruit off of one tree out of millions of trees. And when God came and did his order, he noticed one Lord have mercy. If we had accountants that were this good, man. Nothing would drop to the ground. But he noticed. And God seeks to address their failure in their stewardship. And if you walk through scripture, You get the understanding and clarity that God is going to hold us accountable for our stewardship at every single level. Listen, we have we can't be we we won't we won't get the luxury of playing the the the blame game at the throne when God's giving us judgment you won't be able to say it was my mom because she didn't she didn't give me the right kind of bottle You won't be able to blame anyone else for your sin. Are y'all hearing me? No, you will have to man up, woman up. At the throne of God and give account for your stewardship. Scripture is laden with it, the Bible is full of passages that warn us and inform us. That we will be held accountable for the stewardship that we have. Matthew chapter 12, verse 36. He says, You will be held accountable for every word that comes out of your mouth. Now, yes. And somebody says, Lord, I just failed. Romans chapter 14, verse 12 says, everyone. will give account for himself. Every one of us will give account for him or herself. You will not Be giving account for your children, for your mama, for your daddy, for your cousin, for your auntie, for your uncle. No, you will have to give account for yourself James chapter 3 verse 1 says that teachers will have to give account for their teachings, and in fact, their accountability will be held in stricter senses. Proverbs chapter 27 says that for shepherds, shepherds you will have to give account for the stewardship of the flocks that you lead. I don't take that lightly. And I'm gonna have to give account to God. That's why I don't wait around to see what other people think because I'm not gonna be accountable to them. I'm being held accountable to a much higher standard. It's God I've got to give account to. And so for every shepherd, we've got to give account to God. And I I live daily with the understanding and comprehension that the stewardship of Ketter and Baptist Church is a stewardship that has been entrusted to me by God. These are God's people, not my people. These are God's People that I am just entrusted to care for, to look out for, to pray for, to watch out for their souls, it's a stewardship that's way too big for me to handle by myself. And that's why I lean and depend on God. Because I'm going to be held accountable for it. First Corinthians chapter 4, verse 2 says that it is required of a steward to be found faithful. We've got to be faithful. That's required of us to be faithful. Luke chapter 12, verse 48. He says, I'm gonna hell, I'm gonna hold you accountable according to the amount and the level of prosperity that I've given to you. For to whom much is given, much will be required. That's accountability. I'm going to hold you accountable according to how I blessed you. And if you're thinking, oh, I ain't been really blessed with all that much, relative to what? Relative to who? I was just having a conversation this week, and someone was saying, you know, I'm really trying to get way up here. And I'm thinking, well, where you are right now is already heads and shoulders far exceedingly above many people in the world. You're already rich. A lot of people say I'm trying to get to be rich. If you live in the United States, you're already rich. If you got a house, you got a car, you got a place to live, you got food to eat, you're already rich. If you went to your closet, for those of you who came to church this morning, if you went to your closet and you had a choice of things to put on, if you went out to the garage and you had a If you could get past all the other stuff, if you had a choice of which car to drive, if it wasn't in the garage, it'd probably outside the garage because you have so much stuff in the garage, you are already blessed. Well, which car we gonna drive this morning? We're gonna drive the SUV, we're gonna drive the Come on! You already blessed! If you had to pass the refrigerator and the cupboards that was full of food that you really don't want to eat, and then you passed the freezer that was out there and you kept on and got in the car and you went down to the to the to this restaurant that restaurant you pick the from the menu let me see what I feel like eating you're already blessed you're already rich Do you realize many people in many parts of the world they only eat a couple of times a week if that? You're already rich We're gonna be held accountable. We're gonna be held accountable as stewards for every single thing that we've been entrusted with According to how much we've been blessed, we'll be held accountable. Finally, in Revelation chapter 20, we're gonna be held accountable for every deed that is done in this body. And every deed that is done in this body shall be written in the Lamb's Book of Life. The ultimate accountability is when God will open up the books. And in his books, everything that we've done, we're gonna have to be held accountable for. Are y'all still here with me? Now, lest I leave you to believe that we are all going to be eternally condemned, I need to step in the midst of this and help you to understand something about failed stewardship. Because even as we walk through and look at the failed stewardship of man in Genesis and we find that man failed God and didn't Not handle the very good condition that God entrusted him with everything. God already had set up a plan that he had had his son slain from the foundation of the world, that his son might provide a substitute. institutionary offering to provide for us an escape from our eternal judgment for failed stewardship. He shed his blood on that cross on Calvary. He died that we might be set free from the ultimate penalty of failed stewardship for ruining what God had given to man as perfect. Do you realize and understand that even when God died on that cross, he died not just to redeem man and to set man aright, but to right what was perfected. even in his creation because the time is yet going to come that this heaven and this earth is going to pass away. Thank you, God Because man ruined it. But God is so awesome that He's going to create a new heaven. Oh, thank you, God. And he's going to create a new earth. Thank you, Lord. And even this body that we corrupted by taking of the forbidden fruit, God is going to give you a new body. Oh, thank you, Lord, for everyone who will trust and believe and accept the free gift that he has provided for us to be redeemed from our failed stewardship. God has made a way. For us to be redeemed, reset afresh, to have the the if I can say it this way, to have the the the clock restarted. That we get to we get to begin all over again Only by his grace. And so we're going to be held accountable. We've got a stewardship. That we're responsible for. Even right now, we we as we're living this life, we don't get to live how we want and do what we want with whatever we want. No, God is watching you. God is expecting of you. What are you doing with your life? What are you doing with your time? What are you doing with the energies and the gifts and the talents that God has given you? I had someone tell me not too long ago. Well, I the church wasn't using me. What do you mean by that? You know your gifts And the church is not a building. You are the church. You need to get used. You need to get busy. You need to get involved Nobody's going around assessing your your your qualities to say, oh yeah, we're gonna plug you in right here because you do No, come on, you know what you can do. Get up off of your dusty derriere and get involved. Ministry is crying out. The world around us is dark and dying. God has gifted you, blessed you, and empowered you to be able to do things for the kingdom, and you're doing nothing. You're failing in your stewardship. You're spending all your time, you spend 10 minutes a day in the Word of God. And four hours on Facebook and seven hours watching TV. Would you call that success? Of managing what God has given you? I wouldn't. How do I know how to glorify God? They're not teaching that on TV. Facebook sure ain't doing it. Instagram and all the rest. That's why you're meddling. I'm meddling because we messed up. We got to get this right. We have to understand we have a stewardship from God. And everything He's given us is perfect. It's very good. And we have an opportunity to glorify him by managing all that he's been put into our care. We have an opportunity to glorify him with it, but in the vast majority, we're failing. And so this is a wake-up call. But I I can't wake you up with the rest until I deal with the baseline first. This is just the baseline. So I'm shaking up the baseline. God owns everything. We got that. Nothing belongs to me. Nothing belongs to you. God owns it all. Not only does he own it all, God has entrusted it into our care. But ultimately, God is going to hold us accountable for our stewardship So I can't just run wild with what belongs to God. I'm gonna close with this. I was listening to Warren Buffett One of the wealthiest men in the world And Warren Buffett has determined already that he was going to give away uh certain portion of his wealth. I think he identified it several years ago and over the process of time he's been giving away, giving away, giving away. So somebody asked him about this whole thing, his philanthropy. Giving away all this money. And I'm maybe messing it up a little bit, but they act something to the effect of you spent your life building all this wealth. Why would you then turn around and just give it away? His answer was pretty profound to me. He said the money doesn't belong to me. He said this is this the money and the way he said it was it belongs to us all. And and he had no problem letting it go because he realized it wasn't his. I was like, wow. It's an interesting thing. I don't know if Warren Buffett is Christian or not. I don't know. I don't know what his faith or whatever he is. But I thought that was powerful to understand that you don't own anything, even at that level, multi-billionaire, to realize this is not even mine's. And he's willing to let it go. Perhaps if we grab hold of the baseline of stewardship, understanding everything belongs to God. God has trusted me with it, but God's going to hold me accountable for how I manage it. And there is an expectation of God that we return it to Him in good condition. In fact, very good condition. I think if we can get that baseline, then we can start building on the rest. Of the stewardship standard. Amen. Father, thank you for the word today. I'm praying even now that someone would realize that God, you have given them life. And that's something they are currently a steward over And have a choice even today, Heavenly Father, whether to invest their life into eternity with you or to waste away the life that they've been given. And spend it cast away in hell, that they might find perhaps themselves Stuck in the failed stewardship of Adam rather than redeemed in the faithful stewardship of Christ. So maybe there's someone, God, under the sound of my voice, maybe here in the sanctuary, maybe listening via live stream that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, and they they've never trusted you for eternity, Lord. And I'm praying that today They would use the stewardship of their life and invest their life into eternity with you. You've already paid the price. You've only asked of them to repent of their sin and place their faith in you And you said you'd save them according to your word. You said it. And so, Father, I'm praying that someone today may do just that. Lord, others who are here or listening, perhaps. Today is the day that they need to come back to you. They've drifted away, and even as they listen to the message today, they've Recording in their mind and then playing back in their mind the ways in which they failed you, the ways in which they failed you, the ways in which they failed you. But God, today is a day that they can come back to you as prodigal children. You'll receive them Back unto yourself, you'll forgive them of all of their unrighteousness and you'll set the relationship afresh and anew with them. You'll restore the brokenness of the fellowship. God, I'm praying that you do that today in the lives of my brothers and my sisters. I'm praying, Heavenly Father, that you would work a work in the midst of those who are listening. That if this is a a day of decision for them to make a commitment to join this branch of Zion, God, I pray you cause them to respond. In a positive way to do what you've called them to do. Father, whatever the need is of your children today and whatever you're moving upon their heart to act upon, I'm praying, Heavenly Father, today will be that day That they would do what you're calling them to do. Have your way, Lord God, in the midst of this time, in the name of Jesus Christ, I pray and I thank you Amen. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed By today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909-Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the Spirit of Excellence Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.