It says he who sows to the flesh will of the flesh reap corruption. We see it in Psalms chapter 126. It's sponsored by Kettering Baptist Church. And to uncover this through this text, through uh these laws that I will show you. We believe this investment, this stock, this bond will produce X number of percentages over X amount of time, but what they can't factor in is if But depreciation, because what you sold to the flesh, depreciation. And the bank says, oh yeah, based on your credit and based on things with $50,000. As we look at this, he says, look, he who sows the spirit will of the spirit reap everlasting life. Minimizing your fleshly investment. Turn and help me to understand something. Micah chapter 6, verse 15. Spinning and spinning and letting your resources go out in the wrong direction, in the flesh direction, and not toward the kingdom of God, you're never going to win because you cannot mock God. In Micah chapter 6, verse 15, the Bible says, you sow, but you do not reap. Jeremiah chapter 12, verse 13 says, You sow wheat, but you reap thorns. You said you reap what you sow because of the God factor, and God can do what He wants to do, even though you sow peas, God will give you righteousness. Voices behind the song. Amen. Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling the Third. And study some of the laws and principles. In investment. That factor that I was referring to that the economists can't exactly put their finger on is more often than not the God factor. And the conditions of where the wheat is being grown. Principles of nature to speak to them because one of the things they're dealing with is they're dealing with some controversy inside. To them. That mama and daddy give you for doing nothing. Here in the text is the law of common return. He will also reap. Was established by God on the third day of creation in Genesis chapter 1, verses 11 and 12. Here, look at verse number eight. The law of diminishing return means that you're getting increasingly less return even though you're investing more. Sow a pound of seed over one acre of land and I get 400 pounds of produce. Us to understand when I invest towards the flesh, it's going to be affected in the law of diminishing return. Lesson? Something else. Interest every time it collects new interest, you get paid on top of the interest. And let us not grow weary while doing good, for in due season we shall reap if we do not lose heart. Is God's seasoning. That return is later on. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. Sources that we have. You, their stories. Us that might help us to not find ourselves in such a position of need. also in the world because of the job situations that people are dealing with, because of our lack of discipline. Your investment, any of them would say to you that every investment has risk because there are what are known as uncontrollables or unknown factors handling money is failure to recognize and consider that uncontrollable factor. I see the Apostle Paul writing to a group of churches in Asia Minor. Seed a fig tree is coming up. Sometimes here's the problem that we experience. Hundred pounds. diminishing return affects us if we don't do things properly. Goes one step further, and he says, by the blast of God, they are destroyed. happens is my investment or what I actually have goes through a process called depreciation. decline until it's zero. Escape because you cannot mock God. Vehicle and instead of me spending fifty thousand on that vehicle, I buy a vehicle that's ten thousand dollars. None of that. 6 verse 38 and it says, Look, give and it shall be given back to you. Shaking together and running over, shall God give it back to you into your bosom. But he says now look, try me now in this and see if I won't open up the windows of heaven and pour you out such blessing that you won't have room enough to receive. dividends back. in that because in due season you are going to reap if you don't lose heart, if you don't stop, if you don't throw in the tile. And you find out you went on a shopping spree to make yourself feel better, and now the bill comes in for five hundred dollars and you're trying to figure out what I can take back under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Marlboro, Maryland. The due season, the return is when you can't pay your tithes and offering. Verse 26. And ultimately, what the text says is that then God will take away from you what you had. together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. financial problems. At the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Whatever a man sows that he will also reap. those same principles in agriculture or in nature itself. If God decides to change things. loudly to us to address the very issues that many of us are dealing with as it relates to economic trouble. in the investment return. Understand our God is so awesome that He's got X-ray vision. Man sows to the flesh, he's gonna reap to the flesh. If you sow a tap, you get a tap. You got the law of diminishing return. Salvation. Bless the work of God, the man and the woman of God. In some uh economic circles they may call this the law of maturity or when your you know your your dividends mature, your your stocks or whatever matures. Fact, you will have the return on your investment. We can be enjoying the benefits and the blessings of God. That they project it for you. And Paul wants to help correct these corruptions in doctrine and corruptions in behavior or patterns. I'm trying to help you to understand why he says, Don't be deceived. It's a law of diminishing return. Job chapter 4, verse 8-9, Job said, Those who plow iniquity and sow trouble, the same comes back to them. The other day when I was driving down the highway, I saw that Mercedes-Benz, I saw that Jaguar, and I want one like that. Go down the street, turn around and bring it back to the dealer is 15 to 20 percent. But wait a minute, Pastor. Watch this. But if you sown into spiritual things, you will reap spiritual things and spiritual unto everlasting life. God has a way of giving you a bonus just when you need it. And for the moment when you buy it and you get it and you say, ah, this is mine, you feel good. And God has a way, if we invest properly, if we understand, if we apply these laws properly, we can be ahead of the game. That there's times that we think that because we're under the cover of night, that God can't see what's going on. We have a God who is an omniscient God, which means he knows everything. According to its kind, and trees that will yield fruit according to its kind. But why? See, because it sows into and it pays into everlasting life. The text says don't grow weary in doing good while doing good. On the positive side, James chapter 3, verse 18 says, you sow peace, but you reap righteousness. It's interesting to me that as Paul addresses his group whose inhabitants were nature worshipers, he turns and utilizes the very principle There's nothing that we can do to slip it past him. This law of common return says to you and I that whatever you sow, that is what you're going to reap. Well, it's in the Bible. Items. You reap depreciation. You're holding on to what you have talking about. In other words, if you sow corn, you're going to reap corn. Okay? They're only gonna pay you interest on your initial investment. Life that's paying dividends, that's paying interest on top of the interest. God is not mocked. Emotion or feeling that we get, that's not the return. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. I'm talking about the investment of your weekly paycheck. So you're gonna lose all that. It's like you get high for the moment. Hosea chapter 8 verse 7 says it like this he who sows the wind will reap the world wind. The law of compound return means you get paid interest on the interest. We refuse to give to God. Return. On Andy Christman. If I sold two pounds, I'll get 800 pounds. I'm trying to help you to understand that this law of diminishing return affects us when our sowing is towards the flesh, and what comes back to me comes back to me works. You sow spiritual things, you sow into the spirit, you sow into the body of Christ, and God says, I'll open up windows for you. There's another law that says you only gonna reap what you sow. And so as we look at this whole idea of in due season, uh one of our major problems is we are people who like immediate and instantaneous We spend most of our money on stuff that keeps going down and is being affected by the law of diminishing return. You now have the potential of that vehicle depreciating $50,000. Will of the Spirit reap everlasting life. No, God said, I came that you might have life and have it more abundantly. If you don't have a car payment for four years, you done paid yourself a for four years plus interest. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. It says, For he who sows to his flesh will of the flesh reap corruption. Because the flesh says now you got some spare you need to sow to the flesh. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence If you're around my age, one of these days you'll have to begin taking requirements. Because we're sowing to the flesh. Pastor, how can I do that? Due season is just when you need it. So watch this. This scripture, I believe, clearly points us to those four laws. And those two passages both basically are saying the same thing. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts And the other thing is what we don't realize the average depreciation value when you buy a new car, when you drive it off the lot For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. It's gonna take time for me to get some return on what I put in. This morning as I look at this particular text, I want to talk to you about a issue or concern that I believe is perhaps striking many, not just in the church, but I gotta preach it. Those unknowns or unpredictables show up in a multitude of ways. Then there's another one that I call the law of impossible return. Now, here is one of the things that gets us all the time. We'll begin our reading at verse number seven. God is so awesome that He sees everything. So watch this. I want leather and I want heated seats and I want all the bells and whistles. I'll keep going back to that. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. I want to talk to you and show you and unfold for you through this text some interesting principles or laws that the scripture teaches. Whatever you put in the ground, that's what's coming up. 5 says, He who sows in tears shall reap in joy. That's our problem. Because when we go out and buy something, we go out and buy something new and we tell ourselves, you know what, done working hard this week, you deserve this. Don't grow weary while you're minimizing your fleshly investments and investing in the kingdom of God. It comes in due season. Well, because of the God fact that there is no longer the same return on your investments. God cannot be fooled. So he says, look, in due season you're going to return it, you're going to reap if you do not lose heart. And let us not grow weary while doing good, for in due season we shall reap if we do not lose heart. You know, I'm talking about what you do with the resources that God puts in your hand. We somehow believe that we can just tap the offering plate when it comes by, and then we're gonna get in return something other than a tap. That's the process of depreciation. This is a Bible lesson of economics. If you sow to the flesh, you're gonna reap corruption. What I've discovered is that nearly every principle that we possess in the fields of economics are derived from The text here says, Do not be deceived. On that $50,000 vehicle, when you drive it off the light, you're gonna lose between $7,500 and $10,000. I'm scared to put this out there. This ain't in the plan, but I'm gonna throw this in. But what this law of due season return helped me to understand that that feeling, that emotion that we get when we buy something, that instant You can invest in wheat and and the current rate of return on wheat might be based on the weather at In other words, even though I keep putting more in, I'm getting less out. Pastor, I'm not sowing to the flesh. You can't fool him. God has a way of paying bills and wiping things out just when you need it. Verse number seven says, Do not be deceived. If a man sows to the spirit, he's gonna reap to the spirit. Y'all still here. You're not gonna get past these principles. Due season is when you don't know how you're going to do the next thing. That's all of our problems because our flesh wants what it wants and it wants what it wants right now. We could be sitting back chilling and understanding this thing and letting it work for us. We refuse to pay in and invest into the kingdom of God, but yet we expect God to somehow be fool, and He's gonna come bless us. So you tap the offering plate when it goes by, and come Friday, God taps your wallet. But what if God steps in and decides I'm gonna make it not rain or I'm gonna make it flood the territory? While you're not paying a car payment. Now, I probably got one or two few witnesses here in the house that know that God has a way of sending you a check just on time It doesn't come instantaneously. I'm scared to put that in the plate. And listen to me. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. So here's the deal. I'm talking about the investment and how you utilize the resources that come your way from day to day. And so what we do, we go out and we say, okay, um, how much can I afford? So you get interest on the $500. So when I sold to the spirit, whatever I sold to the spirit, when it collects interest, I get paid interest on the interest. Don't get tired of doing the right thing. Don't fool yourself. If you plant collard green seeds, you're gonna get collard green. So this morning I want to talk to you from the subject matter: the God factor in financial return But the law of diminishing return says when you sold two pounds over that same acre of land, you only get 100 pounds back on the second acre. He says in verse number eight, if you sow to the flesh, your return gets worse. That's a trick from the devil in the flesh to get you to spend more. Now that's not supposed to happen. The word of the Lord reads Do not be deceived. That's eternal life. For he who sows to his flesh will of the flesh reap corruption, but he who sows to the spirit will of the spirit This group of churches, and from its foundation, they're a group of people who grew up worshiping nature itself. Here is where we struggle as it relates to handling our resources. And perhaps if I can understand the economics of the Bible, I can apply it to the economics of my life. Yes, you are. This is free. We refuse to pay tithes. The whole principle is this: whatever you put in the ground, that's what's coming up But look at the second part of verse 8. And here's another challenge to our finances because a lot of us we refuse Last one is a law of what I call altered return. Don't fool yourself. They say it's impossible for you to get a return because you're too scared to invest. He can see right through the walls, He can see under the cover, He can see all the things that go on. Whatever a man sows, that's what's coming up. Malachi says this: Malachi chapter 3, verse 10. You might be under the covers and you might be behind the wall, but I need you to If you go out and buy a car worth fifty thousand dollars I'm scared to get at the God because I don't know what's going to come back. That's a great question. You cannot trick God. He knows what you've been doing with your resources. The return comes when I gotta work two jobs now, and I gotta work three jobs now, and I gotta figure out how I'm gonna do this. In fact, if you would talk to an economist that as it relates to predicting the return on These are God's principles. Now when I say investing this morning, I want to make sure that you understand that I'm not talking about going down to Wall Street or Merrill Lynch or nothing. I believe my Bible says that his eyes go to and fro. Here's the third law. The law of impossible return, you'll see that in Ecclesiastes chapter 11, verse 4, and Matthew chapter 25. Good measure. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. And that is what I call the law of no return. When I sow to the Spirit, I'm going to be blessed according to the Spirit with abundant living. So, in other words, I'm sowing to the flesh, I'm making sure that the flesh has what it needs, but what I get in return is corruption. Because cars only do two things. Don't think that you can trick God. Vehicles. This law is what I call the law of compound return. And some of y'all thinking, wait, he's only talking about spiritual life. The devil is trying to fool us through the flesh to believe you can get instantaneous satisfaction by your purchase. So, in other words, he sold to the flesh, but it got worse. If you don't try him, you'll never experience the reaping of compound return. But ultimately gonna be after God has affected it God is not mocked, for whatever a man sows, that If you want to buy high, at least buy cash. org or contact our church office at 301-574-350-0. When God said, Let the earth bring forth grass and herb, and that will yield seed Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Depreciation means that whatever the value of something is continues to But because there is a God factor in investment, scripture teaches us a couple of other laws that I'm gonna share with you. m. I need y'all to get this part that whatever you sow, that's what's coming back That's what your flesh wants. But compound interest means while it's collecting interest And so we find ourselves in this particular portion of the text. And so when we look at this whole law, this whole idea of compound return we And then God will show up and He'll have it right there for you. And what the encouragement here of the Lord is, you need to understand there is a God factor in the handling of the resource. But because God can do what he wants to do, and you can't fool him, even though you're sowing wheat, he's gonna cause thorns to come up. We don't give credence to that uncontrollable factor that keeps on popping Don't grow tired of doing good. or 11 a. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Let me help you with that one. That's compound interest. There's an almost a little adrenaline that just flows through you. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. That's when you drive it off the lot now. We got the law of common return. God doesn't just know it when it happens, he knows it before it happens. I think the Bible says it this way: you work for much, but bring home little. In other words, I just sowed wind, but what I got back was worse. When you just were trying to figure out how I'm gonna do this, because of my previous investments in the kingdom, dividends start being paid just when I need it. God is not mocked. Now, logically speaking, I would think okay, if I sold one pound and I got four So as I go through this and I look at this, I said, now okay, what we need to learn how to do is minimize our investments in depreciation. Then when you get ready to buy something, you can go buy what you want. I need a new car. Pay yourself a car payment. You can't get over on God. I just stop by to let you know that we've got a God who has night vision. It says, but he who sows to the spirit Don't grow weary while you're being a faithful steward over the resources God has given you. Talking about simple investments. m. Press down And now, Pastor Sterling. Well, you ain't going to get no return. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. As I looked at this particular text and began to study through it and First of all, he utilizes the very laws of nature and the So you plant a fig seed. Well, Pastor, I thought you at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. I believe one of the issues that we have as it relates to dealing with money or There's a corruption of doctrine, there's a corruption of behavior or conduct that's happening in the midst of We go to the bank because we haven't saved the money already But if I need a V And so as I look at this particular text Don't think that just because other folk are fooled by what you do, that God is fooled. It says, Bring all your tithes into the storehouse. So see, the flesh is getting involved already. Now here it is, you gotta try Him And what that means is that my investment is going to take time to pay For a copy of this sermon on CD or When you sow to the flesh, you reap corruption. When you put $500 in the bank, Instead of us being the great consumer, we'll be the lender and not the borrower. That's the God factor We refuse to Pastor, when is due season? And so I want to help us to be able to see this Because in diminishing return, what actually Let's say that I What you sow, you're gonna reap That means Doing good is minimize The law of altered returns hits us in two ways. You only have the potential of depreciation of ten thousand dollars He knows where you've sown your seeds. When the righteous sow in tears, they reap in joy. You reap what you sow. I'm trying to educate you this morning, and I know you might be sitting there thinking, hmm, I didn't come to church to get an economic Watch this. It's impossible to get return if you don't sow it all. This is important to the whole sermon. This law is what I call the law of diminishing return. Man, I saw a nice looking Lexus in the parking lot Praise the Lord. God is not mocked. But there's another law here. They watch everything. Because of the God factor, even though you sow, nothing comes back because you can't fool God. Now, this law of common return was And the thing you ain't getting back, you're not getting back the taxes you paid on it, you're not getting back those special fees You can't slap Now he's bringing you their stories. In other words, they can tell you that They take you and they bring you. Most of our investments of our resources are in depreciable items. This last law that I see here in the text is the law of due season return. In due time, in God's timing, because of the God of So go out and buy yourself something A number of people are dealing with five We hope that you have enjoyed our journey All right, one of the first things that I see We don't think this way because soon as you get that car payment paid off, you go buy something You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I'm talking about your allowance. The flesh is just a flesh. Because in my life, there is a God factor that I can't And for those of you who are shopaholics, it's a lot of adrenaline. And here it is, it keeps on paying into eternity. I want it now. And this text speaks loudly to me. I understand Well due season The return comes 30 days later when the bill comes in. Please stay tuned at You need to understand the God factor That's a great question. This law of diminishing return helps There's nothing that He doesn't know Look at verse 9. Well, guess what happens to your investment principle? For whatever On the negative side, So into the flesh. There's another law. That's called compound interest. I'm Andy Christman. I need you to understand that this law of diminishing He can see no matter how dark it is. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. We're talking about sowing to the flesh. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Don't get tired. It says But when I look at this law of due season return, That's depreciation But if you keep spending and spending In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. He goes on, Luke chapter You cannot fool God. Now he's bringing you