And when it's all said and done, we will give you all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. There's probably some women sitting here this morning. Bless the Lord. That cost is too much, so I need to protect myself. Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Now Boaz went up to the gate and sat down there, and behold a close relative whom Boaz had spoken came by, and so Boaz said And so by the time we get to chapter four, Boaz gets up early in the morning. Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. And Boaz said to the elders and all the people, you are witnesses this day that I have bought all that was Elimelex. Voices behind the song. declare your truth, shall your word God go forth with clarity and uh with power in such a way that it will break the chains that are holding And may you prosper in Ephrahat and be famous in Bethlehem. Spirit of the Lord that they might understand what you've done in order to redeem them. So, Lord, use me as a vessel and an instrument to accomplish your will. uh verses seven through the end and in the second part of the series we've talked from the subject matter decisions decisions for we saw uh in their homeland of Moabite, which was the land of lust, or whether they would travel back with Naomi to the house of bread. to glean in the fields among those uh fields that were around about to pick up what was left over and to pick up what she could. And I know that perhaps some felt, well, Pastor, that was all for the young people. I know that a lot of things come to mind to us as it relates to romance. uh wonderful things to get there to capture her and then after you capture her it's almost like you put her in a cage and say I got you now I don't need to do nothing else. When I talk about intimacy, I'm not talking about sexual intimacy. You just lay back down and and I'll handle this thing in the morning. Because he's anxious to redeem Ruth. Elimelech, because you know Israel is supposed to keep all the land in uh in amongst Israelites. And he says, if you buy it back, you need to do so in the presence of of these elders here. Obviously uh Naomi needed some resources, some funds to be able to survive. But if you don't want to buy it, then I got it. Naomi, but you also had to pay back Ruth because Ruth had rights to the property, also because her husband Malon had died, and she had rights to the property Lord have mercy. by this family member because what the family member is doing is he's trying to protect himself. And unworthless while nobody else wanted me. with the voices behind the song. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Come aside, friend, sit down here. And then he said to the close relative Naomi, who has come back from the country of Moab, sold a piece of land which belongs to our brother Elimelech. And I thought to inform you, saying, Buy it back in the presence of the inhabitants of the elders of my people. And then Boaz said, Well, on the day that you buy the field from the hand of Naomi, you must also buy it from Ruth, the Moabite. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Uh you redeem my right of redemption for yourself, for I cannot redeem it. And all the people who were at the gate, and the elders said, We are witnesses. acquire food for themselves and it was there in the land of lust where they were out of place that all the deaths began to happen. That the living God's voice will be heard, that the power and the Spirit of God might manifest, that the change that only you can bring would transpire. As we've been traveling on this journey through the book of Ruth, we began in Ruth chapter 1, and we looked at the first six verses we spoke to you from the subject matter, out of place. We saw there early on where Naomi and her husband Elimelech had left the house of bread to go and travel to the land of lust that they might be able to Ruth said, No, I'm going to cling to you. We move from there and to Ruth chapter two, and we spoke from the subject matter, finding favor in the field. hold it to herself. Some of those lessons happen to be lessons regarding social behavior and we looked at lessons from cultural behavior and then finally we looked at lessons on righteous behavior and hopefully Amen. Let me see if I can get in somebody's business. So what the proposal is is this and interesting I love I love what Boaz does he presents this proposal in two parts this is part one of the proposal he says look here's the land issue That I may uh redeem it. my my repertoire uh I can add to my 401k this is just some something that I can add on and I'll be wealthier I'll own more I'll expand my territory of what I own and and then I think there's something else interesting in this text. But if you will not redeem it, then tell me that I may know, for there is no one but you There's a second bidder up behind you. On the day that you buy the field from the hand of Naomi, you also must buy it from Ruth, the Moabite, the wife of the dead, to perpetuate the name of the dead through his inheritance. I'm only gonna be adding to them what I already have. And so you've got to, according to Jewish culture, you've got to then now raise up a child with Ruth, and that child becomes the heir to the land you're getting ready to buy. So now your inheritance and the inheritance of your children and the inheritance of your generations behind you are now being fractioned off by you buying What I put out is going to cost me to not only lose today, but it's going to cause me to lose tomorrow. Putting the numbers in the calculator, Lord Jesus, it it is too much. Praise the Lord. And now, Pastor Sterling. Then tell me that I may know, for there is no one but you to redeem it, and I am next after you. the wife of the dead, to perpetuate the name of the dead through his inheritance. In that particular fragment of the text, there were decisions to be made from Ruth and from Orpa, the daughters of Naomi, whether or not they would stay. Text was the clarity of understanding that if you're going to find favor in the field, you gotta go to the field. As a result of the lessons that the text had taught us, we will be a stronger and a better people and to be more like the Lord Jesus Himself if we can just acquire and practice these lessons. And so on this morning, I want to close this series of messages here in chapter four, because chapter four demonstrates for us the impetus probably of the entire book of Ruth. I'm preaching now. Uh we don't think often as men what is romantic to us. When I talk about romance though, I literally extract from the definition of this word romance, which gives the idea of that which is relating to love, but that which is exciting particular part of romance that all of us, if the truth be told, really want to make sure is there. I mean you can come and do some nice stuff and you know make me feel good, but if you ain't gonna be doing it forever, I don't know if I need that. And you feel connected to me. Where you're in awe of what the person does and the sacrifice that's made to make it happen, the lengths to which they go, to touch you, to let you know how special you are. Has anybody ever thought about their relationship with God and thought about how romantic it was, what he did for you? This text starts off with what I call the proposal of redemption. So here's the proposal. proposal and he says I'll buy the land because what the next of Ken is thinking is that sh I can add that to my And if you can redeem it, if you will redeem it, go ahead. This next of kin to know that um you you're not the only one. You can want to redeem the land? You go ahead and redeem the right of redemption for yourself because I cannot redeem it. He gets part of your inheritance over there too. Go ahead, you can have her. I think about the price that he paid for us. This whole thing is laid out and it it just raised the whole stakes and the the value of what he was gonna have to pay was just too much and so he quickly starts rejecting it. To keep the land in the family of Israel, nor am I willing, watch this, to pay that much to make sure the name of Malon doesn't get wiped off the map and is never remembered. By today's message. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. One man took off his sandal and gave it to the other, and it was a confirmation in Israel. And all that was Chileon's and Malon's from the hand of Naomi. those that might be bound. I have acquired as my wife to perpetuate the name of the dead through his inheritance, that the name of the dead may not be cut off from among his brethren and from his position at the gate. finding favor in the field and being in the field and sharing from the field because we also saw that Ruth was blessed not only because she acquired from the field, but she also shared what she had acquired in the field. And it shares for us a picture of a romantic redemption. And just in case you thought it was just a woman thing, there's a lot of men who are wandering around searching for romance as well, because uh even though nobody told them, and perhaps they didn't tell you women, that they need romance too A mystical action, a mythical, an emotion stirring action that Boaz takes in order to make sure that Ruth is his. And so I want to talk to you on this morning in this last final piece of the series from the subject matter Romantic Redemption. She had asked, Can I come under the shadow of your wing? And she's in debt, but the land belonged to Elimelech, our brother. In other words, if you can't redeem yourself, the I am will redeem it. The next of kin backed off quickly. Ruth and this other part of land, so the cost is to not that's too much. 627-9500. intimacy and commitment. For me and they feel like wow, that's so romantic. In this book of Ruth, we get to see Boaz romance Ruth. Mysterious and has a great impact on the emotion. Romance the redemption of Ruth. family member says I'll redeem it. But if you don't redeem it, I'll I'll redeem it. So here's the proposal in part one. If you don't pay for it, I am next. And so, what I want you to imagine, I want you to imagine Christ speaking to you and saying, you pay for your own redemption. But if you can't pay for it, I am. And verse 6, almost as quickly as Boaz put part two out, he says, oh no. Losing what he thought he was gaining. Commended his love. Throughout the text, but when we get to chapter four, we get to see a vivid picture of Boaz, who is a type of Christ. To redeem it. If you can't pay for it, I'll pay for it. I cannot. in order to make sure that Naomi has what she needs, nor am I willing to pay that cost I'm getting emotional. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. We immediately offer the yes without counting the costs And then there's some things that that happen and things that people do and they go above and beyond. I told you that Boaz is a type of Christ. Y'all still here? While I was a sinner, can I make it plain? Sometimes because the romance dies in the marriage, they go looking for it somewhere else. If you start romancing him, he might just stay home because it wouldn't be nothing else for him to look for. They might consider if he was a real good man dying for him. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. And then so last week we were in Ruth chapter three and we spoke there from the idea lessons to be learned. Not only that, y'all know how airship works. You can you can have a land, you can just the cause the cost is too high. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. Uh for some there are uh you go through all these uh hoops and and and scoops and do all kinds of Naomi's in debt w for some land and we don't want just anybody to have the land and we gotta get that land redeemed and we have to buy it back. I pray that it would set someone free today, God, that they might come into a personal, intimate relationship with you. I'm getting I'm getting the chills up here from the romance of what he did for me. You don't have to raise your hand, but they're just waiting for some romance moments. He says, okay, I'll redeem it. And so as we move from the proposal of redemption, it pushes us into this personal protection that we see and the rejection of the redemption Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. Lord help me. Because there's no one but you ahead of me uh to redeem it, and if you don't redeem it, I am next after you. I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I ruin my own inheritance. So he says in verse 3, and he said to the close relative Naomi, who has she came back from from Moab. This is the romantic part. The word of the Lord from Ruth chapter 4, beginning at verse 1, uh reads like this. So he came aside and sat down. And so sometimes the process of romance may have one or two, but there's one We want commitment. Lord help me, Jesus. So condition one was laid out, nay Naomi sold the land. Where you go, I'm going. And so he says, I'll buy it. And I am next after you Can I can I be under your covering? While nobody else thought I was any good, while I was still sinning, while I was not a friend of God, while I wasn't looking for him, but yet he died for me anyway. I'll take care. As I was looking at it, I couldn't help but see in verse number four, and let me I'm gonna walk slower through this because sometimes we read too fast. And we start thinking alike. I love this. But if you don't redeem it, I'll come up behind you. I'm talking about spiritual and emotional intimacy. When she came back, she didn't have nothing. No, it was for old people too. I'm you know, I'll I'll go ahead and pay for it. He's at the gate. It is you redeem it, you pay for it. He was okay with that. I surrender all to you this morning. We want commitment with passion and we want it with intimacy and He not only becomes the sole heir of that property, but he comes because now he's your adopted child. Lord have mercy, Jesus. In other words, it's kind of like when you go to buy a house or a car, and the salesperson says, Well, you better hurry up and make a decision because there's somebody else who's looking at this too. There is somebody else and me. And if you happen to have any other children, he gets counted in with them I think about he didn't back off. And so you are the next of kin, so you can buy the land back and redeem it. So he says, well, hold on a minute. And in fact, as I thought about this, I thought that most often when we talk about romance, it's usually a subject that women talk about When he thought I'm just getting land and an old widow who will never have children who can't mess with my inheritance. I'll do what you're asking, but I'll uh give me till the morning because I I I gotta go to the gate. Your God shall be my God. You redeem it. This is the proposal. And I pray, eternal God, that you might encourage someone who perhaps came in discouraged. While I had crushed in my eye, while I was dirty and filthy, while I was a rag He's a reflection of Christ. In that while we were sinners, he died. And the Lord make the woman whom is coming into your house like Rachel and Leah, the two who built the house of Israel. And so he lays this out for them in the text that look, you've got this opportunity to redeem it Please join us again as Senior Pastor That's a great question. For it is in your name we pray in the name of Jesus. Because the I am is next in line. And if you will redeem it, okay, redeem it. He just found all his romance right there. We get to see a romantic step, a romantic action. Boaz had already told Ruth the night before when she came and laid at his feet. She needed something to survive, so she sold a piece of that land so she could have some resources to survive. I'm not willing to do that much Because there's a lot of folks that though you have grown old in age, you haven't changed in behavior. And so he says, well this was Elimelech's land, Naomi has sold it. That's a great question. Like you go like way out of the way to do stuff. Can I go be under your house? Before the all the elders are at the gate. And the close relative said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I ruin my own inheritance So the proposal is Naomi sold this land But when he realized in order to redeem the land, you'd have to not only pay back Nah, uh-uh. We start breathing on each other just for the fun of it. Exciting, mysterious, a great impact on the emotion. Y'all still don't get it. And he took ten men of the elders of the city and said, Sit down here. In other words, if I redeem uh Ruth and Naomi and I redeem the land Now, this was the custom in former times in Israel concerning redeeming and exchanging to confirm anything Moreover, Ruth the Moabitis, the widow of Malon, I'm trying to keep somebody at home I've come to you at the gate to negotiate this deal out So he says I'll redeem it. We pray that you have been richly blessed What this reminds me of is the scripture says someone might die for a good man. Your people shall be my people. Uh but nevertheless romance does impact men and women. But the reality is when we weigh the cost of dying for someone else, the cost is too high. I'm going to stop there. And one of my favorite parts about that whole idea of finding favor in the field, as we saw Ruth go out into the field and Now watch this. org or contact our church office at 301 Amen, somebody. And when I talk about romance, If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. God, give me clarity of thought, clarity of speech, so that I can declare your word as the very oracle of God. Listen to verse 5. If I I look at this and says And therefore the close relative said to Boaz, Buy it for yourself. Brothers, I'm trying to help you out right here silently, um, because sometimes we romance them into the marriage, but we forget about it after we get married. When I know who you are and I feel safe with you, and I feel connected to you. Y'all gonna catch this soon. I like this. Nope. And when I think about the redemption of Christ It's super romantic to me that Christ would consider the cost. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Would you pray with me this morning? In other words We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Orpug said, I'm gonna kiss you and say goodbye, and she went back and I'm never leaving you. Nope, nope, nope He said to her, Well, I am of near kin, but I'm not the closest. I am that I am. Help me God. This is just part one. This story is a reflection of a romantic redemption that Christ has wrought for you and me. I'm sorry, we on another subject And when the elders come to the gate, and when the next of kin, the closest of kin comes to the gate, Boaz is already there. We move from there to Ruth chapter one Uh one of my favorite parts about that And so when I start Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. He says, well, uh, then Boaz said, This is this is the second condition. And so we moved from there as we laid out all the benefits of Romantic stuff. And he speaks like many of us when the opportunity is to redeem. org. And if you will redeem it, redeem it. Commitment. And so she left and she clung with her. When the cost of redemption became known And all the people said, Amen. But if you will not redeem it, then then let me know. I pray This this is a great strategy. We looked hysterically at some of the lessons that the text was teaching us Father, we bless you. He's trying to protect himself from m. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And then the person is like, you did this for me? Amen, Jesus. Now he's bringing you their stories. at the Legacy Center. She sold a piece of lamb that belonged to her her husband, our brother. Now he's bringing you their stories. The One Degree of Andy podcast. We thank you for the word of God. In fact God, I'm trusting you for the miraculous to happen in our midst. I gotta deal with this in a proper way It's part one of the Uh but there is a whole lot of women that are in need of some romance. Romance is said to have three elements: passion. The One Degree of Andy podcast. He's a representative of a type of Christ. If you can redeem your own life, redeem it. Lord, speak a word in this place That was her decision. Amen, somebody And I thought to inform you saying buy back from her. But if you will not redeem it, And he said, I will redeem it So he took off his sandal. So they sat down I'm Andy Christman. We thank you for this opportunity and occasion to There's one closer than I am. He says, if you will redeem it, redeem it. On Andy Christman. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And the unnamed Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. No In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Romance. So Boaz once In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down She didn't hoard it. But God You are my witnesses this day. We get to see him. And so