Now you may have given up and thought I'm not ever going to do it, but down deep you'd like to. Today we continue in our series called The Life You Were Meant to Live. If you'd love to help the kids you know learn God's word, then stay with us. You can center your life around a career. If you'd like to connect with Rick, just go to pastorick. Maybe you have your own kids, grandkids, nieces, nephews, or kids in your neighborhood that are part of your life. Each Bible story has an introduction from Pastor Rick that helps readers, young and old, understand the Word of God, so that they can begin to discover God's So don't wait. God's big plans for me is so much more than just a book filled with cute pictures of Bible characters. That's 800-600-5004 or pastorick. You bounce back from problems faster. In the Bible, God is very clear about His plan for our lives after we've made Him the center of our life. And would you just as a commitment today circle one of those? Rick will be back in just a moment with a final word of encouragement. Call 800-600-5004 to get yours. And it is so important for each of us to spend time with God and in God's Word every day. Voices behind the song. In other words, don't waste your life. You can email him at rick at pastorick. Today, when you financially support Pastor Rick's Daily Hope, we'll send you a copy of God's Big Plans for Me. There are only two days left to get this great tool, so call right now. Now a lot of people imagine their life kind of like a pie with different pieces of the pie representing different segments of their life. Oh, and by the way, over here, this is important, we got Jesus as a piece of the pie. But a Super Bowl had a very solid core and that gave it its bounceability. The second of life's most important questions is this, down on your outline. and who you are than what you do. Now you know there's one thing all of us have in common. If you've missed any part of this broadcast, including portions we didn't have time for today, just go to pastoric. Do you have special kids that the Lord has placed in your life? Each Bible story has an introduction from Pastor Rick that helps readers young and old understand the Word of God so they can begin to discover God's great purposes for their lives He said, Pastor Rick, I thank God for Daily Hope. It's like a cup of coffee for me. Be sure to join us next time as we look into God's Word for our daily hope. or pastorick. That you're overloaded, you tend to swing the pendulum to the other end and just go, Okay, I ain't doing nothin' An easy to understand storybook Bible by Pastor Rick Warren. Now there is a natural reaction, particularly in a church full of workaholics, that when we talk about slowing down and adding space to your schedule. I'm gonna sit at home all summer and pop bomb bombs in my mouth. That matter most in life. And if you want, you can just text the word daily to 99000 to find out more. And so an unfocused life causes you to get overloaded. You can center your life around having fun. They're not strong enough. Now the Bible tells us in Psalm 62 verse 10, it says, if your wealth increases, don't make it the center of your life. And contrary to the popular bunk bumper sticker, he who dies with the most toys just dies When you become a follower of Jesus Christ, the center of your life changes. In fact, he loses because he invested in the wrong thing. called God's Big Plans for Me. Beautifully illustrated Children's Bible includes 40 well-loved Bible stories to help kids get the most from God's Word. great purposes for their lives. Where am I going to get the next date on Friday night? I asked, what does my name mean? From the very beginning, God decided that those who came to him should become like his son. If Jesus Christ had to face times of disappointment, who am I to think that I'm not going to face that? Spiritual understanding, alert discipline, passionate patience, reverent wonder, warm friendliness, and generous love God is working to do that in us, to make us like his son. As it describes it, it's a description of what Jesus is like. But here's the secret. I hate that, that it doesn't happen that way, but it doesn't. Am I going to use them just to benefit myself, or am I going to use them to help other people? And the Bible says in Ephesians, it is God Himself who has made us what we are, and He's given us new lives from Christ Jesus. You can help the kids in your life get closer to God by encouraging them to read God's Word. called God's Big Plans for Me. Beautifully illustrated children's Bible includes 40 well-loved Bible stories to help kids practically engage with God's Word Their eyes will light up as they turn the beautifully illustrated pages and really start to get what God wants to say to their young hearts and minds. Everlasting truths. He wrote, I've you know, I've dealt with my share of demons in my life. industries and your generous financial support. He wrote me, he's he calls Daily Hope his morning cup of God because it helps him stay focused on God throughout the day. Daily Hope Ministries. You got it from God. But life is more than just rest. Like a laser. Your life will be effective. My prayer for you, as your pastor, has been this verse, Ephesians 1. So that you can see exactly what God is calling you to do. You will know what to cut out of your life and what to add, what to cut out of your budget and what to add. What will be the center of my life? Because if it can, you will lose your security. A man's life does not consist in the abundance of things that he possesses. The Bible says Christ's love has the first and last word in everything we do. Now, a lot of people imagine their life kind of like a pie with different pieces of the pie representing different segments of their life. Anytime you start worrying, it should be a red flag, it should be a flashing light, a warning sign that says, I've allowed someone or something to become the center of my life instead of God. Do you remember years ago they used to have these little things called super balls? I want to really know him. Tom's going to talk about the next one. We went to uh China recently and we were we were given uh little business cards that took our English names and just brought the sounds over into Chinese characters. But towards the end of the trip, we we asked, well, what do these actually mean though? Do you know that this life, the life we're living right now, is preparation? Doesn't it make sense that he's going to put you and I in the exact same circumstances that Jesus Christ was in when he was on this earth? You see, every situation that comes into your life, good and bad, God wants to use it for the purpose of developing character in you, whatever the circumstance. To have the values that Jesus Christ has, to have the character that Jesus Christ has, the the the kind of interest and heart that He has. Like Jesus Christ. The kind of character that it talks about in the verse on the back of your outline. By putting us in the exact opposite circumstance. When you say, as many of you have these last several weeks, I want to slow down in life. In these important questions of life. And God is developing those good habits in us to develop a good character. God has given each of you some special abilities. Oh, that's not what it says, is it? To make a daily habit of opening the Bible. About how we're meant to live. Backstage pass. God's big plans for me is so much more than just a book filled with cute pictures of Bible characters. Besides, you're not going to keep it anyway. A work segment of your life, and you've got a retirement segment, and you've got a uh a financial segment of your life, and you've got a sexuality segment of your life, and you've got other rel The goals and ambitions and dreams segment and your career. One of the ways you know that Jesus is at the center of your life is you worry less. Or God-centered. At the center of your life. And God is developing our character now so that we can carry it with us into that eternity that He's prepared for us. Every at home, at work, with your kids, everything is going faster and faster, and you're thinking, God, why are you doing this to me? You know, Daily Hope helps people like Darren get their lives back on track because it connects them not just with God, but with God's word How do you live life wisely? If you can get these clear in your mind, your stress level will go down and your satisfaction will go up. The first and most important question of life is: what will be the center of my life? No, Jesus is not a piece of the pie. Why? And if you want the stress to lower, you need to put God back at the center of your life. The third question that will focus your life is this: What will be the contribution of my life? Why? a financial segment of your life and you've got a sexuality segment of your life and you've got other relationships and you've got a social life. I'm here to tell you that what it what is on your business card doesn't really matter in the end anyway. Jesus Christ faced heartache, will face heartache. Character is really just an accumulation of good habits. Now he's bringing you their stories. They shouldn't be the center of your life. Now, how do you know when Jesus Christ is at the center of your life? You got it from God. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. I mean there are hundreds of ways you can lose it all instantly overnight. And whenever that happens, you can make a person the center of your life. Whatever you think about most in life is at the center of your life. Now, all of these things, there's nothing wrong with any of these things. And it's very it's not it's not a good enough uh reason to be the center of your life. He's the whole pie. And when you have that, you don't worry. You were made for more than rest. In his play As You Like It, Shakespeare described death as mere o sleep. Okay? For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Just call 800-600-5004 or go to pastorick. The stronger the focus, the more concentrated the focus, the more power the laser has. They're not solid enough. Why should I not make wealth the center of my life or the acquisition of wealth? Because the center of a Super Bowl was so tightly compacted it was a solid core, not some mushy center like a tennis ball, which is very mushy. The way that God does that is very different than we might expect. Today, when you financially support Pastor Rick's Daily Hope, we'll send you a copy of God's Big Plans for Me. And they looked at it and said, uh uh female babysitter would be the meaning of of of of this name. com. I want to know the power in my life of having God at the center. The second choice we have to make is: is it really going to be all about my comfort, or am I going to allow God to develop a new character? You were put here for a purpose. And God has uniquely shaped you so you can make a unique contribution. You bounce back from grief faster. Now if God wants to help me to become more like Christ, that's a lifetime project. You'll see their eyes light up as they really start to get what God wants to say to their young hearts and minds. I want you to make a decision this morning. We're all different here, but there's one thing we have in common. There are only forty-eight hours to get in on this great offer, so don't wait. Don't use it up on things that really don't matter. You're not taking any of it with you. The problem is most of us have very unfocused lives. Why? No, it says spend these lives in what? I'm Andy Christman. It's a storybook Bible by Pastor Rick Warren. But if I haven't had my cup of God in the morning, then I feel like I'm less able to pass on the good news to others. You can center your life around a sport. It's a storybook Bible by Pastor Rick Warren. God bless you, everybody. And margin is about cutting out the superfluous things, the trivial things, the things that don't really matter. Now that means that the most basic fundamental decision of life is this. In other words, who or what am I going to live for? They're not secure enough to be the center of your life. After you've settled that question, who is going to be at the center of my life? Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Now you've heard me say many times that the key to an effective life is focus. And he wants to influence every segment, the financial segment, the sexual segment, the relational segment. That should be something that can never change your relationship with God. Because you're not going to carry your career into eternity. I support Daily Hope because Christ's hope is for me and in me, and I support it because it sends Christ's message to people all over the world. I don't know any better description of what Jesus is like in character than over in Galatians chapter 5, where it talks about the fruit of what God's power does in us as he grows us. Whatever you think about the most is at the center of your life, and it's your God. Do I care more about my comfort or my character? The fruit of God's Spirit is love and joy and peace, patience, kindness, goodness. You can center your life around collecting things like little precious moments figurines. I've had cancer, huge financial losses, addictions, permanent disability, chronic pain, and depression. Jesus is the filling. When you say I want to be a person of love, God puts you around a lot of unlovely people because that develops the character of love In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. com. com and click on his social media links. Sit down and open the Bible. If you have a habit of being kind to people, people would look at you and say you are a kind person. You bounce back from crisis faster. Notice the next verse. 2 Peter 1:5. Jesus Christ faced temptation. If you'd like to let Rick know how this broadcast has blessed you, you can write him at rick at pastorick. You'll always be under stress. The Bible says, children are a gift from the Lord. If you put a meaning to these characters, what would they mean? But we all know it is tough to develop good habits. Maybe you have your own kids, grandkids, nieces, nephews, or kids in the neighborhood that are part of your life I'd like for you to circle one of those two. So please stay with us. 18. The answer is by asking the right questions. If you say to God, I want to become a more loving person, you think He's going to put you around a lot of lovable people? And he is the glue that holds it all together. What will be the character of my life? Why would you spend all of your life trying to acquire stuff that you're not going to take with you into the next life anyway? Be sure to use them to help each other, passing on to others God's many kinds of blessing. In this series, Pastor Rick will help you discover in the scriptures what God had in mind for your life when he quite literally invented you. He thought that the goal was to get more. Or you can visit pastorick. You'd like to leave an impact. God has a plan and He has a purpose for your life. The more you focus, the more you center in on what really matters. Everybody here wants to make a difference with their life. com. God did not just put you on this earth to retire. And you know what? As God grows us to be like Him. You can take a sneak peek right now by going to pastorick. Well, there's a couple reasons. Your net worth and your self-worth are not the same thing Do you remember those? Because in just a few minutes, we're gonna tell you about God's big plans for me. That's a great question. You can center your life around a hobby. They're all fine and good, but they all make a lousy center for your life. And right now, when you request this beautifully designed resource, we'll send you Pastor Rick's message called Integrating God's Word into My Life. All of this life is just preparation for eternity. You may open it on an iPad or on your phone, but open the Bible to see what God says. Watch soap operas. No, Jesus is not a piece of the pie, Jesus is the filling. Helping others. You're listening to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope And today we're going to look at how to focus your life. This program is sponsored by Daily Hope Ministry. Being a Christian means Jesus Christ is at the center of your life. And so if you build your life around money, then you're constantly going to be tense because you've got to keep it and hold on to it. You'll be under stress because that person can walk out of your life, they can die, they can get sick, they can turn their back on you. Instead of worrying, pray. Don't lose a minute in building on what you've been given, complementing your basic faith with good character. I want to learn to have some margin in my life. On top of that, it's not what life's all about anyway. The second half of today's study is coming up, so stay with us. This 223-page hardcover full color Here's Pastor Rick Warren. This 223-page hardcover full color How do you know what's at the center of your life? I'm glad to tell you that because it's not really what you do but who you are. Look at this verse in Romans 8, verse 29. Make your life count. When your core is solid in God, you have bounceability. I'll never totally reach it. The Bible says, children are a gift from the Lord. And so we're trying to do a hundred things at the same time, and we think they're all of equal value when they're not. Because you have something solid in your life that doesn't change Stock market, grandchildren. You'd like to leave your mark. Our firm decision is to work from this focused center. Once again, here's Rick It's a fun and effective way to introduce grade school age children to God's everlasting truths. Number one is because you can lose it all. While you're there, be sure to sign up for his free daily email devotional. You need something that is unchanging and secure. And you kind of hit it on the ground and it'd go about 30, 40 feet high. He never said yes to the temptation, but he faced it, and so will you and I. God does that thing in us, works a new character into us, like love or patience or peace. Am I going to choose what's easy or am I going to choose what's right? If you can answer these four questions. Some of you are thrilled at that, by the way. We're meant to help each other. Am I going to live the rest of my life either self-centered or God-centered? And that's the starting point, of course. It's not. And Rick Warren meant something like lover of China. And we're so excited to tell you about a brand new resource for kids If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. You need something at the center of your life that is absolutely unchanging and can never be taken away from you. He wants us to be like Jesus Christ. It's not easy. Right now, here's Pastor Rick Warren with part one of a message called Focusing Your Life. Supplies are limited for this beautifully designed resource com to get yours Take it easy. You can help them get closer to God by encouraging them to read God's Word. It's a fun and effective way to introduce grade school children to God's What kind of person am I going to be in this life? Notice these verses. Here's Rick with a letter from one of our listeners. And when you focus your life on one or two or three things that really matter most, The Apostle Paul in the Bible says it like this: He said, Man, I want God at the center. It's an opportunity to grow. com. You can center your life around making money. And I hope you'll settle that one right now. He is the pie if you're a believer. And so the number one stress reliever is to put Jesus Christ at the center of your life. Jesus Christ. But if he wants me to grow in that direction, You will live a life of significance and meaning and purpose And so you've got a You'd like to influence others. Jesus faced loneliness and will face loneliness. Do you have special kids that the Lord has placed in your life? That's 1-800-600-5004. So I want to encourage every one of you. You need rest in your life. And so you've got a a work segment of your life, and you've got a a retirement segment, and you've got a com and listen online anytime. I ask God to make your eyes focused and clear. And so today I want us to review life's four most important questions Andy Christman, afore him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And so the Bible says: don't make that the sinner of your life. What will be the contribution of my life? Now you may have given up and thought, I'm not ever gonna do it, but down deep you'd like to. It's wonderful what happens when Christ displaces worry. Now you know there's one thing all of us have in common. Each I know exactly what's happened. It's there on your outline. He wants to grow in us the character of His Son so we can carry it into eternity. It's easy to develop bad habits, but not good habits. What do I care more about? For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. How do you do that? Now, obviously, there are a lot of options. Oh, and by the way, over here, this is important, we got Jesus as a as a piece of the pie And long ago we planned that we should spend these lives in living for ourselves. You're not going to carry your career into eternity, but you will carry your character into eternity. Worry is a sign that something has replaced Jesus Christ at the center of your life. Well, it's real obvious. Darren wrote me this. Look at this next verse you're outline. Now read my lips on this. Let's read it together. You'd like to make a difference in this world. Now, during this whole series, Jesus once said In fact, most of you need far more than you're getting. Supplies are limited for this great resource, so contact us today So I have more time, more energy, more money for the things that really do matter. com while you listen to today's message That's what Jesus is like, and what God wants to do in us. Now he's bringing you their stories. The next verse out of the Bible, Ephesians 5, says: don't be foolish with your lives What are they? He puts us in the exact opposite situation because he wants to develop in our lives new habits. Am I going to live a life that is self-centered? Your life has speeded up, hasn't it? You can center Would anybody like to give a testimony on that one? Make this your prayer. Would you look on your outline What do you think about most? The One Degree of Andy podcast. He's not just a segment, he's at the core. We're all different here, but there's one thing we have in common. Number one. Philippians 2. You bounce back from stress faster. In other words, how am I going to use my God-given talents, my abilities? Hi everybody. Hello and welcome to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. Now, when you become a Christian, when you become a believer, You think that's what's going to happen? So thank you, Pastor Rick. And Brad meant something like thunder in the voice. Where do you think you got that desire? Look at the next verse. Did you realize that? And so, because of that, the second question we have to face com. And if you'd like to let Rick know how this broadcast has touched your life. I want to know Christ. That's why we're doing this series. 5 says, in your lives you must think and act. They're not at all. I want to really, really know Christ. I'm Andy Christman. But daily hope gets me going in the morning. And a great way to do that is with a brand new resource for kids. All kinds of things can happen. relationships and you got a social life at Today I want to share a note that we received from Darren. It doesn't happen that way. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Go ahead and make a choice and circle one or the other. That's a great question. God is far more interested And what if you lose it? Everybody here wants to make a difference with their life. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. That is not the purpose of life. Where do you think you got that desire? Anytime I start worrying, If you love Christian music, this is your That's a good name.