Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. This morning, Catherine, if you have your Bible with you and you should, I want to invite you to join me in John. Uh chapter six, John chapter six. We'll begin our reading at verse four. The word of the Lord from John chapter six, beginning at verse four. Reads as follows Now the Passover, a feast of the Jews, was near. Then Jesus lifted up his eyes and seeing a great multitude coming toward him He said to Philip, Where shall we buy bread that these may eat? But this he said to test him, for he himself knew what he would do. And Philip answered him, 200 denarii worth of bread is not sufficient for them that every one of them may have a little. And one of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a lad here who has five barley loaves and two small fish. But what are these among so many? And then Jesus said, Make the people sit down. And now there was much grass in that place, so that the men sat down in a number about 5,000 And Jesus took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed them to the disciples, and the disciples to those sitting down. And likewise of the fish as much as they wanted. And so when they were filled, he said to his disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain, so that nothing is lost. And therefore they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets with fragments And five barley loaves which were left over by those who had eaten. Then those uh men, when they had seen the sign that Jesus did, said, This is truly the prophet. Who is to come into the world? Would you pray with me for a moment? Father, help us to navigate this text on this morning in such a way that your name would get glory from it I pray that you would open up every heart, every mind to hear from you. If anyone doesn't know you as Lord and Savior, let this be a time that they come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Father for the Drifter, I pray that you draw the drifter back to yourself, that they might renew the broken fellowship, for the time is winding up. And they want to be found in the center of your will. And so I pray you draw them quickly back into fellowship with you. If they need to rededicate their life to you today, God, let that transpire on today. Father, for someone who's down and discouraged on this morning when they came in, I pray that the word of God would encourage them, would lift up their heart and lift up their head and lift up their spirit. Father, I pray that your word would accomplish everything that you have designed To be accomplished on this day. And Lord, as I stand here on this morning, I stand as a a broken vessel that is in need of your help and your strength, for I cannot declare your word without you. And so, Lord, use me as a vessel in your hand to accomplish your will that the sound that comes forward would be a clear sound. That would be one that would help everyone to know that they have heard from God in this place. And so, Lord God, I just surrender all to you on today. Use me as your vessel to accomplish your will. And when it is all said and done, Lord God, I will give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the Praise for you alone, God are worthy of it all. It's in Jesus' name I pray and I thank you. Amen and amen. Ketterin, as I approach this text on uh today and I was studying through the passage, I I couldn't help but be drawn to remember a certain kind of people. I want to call those people very unique people. And these people are unique in in a very special way. And let me say first of all, the the people that I'm I'm talking about, you might know some of them. You might even be one of these people that I'm talking about. But let me say this first about them in case we you know rolled them under the bus or or beat up on them too bad. These can be some of the nicest people I mean just very nice, very kind people that this text caused me to think about. They could be very, very generous and maybe some of the nicest caring people that you ever know. But what's unique and what's special and what's characteristic of this person that this text reminded me of is this there's a certain kind of people That no matter what, they will not share their food. There's just a special group of people like that. And there's just about two, I think I saw about two people that were honest enough to testify this morning here that said, yeah, that's me. Don't mess with my food. Amen. Well, in this text we have five thousand people who gather out in a desolate place. Um And in the wilderness to see Jesus, they're coming to see Jesus. It's about 5,000 plus people that that go out, and only out of all the 5,000 people that go out, only one lad brought some food. And four thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine people are hungry. But I was just thinking about this this lad in the text who has four thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine people looking at his lunch. With a hungry spirit. And if he was one of those people, they would have been short. I want to dig into this text on this morning and talk from the subject matter, sharing your lunch. Now, because I already know I have some of these special people here in the sanctuary of the legacy center. I already know I'm going uphill because you don't share your food. But I I want to talk to us about sharing sharing your lunch. And I'm 100% sure That it there's some folk listening via live stream that are falling on the floor laughing along with y'all because they're thinking, man, that pastor he got me pegged. How does he know that I'm like that And so I know I'm going uphill when I talk about sharing your lunch on this morning. But y'all just bear with me. We're going to get there because as Jesus is with his disciples They've escaped away to the north side, northeast side of the Sea of Galilee, which is known as the Tiberius uh sea or river and they have gotten over to that side of the sea and and they were trying to get away from all the crowd because they have been ministering and You know, the crowds were wearing them out, and so they had kind of escaped away to this little side of the Sea of Tiberius and and when they go there the crowd follows them there. And and you know they're having a moment and then at what our text picked up in verse four, Jesus looks up and here they come. Here comes the people. As we approaching the the feast day. Verse five actually says he looks up and the multitude is coming to him. And so he introduces here in this text what I want to identify as the test question, okay? And the test question of the text Jesus lifted up his eyes, verse five. Seeing a great multitude coming towards him, and he said to Philip, Where shall we buy bread that these may eat? That's a test question. Verse 6 told me it was a test question. He said this to test him, for he himself knew what he was going to do. The great test question here. Is where are we gonna find, where are we gonna buy bread for all these people? That's the test question. Stay with me, I'm gonna get y'all there. There's a great need that we have. And the great need is present and or approaching. And the question that the Lord asks Philip in the text is where shall we buy bread that these may eat? Now, what I want you to process here is that oftentimes when you're going through or facing some challenging times In your life and in your journey, a test question is going to come your way. Alright? And the test question is not the question you have, it's the question God asks. That's important. That's critical to the movement of this text. It's not the question you have. Because when trouble comes, you will devise questions of your own. Amen, somebody. But the test question is not the questions that you have. The test question is the question God asks of you. Amen. Amen. And so it's a test for Philip, not a temptation. God doesn't tempt anybody, but He will test you, not so that He knows where you are, but so that you know where you are Lord, I feel this now. And so I want you to understand that while you're going through some stuff, you have a list of questions that you want to present to God and everybody else. But there is a test question that God is putting in front of you. Help me, God. And here's what I want you to understand about this test question. We first of all need to pay close attention To the question that God is asking you. Alright? Where shall we buy bread that these may eat? That's the test question. And maybe he asked Philip because where they were was close to where Philip was from, and Philip might have known where the bakeries were. Lord help me here. Philip might have had in his cognitive memory some particular uh local establishments where They could have gone and picked up some bread. He might have, I'm not sure, but he may have asked him specifically out of all the 12, because his natural inclination would have been to answer according to his own knowledge. Y'all still here with me? This is what makes it a test. The test is will you depend on him or will you depend on your knowledge? Y'all still here with me? Here, I want to say this again. Pay close attention to the question. The question asked in the text, and then what I want you to do is I want you to hear the answer that Philip gives. The question is, where shall we buy bread that these may eat? The answer is 200 denari worth of bread is not sufficient for them that every one of them may even have a little. Y'all catch this? Philip doesn't answer the question that Jesus asked. Philip answers the question that's in his mind. Lord help me, God. This unfortunately is where we oftentimes get in trouble in our problems that we're facing. Because we begin to ask and answer questions that God never asked. We begin to ask and answer questions that that are relevant to us, that have some kind of ability for us to wrap our hands around We're good at asking questions that we can solve. And sometimes the Lord is asking us questions that He has the answer to. Because he's testing you. What answer will you give to the question that I've asked? Or are you even paying attention to the question? Are you so wrapped up in the problem and the resolution that you want to bring to the problem to understand and hear what question I'm asking you? In this question, where are we going to get provisions to meet The needs of these people. The question is where. The answer is how. Yeah, y'all still with me. Um he says that the and the he we got great need that we need provisions, we gotta feed all these people. Um Philip starts looking at the people and he says, man, and he's calculating, and he says, 200 denari, which is about the equivalent of eight months' salary. is not enough to feed all these people and even give each person a little bit of food. It's not it's not sufficient. And so this is the question that oftentimes God is asking the where, and we're answering with a how. Here's our question. How am I gonna do that? Am I right? Isn't that your first question? How we gonna do that? You turn to your husband, your wife, everybody who's in the house that got some money and say, how we gonna do this? Now you might get around to where is that money coming from? But we're not coming, we're not asking the question, where is it coming from? As it relates to God, we're asking Where is it coming from because my bank account says I only have $8,000 and I'm maxed out on my loans? Ain't nobody giving me no loan for $25,000 to put a roof on a house. Can you put a tarp up there? How much that's gonna cost? Are y'all hearing how we answer the question? This is our process. It's the wrong answer to the question. He says. Even if we had 200 denera, even if we had eight months worth of salaries, we wouldn't be able to feed all these people. That's wrong answer. He's saying Philip is saying it can't be done. Philip who lives nearby, he knows even if I went to all the bakeries That were around and spent 200 denera, eight months worth of salaries. I still wouldn't be able to buy enough food to feed all these people And have them even get a little bit. It even it wouldn't be worth my time. In my sanctified imagination, I just see Jesus kind of chuckling because he already knows what he's going to do. And I see God chuckling at some of our resolutions and s and our answers to the problems that we have and how we trying to fix it on our own. I see the Lord chuckling because he already knows what he's gonna do. He already knows what he has the capability of doing. He's already prepared, but he's the test the test question is in front of you. And the problem is: are you going to give a good answer or are you going to give the wrong answer? They give the totally wrong answer, and they say basically it can't be done. Wrong answer. And especially a wrong answer when you're talking to God. Andrew jumps in the conversation. Nobody wasn't even talking to him. He eavesdropping. And what Andrew has done in the process of time. It's interesting. This this actually this story is told in all four synoptic gospels. So if you read them all, you get the whole picture of what really is going on. So he nobody asks him anything. He he goes and surveys the crowd. This is how we go check our checkbook. So wait a minute, let me log into my account. He goes and surveys the crowd. He comes back and he says, Hey, I found a I found a lad. That had he brought his lunch, two fish, five loaves of bread. Now, it sounds like you know, five loaves of bread, okay, at least we got something, but it's not it's not loaves, like it's not a loaf, it's not like a loaf of wonder bread. These are wafers. And two small fish. So he has he got a couple of sardines and some crackers. He got five crackers and two sardines that his mother probably gave to him and said, you probably gonna get hungry along the way. Here's your lunch. He probably got it in a Superman backpack with a little juice on the side And then Andrew got the nerve to say what you got is your lunch bag. And if he was one of those special people, he said you ain't getting none of this. My mama gave me this. But he has to be willing to share his lunch so that the Lord can meet this extraordinary need Y'all still here? And Andrew, after checking it out, and he says, This this cat this kid got two fish, five loaves of bread. But he said, that's not enough. What is that? What is two sardines and five crackers gonna do? Five little wafers. What is that gonna do for five thousand people. There's nothing. He answers the question wrong as well because he is looking at the the now And the resources that he has at his fingertips or at his access, not at what God can provide with the problem. Listen. We in this life are gonna run into some monumental problems. I'm gonna say this, and God forgive me if I'm wrong. I believe God allows us to run into some monumental stuff so that we can turn to him. And realize he's God. I believe some of the things we go through are specially made for us. So that even though you name the name of Jesus, wear your cross around your neck, got your Bible in your hand and on your app And you got all the titles and you've got the membership at particular churches and you've got all of that stuff. God still wants To make sure that you know that he's God. You know, we we've got a way of walking around with a form of godliness, but when the trouble hits, we act like we don't even know him. People get sick or die. We falling out on the floor in front of the church, acting a fool. Come on. You need to know that in the middle of your worst problem, that He is God Can I talk to somebody this morning? And when I say you need to know he's God, what I mean is you need to understand that if I put it in his hands, there's nothing he can handle. God is not just a worship item on Sunday. No, he's a relational entity that wants fellowship with us and confidence from us all the time. And so he brings trouble in our life so that we can turn to him. And your friend that's so dependable, he will block them from you. So you can't get to them. Now what you gonna do? Where are you gonna get your answer from now? You've been to the palm reader, and the palm reader is closed on this particular day. Amen somebody. And you waiting on your horoscope to come down from the the media source. And for some reason it didn't come through today. And you looking at your own hands and trying to figure out is the line to the right or the left. You done you d you done read the horoscopes, you done been to your friend's house, you done called girlfriend, sister girl, brother man, everybody. Auntie, grandma, grandma always know you didn't talk to grandma, grandma can't even talk today So God said, when I've closed off all of your avenues, where you gonna get the answer from then to feed all this problem that's facing you? They give the wrong answer. And so it moves us to our final movement of the text. Because the whole question is really pushing us to this: are you going to share your lunch? The last movement of the text is the transfer of the lunch to God. It picks up here in verse number 9. Verse 9: And there was a lad who had five barley loaves and two fish. Andrew already said that's not enough. But this young man who has the loaves and the fish, he shares his lunch with Jesus. He gives it to Jesus to give what you have that is your substance in a dry place. They're out in the wilderness. They're on the follow Jesus way out somewhere. And it's it takes a lot to let that go and give it to somebody else. So that other people can eat part of what you have. And you know, for some of us, we probably would have snuck off on the side. They're eating and wiping our mouth, you know, popping a mint so nobody can smell the sardines on our breath. You know, we would try to fix it. But no, what this what this young man does He gives it to the to Jesus, and then Jesus says in verse number 10, make the people sit down. Now there was much grass. In the place. So the men sat down. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He says Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.