They're never coming back. You've never done that? Most of all, we thank you so much for making it possible. Just didn't admit, God, I've been bitter. I want to wrap this up by talking specifically to a couple groups here. It's called communion. PastorRick. the Daily Hope app, or you can listen to our podcast on iTunes. Backstage Pass. You can find out more right now by going to pastorick. Voices behind the song. Constant conversation. More strongly and more clearly. And trust. Just an acquaintance. Cast all your care. You can continue to serve me. Have other people in your life been influencing you in the wrong way? Continue to serve me. Thanksgiving. My email is rick at pastorick. Email us and let us know at rick at pastorick. You just accept that fact. To forget. that you're praying for this ministry. You'll get all five messages that include everything you hear on the broadcast, plus portions we didn't have time to air. Because of your generosity, we're able to take the hope of Jesus Christ into places where there are no Bibles, no believers, and no body of Christ, no churches at all. Here's Pastor Rick Warren. To get the message of hope out to a world that's desperately in need of Jesus Christ. Daily Hope Ministries. And then he puts up a no-fishing sign. This time around, Pastor Rick Warren wraps up his look at how to take your relationships with family, friends, coworkers, and even God from average A constant conversation. Friendship with God. Cast it. either K or with K and God or just with God alone. after month for about four months. was felt in my home. Now. headed right now. symbol in the Bible. Does it have any meaning? Given for you. PastorRick. pick up or meals to cook, then let us send you a copy of this entire series. a believer their entire life, I still continue to grow and I am so thankful for the ministry and what you guys do. Pastor Rick's Daily Hope, Monday through Friday, featuring the Bible teaching of Pastor Rick Warren. And back. wiped clean can i become a new woman can i become a new man can i be forgiven can i start over can i be born again And that we love each other just as he commanded. Is bright. Call 800-600-5004 or go to pastorick. And you need to tell somebody, and why don't you tell me? That's pastorick. Now if you'd like to take these messages with you when you drive, shop, go to the gym, or cook dinner, now you can, with the complete audio of this series. 600-5004 or just go to pastorick. Be sure to join us again next time as we look into God's Word for our Daily Hope. So we are humbled and honored that our peers in broadcast ministry have selected Daily Hope for this award. To awesome. Right now, here's Pastor Rick with the final part of a message called Becoming Best Friends with God. 1 Thessalonians 5, 17 says this. And by the way, God says, you're cool. And what are you doing texting? in your pain. Him. Your acquisitions. Can I have the slate wiped clean? And while you're there, be sure to sign up for his free daily email devotional. behind your back. The second question that communion answers is this a very important question. And the answer to that is yes. accept me into your family. The gift of forgiveness, freedom, grace, and a future in heaven. for me. Or downloadable MP3s. Would you pray for us at Daily Hope? Block the gate. The Lord's Supper. are now available in Korean. All my flaws, all my failures, all my faults, all my flubs, all my mistakes, all my crimes, they can all be forgiven. Just say that in your mind. including portions we didn't have time for, or if you'd like to sign up for Rick's free Daily Hope Email devotional, just go to pastorick. This prestigious award was presented to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope by the National Religious Broadcasters, which is the association for all Christian communicators, including film, radio, television, and digital media all around the world. Now he's bringing you their stories. Pain is the fuel of passion. And when God hears you complaining to him in your prayers, God says, that's not audacious, that's authentic. My life in so many ways in the practical teaching that Daily Hope offers. You can't earn it or deserve it. God bless you. All, yeah. Not five times a day, not six times, not ten times, all the time. You cry out to God. Physical, emotional, relational, financial, whatever. And I'll give you the best care if you only get to know and trust me. And today I'm saying I want to believe in your son, and I want to belong to your family. Would your life be better if you prayed as much as you text? And you got to trust him when things don't make sense, when things are backwards, when things are going sideways, and when you're going under and you think I'm going under for the last time. But it changed me on the inside. The more honest to God you are, the deeper your friendship with me. It's kind of worn off. And one of the symbols is baptism, and the other is the Lord's Supper. An outstanding shout of yes. God says, I'll do it. Than when he lays down his life for his friends. And the answer to that is yes. That God does three things with my sin. You don't need to pull them back out. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. They've been influencing you in the wrong way. Breaking of bread. We'll give you the choice of either a CD box set or downloadable high-quality MP3s. More deeply and more intimately acquainted with him, perceiving and recognizing and understanding the wonders of his person. And when you are hurting, tell me why? If you are facing trouble right now, you're in trouble right now. He puts them out of sight. You're never going to have a deep friendship with God till you get gut level honest about your fears, your faults, your flaws, your friends, and everything else. Do this to remember me. We are to say, God, I love you and I love others in your family. Hi, Don Crow here for Passport Auto Group, a family-owned business with a stellar reputation for Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. You talk with acquaintances, but you trust your friends. On the Lord, and he will sustain you. When you're in deep pain, you don't just go, oh our Father, how art thou today? And for those of you who have been close to God in the past and you've kind of fallen away, you're kind of like Job. That he came to earth in human form. The Lord's Supper says, yes, I matter to God. And when the Bible says Jesus, on the night he was betrayed, he took bread and he broke it and he blessed it. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. What if you talk to God as much as you talk to somebody else on texting or social media or phone calls? If you do what I command. You're listening to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Well, you know what? All the stuff I'm done wrong, all the stuff I don't want anybody else to know about, all the stuff that I regret, that I feel bad about, I feel guilty or shameful about. com. And this is what God commands that we believe in His Son, Jesus Christ. Amen. Here's what God says to you, Jeremiah 15. com. And not only does he put your sins out of reach and out of sight, he puts them out of mind. Can God forget? And God says, I choose to forget all the stupid things you've done when you accept what my son did for you. And not only does he put your sins out of reach and out of sight, he puts them out of mind. You don't want to miss a second of today's broadcast. To find out more, that's pastorick. And that word means all. The bedrock of every friendship is trust. God is not finished with you. Cast all your cares on the Lord, for he cares for you. Not I'm gonna spank you, not I'm gonna criticize you, control you. God is not finished with you. To remember what it cost Jesus to tear that veil, to build the relationship, to tear down the barrier between us and God. So I don't really care whether you call it breaking of bread, Lord's Supper, communion, or Eucharist. Thank you for wanting me as a friend. Maybe you were in serving God in the past, and now you're not. Do I matter to God? I want to be your friend. Philippians 3:10, Paul says this: My determined purpose is that I may know him, that my progress, that I may progressively become Every friendship is built on trust. Cast means not the like casting a line a long ways. Doesn't have to be fancy. Thanks for being with us here on Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. And so we say to God, yes. Write me. In the book of Acts, it's called uh the breaking of bread. And in 1 Corinthians 11, the next couple verse after that, it's called the Eucharist. Thanks so much for your support. So when God looks at you, he doesn't see all the stuff you've done wrong. com with two R's in the middle. You just keep on the conversation going throughout the day. I've been angry. Or visit Pastorick. When Matthew died, I spent the better part of four months alone with Trust God in your pain. Jesus said, you're my friend if you do what I command. Pain is the fuel of passion. Communion. You know, I just want to take a quick second to say thank you. You got to talk with God all the time about anything, everything, whatever you're feeling, all day, 24 hours a day. You can't spend that much time with God for four months and have it not change you. Maybe you grew up in a home that had faith. The feelings have worn off. Uh in uh Acts, uh all over Acts, in First Corinthians chapter 10, verse 16, uh it's I'm Andy Christman. You're never going to build a friendship, as I said, just by attending worship on the weekends. You can have that ongoing conversation with God. He puts them out of reach. I love to get stories from you. Do I matter to God? Pray as we reach out to people around the globe with hope that people will find Christ by the thousands and tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands. And Jesus says, I came to earth to die for you. Here's Pastor Rick to tell you more. If you carry on a conversation with yourself while you're talking to somebody else, certainly you can carry on a conversation with God while you're talking to somebody else. So I told you that in the Psalms, 150 Psalms, a third of them are Psalms of Lament. So if you know somebody who would like to enjoy reading these daily devotionals in Korean, just email me and I'll send you the link to sign up. It's just a gift. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. I know I don't deserve it, but I thank you, Jesus, for dying on the cross for me Hello, and thanks for joining us here on Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. I love that and amplified. I've been hurt. Write to me, rick at pastorric. com. He puts them out of sight, He puts them out of reach, and He puts them out of memory. I want it to be the most important thing in my life. I'll do it. The highest form of love is to sacrifice your life for somebody else. The second thing that the second question that communion answers is this a very important question. And the word there in Greek is the word koinanias. And he says, as far as east as west, I have separated you from your sins because of what I did on the cross. You don't need to pull them back out. And maybe you followed them in the wrong way and you really got off track. He limited himself in human form to come and die for your sins. Yes. Okay, pray all the time. And a lot of the things I learned is this: the more honest to God you are, the deeper your friendship will be. Because it keeps you from becoming bitter. Can I become a new woman? In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. Doesn't have to be flowery. One are those of you who are facing trouble, and those of you, the other is the those of you who maybe have been close to God in the past, but you kind of walked away. That's rick at pastorick. The answer to that question is absolutely. We'll talk about what he commands in just a minute. It's such a blessing to know that you're supporting this ministry in prayer. I didn't understand it. The heat's not there. The Bible says he takes your sins and metaphorically dumps them in the deepest part of the ocean. You'll find this message and others along with more helpful resources. God offers to help you out. com to get your copy of this series. We are to believe in his son. com while you listen to today's message. There's more great teaching coming up. There's only one day left to get this great resource, so don't wait. And I want to learn to know you and trust you. com or just text the word daily to 99000. Pray some of the time. How's it going? If you return to me, I will restore you. And Jesus says, I came to earth to die for you. When I started this series, I told you the difference between an acquaintance and a friend is this. It energizes us with intensity. com. When you're going through a tough time, all of a sudden your prayers get a whole lot more intense. I will come to earth and do it for you. com. Without you, this broadcast would have never happened. Now, in just a few minutes, we're going to tell you how you can take these messages with you anywhere you go with the complete audio of this series. Puny little me in this giant universe, does my life have any significance Now I want to send these messages to you just to say thanks for your financial support of Daily Hope. And I talk to God all the time, just like I'm talking to you. Jesus said this: no one shows greater love. That's pastorick. I'm fine. God can handle your frankness. If you return to me, I will restore you. And if you'd like to let Rick know how this broadcast has touched your life, you can email him at Rick at Thanks for listening today, everybody, and let's be on the lookout for how God is working in each of our lives. Thank you for listening, for sharing this broadcast, and for your faithful prayers, especially your financial support. Now you know Muslims uh believe they're supposed to pray to God five times a day. The same way you text constantly, you can pray constantly. I'm not a flowery prayer. Yes, your life matters to God. It's been life-changing for me, even for someone who's been Hi, this is Pastor Rick. That's a great question. Maintain a constant conversation. I don't care what you've done, I don't care who you've done it with, I don't care how long you've done it. That way you can listen from start to finish or just a little at a And that's true with God too. The passion's not there. That's keeping you from a friendship with God. Now, he says, pray without ceasing. If you're enjoying this series in today's message, but can't really dive into it because you've got a long day in the office ahead of you, gets to be It means just drop it. If you build a friendship with God, you gotta trust Him in your pain. The answer is my sins can be forgiven, and they have been forgiven. Bitterness is the number one enemy of friendship with God. Psalm 9114. Can I be forgiven? Here's Pastor Rick Warren. Can I become a new man? Let's bow our heads. Thank you. And he says, as far as east as west, I have separated you from your sins because of what I did on the cross. He will never let the righteous fall. If you return to me, I will restore you. Maybe you've known about God, but you said, I haven't been a friend of God. com, and tell me your story. If you don't trust somebody, they're not your friend. He says, if you speak words that are worthy, you'll be my spokesman. Same word for fellowship. Just ate a burrito, burp, you know? And communion is a reminder that the answer is If you'd like to connect with Rick, just go to PastorRick. com. What does God command you to do? com to get yours right now. That's 800-600-5004. We are to belong to his family. And I would so often spend hours a day just thinking, praying, listening, talking, monthly I don't know what it is, but you do. And it's it's called that several times. The family of God, the church's family, his flock, his body. com. This program is sponsored by Pastor Rick's Daily Hope and your generous financial support. Look at this verse on the screen here. But he says, you matter to me. We're also honored to be associated with the great legacy of Billy Graham. Or just text the word daily to 99. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Here's what people just like you are saying about Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. We cry out. Call today 800-600- And what I want you to do is When you give to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope Broadcast, you're supporting the program that received the Billy Graham Award for Excellence in Christian Communication. He can handle your cries. Or maybe years ago you were close to God and you're not so close now. Job says, in my early years, I felt the friendship of God in my life. It's the same thing. If you just prayed to accept Jesus Christ into your heart, congratulations. There's a God, life sucks. Communion and fellowship are the same thing. Today, when you support Pastor Rick's Daily Hope with a financial He says, I've hidden your sins behind God can forget what He chooses There are four words that are used to refer to the same You can listen every day to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope on this station or at PastorRick. Thanks so much. You got to maintain God says this: I'll get you out of trouble. And that's what Jesus did. You have your choice of a 5 CD box set. Talk to God all the time. Eucharist. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. Fourth way to build a friendship with God. And God says here: if you return to me, I will restore you so you can continue. That's how much I love you He said, This is my body, which is I thank you that I matter to you, that I matter enough that you sent Jesus to die. And I humbly ask you to You go, help! What is God doing in your life through this broadcast? They're not your friend. First, He puts them out of sight. That's the condition. The Bible says, their sins will I remember no more. Can I have the slate You gotta trust. Eucharist is a Greek word that means The Bible says he takes your sins and metaphorically dumps them in the deepest part of the ocean It says this In my early years, the friendship of God It matters so much that God so loved you. That's eight hundred- In fact, while I'm talking to you right now, I'm talking to Him. God actually lets you go through pain in order to draw you closer to Him. But God says, just be gut honest with me. I would love to read it. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Now that's not what it says. Unfortunately, I have the same personality. That they broke bread together in the temple courts and from house to house. Can I be forgiven? Look at this verse on the screen. God bless you. Today we bring our series called Awesome Relationships to a Close. Trust God I don't know what you're going through right now, but I do know the answer. Have you noticed that? It's four different words for the same symbol that Jesus gave to all of us. You don't have to bow your head, you don't have to close your eyes. Yeah. He can handle your complaints. And what I want you to do is you just accept that fact. Today is the last day to get this great resource, so don't wait. Not I'm going to block Somebody has to pay for your sins, either you or somebody else. No one shows greater love than when he lays down his life for his friends, and you are my friends. Hi, everybody. We are to believe and belong. In fact, the Bible says that when I accept what Jesus Christ did on the cross as this symbolizes. Now Jesus gave First Corinthians 11, verse 20 and 21, uh, it's called the Lord's Supper. You may spend eight hours a day with them, but if you don't trust them, they're not a friend. And God says, I'm gonna bring you closer to me. God can handle your honesty. You're in trouble right now in some way. Pray all the time. And number five, this is an important one if you're gonna build God, I don't like it. And if you've never opened your life to Jesus Christ, now is the time to accept. You are to influence them. It's Pastor Rick Warren with some big news. Now he's bringing you their stories. What does it say? And I pray this in Jesus' name. There's a verse in the Bible that says, You have taken my sins and hidden them Pray this prayer in your heart. com You got to get to know and trust God, you got to build a friendship with Him. That's called grace. And by the way, I'll send you some free material to help you start in your new journey with the Lord. Can I start over? If you'd like a copy of today's message, com and click on his social media link. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Pray what? Psalm 55, 22. I died for you. Christians says all the time. East and west never come together. He can handle your What matters not where you've been, but the direction your feet is In fact, if you're driving, you better not Talk and So you Question. And then he puts up a no-fishing sign. Now, as you pray about giving, I want to ask you this. You just have this running conversation with God. Dear God, I want to be your friend You're now my brother or sister in the Lord. Now I Do not let them influence you. And by the way, let me know God is using you in a mighty way. Some of you Maintain a constant And so while I'm talking to you, I'm talking to God at the same time. I'm Andy Christman. Listening to the Daily Hope broadcast has really impacted Don't you want that back? Can I be born again? My Daily Hope devotionals. Oh you Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. They never come together. That's a great question. Dump it. Cast all your cares. Can I be forgiven? In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. East and west never come together. com. If you love Christian music, this is your