Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord from Matthew chapter 6, beginning at verse 25, reads as follows. Therefore, I say to you, do not worry about your life. what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap, nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? Which of you by worrying can add one cubic to his statue? So why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field and how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. And yet I say to you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Now, if God so clove the grass of the field, which today is and tomorrow is thrown into the oven Will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? Therefore do not worry, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after all these things the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. Would you pray with me? Spirit of the Lord, we thank you for the Word of God on this morning. We thank you for the occasion and opportunity we have to declare your truth. Lord, open up this scripture to our understanding as well as our application so that we might live more powerful lives as children of the Most High God. Lord, I'm praying that if there's anybody under the sound of my voice who does not know you as Lord and Savior of their life, that today would be the day that they would say yes to your will, that they would surrender to you. For you have accomplished all that is necessary for the redemption of their soul from hell. And I pray, God, that today their eyes will be opened by the power and presence of the Holy Spirit. And God, that you might draw them to yourself and they might surrender to your will. For those, God, who are drifting in their fellowship with you. God, I pray that you would allow them to reclaim Their fellowship and be restored to you on this day. That they would be drawn back into a fellowship with the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. For those who came discouraged, I pray, God, this be a word of encouragement. For those who came just to hear a word from you, God, let it be undeniable that you have been in their midst on today. Speak a word even beyond our facades and all beyond our our barriers, our walls we've built up. Speak to our heart today We need to know that you care and that you hear and that you're speaking. So, Lord, I yield myself as a vessel in accomplishing your will today. I am in need of you that you use this flesh for your purpose Give my mind clarity of thought, my lips clarity of speech, that everything might be done in a way that would bring honor and glory to you. Have your way now, God, in the name of Jesus who is the Christ. I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. The people of God said together, Amen. And amen. I wanted to kind of use this text to pull back the covers uh on uh an area that I believe that uh many of us can uh Can use some help on, and perhaps that would help uh most of us uh to be stronger in our walk with the Lord. I believe that most often as we look at this particular passage of Scripture, uh the focus is on worry. Um but as I lean in on this text today, I want to actually address Another area that I hear Jesus speaking clearly through to us and to focus on, and that subject matter is not worry, but that subject matter is your value. I believe that Jesus speaks to us here in this text regarding confidence in our value in him And trust me that everyone has wrestled at some time in their life with comprehending And accepting and understanding how valuable they are In fact, we have attached words and phrases to those who lack value in themselves. And along with the lack of comprehension of our value, we have oftentimes plunged ourselves into some depressive state. Andor into some submissive relationship to try to draw value out of things that cannot bring you value We have attempted to connect with some man or some woman in hopes that they would value us at the level that we were created to be valued. We have hooked up with some friends, some some partners, some some boys, some girls, some posse, some whatever you call your group or your gang that you uh hang out with, and you've pledged and you've been You've been burned and you've been scorched and you've been branded and and all of this stuff. Uh you've connected to these organizations and these societies and these groups in order to somehow uh undergird your mind to believe that that brings you value I just want you to understand something on this morning. You can be a part of every group. Uh you can be branded on every arm, leg, foot, toe. Everywhere all over your body. You can have all the men, all the women, you can go through all that stuff and still not feel valued. In fact, many people wrestle with this on a regular basis, but they don't look like it. Because we have some uh organizations and corporations who have created uh makeup Amen, somebody. And makeup is magical. Praise the Lord Jesus. Makeup will make a person who doesn't value themselves look awesome. Makeup will make a sad person look happy. And so we can disguise outwardly what's not present inwardly. And that is a sense of value of who I really am. I want to use for a subject matter on this morning. You are of more value. Now, the text asks the rhetorical question: Are you not of more value than they? That's what the text uh says here. I've read it in your hearing. And it's a rhetorical question because we ought to know the answer. This in verse number 26: Are you not of more value than they? And so I just want to I want to talk just for our time on this morning from that very subject matter that you are of more value. First and foremost, as I pull this text apart, I believe that we need to first lean in and understand and be confident of your value. You have to be confident of your value. As we address some of the subjects and the issues of domestic violence, for example, the abuse that happens in those scenarios serves to devalue a person. an individual, um, to dominate them and to strip away the confidence they have in themselves Unfortunately, for even children, sometimes in the family domestic violence scenarios, children have been acclimated to assume and believe that they don't have value because somebody else stripped it away from them. Lord help me. And so the idea is that in domestic violence scenario, it is to dominate someone to the extreme. Watch this. To devalue them at the expense of somebody else you're trying to reap value for yourself. In other words, the abuser is really the one suffering from a lack of value. But he's trying, or she's trying, to assume value by devaluing you. Here's the hurtful part about it. The hurtful part about it is that the devaluing that happens in the process lingers and lasts into your latter years. In other words, you might have had it happen to you at the age of 13. Let me just paint a scenario. You were in love with Johnny down the street. And you just knew that everything was wonderful and Johnny down the street was in love with you, and then one day you found out that Johnny down the street didn't love you no more. And all of your value that you had placed in Johnny down the street has now been stripped away from you. In fact, Johnny down the street has told you you are of no more value to me. And so as a result of a 13-year-old experience, you have been traumatized and now you're 60. And you still think that you don't have any value. Because Johnny, who was 13 just like you, immature, ignorant, and crazy wild, hormones jumping everywhere, thought that he could bring value to you. Is this making sense? All of your value was placed in them and then they they disappointed you. I'm just gonna warn you, people will disappoint you if your value is attached to them. Amen What Jesus says in the text is listen, he says, Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will wear, what you're gonna put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Do not worry about your life. Don't worry about Food, don't worry about clothes, don't worry about these things because worry, listen to this: worry is the wrecking ball of confidence. My God. In other words, if I'm going to be confident in my value, I can't let worry creep in. Because if I start worrying, and I f I if watch this in the context of the passage, if I'm worrying about myself stuff, how I look, what I got, what I gotta wear, what I'm gonna eat. If I'm worrying, what I'm allowing to creep in is uncertainty, and when the uncertainty creeps in It wrecks all my confidence. And watch this. If I'm worried about food and I'm worried about clothes and I'm worried about my substance Then what I'm literally saying is the one who's responsible for taking care of me doesn't value me, and so therefore, I need to be concerned and I need to worry But if the one who's supposed to take care of me is never going to fail me, then I can be confident about what I'm going to have to eat and what I'm going to have to wear, and I don't need to worry about that Are y'all still here with me? Because I I need to be confident in my value, I will also be confident in my substance. Um when I was growing up, I had both parents in the home, my mom and my dad, and when it was dinner time, we always had dinner. I was blessed. I know everybody that can't say that. But when dinner time came around, I was confident. That we would have dinner because my parents were my providers And I knew that they valued me enough not to starve me to death. Y'all catching on? And so I begin to walk with a certain level of confidence about how much I was worth. Because my parents invested in me that I could be confident in them. But watch this. But they were wise enough to remind me that my substance really didn't come from them, it came from God. And they taught me that when I come to the table, instead of thanking them for the meal, you better thank God for this meal. Ah And so he says to us, don't worry about don't don't worry because worry says I have lacked confidence in my My supplier of food and clothes and all these things. And I'm not going to allow worry to come in and wreck my confidence in what I'm worth. Because I know my worth, I can be confident. Can I say this that quite often it is the circumstances of life that cause us to to worry and to be concerned and to think that somehow I'm not going to be taken care of, but I would probably suggest that even those who have grown up and missed some meals, God still took care of you. Amen. I would suggest that even those who have cancer, and you know, cancer is a is a word that when you get that word from the doctor, automatically For most people, worry kicks in. But watch this. Why does worry kick in if I'm if I'm confident in my value to God? If I know what I'm worth to God, why am I concerned about cancer? Are y'all y'all catching this? Okay, I I need to go down another step. Y'all didn't catch it. If I know that God who created everything and has the ability to heal anything values me. And then cancer happens to come my way, but I am the property of a God who can do anything but fail. Yeah, the doctor said I have cancer, but my God says I'm a healer. I I can handle that. Can I help somebody with this one? Not one time in human history. Has anyone ever got a diagnosis of cancer? Went to God in prayer and told God that they had cancer, and God said, Oh no! Did you know that has never happened in the whole of all of human history? God is not surprised that cancer came in. Stay here with me. All he wants you to know is that you're valuable to him, and you need to keep walking in confidence that he's got your situation. Confidence um shows up in body language. Okay? If you know what you're worth, your body language changes. Okay? Now let me let me I need to throw this out. I don't know why, but um our body language says what I think I'm worth. Mmm. Now my clothes. My clothes oftentimes might be saying just the opposite. That I think I'm not worth, and so therefore I need to cover up and look like I'm worth. See a lot of people look like they were for a million dollars, but they broke. When I'm confident that I'm valuable to God, I enter the room with a different swagger. Yeah, I'm here. That's right. Uh-huh. And then people start looking like it, who is that? Who is he? Who is she? What look at that swag they got? Look what's going on with them. They must be important. And when they ask the question, you say, yes, I am. I showed off I'm important. And and watch this. You don't have to sit in the front of the room. You can go sit in the back of the room. You got swagger and sit in the back and people be looking back like what what Because you've got confidence in who you are. And you've got confidence in your value. And if I know how if if I can comprehend how valuable I am to God, I ain't gotta worry. It exudes in your body language. And when you don't feel valued, that also exudes in your body language You know, your shoulders kind of slump. You you don't look directly. You you you know you kind of look in like humble power or something. If you're valuable and you know it, watch this, and your value is uh is established by the one who created the whole world. Oh, now that's a different kind of swagger. Now, if I was just valuable to some old you know knucklehead on the block, that's different. No, but I'm valuable to the Lord God Almighty. Oh yeah. Different sway, different body language, different attitude. I'm I'm approaching things completely differently. And so I need I need to be be confident. Be confident. Be confident. Be confident in your value. Let me let me let me dig in some little bit more. Verse 26 Picks up and says, Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap nor gather in bonds. Yet the Heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they Second thing I need you to I need to push here because he he keeps going on and and finally in verse thirty he says Now if God so close the the grass of the field and uh which is today and and tomorrow is gone and throw it into the fire. Will he not much more clothe you, oh you of little faith? What Jesus says here is that this is a faith issue. You don't have faith in your value. You don't even know how valuable you are. And he says, now I understand if I can speak for the Lord. I understand that you can't see it in yourself. I understand that nobody has affirmed you and nobody has promoted you and nobody has lifted you up and nobody has said you were prettier. Nobody has said you were handsome. Or at least you haven't heard it enough, or you haven't heard it, and and so So therefore, you don't have faith because you can't see it. And he said, if you can't see it in yourself, let me show you it in the birds. When you look in the mirror, you don't see value. Alright, let me show you value. Jesus said, let me show you value. Look at the birds. Y'all still here? Look at the birds. They don't sow? They're not sowing no seeds nowhere. They're not they're not plowing up any ground. You know, they're not reaping, they're not storing stuff in barns. There's no bird barn around the corner where the birds can go and get food when they get cold. No, they don't they don't do none of that. But yet they're valuable enough that God feeds them every day. Y'all k this is Jesus. He's trying to help us to see our own value. He he feed God feeds the bird every day. I now I've seen some people standing on the corner with signs. Saying hungry need help. Please help me feed my family. Please help me. But I've never seen a bird holding a sign. I don't care how cold it was, it could be 30 degrees and the and the ground be frozen and the bird, I ain't never seen a bird with a sign saying hungry need help. Which helps me kind of understand that somebody lying. Because this is my scripture. The scripture says that my God will supply all of my need. Not according to people who stop at the at the stoplight and and and and who I can c coerce to bring money out of their pocket. It's not I'm No, my God's not so he's he's going to supply my need according to his riches in glory. So if you can't see your value in your mirror, if you can't see your value in your own experiences, look at the birds and look how your father values the birds. And and can I include in the birds because when I say birds, the first thing y'all probably thinking about is robins and and blue jays and stuff like that. But the buzzard is a bird too. Come on, come on here. Now, Pastor, why you throw the buzzard in? You you know why I throw the buzzard in? Because he's a bird that we don't value. Nobody say I want a buzzard for a pet God takes care of them. And if he'll take care of the buzzard, if the God That we serve values of buzzard so that the buzzard doesn't have to worry about eating. How much more value do you think he puts in you? Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor. Buch Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed By today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down With the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.