Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety and now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Proverbs chapter eighteen. Proverbs chapter eighteen and our reading will be in verse twenty-two. I also want to look at Proverbs 19 and verse 14. And then finally, Genesis chapter 2. And verse eighteen. The word of the Lord reads, He who finds a wife finds a good thing. And obtains favor from the Lord. Proverbs nineteen and fourteen Says, houses and riches are an inheritance from fathers, but a prudent wife is from the Lord. Genesis chapter 2 and verse 18 says, And the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helper comparable to him. Amen. Father, bless our time on this morning in the text, open it up to our understanding and to our life for living. I pray, God, that as I opened the text on the day and preached this word, that you would use the efforts of my lips to speak the very oracle of God into the hearing of your people. I pray that if anybody doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, that today will be the day, God, that they would give their life to you. That they would say yes to your will. That those that have drifted in their fellowship, that today, God, they would realize they need to return to you and they would restore the broken fellowship. God, I pray for the edification of this body, but above and beyond everything else that transpires, it's my prayer, God, that Your name gets all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. So use me now to accomplish your will, God, as I stand in need of you. Speak through me, God, and use me for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. The primary passage that I really want to deal with on this morning really is the first one, and that was Proverbs 1822 that said, He who finds a wife finds a good thing, and obtains favor from the Lord. So pray with me this morning as I want to try to I want to speak from the subject matter, a good thing. Most of all of us can appreciate finding a good thing. Whether that's a wife, a husband, a dog. And when we find it, whatever it is, we rejoice in it because we recognize this is good. So this text actually speaks first about he who finds a wife Herein lies a heavy weight of some of the problem and probably a major part of the issue that we have with this text and we have in life because we first of all have to find a wife And did you realize that in this particular day and time, finding a wife has become enormously difficult? Do you realize that the marriage rate in America has constantly dropped since the late nineteen forties? In nineteen forty-nine, the marriage rate in America was seventy-eight percent. The lowest rate that was measured was in 2022, which was forty-six percent. I think today we have a lot of things that are going on. There are There are some people who are not looking. There's some that ain't looking for a wife, and there's some that ain't looking to be found. It's like I ain't trying to be nobody's wife. I've been there, done that, got t-shirts and scars to show. And then there are some that are looking but they don't know what they're looking for. He who finds a wife, how do how do I find a wife? A wife is not just a woman. Gender wise it is. So the context of this proverb, when it says he who finds the wife, it it uses the word Ishe. Which is a feminine noun that means woman, bride, and holy. So a wife is not just a woman But a wife is a woman. But it's a it's a godly, reverent woman. Proverbs 19:14 says, A prudent wife is from the Lord. This is the kind of wife we're looking for. We're not looking for a wife from the devil, we want a wife from the Lord. He who finds a wife who gains favor gets a wife from the Lord. Are y'all still here? She's godly, she's prudent. Proverbs 31 says, She is virtuous. Her family is well spoken of, her husband is well taken care of, and when he sits at the gates, it's it's because of her that he gets glory. And so if looking for a wife, I need to know what I'm looking for if I want this text to apply to me. The text says, he who finds a wife finds a good thing, but it ain't good if it ain't a wife. That's according to the text. And so when you find the wife, the woman found a woman, if you're searching for the right thing, you might find the right thing. So it's helpful to know what you're looking for. And in the text, if I want the favor of God at the end of the text, I need to know what a wife is at the beginning of the text. And so a wife in the beginning of the text is a godly, prudent, born-again, resourceful, virtuous woman of God. And so that's what I'm searching for. And the text says, finds a good thing. And we translate the phrase here in from the Hebrew to a good thing, which In some ways it it really reads the good of God. He had found This wife, who is all this that I just described, he finds the good. He finds the treasure of God. This is good right here. He finds the treasure of God is really a better uh maybe a good way of really understanding it because if I just say good thing It doesn't fully encompass how I'm defining good. So he who finds a godly and virtuous and prudent wife finds The treasure of God. For my singles and um divorced and widows Who are godly and born again and prudent and virtuous women, I need you to hear this. You are the treasure of God. See a lot of times people feel like if I haven't hooked up with someone or someone has rejected me or I went through a bad marriage or div you know got divorced or maybe You know, brother man quit me the day before Valentine's Day. Let me tell you why he did that. Is it because he was cheap and he didn't want to buy you nothing? He'll he'll be trying to make up. He was like, Oh, I'm so sorry. Cause now Valentine's over with And so he'll want to make up with you. That's just that's a side note. So but sometimes when people go through that and they go through the breakup and they go through the through the hurt of being um damaged through a m a a divorce or through a bad relationship. Then they start to think that there's something wrong with me. Or and if they're not being chosen and they're being picked over because they're their girlfriends or sister girl and this person and that person seem like everybody got a man except me. Well I need you to understand something that just because they're with somebody doesn't make them valuable but because watch this but but God has said you are my treasure. If you're a born-again virtuous and prudent and godly woman, you are the treasure of God. Everybody who has the treasure in the hand doesn't always realize the value of the treasure. Sometimes when we get something that we call a good thing, we're excited about it because it looks good. But the real joy, the real celebration, the real excitement comes when we find out how valuable it is. And I want to say something to somebody here this morning. Sometimes people won't realize how valuable you are. until you're not there anymore. They won't realize your value until they need you. And Men we need them. Why, Pastor? Why? Because it's not good for man to be alone. That's what the text says. I read that in Genesis chapter 2, verse 18. I read that so that y'all didn't just think I'm just on somebody's side. I'm on the Lord's side. It's not good for us to be alone, we needed a helpmate. And so God created it for us. And he created it out of his treasure. He created you, godly, divine, spiritual woman, born-again woman of God who's virtuous, who who has these characteristics, uh the of prudency and virtue. He created you as his treasure for a divine purpose. in life. And I know what you're thinking for so those of you that don't want no man, I don't want to have nothing to do with no man no more. I I I get it, I get it. And I'll say this every every woman who is virtuous, every woman who is godly, every woman who is divine may not necessarily end up in marriage and and may not even stay in marriage, but but watch this. But it doesn't it but it doesn't diminish your value. Just because nobody's appreciating it doesn't mean it doesn't have value. But the one who put the value on you, Lord have mercy, is God Himself, and He said, You're valuable to me, you're my treasure. And if someone finds you, they found my treasure. And as a treasure of God, you are found. But the one who finds that woman. The text is obtains favor from the Lord. The one who he will obtain favor from the Lord. Which is uh reta. Um he will find pleasure, he will find delight, he will find preference when he finds This wife. He finds this prudent, this this virtuous, this godly, this born-again woman. When he finds her, he finds the preference and the favor and the delight of God. As I thought about this text in the scripture, there are two Two men who are looking for a wife There's the first Adam and the second Adam. The first Adam didn't know that he needed a wife. But God told him, it's not good for you to be alone, and I'm going to make you a wife. That's comparable to you. And y'all know the story, he put him to sleep and he made from his rib a wife for him that she might be a helpmate to him. The second Adam didn't need a wife, but he wanted a wife because he sought to be her help because she was in a place that she couldn't help herself. The first Adam followed his wife into sin. The second Adam led his wife out of sin. First Adam, his wife was created from his rib, and the second Adam's wife was created of his spirit and of his blood. The the first Adam died with his wife, but the second Adam died for his wife. That she might live. Lord help me, Jesus. In case y'all haven't figured it out, when He died for our sin, He died to clean us up. So that he could have for himself a wife that was without spot or wrinkle, that he might call us unto himself. And he said, I'm going away to prepare a place for you, but I, as the groom, I'm coming back to receive you as my wife. You and I are the wife that he wants. And when he finds us, he finds a good thing. Because we were created as his treasure. And he he gave everything that he had so that he could find us. When he found you, you were a mess. You were destitute and couldn't help yourself. Nobody else wanted you. Nobody else would save you. But he loved you anyway. And knowing our miserable condition, the Bible says that we were as filthy rags in his presence. And he died for us and he paid the price for us that nobody else could pay or would pay, and that was the price of his life. And he shed his blood, and he was buried, and he rose again the third day, and he ascended to glory, sat down on the right hand of the Father, and is making intercession for his bride. And he's looking for a holy bride. But because the bride can't make herself holy, he's got blood waiting to wash her up. And he'll wash her and he'll cleanse her by the washing of the water of the word of God. And he'll he'll sanctify you and he'll sanctify me. That means to set us apart, he'll set us apart. Lord have mercy as his own he'll set us apart so that when the day of the feast comes and the day of the wedding comes we're his and we're all his and nobody else's And when he finds us and cleans us, that's a good thing. This text, Proverbs 1822, goes beyond our finding of humanity and people to live with and spend the rest of our lives with. This text transcends the marriage between humanity and the marriage between God and us. Because the marriages that we function in in life are just a mirror of a relationship that God has with his church. Christ is the groom, the church is the bride. And you can't be part of the bride. You can't be a wife if you're not godly If you're not prudent, if you're not virtuous, if you're not born again. And so when he comes back, and he is coming back. He's coming back for his bride. Not the people in church. He's coming back for that wife that the text is talking about. So he paid his life for us. And then he says, I'm going away to prepare a place for you. Because because I don't wanna I I don't want to just just just hook up with you where you are. No, I I don't Lord have mercy. But where you are ain't good enough. I don't I don't want to hook up with you there. I want to have a place for you that I can take you to that you and I can have intimacy. And I'm coming again to receive you to myself. So he went away to prepare a place for us. And he's coming back for us. So when we talk about the man who finds a wife, he's talking about a godly wife. He's talking about he he in as we look forward in terms of Christ's relation with us. He's looking for those who are born again, and he's coming back to receive us to himself. And he's going to take us, and then we shall forever be with him. Now watch this. Remember what I said? There's some some wives that ain't don't want to be found. I don't want to be found. But there's some people that don't want to be found too. We're gonna share the gospel with some people, and they say I ain't looking for Jesus. But watch this: there's probably some people who are married today that will probably say, I really wasn't looking for a husband, I wasn't looking for a wife. It just happened. I mean you you just fell in love. You tripped one day and boom hit your head and everything was just changed. You thought you were gonna be single, playboy, playgirl for the rest of your life, and all of a sudden, ooh my god, didn't even know it would be like this, and then you got married. Guess what? There are some people who had no intention on going to heaven or being a Christian, but you're saved. You look back on your life and you thought I never I never had no expectation of going Being I was gonna hang on on the street, I was gonna do my thing, I wasn't looking for the Lord, but the Lord found you, didn't He? And you fell in love with Him, not because you were so special, but because He was so special Because of his demonstration of love towards us, we fell in love with him and we became his bride. I just need you, everybody, understand this: just because you ain't looking don't mean you won't be found And just because you don't want to be found doesn't mean you won't be found. Because God has a way of making you fall in love. But look, the Lord's desire is that we become part of his family. And that we together collectively as the born-again family of God, as the as the body of Christ, we become his bride. And that's for everyone, no matter how wretched, no matter how wicked, no matter how worthless we might feel that we are or think that we are, he paid the price for you. To redeem you, to set you in order and to bring you in. And now it's up to us. Look at the diamond. That he's presenting you while he's he's not on his knees, he's on the cross, presenting you the best he has, and says, Will you be my bride? It's up to you to say yes or say no. That's the message of the gospel. Will you accept me as your husband to take care of you, to look out for you, to protect you, to provide for you To make sure that you are never hurt and that you have an eternal place to call home. Everybody wants that kind of safety. You'll never be condemned. You'll never be cast out. All your past will be thrown away We won't bring up all those old issues. And guess what? And when you sin, I'll forgive you. And let me throw this in just for good measure. This I just can't help myself. You won't even have to work. I'll pay for everything. That's a real good husband. That's a good thing. That's what Jesus is for you and I. He's our husband. And his proposal today is for a good wife. If you've never trusted him as Lord and Savior, he's extending to you today the opportunity to become part of his family. He wants to marry you He will forgive you of all your sin, all your unrighteousness. And he's already prepared a place for you. And he's saying, Come, come unto me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services. Services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website. Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at three zero one six two seven nine five zero zero. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman of 4him has spent 40 plus years In Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the songs. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations. Won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.