Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Genesis chapter 12. We'll begin our reading at verse number one. The word reads, Now the Lord said to Abram, Get out of your country, from your family, and from your father's house, to a land that I will show you. I will make you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great. And you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you. And I will curse him who curses you. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken to him, and Lot went with him. And Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we bless you in advance for what you are getting ready to do. It is my prayer on today, God, that you would open up every ear and every heart to hear this word from you. Speak, Lord, in our midst, because we are in need of your presence. We're thirsty for you, God. And I pray, God, as the word goes forward, I pray that it goes forward with clarity, authority, and conviction. I pray that it will reach some lost soul who is in need of direction for their life that they might come asking, What must I do? To be saved. Father, call someone to surrender their life to you today, someone who's drifted in their fellowship. Perhaps, God, they've been out of church. They've been out of the fellowship. They've been out Connection with you, but God, you've you've made it such that you've drawn them to this opportunity to hear a word. I pray you draw them closer to your side, that they might renew the broken fellowship, even on this day. Father, in the midst of all that transpires, I pray that you would speak to us that we might all be edified. That we might be All the wiser to know what your will is and how it is that you're working in our lives and in our midst. Father, bless your people as they hear this word. I stand in need of you, God. Even as a vessel is standing to declare your word, speak through these lips of clay. Words of edification, words of salvation, words, God, that would transform someone's eternal destiny. I need you, Lord. So I surrender to you now. Have your way. And we'll give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise, for this is all about you. We're celebrating you, Jesus. So have thine own way. In Jesus' name I pray The people of God said together, Amen and Amen. Well, one of the things that I am clear about as it relates to the Lord and God that we serve, is that God has a way of bringing a variety of circumstances in our life. And he uses those circumstances that perplex us and vex us to ask us this simple question: do you trust me? I want to preach through a series of messages with that title, Do You Trust Me? And this morning, as I look at this particular text. I'll use this text to talk to you from the idea, do you trust me enough to move? In the text The first movement here is what I call the ask of God to trust. Uh he says to Abram, get out of your country, or from your family and from your father's house, get out of your country. This ask of God is a huge ask. God, you're asking me to leave my country. The ask, if you will, is a three-tier ask. You're not just asking me to leave my country, which is the global atmosphere that I'm comfortable in. But you're also asking me to leave my family, my tribe, my community That I feel supported in, I feel uh comfortable in, and and wait a minute, and then you want me also to leave my father's house? Where all the resources and all the provisions that I ever need are taken care of, and you want me to walk away from that? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, God, that's a big ask. But this is the ask that God has to trust. Will you trust me? To leave all three tiers of your comfort zone, your country, your family, and your father's house Will you leave all of that, Abram, and demonstrate that you trust me? The anxiety that rises up in us when we have this ask put before us. Is well wait a minute what where where we going what what was because we we like answers amen we like to know where we going We ain't just jumping in talking about just get up and leave. No. And so we we we like to ask questions. And so the anxiety is when God says Get up and leave your country, your family, and your father's house, and he hasn't given you all the details, anxiety rises up. I got I got 18 years in the and I'm almost to retirement. Do you trust me? I I got this mortgage, I got this car payment, I got these kids in college. Do you trust me? And Abram doesn't act like we act. Abram, I want you to get up and leave all of that to a land that I will show you and And Abram has no idea where the land is. He has no description of the land. He knows no direction of the land. He'll know which direction we're going in. He has no details. He don't know how many acres they are. He doesn't know whether there's cattle on it. He don't know whether it's brow bushes. He don't know if it's mountainous or valley. He doesn't know anything about the land. Let me add something else to this. He doesn't even know the God who's talking to him. Y'all catch that? Here's a guy who grows up in Haran and his whole family of heathens. They don't know God. And the word of God comes to him, and at the word of God, he gets up, packs up his family, and takes off So here's my question to you, born-again, children of God, bloodwashed, fire baptized, running for your life, name on the roll and the roster of multiple churches. Do you trust him enough to move? The second movement picks up in verse number two where he says I'm going to take you to a land that I will show you. I will make you a great nation. I will bless you. I make your name great. And you shall be a blessing. And I will bless those who bless you. Curse those who curse you. And in you all the families of the earth will be blessed. These are the promises to trust. Abram, these things that I'm I'm promising you are not contingent upon you. Abram, you don't have to be this or that. I'm Abram, these promises are from God, and these promises that I'm putting before you are asking you the question: Do you trust me? Do you trust God with the unconditional promises he's put before you in your life? There's at least seven I wills In the promises that God lays before Abram. First, I need you to understand that God is omnipotent Which means he possesses unlimited power and not just unlimited power, all power That means everything that represents power, it's God. It's in his hands, it's in his control. He has all the power, he is omnipotent, and he has the power to do anything. Secondly, he's omniscient, which means he knows everything. Anything there is to know, anything there is about knowledge which is far above and beyond. what any of us as intelligent beings and any of us as geniuses could ever comprehend. God knows that too So when we talk about when God says I will, it's done. When God wills, He has the power to make it happen. God is in control of everything. Even the stuff that's troubling you and and causing you not to sleep at night, God is in control of that too. And he's using it to ask you, do you trust me? And so he says to Abram, Abram, I'm taking you to this land, and the land I will Show you. You can't see it now. Listen, God is asking some of us to move. You can't see where you're going. Lord help me, Jesus. But I will show you when you get there. Lord help me God. God, why are you dislodging me from my comfort? Why are you causing me so Such anxiety and life. God wants to know, do you trust me to take the move? And when you get there, I will show it to you. I'll show you the reason why you had to go through this hell. I'll show you the reason why you had to be dislodged. I'll show you the reason why you had to move, but you gotta move. I'll show it to you. He says I will make you a great nation. This is just my assumptions in the text Of what Abram might be thinking. I'm 75 years old. My wife is 65. We old. We don't have any children. There's so many things your intelligence can't figure out, but when God says, I will, it's done. I will make you a great nation, Abram. I will bless you and make your name great. Nobody knows who Abram is right now As a matter of fact, Abram's leaving a place where his family knows and maybe his community knows, but God says, I need to I need you to move Abram from this comfortable place. I need you to move and trust me that where I'm taking you. I'm going to do this, Abram. You ain't got to worry about um putting up no avert tismas. Here comes Abram. I'm here now. You ain't got to Create no social media pages or nothing. You don't need followers, Abram. I'm going to do it. I'm going to make your name a legacy for generations to come. That thousands of years from now, Abram, they'll be standing in Kettering Baptist Church preaching about your name. But Abram, you can't see it right now, but I'm God and I'm gonna do it And so he says, look, Abram, I'm going to I will I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse those who curse you. It's good to be in position when the when the Lord is defending you. When I understand that the Lord is promoting me and defending me Because when the Lord is promoting me and defending me, nobody can stop me from getting to where he is already assigned for me to be. I don't even know where I'm going, but I know he says when I get there, he's gonna show me this is the land I'm gonna overflow blessings in your life, Abram, such that the blessings of your life are gonna overflow into other people's lives. And so the blessing will seem like it's coming from you, but it's really coming from me. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. I will do this, Abram. Abram, you you you can't even comprehend that That through your loins, I'm going to bring forth the Messiah who's going to give his life. As a ransom and shed his blood for the redemption of the world. But Abram, I need you to get in position I need you to move from where you are. And Abram, I need you to trust me because if you trust me, Abram, it will be accounted unto you as righteousness. And the Bible says that Abram believed God and that he trusted God. He believed God. He acted on the word of God. For you and I, listen, I believe God is dislodging some of us from our comfortable spots because we weren't trusting him. Amen. And now on the outside, from the outside looking in, it's like, oh my God, this is terrible. And then some of the stuff is really kind of terrible. But in some of these things, I really believe this is really great. Because you would never get to the place that God wanted you to be when you were trusting in the wrong God. You know what stops a lot of us from making a move when God says move? The opinion of other people. So you allow someone else's opinion to override the voice of God. You still here with me. The last thing is the actions of your trust. Amen. Because we we we we real fast to say I trust God. I I mean real fast. Without even thinking about it, we say, oh yeah, I trust God. But do your actions match your mouth? The text says, verse 4, Abram departed as the Lord had spoken to him. That's trust in action. It's not trust if you put no action behind it Abram is hearing from a God he doesn't know, being told to go to a place he don't have no idea where it is. And he's being asked to trust that these promises that he can't even comprehend happening Are going to be of some value to him and the rest of the people that God says he's going to be a blessing to. And Abram Departed as the Lord has spoken. Let's put this stuff in the car. Let's put it in the car. And when you get there, I'm gonna bless you. Don't worry about it. I'm gonna bless you. Leave all the other stuff behind. You can't carry what you leave behind. Don't worry about what you're gonna leave behind. This is another thing that hinders us from moving because we're worried about what we might leave behind. Have faith of what God has ahead of you. Because what's ahead of you is far better than what's behind you. So Abram Departed as the Lord had spoken to him. And my question is, do you trust him enough to move at his word? When his word comes to you and speaks to you, are you willing to move? And if he says to you, Come on, you you need to move, you need to do, I need to get you here, I need to get you there, I need you to do this, I need to do that, just move. He will do it. He just wants you to have a willing and trusting heart to trust him that where I'm taking you, I'm gonna keep you. Y'all still here with me? I know you in your mind right now you're you're running through the things that you have put on hold and you're thinking, oh Lord, why did I come to church today? You all in my business, Pastor, you messing me up. No, I'm trying to help us. I'm trying to help us to answer this question. Do you trust him? Abraham packed up, took his wife, packed up all the stuff, and the Bible says, and Lot went with him. Listen, when you trust God enough to move, your trust incites other people Other people get courage from watching you trust God When you trust God through your circumstances, when you trust God that everything is going to be all right, when you trust God in the midst of the world seeming like it's falling apart And you still got a smile on your face, and you're still worshiping God, and you're still blessing God, and you're still trusting God. People around you, they'll get courage from your faith Lot, which is his father's, I think is his father's brother's child or something like that, and is his nephew He said, well, wait a minute. You gotta see this image. God speaks to Abram. Abram goes around and says to her, y'all, I'm gone. Where you going? I don't know. God God what God? We don't even we don't even serve God. Well I got a a voice from heaven spoke to me and said Pack up and leave. He's gonna show me where he's taking me. He's gonna bless me. He's gonna take care of me. He's gonna all this, all that. So I'm I'm I'm out of here tomorrow morning. And Lot said, I'm going with you Lord have mercy. I'm trying to help you right here. I'm trying to help you to understand you are an ambassador of the kingdom of God, and there are people who are watching you, and they need to know that you're Faith is real. They need to know that your God is able, and your actions, your trust of God says to them, I can trust God too. If you go, I'm going to because if God blesses you, I want to be in the blessing business. I want to be in the vicinity where the blessings are falling. If God is going to protect you, if I'm hanging out with you, I know He'll protect me too. There's a whole lot of folk that are waiting for the opportunity for you to get up and move. They don't have the faith. They don't have the strength They don't have the courage, but they're waiting for you. If you do it, they'll jump on board. If you trust God at His word, Others will follow you. Others will be motivated. Watch this. Others will even come to Christ because of your faith. Some of you right now, and I said this a couple weeks ago, you have become the minister in your office. You didn't even know that. It's like, oh, no minister. Yes, you are. You're the one that God is using to minister to other people who don't know Jesus. Because they're wondering what in the world we're gonna do. They get stressed out, they crying, they falling apart, they don't know what to do. They're coming to you because they heard you go to church. Well they know you, you at least act like or said you knew Jesus. So they coming to you. So now you have become the ambassador of the kingdom of God. Now when they come to you and if you've fallen apart like they've fallen apart, they're gonna say that God you've been serving sure ain't no good. But if you can stand there flat-footed and say to them, my God is able to take care of me. My God has brought me from a mighty long way. He's never failed me. I can trust in him. You can trust in him if you only believe he'll carry you through it might not be like you want it might not be when you want it but he always shows up on time you're the one that they're looking to to trust God you're the one that you're trusting to follow and then looking for somebody to stand up and say God is worth trusting I bless his name for this text because it challenges us on this morning. With the simple question, do I trust him? Deeper it asks you Do you trust him to make the move? I don't know what the move is. I don't know if it's moving to another country, another state. I know a lot of people would like to move to another country right now about now I don't know what how God is speaking. But do you trust him enough to take him at his word That he'll never leave you and he'll never forsake you. And he's the one that provides seed to the sower And he's the one, listen, that that that is the orchestrator of everything you've ever had in your life. He's the one that's been keeping you even when you didn't want to be kept. He's the one that died on the cross to shed blood for you so that you can have a relationship with God. He's been working when you didn't even know he was working. He was keeping you and protecting you when you were acting a fool in the streets. And even now, he wants to know, do you trust me to take care of you? And I think we have a premier opportunity To show the world, I trust God. I trust Him to make the move. I trust Him to take the next step. I trust him, whatever it is. I don't know what it is in your life. I don't know if it's school. I don't know if it's job. I don't know if it's starting a business. I don' Know what it is. I don't know if it's leaving that person that ain't been treating you right, that's been abusing you and mistreating you. I don't know what this Whatever it is, are you do you trust him enough? Not the person, but do you trust God enough to take the next step and move? Praise the Lord, you have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Servic Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He said down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.