Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. By Kettering Baptist Church. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our Anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message. I want to invite our attention to the the book of James, chapter five, beginning at verse thirteen. The Lord reads, Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing Psalms. Is any among You sick, let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sin, Confess your trespasses one to another and pray for one another that you may be healed. The effect Effective, fervent prayer of the righteous man avails much. Amen. We've been on a Journey preaching through a series of messages entitled Don't Underestimate the Power of Prayer. We started on this journey in Philippians chapter 4 And we preach from the idea prayer brings joy, rejoicing, and peace. We move from there to Ephesians chapter 6 and said Prayer allows you to withstand the assaults of the enemy. Third part was Matthew chapter seven and preach about petition prayer power. 1 Kings chapter 18 led us through our fourth part of the series entitled Prayer Will End the Drought. Last Sunday we were in First Samuel chapter one, and we preach from the idea prayer can get you pregnant. And that was not just for women, but that was for men too. Because some of us need to know that prayer has the potential and the power to impregnate you with the vision of God. And all we need to do is get in position to deliver what God God has deposited. So on today we find ourselves here in the book of James. James is written by the brother of Jesus. He's writing to Christian Jews who've been dispersed and dispatched about around the empire of Rome. He writes with a focus on practical Christian living. How do you Live this Christian life in a practical way. But he has a stronger focus in this idea of living practically as a Christian on us serving each other If you will, in faith to one another with a devoted service to each other. In other words, he wants us to know and understand that we have an obligation and a responsibility Responsibility to one another in the body of Christ to serve each other and in our serving of one another, in our ministry to one another, it is proof of the faith So he writes with that idea in mind, and then this final cluster of exhortations, exhortations that he gives here in the book of James. He focuses on the power and the necessity of prayer, specifically as it relates to the sick. I'm not just talking Talking about the normal maladies that we would focus on, but some of the sicknesses that we have have to do more with our character than our physical being. So he is trying to help us to understand that we have available to us the power of prayer to give attention to this particular issue. In this sixth and final part of this series of messages, I want to talk from the subject matter proper prayer avails much. James asked a question. Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anybody enduring hardship, misfortune, physical pain, distress, or in trouble? Anybody going through something that is requiring of you to endure the pain, let him pray. Now, uh the question is Is why prayer? What's prayer got to do with it? Amen. And the reason one would ask that question is because they have underestimated the power of prayer Suffering and distress, pain and hardship, misfortune and trouble, any of these represent a host of issues that we might be going through. Might have to do with the relationship with your wife, with your husband, with your children, might have to do with your job, might have to do with your money, might have to do with your retirement, your health concern Might have to do with any of these kind of issues. It could be a multitude of things that have brought us to a place where we're suffering. But the resolution that the text gives to all of our suffering malady. Is let him pray. It doesn't say call the pastor on this issue. It says let him That's you. Male, female, let him pray. If you're going through something, James says you need to pray. Let him go into personal, private, passionate conversation with the king of kings Kings and the Lord of Lords and talk to him about your malady. Talk to him about your suffering. Talk to him about your distress and your pain. I know it's hard to talk to God because You don't think nobody's listening, but he's waiting to hear from you. Matter of fact, let me say this: you can minimize your suffering if you talk to the one who conquered all the suffering. Men, we like power tools because they do things fast I mean it just does something to you. I don't know what it is. It just does something to you when you work with power tools. And one of the things I've learned is That a power tool without power has very little benefit to the user. I'm trying to help us here because I want us to grab a hold to this that we have been underestimating the power of the power tool that we possess. Because we've been trying to use it without plugging it in to a power source. What you need to do when you pray, don't just be praying in the air. But when you pray, you need to plug into God. And when you plug into him, something different happens to the power too. The text says if anybody among you is suffering, let him plug in to the power source. And talk to the one. Have conversation with the one who has power to cause the tool called prayer to be enormously effective. Not only says is it if anybody is suffering, he comes back and he says, Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing songs. Now, just in case you thought that he was going to a whole nother subject matter, let me fold this in for your benefit, that when there is joy in your heart Prayer can also be a psalm singing time. Because all prayer ought not be God, give me, give me, give me. Some of your prayer time needs to be praise time. If you praise Him in the middle of it, if you start worshiping in the middle of it, if you get on your knees and talk to God and start praising God in the middle of it. It'll handle the malady. Sometimes our prayer is short circuiting and we trip and breaker. Instead of getting the power that we need for our situation. And sometimes we're so used to now, I lay me down to sleep kind of prayers And can I just help somebody? Ain't no power, and now I lay me down to sleep. You just running around with a power tool, playing like a five-year-old with toddy tot toys. You ain't got no power. And now I lay me down to sleep. You better passionately, intimately, talk to the father who has power. Let him pray. He comes back in verse number 14. says is anyone among you sit let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray. I need to say this because folk get sick and don't tell nobody and they get mad because no elders showed up. Now we've been praying but God doesn't always give us your address and the time that you don't feel well Amen. We might not know you in the hospital, but if you call somebody, the text even tells you to call them, so you gotta let somebody know that I'm going through that I'm sick in the first place. place. Don't you dare think that we are too busy to come pray for you. Because if we're too busy to pray, what are we busy doing? And if you don't value having them come pray for you, you've underestimated the power of prayer. And I know what you're saying. Well, Pastor, I can pray for myself. Well, that was in verse 13. If you're suffering, pray for yourself. But if you want to get healed, call the elders. Verse 14. Call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. Lord. The power is not in the oil. The power is in the name. But the elders have to be plugged in to the power. So when they anoint you, it's not the oil, but it's the power from the name. Anyone sick here today? One sister, sister Tholman. Now, Pastor Pew, you help me. Let's say me and Pastor Pugh have come to Sister Thoman's house. I can't wait till I get here to start fidgeting around with the plug. I need to be already plugged in with power. I need to already be infused with electricity from God. Pew needs to be already. He can't say, Well, this is the pastor gonna be the one praying. I don't need no power. No, we need both of us. To be 110 volts, 110 votes, and if I had somebody else, another 110 votes. I wish I had somebody that understood. If I can get enough voltage in the prayer. I don't care what she's going through. Prayer has the power to heal her. So the Bible says, yes. Stay with me. Hold this just for a minute. I need to anoint her with oil. And then with the power of God in the name of the Lord. Anoint her and pray, God, in your most powerful name. Heal her! Remove her sickness! In the name of Jesus! I know you can do it. In the name of Jesus And the text says when they pray, she's healed. Thank you, Sister Thorman. Thank you. You go back to your seat healed. Not because I said so. Because I did what the Bible says. I'm stupid enough, I'm foolish enough to believe what the Word of God said. The text says when they pray anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. Watch this and the prayer of faith. See, our prayer had to be one of faith. I can't pray like, well, Lord, maybe you might be able to do this. No, I'm praying in faith that I know he can't. And the prayer of faith, it'll heal him. Oh my God. It'll save the sick. And the Lord will raise them up. And on top of that, if they've committed any sin. Lord Jesus. I'm talking about the power of prayer right now. If any sin was in her life, I didn't ask her that she had any sin, but the Bible says if she had any sin Which brought about the consequence of her sickness, then the sin would even be forgiven. Now I need to tell y'all, I'm gonna be honest with you. Theologically speaking, I had problems with that tack. Because my theology says she needs to confess her own sin. Help me, Lord Jesus What I began to study and I began to meditate and I began to see what God was saying is whatever has brought on the sickness, if the sin brought on the sickness, I can't heal the sickness until I remove the sin. And so on the faith of the prayers of the elders, I will remove the sin issue, so the consequences of the sin that is sickness is removed. first. Now I need to say something. I didn't start this. I'm not starting no new doctrine. Jesus did the same thing He healed folk and told them your sin is forgiven after he healed them. He didn't say now wait a minute now you need to confess your sin first now. Now in some cases they did But another case is he just healed them first by a prayer of faith. And their sin was forgiven. And he said, Go and sin no more. Y'all still here with me? I'm trying to help you understand I'm staying in the context and I'm staying in the correctness of theology. I don't want y'all running around slapping oil talking about you healed in the name of G all that stuff. You to become evangelists all of a sudden and you to become the miraculous Sin forgiver and start charging people and running debit cards on folks. And I need to say this too. When the elders come together, like I said, they need to be already plugged in. I remember going into the hospital room, it was early in the morning, probably Probably one, two o'clock in the morning. The doctor said this person is not gonna live. They've got two hours left to live. He says, You all go in and y'all can have your prayer. Now the doctor already has planted a seed in The heads of everybody who's listening. But I wasn't listening. I heard him, but I wasn't listening. Y'all do know there's a difference. You can hear something, but to listen Means you process it. I didn't process what he said because I had another voice talking in my ear. I was already plugged in when I got to the hospital. And when I got to the hospital, God said this sickness is not unto death. And so some of us couldn't come in the room. And so I needed those who would come in who could believe God. And when we came in the room and prayed and believed God. Now, this was about eight years ago. This person is up still walking around today. If you are in the elder group and you show up for prayer and you don't have your line plugged. In be honest enough to say my line ain't plugged in. Be honest enough to say I have not been in prayer. Matter of fact, I'm walking contrary. to God right now. And so for me to come in and pray with y'all would render your prayer less effective. I'd short circuit the prayer. Because I got a short in my connection. But when you get some elders, some deacons, some ministers that come together and they've been in contact with God They've been plugged into the power of God. And you have called them together. The text says when they come and pray. It says God will heal you, raise you up, and if he's committed any sins, it'll be forgiven. That's power. That's power like power-saw power. Power, power. Wake up. It's power. It's power in the house. And you walk around with all that power and not even using it. You sick, and rather than letting the word of God work on it, you suffering, and rather than you praying, you paying therapists going to fix it people. You suffering, let him pray. You sit, call the elders, and let them pray. Prayer is powerful. Don't underestimate the power of prayer Verse number 16 says, confess your trespasses one to another, and pray for one another, that you may be healed. Pray for one another. Let him pray. Let them pray. Now let us pray. So now here we are. We've got issue. With each other. I don't like the way you looked at me. So instead of me stabbing you, instead of me sitting on the other side of the church talking about you Sending up messages about you on Twitter and Facebook, we need to come together and confess our issue. We've got some differences we need to confess. If we really want the power of us praying for one another to work, we need to clear our own hearts of sin. Because that's the only way you're going to plug into the power. You can't plug into the power and you're laden down with sin. John 9:31 says he doesn't even hear the sinner's prayers. So if I'm laden down with sin and I'm praying for you, that prayer ain't going nowhere. So now we've got to prepare ourselves by confessing our sins. Now, I know this is problematic because we don't want to tell nobody what we've been doing. Now, this idea here in this text It's not the idea of going to a priest and dumping all your load on the priest. That's not what this is all about. This is about me and you. We got issue. And so we need to talk to one another. We've got to settle the differences Between each other. I need to confess what I did to you, what you did to me, or even how I feel you treated me. Confess that thing. Then I need to confess my sin so that my line of communication can be clear with me. God. So now when we come together and pray and put to silence what the enemy wants to stir up between us as brothers and sisters in Christ, we can really shut it down. And be healed because some of us are sick, some of us are messed up because of some sin that somebody else did to us. Or some sin we've done to somebody else. Confess your sin. Then come together and pray for each other. I had a situation this week. I'm gonna confess my sin. Came home from revival. Handful of men had come to revival. I'm gonna be honest, I was a little disappointed. All the men we got in this church, this is not the representation I felt like we should have had. So maybe my first sin there is my desire over God's desire. I get home, I'm tired, I'm exhausted, I turn on the the news And one of my brothers is on the news and they're saying, oh, he's gonna rebuild a new facility, $20 million, and they already got the money to pay for it. I said, wait a minute, we only trying to get $300. God, what's up with that? So coveting my brother. I'm coveting what God has done in his life. That's a sin. Confess my sin. See, the only way I'm gonna have power, I got to clean out the channel. Because if I'm walking around with all that when I pray for Sister Thoman, ain't nothing happening in her life. But the reason she's gonna walk back and be healed today, is because I cleaned all this out before I got here. And when we pray for each other, the text says, not not Sterling says, when we confess ourselves We confess our trespasses with one another. Pray for one another that you may be healed. The effective, that is, functional prayer. Prayer is only functional if I can really connect with another With God. If there's sin in my life, there's no function in the prayer. The effective, that's functional, fervent, that's power-packed. That's prayer that's plugged into the power of God. That kind of prayer avails much. What do you mean avail? It accomplishes a whole lot. It moves mountains. God said, You can say to this mountain, Be thou removed and cast into the sea, and it shall be done. This is the power of prayer. Do you know what Jesus did when He raised Raised up Lazarus from the dead, he prayed. You remember Elijah when he went in and breathed over the child? He prayed. Just In case you think that that's limited to certain folk, I like what James does. James closes this out and says, Look, Elijah was a man. Didn't say Elijah was a prophet, didn't say Elijah was a holy man. It says Elijah was a man with a nature like whose? Well, watch this. What he's trying to do is make you understand Elijah on the same level that we are. Elijah had human nature he has a nature like we are he has a sin nature like we do and watch what he did when he prayed and he prayed earnestly that it would not rain And it did not rain on the land for three years and six months. Because a man with a nature just like yours and just like mine prayed, and it didn't rain for three and a half. Years. Now is that power? And that ain't the end of it. He comes back and he says, and he prayed again. Verse 18. And the heavens gave rain on the earth and produced fruit. Why? Because a man prayed to God. A man who has a nature just like yours. He prayed, it didn't rain. Then he prayed and it did rain. And not only was his prayer sufficient, watch this, that the rain came, but the text says the rain came, and his prayer also may fruit be produced. That's a whole lot of power. God allows to flow through a man. A whole lot more could be accomplished if we know the power we possess in prayer. Don't understand Underestimate the power of prayer because proper prayer avails much. Praise the Lord. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence, we pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909. Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301. 574-3515. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Folks, our current campaign with Trans World Radio is helping bring the love of Christ and the f Andy Christman afore him has spent forty plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your best. Backstage Pass. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.