Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message By Zaiah chapter 38. Verse 3 picks up and it says, And he said, Now remember, O Lord, I pray, how I have walked before you in In truth and with a loyal heart I have done what is good in your sight. And Hezekiah wept bitterly. Second movement here in the text is that God listened to the prayer as he wept. Though many assumed that Hezekiah's prayer was one that said, Lord, I want more days. Let me stay here a little longer. Lord, can you just give me more time? Can you extend my days The text doesn't explicitly say that. We don't have that in the text. Some would say, well, it's inferred by the answer of God. I don't know, but I can tell you what it clearly does say. When Hezekiah gets this invitation to prayer, Hezekiah's instruction, his sign, his warning that comes to him. is that you're going to die and not live. The first order of business of Hezekiah is to make sure that the records in heaven are in order. He says, God, I want you to remember what I've done. Lord help us here. You got to remember Jesus Christ hadn't come yet. There has been no death, burial, and resurrection. And so Hezekiah has nothing other than his his attempt to live out the law and to live according to what God had called him to do. And so Hezekiah's first order of business, when he knows he's getting ready to face death, when he knows he's getting ready to meet his creator, he says, I want to make sure, God, that you remember two things. Can you remember how faithful I was? Can you remember how loyal I was? Can you remember how I walked before you? Can you remember what I've done? Lord, make sure heaven's records are straight. I don't want to get there. I don't want to stand before you, God, and somehow in the blink of a eye that you Forget what I've done and that you don't recall my faithfulness. Hezekiah wants to make sure that when he gets to heaven, everything is in order. This is good news. This is a good example for a whole lot of folk because if I realize I'm going to die, it would behoove me to have not only my records on earth in order, but my records in heaven in order Now and let me say this, it's not that God's going to forget. Okay, God will not forget. But it might be of your benefit to you to make sure that the record in heaven is straight that you are born again. Lord have mercy. It ought to be sure in heaven, and heaven keeps good records, so it ought to be sure on your side that you've got the right documentation. Help me, Lord. That you've got the right thing, you've got the right covering, you've got the right blood, you've got the right Jesus, you've got the right God to make sure that when you meet him face to face, everything is in order. I don't know about you, but I wouldn't want to get to heaven and find out I I picked up the wrong Jesus on the way. That I got a bootleg version, that I got a camouflage, that I got a an imitation. No, I need the real thing And what Hezekiah is doing here, he's verifying and validating that God, you know I've been faithful to you. God, you know I've done what I could do according to the law to walk before you with integrity, with a heart that was upright before you. And God, I've lived in front of you right. So when I stand before you in judgment Remember what I've done. What I'm glad about is that if I'm covered in the blood of the Lamb, I'm secure when I meet my Savior face to face. But in Hezekiah's prayer, God is listening. Hezekiah is praying, God, remember what I've done. Remember how I walked before you in integrity. How I was loyal, had a loyal heart. I had done things that I did. God, I did it for your name. I did it for your glory. I didn't do it for myself, Lord. Remember How I served you, Lord. Remember that it was all about you and it wasn't about me. God, remember that that I wanted your name to be great. I wasn't after making my name great, but Lord, just remember my loyalty to you. And then the text says, then he wept bitterly as he faced death coming with hopes that God would remember what he had done. When the lights are going dim and all that you have left is your expectation of what you've done before you got to the total darkness. Is where Hezekiah is as he's approaching death. And he weeps bitterly, and there are many speculations about why he's weeping. Because as king of Judah he's responsible for them and there's no suitable replacement of age at this particular time and perhaps he's concerned. I've loved and I've cared about all these people will be wiped out. Maybe these are things that are on his mind. Maybe he's concerned about his family and his children, and he's concerned who's gonna take care of them when I'm gone. And maybe he has All kinds of other concerns on his mind, but as Hezekiah is there before the Lord in this conversation with God, after laying out what we have clearly Walk through in the text, and what is clearly identified as parts of his prayer in the text, the next portion of his conversation with God becomes bitter weeping before God. Can I help you right here to understand that sometimes the conversation that you have with God is articulated in tears and not words? Sometimes all you can do is cry. I don't know if you've ever been there where you things hurt so bad, where things are so desperate. That words don't come, but tears flow before God. And I'm glad that God allows us conversation with Him with tears. Because he is the type of God that loves us so much that according to Psalms 56, he says that I I know your journey and your wanderings, and I'm collecting your tears. in a bottle. And as Hezekiah is here crying before God and bitterly weeping before God. At the news that he's going to die and not live. God is listening in on Hezekiah's prayer. And he not only hears his words, but he hears His tears. I'm trying to help somebody here this morning. When the words don't come, God understands your tears. I don't know how He knows what the tear represent, but He's that kind of God when the words don't come but the tears roll out. He understands the tears that are here in the conversation and and One tier could have a multitude of words wrapped up inside of it. One tear could say, God, I've been through Through a lot, and God, I can't hold on no more. One tear could say, God, if you don't come through, I don't know what I'm gonna do. But God understands, He understands your tears. He just wants to have that conversation. So Hezekiah is weeping before God, crying before God, and God is listening. Final movement here, God responds to the prayer with overwhelming compassion. Verse 4 says, immediately right after, Hezekiah praised this prayer. God's listening in on his prayer and his weeping. Verse 4 says, And the word of the Lord came to Isaiah saying. Go and tell Hezekiah, thus says the Lord, the God of David, your father, I have heard your prayer. Lord help us right here. I have seen your tears. I feel like somebody needs to know that. That when you are praying. And when you are crying, God hears you. Sometimes it feels like he can't hear you. But I need you to hear me this morning. I need you to hear the text speaking to you this morning. God said to Hezekiah, and I believe he says to you, I hear your prayers. And I see your tears. You know what I love about God? He doesn't miss anything. He sees and he hears. His eyes go to and fro, all about he doesn't miss anything. He sees everything and every tear that falls from our eyes. God is so in love with us. That he even notices the tear. And he says, I s I seen your tears, Hezekiah. He hears you and He sees you and he's listening and he's watching those he loves. And Hezekiah, as he as he cries, he sends this message back to Hezekiah, go back, Isaiah, tell Hezekiah that I heard him. And I saw him. Now again, other than what's written in the text, I only know what Hezekiah said in the text. The text says, he just asked God to remember me. He didn't ask for anything specific in the text. He doesn't say he asked for some more time. It doesn't say, but but nevertheless, whether he asks for it or not, the response of God is with compassion. To the brokenness of Hezekiah. And God responds and says, tell him I will add to your days fifteen years. I'm gonna add to you. Watch this. God's response says I'm gonna add, I'm watch this. I'm gonna change time for you, Hezekiah. I'm gonna add time Watch this. I'm gonna add time forward and I'm gonna take time backwards. Just because of your prayer, Hezekiah. This right here is a demonstration of how powerful prayer can be. Prayer causes God on the behalf of Hezekiah to move time forward. Add time forward and move time backward at the same time. It's right here in the text. He says, I'm going to add 15 years to your life. But watch this. In the midst of this, he says, Look, uh, these these are perhaps concerns of Hezekiah's heart. He says, Um, I'm gonna add 15 years to you to your time, Hezekiah. But but Hezekiah, I'm that's not all I'm gonna do Hezekiah, I'm going to deliver you and this city from the hand of the king of Assyria. Don't worry about Assyria. I'm going to take care of them and I'm going to deliver you out of Their hand. Don't worry about your enemy. I'm going to take care of your enemy. I'm talking to somebody this morning. I'm going to deliver you out of the hand of the enemy. Don't worry about them. God says, I heard your prayer. I saw you crying last night. I've got you in my hand. And and watch this. And I've got time in my hand. Lord help me here. And I'm going to deliver this city out of the hand of Assyria. I will defend this city. And this is the sign to you from the Lord that the Lord will do this thing as he has spoken. Watch this. And I'm gonna come back to this in just a moment. But what the Lord says it essence to Hezekiah, Hezekiah, I've got time in my hand. But help me right here. I I've got the time, Hezekiah, in my hand. I I know that I sent a message to you that said uh your time is up but because i'm god i decided i'm gonna add some more time to you because I control time, Hezekiah. I know that the doctor said it's only gonna be six months, but the doctor's not in control of time. I'm in control of time. I've got Time in my hand. I know that you wish you could go back, and you say nobody can go back. Here is proof that God can take time back Yes, he can. I don't know what somebody told you, but I stop by to let you know that God has time in his hand. I don't care whether the eviction is tomorrow and you don't have the money, I just stop by to let You know, God can add time, Lord help me here. He can add time to what you need and take time back if you need to go back because He is the holder of time. Watch this, all because of Hezekiah's prayer. God moves with compassion to show Hezekiah, I'm greater than uh an alliance with Babylon. I'm better than you being proud and showing stuff off. I've got more power in the hem of my garment, Hezekiah, than than Babylon has and all of their armies and all of their men and all of their soldiers and all of their horses and all their iron chariots. I'm stronger. Yeah. I'm more powerful yeah I've got power to handle your situation there's nothing too hard for me Lord, they sent the notice that and the notice has the time limit that they gave me has already expired. I don't know if this ever happened to you. But you put it in the hands of God, and he will extend your expiration date. Watch this. Time only exists for us. God created time for us. But He watch this is outside of time. And can manipulate what we articulate as time Watch this. Because for God to move the sundial back ten degrees He asked Hezekiah, if you read, I believe the chronicle version of this story, he asked Hezekiah, Hezekiah, I'm gonna give you a choice, what sign Do you want me to give you to prove to you that I'm going to add 15 years to your life and that I'm going to protect the city and that I'm going to deliver you and the city out of the hand of Assyria? What sign do you want? Do you want me to take the sundial forward or do you want me to take the sundial backwards? Now watch this. Hezekiah, in essence, looks at the choices in front of him and says, Well, it ain't it ain't hard. For you to move the sundial forward because the sun has already gone down and time is already moving forward. But if you really are God, And this thing really is gonna happen. I want you to do what cannot be done. I want you to move the sundial backwards. 10 degrees. Watch this. And in order for you to move the sundial backwards 10 degrees, you've got to change the rotation of the earth You've got to tell the sun to move backwards and well help me Lord. You've got to tell the sun to get a new gear because up until now the sun only has drive, drive. Drive. But if you are God, you've got to put a reverse gear on the sun and cause the sun to back up ten degrees Which is about 30 to 40 minutes. And if you are God, and if you can make that happen, I'll believe whatever you say. Help me, Lord. And since you are God, God says to help me. Hezekiah through the prophet Isaiah. The sun is under my control. The sun is gonna back up 30 minutes. And I'm gonna prove to you. Lord have mercy. Instead of the sun going down, it's gonna come back up for 10 more minutes. And then it'll go down. I'm gonna prove to you, Hezekiah, I've got power to answer your prayers. I've got power to move on your situation. I've got power, Hezekiah. I've got the power to do what I said I was gonna do. And guess what? Sun moved back. Ten degrees. God proves Hezekiah, I've got this. Lord help me there. If God can do that, you tell me what he cannot do. Lord help us here. I'm trying to help us. All this happened because God invited Hezekiah into prayer. And Hezekiah began to have a conversation with God. And God. Says to Hezekiah, watch this. Now, watch this. God gives Hezekiah his word. I'm gonna give you 15 more years. I'm gonna add 15 more years to your life. And then you get to come home. He gives Ezekiel a designated amount of time that he's going to extend to him, but he also gives him a designated amount of time that I'm going to back things up. And so he backs it up for that 10 degrees. And no one to this day can explain how God did that I mean, you know, every time some miracle happens, the scientists come up with some some reason, some something. There is no earthly explanation except to it to agree that he is God. And he can do anything except fail. Can I talk to somebody this morning? What problem do you have that seems impossible? What trouble do you have that you think God cannot handle? I just want to let you know that there's nothing He can't handle. All you need to do is have a little talk with Jesus. Tell him all about Your sorrows. Hear hear your faintest cry. And he'll answer by and by. Lord have mercy. Have a little talk with Jesus. Yes, Lord. I declare I wish I had some more saints that just would have a little talk with Jesus. Because he will hear your faintest cry and he'll answer you by and by. Lord, I used to love when the old folks used to say that. They said I that is I don't I had a little talk with Jesus And you know in my mind when I was young, I was thinking, you know, they went into their bedroom and and you know they I'm I'm thinking and when I'm young, I'm just this when I was young, I'm thinking, you know, they they they you know them old saints, they seem like they were just a little halfway Halfway gone and halfway here. You know, it wasn't like they had it all together, but you wasn't sure whether they didn't have it all together. And they snuck away and they start talking to the Lord like Like he was just their their friend. You know what I'm saying? And they was in their room talking to Jesus, having tea with Jesus, and and talking to God and telling him Lord, my children are going through and Lord, my my my money is funny. Lord, I need you to make this a little bit last a little bit longer in my in my sanctified mind. I can see grandmama saying Lord, I don't know how we're gonna make it. Lord, can you make things better in my mind? I can see that single grandma. I can see her crying out. I don't have nobody but you. You're my doctor. You're my lawyer. You're my husband. You're my friend. Just have a little talk with Jesus. That's all you need to do. Just talk to them. You don't have to be all fancy and sanctimonious, ceremonial. No. Just open up your mouth and talk to your dad and let him know what you need. And there's nothing he cannot do. He can handle it because he has all the power in his hand. Amen. Father in heaven, thank you for your word on this morning. Thank you for your Holy Spirit in this place. Somebody today may need you. First of all, for salvation's purposes, someone may not be saved, and they they've come to this place, but today, Lord, they've come and they know they realize they need to surrender to you. Because you're the only way that they can make it out of the trouble that they're in. They can't do it on their own. They can't overcome this world. On their own, but if they come to you and surrender their heart to you, you said you'd give them everlasting life So Father, I'm praying that if there's one today that doesn't know you as Savior, that you'd save them and give them eternal life today. For others, Lord God, who are struggling with their relationship with you, drifted in their fellowship, drawn back today. Cause them to come and renew the broken fellowship to rededicate themselves to you today. Lord, we are calling. On you. We're praying to you, the author, the finisher of our faith, the one who is above every other, the one who has time in his hands. Answer your children today and hear their heartbeats in this place. We bless you, God, and we ask you would have your way even now. In the name of Jesus, who is the Christ, I pray. Amen Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of This sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence.