Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. Listen, listen to me, listen to me. Don't hold back on your praise. As if God hasn't been excellent and great in your life. In other words, don't hold back on praising him as if somehow you are waiting for him to do more. Everything he's already done has been worthy of you losing your voice for. Lord Jesus. Everything God's already done Is worthy of you shouting all over your house, running up and down the stairs Waking everybody up in the house. I mean, your praise ought to rise and be in accordance with his excellent greatness. Now, let me give you a little illustration. If someone in your life, let's say a mother, if your mother had been so good to you in your life That when you were a child, she pretty much gave you everything you wanted. And when you got old enough to go to college, you went off to college and she worked two, three jobs, paid for you to go to college. You got to college, you acted a fool, messed up, failed classes, all that kind of stuff. But mama still kept paying for you and she kept encouraging you and telling you, you can make it, you can make it, you could do this. And finally, after five, six years in a four-year program, you finally made it across the stage. And when you made it across the stage, guess who was there? Mama was there still. And in all the things that mama had done. How would you praise her for all the great things that she had done for you in all those years? of getting you all the way to the point of graduating from college. And can I add one more thing? Let's just say after you graduated from college, Mama took you out to the parking lot and she had brought you a brand new car. How would you thank her? Would you say, Mama, thank you? That was good. No, I think your praise will rise up to a higher level. To meet the work and the labor that mama had done. And so all I'm trying to say here is When we praise God, our praise to God ought to be in accordance. It ought to be in equality to the excellent greatness of the God we serve. That's what the psalmist is trying to get us to. He's trying to get us to a place. Of praising God according to the proportion of the power and the excellent greatness that He has been to us. So all I'm gonna say, raise your praise to the excellent greatness of God. Your praise ain't high enough. It's not high enough. It's too too far down. So raise your praise up to the excellent greatness of God. Here we are. Fourth thing. So we're going to praise him in. We're going to praise him for. Now we're going to praise him according. Then fourth, we're going to praise him with. Y'all see that? Verse number three. Praise him with. What you gonna praise him with, Pastor? The sound of the trumpet. Now I like this. I like this. I like this. I like the fact That he starts off and he says, praise him with the sound of the trumpet. You know why I like this? Because the trumpet was used Watch this to make a sound that called the warriors to battle. Lord Jesus. In other words, when it was time for warfare The trumpet was used to call the soldiers to battle. And all the soldiers came at the sound of the trumpet. Lord Jesus said. And so watch this. It says, praise God with the sound of the trumpet. Stay here with me. The trumpet was not only used to call The soldiers to battle and let them know that we were getting ready to go to fight. But the trumpet was also used to shout the victory. Y'all remember Jericho when they walked around the walls of Jericho seven times and then finally they had to blow the trumpet well the trumpet symbolized victory and so Watch this. Help me, Jesus. And so what the psalmist says is when you praise God, praise him with the sound. Of the trumpet, the trumpet that gives the sound of calling us to warfare. The trumpet that gives the sound of calling us to victory but but but but more than that more than that more than that the thing that really blows my mind When I talk about praising him with the sound, it puts me in the mind of Thessalonians that says That the day is yet coming when the trumpet of God will sound, and the dead in Christ will rise, and those who are alive will be Caught up together to meet him in the air. The trumpet sound reminds us that Jesus is coming back again and so I don't care what you're going through or how hard it is or how challenging it is when we call you to praise the praise salute the praise call says Praise him with the sound of the trumpet. Praise him with a sound that lets you know we're going to war. Praise him with the sound that lets you know that we are victorious. Praise him with the sound that reminds you he's coming back again Praise the Lord. Now watch this. After he gives you this whole idea of praising him with the sound of the trumpet, he's also gonna come back and he's gonna say, Okay, now look, psalmist goes on. He says that he's gonna include these other instruments. He says that now, use these other instruments as a combination to praise the Lord with. Now, when they're used, they're to be used in harmony so that they can bring great praise up to God And so it says, praise him, watch this with the lute and the harp. Verse the latter verse 3. Praise him with The timbrel and dance, praise him with the stringed instruments, praise him with the flutes, praise him with loud cymbals, praise him with clashing cymbals. So he gives you all these instruments to praise God with. So when all these instruments come together and the praise of God comes in. It goes up and it gives God awesome, awesome praise. But watch this. Here's a little sneaky thing that the psalmist did. The psalmist included, watch this, embedded in verse number four. The psalmist includes, praise him, watch this, everything he mentions in those verses. or instruments. But in the middle of it all, he in beds in the midst of it, praise him with a dance. Lord have mercy And I love this because in now some people say, well, Pastor, that don't really fit in. Yes, it does. Because in some cultures, the dance Lord have mercy here. Kept the beat and so as they dance. It kept the beat and the Feet were an instrument to the dance, and all of that became part of the ceremony of praising God. But Watch this as they danced to the Lord, even as David danced to the Lord, the whole purpose of the dance was not so that they can put the camera on you so everybody could look at you so the ushers could come and get you no The purpose of the dance was that God would be getting the glory that we would be praising God for everything thing that he's done in our life, we would be praising God with the dance because God has been so good to us. We will be praising God with the dance Not because the instrument was playing, not because other people was looking, not because they were not looking. But we were praising God with the dance because we thought about how far God had brought us from and our feet got happy and our hands got happy and our body got happy and we couldn't help ourselves but to give God the praise and give God the glory and give God all that was due unto his name. On this Mother's Day, I want to tell you mothers, go ahead and praise the Lord. Go ahead and give him praise. Go ahead and give him a dance. You come through bringing birth to children. Some of you got three children, four children, five children or more. Lord have mercy. Some just got one, but if you only got one, praise God for the one. For it was a miracle of God that brought you through that pregnancy. It was a miracle of God that kept you through the surgery. It was a miracle of God that's blessing you to be able to raise your child right now. Thank God! Thank God! Thank God! Praise him with everything you got! Give him glory! Put his praise in the atmosphere! Shout to the victory of God. Shout to the glory of God. Give God all the praise for he's worthy. He's worthy. He's worthy. To be praised. Praise him, mothers. Praise him. Praise him. Praise him. Praise him. Praise him in the morning. Praise them at the noonday. Praise them in the midnight hour. Praise them when you feel good. Praise them when you don't feel good. Help me, Jesus. Help me, Jesus. Help me, Lord. My God. Psalmist has declared we need to praise him in. We need to praise him for. We need to praise him according. And finally we need to praise him with him. But the last thing the psalmist has to say, and I'll be out of your way. The psalmist says, praise him all. He said, Let everything, yeah, let everything that has breath praise the Lord. Praise you the Lord. In other words, what the psalmist finally says is that Praise is everybody's business. It ain't just the preacher's business. It's not just the choir director's business. It's not just the praise team's business. It's not Just a musician's business. No, praise is everybody's business. Let everything that has breath praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Not just mothers, but everybody born of a mother. Everybody that's got breath in their body. You have a responsibility to praise the Lord. Pastor, why I got to praise the Lord, you need to praise him for the breath he gave you. You need to praise him for the food he gave you. You need to praise him because you're in your right mind you need to praise him because the sun shines on you you need to praise him because the rain falls on your side of the street too you need to praise him because he didn't come Consume you in your sin. You need to praise him because while you were still sinners, he died for you. He walked up Calvary's mountain had you on his mind allowed them to crucify him to nail him to a cross hang him high stretch him wide he blazed He suffered and he died. You need to praise him because he died for you. You need to praise him because he went to hell, took the keys from Satan. Shook it away. Came victory over death, hell, and the grave. On the third day, got up with all power in his hand. Somebody ought to praise him because he got up this morning. With all power in his hand. You need to praise him because he ascended to glory. Sat down on the right hand of God. And even right now, he's making intercession for you. While you're there. Feeling bad about yourself, Christ is sitting on the right hand of God, praying for you, praying for you, praying for you, praying for you, praying for you. Father in heaven, take care of my child. Father in heaven, lift Up their spirit, Father, in heaven. Wipe the tears from their eyes. Father, up in heaven, let them know today how much I love them. Father. Up in heaven, keep them from danger, seen and unseen. Father, up in heaven, even though they got the mask on, even though they got The gloves on God keep them from the virus. Father, up in heaven, I'm trying to help you understand He's praying for you. It's not because you've been so careful and it you ain't got the virus yet no you got a father up in heaven who's praying for you who's keeping you who's watching over you who's protecting you who's strengthening you You who's guiding you, who's keeping you, who's saving you, who's sanctifying you day by day. If God ain't done nothing else for you I know he died for you and you ought to praise him because he died for you yeah you need to praise him too you alcoholic you drug addict because guess what If it had not been for the grace of God, you would have been out of here long time ago. It wasn't Norkam that kept you alive. It wasn't the paramedics that kept you alive. No, it was God. He's got purpose for your life. He's got a reason. And you ought to praise him. Even if you don't know him, you ought to praise him because he's done so much for you. And I can't tell it all, but he done so much for you. You ought to praise him. And that's why the psalmist says it's everybody's business to praise the Lord. Let everything that has breath. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. When I came to church this morning, I heard the birds praising the Lord. I heard the birds chirping and singing glory. to the name of the God most high. I heard dogs barking, praising the Lord, giving praise to God. If a dog can praise God, if a bird can praise God, surely. Surely you ought to praise him. Give praise, mothers. Give praise for your mother. Give praise to God for all he has done. Praise. Praise the Lord, everybody, praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, mothers. Praise the Lord, everybody. In the middle of praise, God shows up in an extraordinary way It's hard to worry while you're praising. It's hard to hurt. While you're praising him. It's hard to be disappointed. Because you can't have dinner with your family when you're praising him. We got so much to praise him for. And you know, we could never be held guilty of praising him too much. But we can be held guilty for not praising him enough. I want to push you this morning I want to encourage you this morning. Get out of character and praise the Lord. Get out of your bed. Get out of your normacy and just shout to God. Because he's worthy of all the praise. Praise him in praise him for praise him according. Praise him all He's worthy of all of the praise. Praise him with your voice. Praise him with your dance. Praise him with the instruments. Praise him because he alone Is worthy of it all. Father in heaven, I need you even now that as your word goes forward That it was just prick the hearts of your people. Remind them that there's praise in the midst of a pandemic. And we can still yet praise you. We can praise you even while we're isolated, quarantined. We can still praise you. We can praise you via live stream. We can praise you through Zoom. We can praise you through WebEx, but we can praise you anywhere in your firmament. Praise you for your mighty acts. You've been great to us. Praise you. The cymbal and the timbrel and dance praise you with the the sound of the trumpet. Thank you, God, for a call to praise. We praise you, God, for all that you've done. All that you've given, even in the form of our mothers. Thank you. Thank you, God, that you allowed them to give us life. Thank you, Jesus. But more than that, God, we thank you that you died, that we might have life, and that we might have it more abundantly. So, Spirit of the Lord, if there's anyone listening that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior, they've never repented of their sin. Never trusted you, never invited you into their heart. I'm praying, God, today, that today would be the day that they would invite you into their heart and ask, what, Lord God, must I do? And you said in your word, if you confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that God raised Jesus from the dead, you shall be saved. For in him that is in the Son there's life. He who has the Son has life. He who does not have the Son Does not have life. God ask. Allow them to ask you into their heart today that they might turn away from sin and ask you into their heart. That today they might be saved. Spirit of the Lord, I pray. If they would go even one step further And even asking him after inviting you into their heart and after repenting of their sin, God, that they would give a call to the church office to let us know: I gave my heart to Jesus I want to be baptized. Father, I know baptism is just a public example of a private event. But I pray, God, that they would make the next steps to grow in the wisdom and the knowledge of you. Draw men, women, boys, and girls, Heavenly Father. Draw them to yourself. Cause them to surrender their hearts and their lives to you. Now to him who is able to keep us all from stumbling and to keep us And present us faultless before your throne with exceeding joy. Now unto Him who is the only wise and only living God To him be glory, majesty, dominion, and power, both now and forever. And all the people of God said together, Amen. Amen. Amen. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of This sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us. again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence