Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Join him. Not a sermon, just a thought. If you'd like more information about Not a Sermon, you can check out our website at Notta Sermon. com. That's Notasermon. com. The following program is sponsored by Kettering Baptist Church. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message. in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. As we continue uh preaching through the series uh claiming the corridor for Christ We want to invite you on this morning to Acts chapter 16, and we'll begin our reading at verse 16. The word of the Lord reads, Now it happened as we went to prayer that a certain slave girl possessed with a spirit of divination met us. Who brought her masters much profit by fortune telling. This girl followed Paul and us and cried out, saying, These men are servants of the most High God, who proclaimed to us the way of salvation. And this she did for many days, but Paul, greatly annoyed, turned and said to the Spirit, I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her, and he came out that very hour. But when her master saw that their hope of profit was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace And to the authorities. And they brought them to the magistrates and said, These men, being Jews, exceedingly trouble our city. And they teach customs which are not lawful for us being Romans to receive or observe. Then the multitude rose up to gather against them. And the magistrates tore off their clothes and commanded them to be beaten with rods. And when they had laid their many stripes on them, they threw them into prison, commanding the jailer to keep them Securely. Having received such a charge, he put them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in stocks. But at midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God. The prisoners were listening to them. Suddenly, there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken. And immediately all the doors were opened and everyone's chains were loosed. And the keeper of the prison awakened from asleep. And seeing the prisoner doors open, supposing the prisoners had fled, drew his sword and was about to kill himself. But Paul called with a loud voice, saying, Do not harm yourself, for we are all here. And then he called for a light and ran in and fell down trembling before Paul and Silas. And he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And so they said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, you and your household. And then they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house And he took them and that same hour of the night and washed their stripes, and immediately he and all his family were baptized. Now, when he had brought them into his house, he set food before them, and he rejoiced, having believed in God with all his household. Amen. Pray with me, please, Father in heaven, thank you for the word on today. Thank you for the privilege we have to preach this gospel. Lord Let the preaching of this gospel save someone who's lost, reclaim someone who's drifting, but most importantly, Heavenly Father, it is my prayer on this day. That as this gospel goes forward, that it would cause us to energize and be mobilized into doing what you've called us to do. Spirit of the Lord, I bless you in advance for what you're going to do in this place. We need your presence and your power, so I surrender all to you today. Have thine own way in and through me, God. I need your strength and your help. Give me clarity of speech and articulation of thought. Lord, that all that's said and all that's done will bring glory and honor to your name. It is in Jesus' name I pray and I thank you in advance. Amen. And amen. We've been on this journey claiming the corridor for Christ. We began Numbers chapter 33. From that very speaking from that very subject matter in part one and part two, we moved on to Joshua chapter 18. And we spoke from the subject matter claiming your inherited corridor. And then on last week when we were together, we were looking at 2 Timothy Chapter one, and we spoke there from the subject matter, Conquering the Corridor of Fear. There, as we spoke to uh you on last week from this very uh pertinent subject matter of dealing and conquering fear, that corridor of fear that runs through many of our lives, many situations, many circumstances We gave you some things to do. There in 1 Timothy, as Paul spoke to Timothy, he told him, first of all, we need to remember to stir up the gift that is in us. And that that gift that is in us, it is is in us for the purpose and for the necessity of being able to accomplish and to To conquer every territory that God has in front of us to conquer. Everything He has for us to claim, He's gifted us to be able to do. And so we need to stir that gift up in us. And then secondly, he said, remember that God has not given you the fear spirit. I pray that some of you have preached that sermon to yourself this past week. As fear decided and wanted and desired to creep into your life and to To keep you from moving forward and doing the things and accomplishing those unclaimed territories of your life, those unclaimed inheritances of your life. It is my prayer That you reminded yourself this week that that fear spirit didn't come from God, but rather God gave us not a fear spirit, but a Holy Spirit Amen. A spirit of love and of power and of a sound mind. And for that reason, I'm I'm prayerful, I'm hopeful that even as you've gone through the week, that you kept the soundness of mind, you didn't let the enemy Cause you to lose your mind or lose control, and as you pursue accomplishing and conquering the territories and the inheritances that God has in front of you. Lastly, we said not only were we to remember to stir up the gift and to remember that God has not given us a fierce spirit, but we were to rise up and to share in the suffering. Paul Said to Timothy, Timothy, this this ministry that we have in front of us, this assignment that we have in front of us, it's not just a cakewalk, Timothy. You've got to rise up and join me In suffering, but as we suffer, we're not going to suffer in our own flesh because we're not doing this in the flesh. We're going to suffer according to the power of God. And so God will give us what we need, even as we go through the challenges of doing and accomplishing what He's put before us to do. And so on this morning, as we look in this passage here in Acts chapter 16, and as we've read This story in Acts chapter 16. I want to talk to you in this fourth part of the series from the subject matter claiming your community corridor for Christ. Claiming your community Corridor for Christ. Are y'all still here with me? Claiming your community corridor for Christ. Now, community is described or defined, if you will, as a composition of a group of people living or residing in a certain place. And so uh we may see people that have some common interests, common characters, uh Living in a certain area and we call that community. We may have, for example, a retirement community, and it's a community of people who have retired from their work, and we may call that a retirement We may also have another community called a prison community, and that is those that have found themselves or are living together in common scenarios, perhaps in prison. And I'll say this just parenthetically that everybody's prison is not in Upper Marlboro. Amen. Some folks pr some folks are free physically, but in prison spiritually And so there is a prison population. Amen. I I wish I could just take off with that, but I'm gonna stay in the text, as always. But I need you to know that there are a variety of communities that we deal with. There are and is, if you will, the very community in which we worship. That is the Upper Marlboro community. And that community is the community, I believe, that God has given us To claim every corridor for the gospel with the gospel of Jesus Christ and for his namesake It is interesting to me that God has brought us to this place, brought us to this setting, and I don't believe He brought us to this setting just to sit on a heel And to be admired by the cars that pass by and to be a place where we can get away from everybody else and come together in the silence and the and the beauty of God's creation that we might worship together and have good old church together, just us. Amen. I believe God has brought us to this community. he that we might go forward and claim the corridor of Route 301, claim the corridor of Upper Marlboro for his name's sake. He gave us the gospel. He gave us the gifts. And now he's calling us to go and claim it for him. Are y'all still here with me? Amen. I didn't think I was going to get a whole lot of amens because we kind of like just coming in church and doing church. But I need you to understand this building ain't the church. You are the church And God lives in us, and then we the church need to take the church to the people instead of just expecting all the people to come to the building. Are y'all still here with me? And so uh we've got a community in front of us that we are to claim uh for Christ. And so as uh dig into this um text here, and and I believe that God has given all of us uh through the Great Commission. And assignment to go and to make disciples. And in going, it is as you go, whatever community you happen to be going in and moving in and out, and whatever place you are, God has commissioned us Through Matthew's Great Commission, Matthew chapter 28, the Great Commission. He has commissioned us to go and make disciples. And that is and ought to be what we ought to be involved in on a constant and a regular basis. And so claiming uh this community corridor ought to be part of what we regularly do. Every community, every corridor that you flow in, you ought to be seeking to claim it for Christ. Are y'all still here with me? I I'm I'm trying to try to pound this into us so because I know I'm going through some rough territory because a lot of us have no desire to tell anybody about Jesus. A lot of us have no desire to share the gospel, but why do you think God left you here? If God just wanted to save you, he would have just saved you and took you on to glory. But he saved you and he empowered you with his Holy Spirit. And he left you here to be ambassadors of the kingdom of God. So we ought to be as we have assignment to do. We ought to be on assignment for God. Here in our text, uh the Apostle Paul and Silas have been called to an assignment. Paul had a dream, a vision, if you will, that a man was calling him to come on over to Macedonia. And he believed that that was the Lord Through this dream calling him to go to Macedonia. And so Paul and Silas go on over on this assignment to go and to take the gospel to claim the corridor of Macedonia. For the namesake of Christ, to take Christ to Macedonia, to declare the good news of Jesus Christ, to make known him throughout all Macedonia. So they're on assignment To go to Macedonia and on their way there they get there as he has his vision and and as God is calling them to do this thing and And as we look and dig into this text, we I just want to use their example and their uh their life through this text to to show us how we too can claim our community corridor. So I just want to pick out of their their text, their lesson, some things that might be beneficial to us as we claim our corridor, our community corridor for Christ. Are y'all still here? Uh in this text, and it's interesting to me that right off the top, uh, as we there in verse number sixteen, it says it happens. Now they have gotten there to Macedonia, and they are on their way going to a prayer meeting, and on their way to prayer meeting It says verse 16, Now it happened as they went to prayer that a certain slave girl, possessed with a spirit of divination, met us, who brought her masters much profit from or by fortune telling. The first thing that I want to pick up out of this text that might help us in claiming our community corridors or being aware of as it relates to claiming our community corridors is the consequences of claiming your community corridor. There are some consequences That you may be, you need to be aware of when you began claiming your community corridor, when you began taking the gospel to those folk around you When you begin to witness to the people in your neighborhood and the people on your job, there's some consequences you might need to be aware of that we see happen here in the text. First and foremost, on their way Watch this on their way to prayer. I'm I I need to park right there. I know I didn't plan on this, but I need you to see this. That they are on assignment from God to go and claim an unclaimed Corridor called Macedonia. They're going there to claim it with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Y'all still hear? Now the first thing they do en route To claiming the corridor is they go to spend time in prayer. Now, I need to point that out because you need to know if you're going to claim the corridor, you need to spend some time with the corridor claimer. If you're gonna claim the corridor for Christ, you've got to make it up in your mind that I'm gonna spend some time talking And to the Lord Himself, because He's the one who's literally gonna do the claiming. You're just going on assignment for Him So Paul and Silas, they're on their way to prayer. But here it is, in their consequences, one of the first consequences is that they met they are met by demonic opposition I need you to understand that. When you go to claim the corridor for Christ, be prepared for this consequence that you will probably run into some demonic opposition. Don't go don't get scared on me. Don't get scared. God didn't give you that that spirit that spirit of fear. He didn't give you that fear spirit. Don't be afraid. But but you do need to be aware that when you come into a different area and you're gonna claim it for the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ that there are demons assigned to that territory. Lord have mercy. When we were on one Kettering Drive and we had been there for 40 Two years we kind of had gotten used to doing battle with the demons on that side of Upper Barbara. But now that God has moved us to a different Corridor, we need to be understanding that we've got to deal with a new demon that's in this territory, and we've got to spend time with God in order in prayer to make sure that we're ready to deal with this demon. Y'all still here? So when we come together on next Saturday, when it's coming Saturday and spend some time in prayer, we are preparing ourselves spiritually to do spiritual warfare in the territory that God has put us in. Y'all still here? And so uh they they run into this spiritual opposition with this demon-possessed girl, and this demon-possessed girl begins to follow them around. Doesn't seem like this this this doesn't seem like a a bad uh demonic experience. I mean if you if in and if you look at demonic experiences, I mean the girl follows them around. Everywhere they go, they go into prayer, she following them And as they go, the Bible says, she's cried out, saying, These men are servants of the most high God. Lord, have mercy. You know, even the devil knows when you're really serving the Lord Lord have mercy. Y'all need to really read your Bibles. Uh he says they they're they're servants of the most high God who proclaimed to us the way of salvation. Knows that these men, Paul and Silas, have an assignment to proclaim the way of the Lord that the people may come to salvation. And the Bible says she did this for many days. She was more faithful in declaring that these men were proclaiming the gospel than some of us are at proclaiming the gospel. Amen. Amen. She was doing it every day. She followed him every day. But Paul got greatly annoyed. Turned around and said to the spirit. He didn't say to the girl. He spoke to the spirit. Y'all still hear? I wish I had time to deal with the demonology aspect of this text. I need you to understand that sometimes Is not the person that's causing the trouble. It's the demon causing the trouble. And so instead of fussing at the person, spend some time in prayer and then deal with the demon. Help me Lord and Paul turns around and speaks to the demon and calls the demon out of the little girl. Lord have mercy. And he's He says, uh in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, uh, come out of her. And he came out that very hour. Look at the power of God that is operating inside the Apostle Paul. Consequence of claiming the corridor is that you may be met with some spiritual or demonic opposition. Secondly, as I kept right reading here. Uh, I need you to understand another consequence is that you may make mad some some business people. You may make some business people mad, okay? Just get ready. You might make some business people mad because as I was reading through The text after Paul has called this demon out of the girl, it says, But her masters, look at verse 19. But her masters saw that their hope of profit was gone. They seized Paul and Silas, dragged them off into the marketplace, and took them to the authorities, and they brought them to the magistrates, and they said, These men, these these dudes, these Jews are exceedingly troubling our city. Uh you're gonna make some folk mad when you start claiming your community corridor. When you start sharing the gospel and folk around you start getting saved, listen to this When people around you start getting saved, when people around you start living for the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, it's gonna put some business folk out of business Because when folks start getting saved, when communities start getting saved and living for Christ, notice I added that on there, and living for Christ, then there won't be nobody stopping by the drug dealer's house. Help me Lord and the drug dealer might get mad because you putting him out of business by getting folk in the community saved. Lord help me When when when you start getting the community saved and the people start living for Christ, then the liquor store might start losing some business. Lord have mercy. Except for those buying communion wine. Y'all know what I'm talking about. And and so uh but but but but but but but when people start in the community start living for Christ It it's gonna be some some some some less business going to some of the business owners. Maybe uh the divorce attorney might get mad with you because Then when folks start living for Christ and they start getting saved and living out their salvation, they might stop going down to the courthouse and asking for a divorce, and then the divorce attorneys Start losing some money, help me Lord. And and even counselors might start losing some money because now you ain't fighting with each other No more. Now you don't need medicine no more to go to sleep at night. Maybe you're gonna start putting the drug stores out of business because now you're not Help me God. You're not expecting uh uh uh Nyquil to put you to sleep. You'll expect the Holy Spirit to put you to sleep. Instead of going to the bell's bondsman because you got locked up, you'll go to Jesus and know that Jesus will take care of everything you have need of. I'm trying to help you Understand something uh that when people in your community start getting saved and living for Christ, when you start claiming that community for Christ, the scratch line might get shorter So the convenience store business owner might get mad because now he not making as much business on the lottery line. You making all these folk mad and and the clubs folk ain't hanging out in the clubs no more. They they living holy and righteous. Now they going to church Now they're worshiping God, and now they're they're living upright. And so when these uh masters of this young girl found out that we can't make any more money Off of her, we can't exploit her demonic possession anymore. I'm trying to talk to you because that's all some folk are doing. They're exploiting your demonic influence. They're exploiting the demonic uh the the demonic uh uh powers of those who are unsaved. And so when they could no longer make a profit, they got mad. So I'm just warning you, one of the consequences of claiming your community is you might make some business people mad. And so they dragged them to the magistrates took them down uh to the magistrates said them these these Jews are exceedingly troubling our community They stir in a mess. So you might get met by some demonic opposition. You might make some business owners mad. But thirdly, be ready to face some manufactured charges Folk are gonna trump up some charges on you. These guys, these Jews are troubling our city. No, we're claiming it for Christ. That's what we that's what we're doing. We're not we're not troubling them, we're trying to fix it. We're claiming it for Christ. These guys are troubling the city, and they go on to say, um uh watch this. They they're troubled in the city. Uh verse number uh 1920, and and they teach cuss Which are unlawful for us, being Romans to receive or even observe. We can't do this stuff as Romans. They put their Roman citizenship above their divine opportunity for kingship. I'm Lord have mercy. Oh, I don't have time. Um but watch this. So so so so they say these guys they they've trumped up the charges, and so after they trumped up the charges, then Then they're gonna they're gonna beat them. And they said they're they're they're messing us up, then they're calling us to do things we shouldn't do. And then the multitude rose up uh together against them, and the magistrates tore off their clothes and commanded them to be beaten with rods. Lord have mercy. Why? Because they dared to claim the community that they found themselves in. Lord have mercy. They dared to let Christ reign. They dared to make Christ known. To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. Praise the Lord. You've been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon, On CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office. Andy Christman, afore him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast 120-1. Degree of Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy. Wherever you get your podcasts.