Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence, under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. In order for them to get ready for the future, they've got to grieve the past. Now, it ain't too hard to grieve being poet and now moving up. But everybody didn't move up. Some people moved the other way. Some people had a job and now they don't have a job. All kinds of things have happened, transitions. And so we've got to grieve the past. Go through whatever grieving process is necessary to grieve the past. And as I look at the church, I think to myself, and I was as I was preparing this message, I was thinking. w and and I talked about this in during one of our Friday night chats. During the COVID um shutdown and lockdown when it was real tightly locked down We were all going through, and some of us are very much still going through a grieving process. We're grieving a lot of things that were normal to us. And so we go through, and if you don't believe me, um look up, go look at the stages of grief and find out where you are. You know, and what you may have gone through some of those phases already. Shock, disbelief, pretending like it's not happening, all that, you know. You we gone through all these different stages. And but it's it's grief, and we've got it, we've got to grieve. But secondly, we've got to get direction because as Joshua is here in the text, they have spent 30 days Grieving Moses, he God allowed for that time, and now it's time to take the next step. So God comes to Joshua, approaches Joshua, tells Joshua the obvious Moses is dead. Okay, we can't stay in grief. Can I talk to somebody here? We we can't stay in the past. That's over. Church the way we knew it is over. Intimate Bible studies where nobody outside knew what we were talking about. That's over. Now it's all online. The whole wide world is getting it looking on your Bible studies. Things have changed. Moses is dead. God says to Joshua, now Joshua, I'm going to give you directions as to what to do. So here that's what we gotta do. As we're embracing the end of our previous era, we've got to grieve the past and then get instructions for the future. So God comes to Joshua and says, Joshua, here is what I want you to do. You and these people get up and get ready to go on over to the other side, and I'm I'm gonna give you your you go on take the land that I'm giving to you, you the children of Israel, everywhere the sole of your feet. Trods and pond, I'm gonna give it to you as I said to Moses from the wilderness in Lebanon as far as the great river Euphrates and all the land of the Hittites and the Great Sea. Towards the going down of the sea, all that territory is yours, Joshua. Joshua gets the direction from God. Okay, what do you what am I gonna do now? Now that now that that era is over, I've grieved it. Now here's my instructions. He's getting instructions, so I'm getting instruction because this is going to help me embrace my previous era. I'm getting instructions for my next place that I'm going. So I'm not still waddling around in what was. I'm I've got instructions to get out of here I've got instructions to move on. I've got instructions how to how to deal with that that grief. I've got instructions how to deal with the next thing that's coming. I've got instructions how to set some new priorities because now I know I'm not the I'm not the assistant no more. I'm the leader. And so God gives the leader instructions how to lead. So he so he lays out everything for him. So it's time for you to come get And and get up and he gives them everything he needs all the direction and I'd say even for the church. Before the church moves to the next Place after we grieve the past, then we get instructions for the future. So we seek God, we petition God, we search for God. Not just the church, but individually, same thing. We seek God, we search for God, we talk to God, we wait on God to get instructions from God. Because if we get ahead of God, we'll find ourselves in a mess. So you need instructions from God before you move to the next thing. I know you're trying to get away from the old thing, but before you go to the next thing, get instructions from God. Find out from God what is what should I be putting priority on now? What what should I be focusing on now? And then he then he says to him, he says, uh to to to to if you keep reading, he tells um him, you know, get on up, go. Do, etc. So he so he's he's in order for him to embrace the end of the previous era, he has to grieve it, he has to get instructions for it, uh for the next, for the future, but he also has to get up and go. You can't just get instructions and just sit there. You gotta get up and go. And by the time you get to verse 11, Joshua gets the people prepared and tells the people, we getting ready to go. And today, Ketterin, I want you to know something. I want you to know, I want you to hear this individually, it's time to get up and go. Okay. Maybe I'm talking to some other churches too. Because I I I travel all over the country uh with my role with I got some some roles I play national roles around the country and I talk to pastors all over the country, and you know what a lot of those pastors are saying? I can't wait to get back to where church was. And I'm thinking to myself, that's never gonna happen. And if you force yourself back into what was, you'll be irrelevant for where we are. But then think about this. This happens in individual lives too. Sometimes we're trying to force ourselves back into the way things were when things have changed all around us. And now it's time to move into the future and to reprioritize our lives. You know, can I just talk about some people for a moment? There's some people who had made it up in their mind I'm not doing that computer stuff. I ain't doing it. No, I don't need to be getting no Facebook. I don't need no email address. I don't nobody tracking me around and all that. The last twenty months changed your mind, didn't it? Because you couldn't get nothing without an email address, without Facebook, without learning how to Navigate through I even been me my mother is I I maybe I can't tell her age. She's in her eighties but she sh I had we've been training her to operate the computer. She gotta learn how to get she she she went through the new members class. She gotta learn how to learn how to log on. You gotta learn how to do this. You gotta learn how to do that. Can't hold on to the past. It's not you just gotta move. God has a way of moving us through this process. And so what I'm trying to help us understand, we got to get up and go. It's time that we move, get up and go and move into the future. And even as a church, there are things I'm praying about now and and And discussing now that and I'm waiting on God's direction now as to how we as a church are going to move into and through the future that's ahead of us. And and when it's clear, we gonna go. Because you gotta get up and go. God gives us directions, you gotta get up and go. God gave Joshua the directions what to do. Joshua Calls the people together in verse 11, and he starts telling people we get three days, we're getting up out of here. We it's time to pack up, get everybody ready, we get ready, we're leaving, we go. We're going to take over what God had already promised our forefathers, and we're going to take the land That's in front of us. So he tells him and gets them ready. So you've got to embrace the end of the previous era, but secondly, you've got to face the fear of the future with faith. Because guess what? The future is scary. Am I right? No man shall be able to stand Before you all the days of your life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not leave you nor forsake you. When you reprioritize and you're reprioritizing for the future, reprioritizing is scary because you're used to having certain priorities, and when those priorities have to change, that's scary. Because change is scary. It's spooky. It's I don't know who You know, it's like a horror movie. You don't know what's coming next. What's around the corner? Chuckyono Doing church different is scary. Living alone. Scary. You know, some some parents don't they won't let their kids leave home because they don't want to live by themselves. So they keep making up reasons to keep them there. Because they scared. They not they won't acknowledge that. They'd be like that child just won't leave. You won't let them leave. Let me help you with this one. Change the locks. And tell them they gotta go. They gotta go somewhere. You ain't coming back here. They still got the key, they got the code. They got the they got the Wi-Fi and everything. Change the Wi-Fi passcode. They'll find somewhere else to live then. It's scary. Moving through these changes are scary. You know, you you're going through these things and and having to. reprioritize my my focus and if I've got to change my priority of focus because maybe my focus has been on me And now, Pastor, you're telling me I need to reprioritize my focus and let my focus be on Jesus? Well, hold up a minute. That's a little scary. Because I'm used to me being first. I'm not really used to that seek ye first the kingdom of God, Matthew 6. 33 thing. I'm not used to that. So that's scary to seek God first and put me second. It's I don't I'm not Quite I that's a little scary. I'm I'm I I'm I'm afraid it's a fear of minds that I'm not putting me first. And so so we gotta we've gotta learn how to face our fear, but you face your fear with faith. You face your fear with faith, and Joshua the only way he's going to face his fear of moving from assistant To leader, is he's got to put his faith in what God has told him. Listen to what God tells him. God tells him three things here. He says, Look, he says, Joshua, I'm gonna protect you He says to Joshua, nobody's gonna be able to stand against you, Joshua. I'm sending you out into the warfare of of of accomplishing and and and conquering all the land. But Joshua, there's no nation, there's no people that's going to be able to stand against you because I'm going to be your protection Can I talk to somebody here? I know you're scared to leave that job. I know you're scared to start that business. I know you're scared to do the next thing. But you need to hear God saying: if I send you, I'm going to protect you. If I've anointed it to be so, I'm gonna make sure it comes to pass. It's not really up to you. You're just walking in what I've already fulfilled in your life. You've got to step out on faith of what I said. If I've said to you, leave this and go to that, that's what you need to do. Trust God at His word. Joshua has to he has to step out of the faith not only that God's going to protect him because he says it's to hear I'm Joshua nobody's gonna be able to stand against you all days of your life. I'm Joshua, I'm I I got you. I got your back. Nobody I'm gonna protect you, Joshua. But he's also got to put faith in this as well, that God is going to be with him. He says As I was with Moses, so I will be with you. Joshua, I you you watched the way I was with Moses. You were the assistant. You had an opportunity to see that Well guess what, Joshua? The same way that I was with Moses, I'm going to be with you. I'm going to protect you, but I'm also going to be with you. And and and and I was with Moses in such a way that when Moses came down from the mountain, you saw the glow of the glory of God. God on Moses. In that same way I'm gonna put the glow on you. In the same way I'm gonna put the power on you. I'm going to infuse you, Joshua. With the power from on high to be an anointed leader for my people. You got to understand here, you got to hear this. You got to hear God saying, I'm with you. I'm with you. Don't be afraid if God's with you. Now if you're doing it on your own, be if be afraid. You have all you have all the rights and privileges to be afraid if you're doing it on your own. Matter of fact, I encourage you to be afraid But if God is with you, there's no need to be afraid. And if God has spoken to you, as He clearly speaks to Joshua here in the text, and He says to Joshua, Joshua, I'm going to be with you. Joshua, I'm going to protect you, but watch this. He also says to Joshua, he says, I will not leave you, nor will I forsake you. Listen, moving and shifting our priorities, reprioritizing for the future requires of us To embrace the end of the previous era, but also to face our fear with faith. Faith in the fact that God is not going to abandon us. He won't abandon you. God is not a trickster. He's not like, okay, let me, I'm gonna walk with you, and then when you ain't paying attention. You all by yourself. No, he doesn't do that. You know, so I think we have these I ideologies in our mind because this is how people do us. You know people start off with you, hey I got you man, I got your back dog. I'm with you. And then when you need them, they know you like you taxed in and why, hey man They ain't nowhere to be found. They done blocked your number and all that stuff. You can't get in touch with them no how. And then when they finally do get back with you two weeks later, they be like, oh, you that was you calling me? God ain't like that. He he won't forsake you. He will not abandon you. He will not leave you alone And listen, where he leads you, he's going to walk with you. If he let what listen, if he could walk with the three Hebrew boys in the midst of a fiery furnace. There ain't no place that you can go that he's not going to walk with you. He's going to be with you. And when he's with you, his protection protection is over you and his power is for you. He's going to cover you. He's going to assure that that which he assigns you to do and empowers you to do that you will be able to do it and it will be accomplished because he who began a good work in you Will complete it until the day of redemption. He's going to see it through. I'm trying to help somebody to face their fears this morning. You don't face your fears by just garnering up strength within your own body. No, you face your fear with faith. And the faith is in a God who is in control of everything. Everything. I'm trying to think I'm trying to think how many years ago it was back in 1994. Um I was I was a systems engineer with Mar Lockheed Martin and the and I was making good money and had great benefits. And the church I was at at the time they asked me um to be the the assistant pastor to full come on full time as assistant pastor The the assistant pastor doesn't make that much money. They didn't they didn't have that much money to offer me, nor did they have anywhere near the benefits. that I had with a corporate corporation in business. And I had children and I had a wife. And my mind looking at the offer would not allow me To say yes. Because my mind was afraid that what the church was going to offer me Would not sustain me and my family, and we would be hungry. Well I didn't look at the offer with my mind. I looked at the offer. Through by faith. And my faith said, God had already shown me that that was the path He had for me. And so I trusted God and I walked away from my nice job. Never to return again. Now I'm gonna tell you what happened. Why when I left, you know, because they say, oh, um, if you go out and it don't work out. You can come back. I had a high-level clearance and all that. Your clearance is stick to him. Your clearance is gonna be still good. You can come back. I said, I'm not coming back. And it wasn't because I hated the job so much. I wasn't coming back because I knew that my future had been changed And I needed to walk in faith to trust God to take care of my future So from 1994 to this day, I have been in full-time ministry, trusting God to take care of every need for me and my family. And can I help somebody who's afraid this morning? We never missed a meal. All our bills were paid. We lived debt-free. I'm doing wonderful. God has blessed us tremendously. But it's because I trusted God Amen. Somebody needs to hear that this morning. I didn't walk out of a six-fill figure salary at corporate America and walk into a six or seven-figure salary at the church. That didn't happen. No, I was like the church salary was close to poverty. Like that they believe in keeping, you know It was down there. It was down. But the Lord took care of it. He took care of it. That's faith. And I'm I'm saying this because If you're going to reprioritize, you've got to trust God. You've got to walk in your faith The fear that's in front of you is not going to be overcome by your own mustering. It's going to be overcome by faith in God and faith in what God has said and what God has laid out before you. Joshua takes over leadership of the whole nation of Israel and walks them out of 40 years of wandering in the desert to into the promised land by faith. Faith in the word that God said, Joshua, I'm with you. Joshua, I won't forsake you. Joshua, nobody's gonna be able to stand up against you By faith, and he walks forward and he accomplishes what God had for him in his future because he trusted God to face his fears with his faith. Y'all still here with me? Last thing, and I'm out of your way. He says here in the text, verse number six, it says, um, be strong and of good courage. For to this people you shall divide as an inheritance the land that which is uh which I swore to your fathers to give to them. Only be strong and very courageous. And uh that you may observe to do according to all the law that is in Moses that my servant commanded you, do not turn from it from the right hand or to the left. That you may prosper wherever you go. Here's my last thing that I think that is necessary if we're going to reprioritize for the future. We've got to embrace the end of the previous era. We've got to face our fears. of the future with faith. But finally we have to be strong and be courageous and be ready. Be strong, be courageous, and be ready. Be ready. The Lord says to Joshua two times in the text, Joshua be strong. and courageous. The first time he says be courageous. The second time he says be strong and very courageous. First, watch this. He says to Joshua the first time around. He says, Joshua, be strong and courageous because I've got an assignment for you. You're going to have to divide this land for these people. That's that's that's what the what's coming up in front of you. So Joshua, um dealing with five million folk who all want a piece of land ain't gonna be easy. Be strong, Joshua, because you've got in front of you the the the the the ominous assignment of dividing the land with these people. And so, Joshua, I'm gonna need you to be strong, and I'm gonna need you to be courageous because in front of you you've got the responsibility. Future Joshua includes dividing the land with these people. As I was reading that, I was saying, but God, how is this applicable to us? And then watch this. Um, turn with me if you if you got your Bibles there. Turn with me over to 1 Peter chapter 3 And I want to read just a couple of verses there. First Peter chapter 3. I'm sorry, 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 3. I want to read just a few verses there because I think this is this is how I hear God speaking it to us. You gotta be courageous because Joshua, you're going to have to divide this land to these people. Now, I need you to understand something. For Joshua and for Israel, the inheritance that God speaks of there in Joshua is an inheritance of land. But to us, it's not an inheritance of land. It's an inheritance of eternal life. Stay here with me. So watch this. In 1 Peter chapter 1, beginning at verse 3, it says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy. Has begotten us again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministries of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Bucas Sterling III Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title and broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services. Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crean Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301. 627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Bucas Sterling III. And the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman of For Him has spent forty plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist. Artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the songs. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music. This is your backstage pass. The one degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.