Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. We need to assure that the call comes from the Lord. And folk in your family have only done certain amounts of things and they've only gone so far, and so you can't even imagine going beyond what has happened in your family. He's got you know his father's got stuff, he's got stuff transferred to him, and so he's kind of got these things by chance. So he's not living in the blessings of the eternal God. Well, I'd rather have the choice of God than the chance of man. In other words, use the gifts, the talents, the abilities, the favor that God blesses you with, and then be a blessing to the kingdom. And I'm going to do it through you, Abram. He's gonna die on a cross, shed blood for all, and pay the sins of the entire world. For my holiness, there's a transfer going on with God. Andy, wherever you get your podcasts Voices behind the song. Beginning at verse number one. Baptist Church Welcome to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. gathers his wealth and his establishes himself there and he begins to get really comfortable there and kinda like some of us who perhaps have come into this place And so there's a call to transition from where you are. Now I can't kind of imagine God coming and saying, Get out of your country, but this is what he says to Abram. What they have in store for you, but God. Experience with the living God, he says to him, Get out of your country, get out of the place, get out of the position, get out of the routine that you're used to. No, there's a great degree of discomfort here because I know how we are as Christians, we are, okay Lord, let me pray about that. Out of our comfort zone. And he's gonna step out on faith and accept God to transition his position from Haran to wherever God's leading him. hang out with and because they haven't gone any farther, you can't even imagine yourself going any farther because you've already assessed your pecking order in the group. Name great. But what God is saying to Abram is not that. But God says, Abram, what I'm going to do is I'm going to escalate your name so that in the lineage of life, in the whole history of the world, when they say Abram, this is going to mean something. That God has called me to do something. When God changes your name, be a blessing. transition and the promise to transform, there is finally there's this whole blessings of transferral. In other words, Abram, because you stepped out of your comfort zone and you're walking in what I've called you to, and you've transitioned from where you are to where you need to be, and I've done the transformation in you. So you'll never come up short by blessing the one whom God has his hand on doing the work of the kingdom. From generation to generation, even after your God, He's gonna transfer blessings because you were faithful to a call he had on your life. I need you to understand that 2,000 years ago there was a call on Calvary's cross, and it called us to a place Book of life, your name will be in the book. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Stellar reputation for superior Andy Christman afore him has spent forty plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. One Degree of Andy. Uh the the interesting thing about this is that this is not where God needed Abram to be. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Is uh of a story of Abram's call from a God he did not know. On today. Expected of you. And you've grown comfortable in that place. Comfortable being there. to Abram to transition from what you are accustomed to and comfortable with. Where you are, man of God, woman of God, God wants to transition you to another place because the blessing that He has in store for you, He can't give it to you where you are And so he calls him, but I need you to focus on one thing real quickly: that this call comes in verse number one from the Lord. And then you followed the crowd and found out that the crowd was en route to an off-the-cliff experience. Where you can be in position to receive the measure of blessing that you cannot get where you are. When I get there, who else is gonna be there? The I will is this. And I know that Abram doesn't have any idea of what God is saying to him, nor the magnitude of what God wants him to do. And if this person you view as being better or smarter or what have you than you are, and they haven't gone anywhere, you can't even imagine that you can go any farther than where they are. And he's calling him out to that. But what God is saying here in this text is way beyond what any great nation of Abram's day represented. That decides what you're going to have. Now, for you and I, a great name is quite different from what it would have been in their day and time. I mean, everybody knows it, everybody wants it. He's saying, Abram, what I'm going to do to you is I'm going to make your character great. I'm gonna make your character great, Abram, and Abram. They gonna sing about you in Sunday school. Abram has no idea that four or five thousand years later we will still be talking about him. And Abram, what I want you to understand, Abram, when I bless you, I want you to be a blessing. In other words, Abram, when I do for you, when I transform your life, when I transfer your character, when I transform your reputation, when I transform your legacy, be a blessing. In other words, Abram, what I'm gonna do for you, I want you to be a blessing back to the kingdom of God. Well, here's what I'm saying. So he says, Okay, I've got a promise. I'm gonna transfer a blessing back to them. We need to understand that when we bless that person, we'll never come up short because what God is going to do is transfer the blessing back to you. I'm gonna transfer a curse back to them. So we need to get this thing balanced here that when you bless those, God's gonna bless you. I believe that's why scripture says, touch not the anointed. So he says, Look, I'm going to transfer the blessing to those who bless you. And he let God transform him. Blessings that you can't even comprehend because nobody in your family, nobody in your social circle has ever experienced you're gonna witness God transferring I need you to move from where you are to a place I can't tell you about yet, but I'm going Phantom, I want to put your name down in the legacy of life so that when we open the books of the lamb Sky, not made with hands, I will exchange your sin for my salvation. His father led him there and left him there, and there he became what he was up to the point when God called him, and he had become comfortable there. You're where you are, not because it's where God told you to go, but you're there because somebody left you there. This is my chaos. You're comfortable there. What I want to kind of point to first of all as we look at this call to transition, there's a call here from God I say that because far too many people make a move out of their comfortable zone or out of where they are because somebody else called them out. And so the call comes from the Lord, and the Lord says to Abram, Abram, he says to him, get out of your country God needs to get some of us to a place where our dependence is not on mama and daddy and brothers and sisters and auntie and uncle and cousins, but no, our dependence is on the living God. And he says to him, Abram, I want you to get out from your country, get out from your family, and from your father's house. in the authority of the voice of I will. If I can take you all the way back to when the firmament and the deep were floating around and there was nothing, the Bible says God stepped out of nowhere, stood on nothing, and began to wheel the worlds into existence. Now, in Abram's mind, he probably was only comparing what God was saying with what he saw and knew that great nations were. Everybody's gonna flock to your name. No, don't take what God blesses you with and go bless the world with. Amen. Man, I would do this and that and I would bless this person and I would well start blessing them now and just don't bless them with the all the zeros behind it That is letting Abram know that Abram, I have now positioned you to be in place that I'm gonna bring the Messiah through you. The Messiah is coming through you, Abram, and that Messiah is going to come and give his life as a ransom for all When you step outside your comfort zone and God decides to make your name great Nobody's gonna walk past your tombstone a hundred years from now and not know who you are I'll transfer to you holiness of God. But if you accept the call to move outside of that, God will blow your natural mind 9 a. To prepare a place for you. who curses you. And he receives a call from the living God, and he responds to the call by faith. Secondly, after this call to transition, there's a promise for transforming. Whenever God wills something, there is nothing that can contradict or hold back the will of God. Now, y'all need to keep in mind, Abram's got a wife, she's doesn't have any babies, she can't have children, and Abram's thinking, yeah, sure, you're gonna make me a great nation There's a big difference in having some resources by chance and having the favor of God by his choice. When I look this up in the original Hebrew structure of the sentence, what he says in essence to Abram is he doesn't say it the way we've articulated in English. says here in this third verse is there's this process of transferral that I want to work with you Abram Keys. 7150. Of great uh possessions and people, and he's got servants, and he's got a wife, and uh he's kind of established and and comfortable where he is, but it's a call to Abram to leave your comfortable zone. I need this to be clear to you that this call out of your comfort zone needs to come from God because nobody else can tell you Get out of your country. He calls Abram to a place to get out of your country, get out of your comfort zone, get away from your family. And make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. we really can't see too far beyond where we are. This is a God call here. He's wealthy, he's got servants, he's got some resources, but he hasn't by chance. That when they cast a blessing at you, Abram, God says, I'm going to out of my treasures in heaven, I'm going to cast a blessing back to them. Blessings, but I gotta get you to move from your comfort zone. With what he can do. It could be a relationship, it could be a state of mind, it could be an emotional status. Get out from the folk that you hang around. You got a great name because your name is on the shoe, your name is on the shirt, your name is on the jacket, your name is on the billboard, and when everybody show up, your name. When you step outside of your comfort zone and God begins to transfer into your bosom Of transition. sense of nervous anxiety and tension to the room. That's your circle. Abram, in you and through you, I'm going to transfer a blessing to all the families of the earth. That you might have life and that you might have it more abundantly Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. You're there because of somebody else's vision for you, but not God's vision for you. Because here, as we're reading through this text, just before coming into chapter 12, in chapter 11, you read through these genealogies, and you got all these names of people, and names of people, and these are names that you never heard of before. Abram leaves Ur, which is where they were, en route to Canaan. And not only is it a call from a God he doesn't know, it's a call to a place that the God won't tell him where he's going. m. I'm gonna make you a great nation. I will make you a great nation. We haven't walked into the blessing and the favor of God. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Abram is in Haran, not because he chose to be in Haran, but he's in Haran because his father left him there. You would give them 10,000. And I don't I just believe in my heart that Abram didn't have a clue what this is all going to encompass. , 1045 a. I'll transfer to you a new deed on some property. I'm comfortable with my chaos. Some of you, even though you in certain families, you're in certain circles. With what you already have, start doing what you said you was gonna do. The word of the Lord reads as follows. But this morning I want to talk to you from the subject a call to leave your comfort zone. I choose to be the one who sets the level and the standard and the height and the depth and the breadth and the width that you're going to impact the world and what you're going to possess when God says, I'm going to be the one I'm gonna bless you, Abram. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Because you do know that we have a tendency and the capability of being comfortable even in our chaos. I'm going to begin transferring things. Abram is getting ready to become the father of the nation of Israel. Get out of what's normal for you, because I need to transition you to a place When God says I will, there is nothing that God wills that doesn't take place. I've transitioned into what God has called me to do. When God changes you into a great nation, be a blessing. Praise the Lord. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. This is a God call to Abram, who says to him, Abram, I will make your And if I go and prepare a place for you, I'm coming back again to receive you unto myself. I need you to move from where you are to where I want you to be. We got all kind of questions for God. Well, just give them 10. And that's kind of where Abram is in the text. And only God knows if you get to this place, what's gonna happen in this place. But watch this: they cast a curse at you, Abram. I know when I'm gonna cry. He's not saying, Abram, I'm gonna have some Abram sandals, and everybody's gonna want your sandals. They're not gonna just flip through the pages and read past Abram and say, oh, he was just a man who lived and died. I'm gonna do this for you, Abram. I will bless you and make your name great. The text says that it came from Adonai, that is the God who has authority to call you out of your comfort zone to a place that He has for you. He's living by the chance of man. m. You've got to leave Abram. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Your product is out there, or whatever it is, your reputation is out there uh as being great in the community, great wherever you are. Abraham had many sons. This place that I'm talking about is not necessarily a home, but though it could be. I'm not only gonna make your character great, I'm gonna make your legacy great I'm not gonna mess. But when God called Abram, Abram had no clue of how great and how awesome and what spectacular things God had planned. And God says to Abram, I will bless you. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Abram is going to step out on faith because he has nothing to measure what God just said We need to be looking out for folk that God has his hand on Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 7 a. One of the reasons why we hang with family is because there's a level of dependence on family, and because we depend on family, we have a tendency to not depend on God. That's all you can do right now. I'm going to transfer the curse to those who curse you. Hi, Don Crow here for Passport Auto Group, a family-owned business with a Now the Lord had said to Abram, Get out of your country from your father and from your father's house to a land that I will show you Now, just in case you don't quite comprehend the level and the depth and the power of the voice of the I Will , and 1230 p. And we not move until we get answers to our questions. And watch this. I know I'm I know this is gonna be all night, Friday night, drinking, smoking, doing whatever, eating a whole barrel of ice cream, because this is my chaos That's God's anointed. Amen. I want you to understand what I got planned for you. You've got certain partners that you hang out with. Don't be a world seeker. Because most of us have established some level of comfort where we are. Picks up verse number two. It could have been Abram, it could have been somebody else. I love the way this laid out. That's a great question. He don't have a clue about that. You've got to leave Haran. A heathen, a one that doesn't know God, hasn't spoken to God, hasn't had an ex Let me paint this another way. In fact, he just happened to be born into the right family. I'll transfer to you the king I'm trying to transfer to you It's right there in the text. And en route to Canaan, he stops and they settle down in Haran. He doesn't have a relationship with the living God, his father doesn't have a relationship with the living God, his father is an idol worshiper, he's an idol worshiper I want to transfer to you that which you can't comprehend. Oh, I'm gonna make your name great, Abraham And God says, I'm going to transform you, Abraham, into what I want you to be Be a blessing, is what I'm trying to help you understand. Because if I if I mess with that, it's coming back to me in a God-sized way Why? But in this text, what happens, first of all, the text says, Now the Lord had said to Abram, Get out of your country Because then when you get there to where you said you was gonna be, you know what we all do it. When you curse the anointed of God, God's gonna curse you. You're there because this is as far as folk in your family go. I can't bless you the way I want to bless you where you are. When God begins to transform you because you moved out of your comfort zone into a place where He could bless you, be a blessing. He says to Abram, I will make you a great nation, I will bless you. Because a name in biblical times was not the reputation of men, it's the character of the man. But I'm going to make you a great nation. I will uh make you a great nation. m. And he says, and you shall be a blessing. No, be a kingdom builder He says, I will bless those who bless you. Watch this. There's a call to move out of our comfort zone. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. There are some of us who have grown up in families and Israel doesn't exist at this point in time. Because Abram accepted the call to move out of his comfort zone Amen. When God says, I choose to be the one. In our day and time, a great name means we get some tennis shoes. And that's why sometimes because we haven't moved In this call to transition. I will do it. All he knows is Now what this really literally is is it's a prophetic statement. For service locations and or additional information, contact our church office at 301-336 Uh Abram was uh an idol worshiper, he was uh unaffiliated with the living God. Can I talk to somebody here this morning? Watch this. And so God says in the authority of I will to Abram, Abram, I will make you a great nation. But God says to Abram, Abram, I'm going to move you from having what you have by chance to having what I want for you by my choice. And then he comes back and he says, But Abram, for those who curse you Abram becomes, you know, wealthy. Maybe somebody left you in a wrecked up, messed up emotional state, and you're there. You've got certain people that you What God in that And you shall be a blessing. You've got to leave there because what I have for you, I can't give it to you in Haran. That's a great question. And while we're praying, we want to know, Lord, okay, when are we gonna get there? A mansion in the In fact, I think even hearing this idea is it probably brings some Abram, I've got something I want to do to you and through you that I can't do where you are. You need to leave mom and daddy's house and go to a land that I will show you. I will make your name great. I think sometimes we oftentimes will say, you know what, if I had this, this is what I would do Some of us know because we follow the crowd that things looked like it was going well at a season. But God says, I'm gonna cast the curse back at them. And in you, all the families of the earth shall be blessed. I will exchange your unholiness I will bless you, I will make your name great, and I want you to be a blessing. This call has to come from God. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. The portion of the scripture that I've read and you're hearing this morning. In the English, it says, and you shall be a blessing. And now, Pastor Sterling. I know you're just used to living and dying, and that's all it is to you. org. And Abram responds by doing what God called him to do. The promise that comes here to transform Abram comes God is calling him out to be the beginning of the nation of Israel And I will bless you. When God transforms you, be a blessing. Because it's your chaos Number one: Abram 1's, 2's, 3's, 4's, 5. The call is such that it says to Abram, a man of great wealth, a man. Because when we're in our comfortable zone If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass: the One Degree of Andy podcast. When God transforms you, be a blessing to the kingdom. Many people who walked in the door this morning Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm trying to talk to us this morning because I believe God is calling some of us out of our comfort zones. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him. No, they're gonna say Abram, Father Abraham You're there because this is what's ex Amen. And I'm not saying again, it's not that it's always the best scenario, but it's your place. Then he comes back and he says, not only get out of your country, get out from your family. The One Degree of Andy podcast. They might be talking to somebody here this morning Which blessing is better? That's what a great name means to us. If you stay there, yes, you'll live at the level that you have. Watch this. But that's with man I want to bless you in a way that you can't even. And and that's our idea of great name. Man, if I had that lottery We want to encourage your attention this morning to Genesis chapter 12. No, in the Hebrew, what it says is be a blessing. Now, up till now, Abram has what he has by chance. I'm Andy Christman. What's the accommodations like? Now Now verse three is the final part of this because after this call to try And if you accept my call. Now he's bringing you their stories. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Now, which curse is worse? A great name is just m. Abram, when people bless you. No, that's not what he's saying. But watch this, but you become In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Don't bless yourself. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast. But God said, I've come. Listen now to One Degree of Andy. It's where you are