Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. But his mother is there at the cross supporting him and there for him even in his last dying hour. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. At Kettering Ministries. Backstage Pass. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Voices behind the song. Amen. because she supported him. As we look at the support that Mary has given to Jesus, we kind of walk through the life of Jesus in Luke's Gospel, chapter 2, verses 43 through 49, when the family had gone to the Passover meal Experiencing the piercing of her soul that Simeon told her when they dedicated Jesus to the Lord in the first place that she was going to experience So, watch that. But we need to take time to pay attention. You think mama always wanna show up and listen to you cry and moan and complain and go through another boyfriend and another girlfriend and you get in divorce again. Don't call me. First of all, he's got dislocated body parts, and he's been nailed, he's been whipped, he's been beaten, he's been hanging in the sun, the sun is beaten on him His sweat is sweating into open wounds. Spirit and he's dealing with all of that, and while he's on the cross dealing with all of that, he has to push up while blood is flowing into his throat and lungs. For her to be here. Y'all already know they ain't gonna do nothing when when the when the rubber hits the road, when the stuff hit the fan, you the one gotta deal with it because there ain't no way to be found. It's gonna cost you to make sacrifices for what was comfortable for you. To wash away all of her sins and to make sure that she would spend her eternity with him in heaven. Some. Mothers by your actions towards others. in this life having to be the caregiver or having to take care of either a mother or a parent or s other senior person. And so the whole idea of taking care of somebody, even though it may seem foreign to you right now, it is coming one way or another. Support. Conceived and she bore a son. Just created out of nothing and popped on the scene. Let me say this to you: the process that the mother goes through to bring you into the world is a laborious one. Her sleep at night, amen. Born, she labored in bringing you in this world, so she supported you. It is my inference of the text. He better find his own way home. That's just my inference of the text. Where he's being now crucified for that which he did not do. Jesus of town two fish five loads of bread yeah he gonna feed everybody gone none of those people are here That's a mother. That's the picture of a mother. Can I stop right there? He has been nailed to a cross, hung high, stretched wide, while he's there bleeding and suffering and being made fun of While he's dealing with his own pain and his own hurt and his own betrayal and his own stuff, he sets it all aside to pay attention to see his mother. It grieves my heart because folk get bit out of shape because mama put you out. In our own chasing after successes in life, that oftentimes we don't take the time to set aside our own stuff to see what the condition mama is in. Families won't even visit them, but they're so busy going on chasing the American dream that they are not giving time or attention to see their own parents that are in need She's watching her boy be crucified. Here it is a sacrifice for him to even speak while he's on the cross. Sin weighed on him, not just last week's sin, but next week's sin also. By consigning her or assigning her to his disciple John, whom he loved. And he doesn't have much oxygen, but he's got to push up on the cross in order to speak at all. She deserves the best. is when mama needs something where where's my where's your brother where the sister you you call them they won't even call you back y'all know everybody got family everybody got trifling brothers and sisters that won't do nothing Set things in place for mama to take care of my mother, to take good care of my mother for the remainder of her days. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. In Kingdom Building. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our Spirit-Fill worship services, Sundays at 8 a. Called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. Of taking care of his mother in a way, watch this, that she's taking care of right now. On this Mother's Day, I want to invite our attention to John's Gospel, chapter 19, verse 25. His mother, his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Clopus, and Mary Magdalene. Park, pump the brakes, hold on, pause. hour. That hasn't been surgically removed or something. I'm thinking Joseph's sake, that Jesus. Because his mother supported him. And Mary went to Jesus and said, run out of wine. respond to him she responds to the servants and says whatever he tells you to do do it Because she believed in him. She supported him. Judas, who was carrying the money, gone. So while she's experiencing the very piercing of her own soul by the sword, she is hurting herself, but at the same time supporting her son. They have pulled the hair out of his face. See, my point right here is that for us, we are so busy and caught up in our own pursuits. And to see the suffering and the need of his mother. We think mama is just immune to pain. That's gonna keep us so busy and preoccupied that we can't set it aside to pay attention to what the condition mama is in. And let's just acknowledge something here. I needed to point that out because a lot of folks say, well, I I ain't got that much and I'm my situation kind of bad already, so I can't do nothing. He's not in the best condition to be acting on the need of his mother while he's on the cross being crucified He's being crucified, and watch this. Because he paid attention that his mother has a need, he expends the energy to take care of her and good care of her They busy, I got work today, I got it as he can't do that. resources that are there to assure she has the best care. Who is going to give them the best care and who's going to take care of them the best that can be done right now? Right now while she's grieving at the cross, while she's in pain at the cross, has someone to comfort her. examine how he took care of his mother. His mother's there. Having to deal with so many different issues and so many different concerns. As opposed to waiting until she's convalescing and we are forced to do it. That the initial support that Mary gave to Jesus was that she gave birth to him. See, he had his mother's support. She supported him though. And he says, My time has not yet come. Because she believed in him, she supported him, and oftentimes many of us could probably testify: it was our mother, amen, who believed in us when nobody else did. Third thing picks up in verse number twenty six, latter part. Watch this. And then once you see the need, don't pretend, don't put on blinders and act like you didn't hear what she just said. Now he's bringing you their stories. Saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing by, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. He had his mother's support. Y'all do remember the angels came and talked to her and said, Blessed art thou, Mary, for the Lord has shown favor unto you, and the Holy Spirit came upon her, and she His mother. Was willing to look. His disciples have abandoned him. Her pain and her need because he cared to see it. They don't need to pretend like everybody is you know taking care of mama right. For a moment. Behold your woman. While he's carrying the weights of the sins of the world, past, present, and future, he's not in the best position to be being concerned about a little woman that's sitting down there crying and weeping while No, she gave you life. In the best hands I can put her in. But he would be a fix until mama left here and went to heaven. Baptist Church. If we check the DNA, her DNA is in you. Stay here with me. That was too easy. He has been beaten and whipped till his flesh has fallen off his body. But he acted on what he saw as a need and a pain and a need for support and encouragement of his mother. See see we so caught up in ourselves That we trying to figure out how I'm gonna keep my high status of life and how I'm gonna still look good in the community and at the same time take care of mama. Can we just be for real? And so we want to thank God for those unsung hero mothers, amen. Now, I said from the beginning, all of us, like Jesus, have had our mother's support. It grieves my heart to go to the nursing home and see not just mothers, but fathers whose To pay attention to the needs and the pain of his mother. Rascal, get up here. And he took her home from that day forward to take care of his mother. Amen. Folks, I'm sure many of you would agree that surviving as a child in Haiti has got to be one of the toughest challenges Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. In this text, we get to see Jesus doing this very thing, taking care of his mother and demonstrating his love for her and his compassion towards her in his last. And then when they call you, I ain't got time. You still had the support of your mother. What's the word? Then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And I thought the best example to use would be Jesus. And here's the question as it relates to our mother, shouldn't we really be doing that now? Here's his other thought. And I can tell you I've seen enough funerals. Now I hear it. We we just think mama just always supposed to be there. Is a direct result of your mother supporting you to life. Well this one ain't well that's too high for mama. Do something about it. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. They went back and looked for him for three days. She's supportive of him. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. When he gave up his spirit on that cross, he was taking care of his mother's eternal destiny. And I just like this verse, I might as well read this one too. And as we look at this and talk from this idea taking good care of your mother, I begin by looking at the fact that in Jesus' example and even in our own She's the one saying, where's Jesus? That was too quick. And so Jesus looked and he sees the disciple whom he loved and who was willing to stand and stay with him even to his crucifixion, and he assigns her to him. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. She was there as his support. Mary supported him. It ain't gonna hurt you. I want to use the verses of scripture that I read on this morning to talk from the idea taking good care of your mother. I'm just hyper that cause fathers ain't they we ain't looking. In the text it says, She's there, she's standing there at the cross, and verse 26 says, when Jesus therefore saw his mother. org or contact our church office at 301-574-3515. I've got to know that that, and even the same way, I got to see my mother's pain. Now watch this. They not always on point. My presumption of that text is that Joseph probably wasn't going to look for him for three days. That's how mothers are. Now seeing his mother's pain requires him to deny his own to pay attention to hers. Jesus acted upon her need. Also her sister and Mary, the the wife of Clopus and Mary Magdalene. And hear it ringing out of your deep voice and recess for those of you who hate your mother, and for those of you who felt like my mother never did nothing for me They had gone to the Passover meal, and Jesus, when everything was over, he lingered around. Mama broke down. But is it that mother that says, no, that's my baby. See, mothers will believe in you and what you have capability of doing before you even know you could do it yourself. I'm Andy Christman. Don't get so caught up in your own stuff. Cause I like the scripture. Better catch a cab somewhere. She not only supported him in that regard, but she supported him in believing in him. Jesus saw his mother in the midst of his own scenario. He's not in the best condition to be suing that. That was the first support that any mother has given a child. And she definitely sacrifices everything on the day of your birth. And even now, while she's there, supporting him, watch this. He's dealing with all the pain. Jesus has been through a mock court. Amen. Peter who says, Oh no, I'll never leave you. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. All of us were born, far as I know, unless somebody here don't have a navel. He does that even though there are other siblings. First of all, once again I want to just say Happy Mother's Day to all of our mothers this morning and not only those who are mothers biologically, but those who are mothers It says, He saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing by, and he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. This is what they call the third saying of the seven on the cross. I want you to also see that as horrible as your mother may have been in your eyes. They'll do that. All the other disciples, gone. Mom, I'm not busy. Now we gotta put her we gotta find somewhere else cheaper. He does the very best he can to make sure that his mother Act on a need. And now in our particular text here in verse 25, at the cross, on this day where he has been through a kangaroo court They have pressed a crown of thorns into his skull and pierced his skull where blood is flowing out. Many a mother who never had a child born of her flesh, but she has been nonetheless the greatest mother that ever lived in the lives of Which one of you have so much going on in your life that you can't set it aside to pay attention to what mama's going through? Jesus is not in the best condition to do it. She crying. Now I'm gonna just say this. I always know who didn't take care of mama. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. They looking around for him and they thought he was with everybody else, and they had to go back and look for him. Jesus was able to set aside all of his pain being crucified. Amen. That's in John chapter 2. I'm just of the opinion that mama deserves the best. The scripture is real. Let me just go back and read this from verse 25. They'll look for you for three days. We all were born, and regardless of how you feel about your mother, I need us to acknowledge and understand that the fact that you're here in the flesh. While she is supportive of him, he saw her pain and her need. He's dealing with all the scorn. Can I have somebody right here? Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. And as we face a day and time when people are living much longer and That means she contributed to your substance and your bodily presentation. You think mama always wanna watch your kids. Catch a catch a caravan or something. And he probably went back and for about half of a day, maybe a day. I'm just gonna be for real, for real. She can't contain herself. This is kind of the way Jesus responded to her. And so what he does, he takes advantage of the If Jesus can take the time on the cross to see the pain of his mother. They always got something else to do. I know I just had to say that because some folk was going to cut me off. Mom, why don't you just call somebody else? He didn't just see the need, but he acted on it. Mama 70-something years old, you still bringing your kids to mama. He's not in the best position or condition to do it, but yet he does it anyway. Many of us, if we haven't already, will find ourselves at some point He's got it all laid on him, and he's dealing with that and the separation from his father in heaven. I like that. I'll be there. John is the one standing there with his mother, and the others, all the people who were getting food free. And other brothers and sisters ain't always She probably needed to put you out. That's a great question. After this, knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, he said. This is my inference into the text. It might not be your brother or your sister that you can call to help mama out, but if you can't do it, if you're not in the best position to do it at the time, reach out to someone. Y'all still here with me? This is what his mother says. Take good care of your mother. He's got the weight of your sin and my He only 12 years old. You know, y'all know Big Ma Peter. Here's the reality. And everybody else, pretty much, that was with him at first, have now abandoned him. Amazing. I need one of y'all to get over here. That sometimes may get left out during this time. And from that hour that disciple took her to his home He chose the best resolution Because sometimes what you gotta start thinking about is how am I gonna I got to see her knee. Cause some folks just dogging their mother out. We not looking no three days Don't expect your father to do that. But the text is that John also took her home. They have punched him in the face multiple times. It says, now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother. Come on. Help me, somebody. A whole lot of folk don't even care to see. Amen. I told that boy to stay right here. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. In John chapter 2, when they both were invited to a wedding of Canaan of Galilee, they showed up at the wedding and the wine ran out at the wedding. Y'all need to understand something physiologically what's going on with him At the end of the day, Jesus took care of his mother in more ways than just Let me draw out that process. Absolutely amazing. They never around. And I know there's a variety of answers, a variety of thoughts about that, but I think it's best to do it now Now let me begin this text and start by saying. He says, woman, what does that have to do with me? Here's the third thing I'm out your way. You think mama always wanna bail you out His mother doesn't say Don't you catch the attitude? It was labor, that's why they call it labor. We got to find him. For additional information, go to our website Now, if you walk around blind, acting like you don't know she got knee, she has knee. The house is falling apart. But his mother is there, and she is providing him. Set your stuff aside. Jesus knew that John would not just be a temporary fig. He gone. She is ex But watch this. And you know what's gonna happen. Taking really good care of our mother now. It's not an exegesis of the text. And let me say this, and in doing so, sometimes The word of the Lord reads as follows: Now, there stood by the cross of Jesus Because if we are to be disciples of His and to follow Him, it might behoove us to And watch this. And so you just get it in your mind. Amen Jesus ain't in the best position either. He has been spit on. He didn't just put her in anybody's care. See, because we can see a whole lot of stuff and never act on it. You do realize that he has other brothers and sisters. My mother ain't done nothing for me. We thank you in advance for uniting with us For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. And they look for him for three days And when Jesus therefore Some of them don't want to hear from 'em. Which tells me there's nothing I can go through and nothing you could be going through And he can barely get words out. In order for him to say what he says, m. Now I'm I'm not a woman, but I've got a wife and I've got daughters and I've watched the process. Y'all know what I'm saying? Praise the Lord. And now, Pastor Sterling. And all of us who are here, because none of us were I think Jesus does an excellent job. I'm just this I hope she don't call me or 11 a. He had his mother's support. You only get one. It's time for you to take mama out. He can't send a text or email to Galilee and say, Can one of y'all trifling Y'all remember that? Can I get it fixed? It is one in which she sacrifices her beautiful body, her appetite. You've been out for 30 years now. So she she did that. Now he's bringing you their stories. m. While he's being crucified in Jerusalem, they hanging out in Galilee. You've been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. If I'm gonna take good care of my mother, I got to remember that she has supported me. They praying that she don't call me the I hope she called my brother, I hope she called my sister. But here in Jesus' case, even though he has other brothers and sisters, he realizes I'm giving them putting my money. at our new edifice. He has been made fun of. She supported you by bringing you in the world and giving you life. He saw his mother's need and pain. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. The One Degree of Andy podcast. But we appreciate all of you and all that you have done. It was our mother who told us we can do things that we didn't even believe ourselves we could do. Can we agree? She labored in bringing you into this world. He lingered around, but guess who went back for him? He didn't just go to the cheapest nursing home. And so Mary also did for Jesus. Y'all remember that? Now watch this. The flesh has separated from the And he said to the disciple, Thank God But because he loves his mother. Mama don't always want to hear that. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Jesus, he saw I'm Andy Christman. If you don't can't see it, ask her Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. That's a great question. I I need to paint the picture. But now in in this In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Mama got paid too. Well, how much it cost So if she hasn't done nothing from the day you were born. Y'all y'all not get If you love Christian music, this is your He ain't there nowhere around. You cutting into my life Y'all know how.