Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. And it came to pass when the Lord was about to take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal. And Elijah said to Elisha, Stay here, please, for the Lord has sent me on to Bethel. But Elisha Said, as the Lord lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you. So they went down to Bethel. Now the sons of the prophet who were at Bethel came out to Elijah, and they said Do you know that the Lord will take away your master from over you today? And he said, Yes, I know. Keep silent. And then Elijah said to him, Elisha, stay here, please, for the Lord has sent me on to Jericho. But he said, As the Lord lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you. So they came to Jericho. Now the sons of the prophet who were at Jericho came to Elisha And said to him, Do you know that the Lord will take away your master from over you today? And so he answered, Yes, I know. Keep silent. Then Elijah said to him, Stay here, please, for the Lord has sent me on uh to Jordan. But uh he said, as the Lord lives and as Your soul lives, I will not leave you. So the two of them went on. And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went and they stood facing them at the distance, while the two of them uh stood by the Jordan And now Elijah took the mantle, rolled up, and he struck the water, and it was divided this way and that, so that the two of them crossed over on dry land. And so it was when they had crossed over that Elijah said to Elisha, Ask what may I do for you before I am taken away from you? And Elisha said, Please let a double portion of your spirit be upon me. And so he said, You have asked a hard thing, nevertheless, if you see me when I am taken away from you, it shall be so for you. But if not, it shall not be so. Then it happened as they continued on, and they talked, that suddenly a chariot of fire appeared with horses of fire, and they separated the two of them, and Elijah went up by the whirlwind into heaven. And Elisha saw it, and he cried out, My father, my father, the chariot of Israel and its horsemen And so he saw him no more. And he took hold of his clothes and he tore them into pieces. And he said, he also took up the mantle of Elijah and that had fallen from him. And Went back and stood by the banks of the Jordan. Then he took the mantle of Elijah that had fallen from him, and he struck the water and said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And when he also has struck the water, it divided this way and that, and Elisha crossed over. In chapter 2, verses 2, 4, and 6. There are some specific places that Elijah takes Elisha to. So what he does in the training, in the teaching, he's getting ready to pass. The baton, so to speak. But what he does is he says he takes them to three historical places. Watch this. They start This is where they are. Verse 2, it says, And it came to pass when the Lord was about to take up Elijah into heaven by whirlwind. That Elijah went with Elisha to Gilgal. So they they're at Gilgal first. So they go to Gilgal. Now, you're not Old Testament theologians, you don't remember all this stuff, but Joshua chapter 4 tells us what happened at Gilgal. Gilgal Is the place where Israel keeps going out from. It's the place, watch this, where 12 stones are set up in the midst of the waters. Watch this to remind them that our Lord, the hand of the Lord, is a mighty hand. It's a reminder to them, it's a place of remembrance for them that our God has done something incredible. It's where they cross the Jordan and they go back and they put the stones in But it's a reminder that the hand of the Lord is a mighty hand. Elijah takes Elijah there. It's also a place where Israel would again go out from. It's a place where Israel is getting ready to go into the promised land for the second generation. It's the place where they had taken these Stones of flint, and they circumcised all of those who hadn't been circumcised, all of the generation who hadn't been circumcised, they were all circumcised right there at Gilgal. Now, why is that important? Because That place is a place of remembrance for Israel. That this is where God rolled away the sin of Israel. This is the place where God set you apart for Himself. Elisha, as a prophet, you need to know this. You need to know that God has separated your present from your past Lord, help me Jesus. Our Gil Gal today is Calvary. When I see the cross, I'm reminded that my sin has no more power over me. Elijah takes Elijah to Gilgal first and he teaches them there. And there's another thing I want you to notice in all these places that they stop. In every place that they stop, there's a school of the prophets. Every place that they go, every one of these stops is there's a school of the prophets there, and a school of prophets is the equivalent of a seminary It's where they're studying and learning the Word of God. They're learning how and what written papers they have, how they may articulate it, how may How might they understand it? How might they grow in the word and the wisdom of God? And every one of these places, there's a there's a school of the prophets. It's a reminder. Watch this from Elijah to Elisha that this is important. This is significant that we keep on training people to know the word of God, to proclaim the word of God. So he takes them to Gilgal first. Then from Gilgal Verse 2 says, uh, then Elijah says, stay here, for the Lord has sent me on to Bethel. We're going to leave here to go to Bethel. Now Genesis chapter 28 is going to tell us about Bethel. Because in Bethel, that's where Jacob falls asleep. And when he falls asleep, he has a dream and he sees angels descending and ascending from the ground all the way up to heaven. And it is there that Jacob, when he awakes from this dream, he realizes this is the doorway to heaven. This is where the presence of God is. And so he names the place Bethel. Lord have mercy. House of God. Whew! Lord have mercy. This is blowing my mind. Look, Elijah. says to Elijah, you need to know where the house of God is. Elijah says to Elisha, the presence of God Getting in the presence of God is important for you to fulfill your your ministry responsibility. So he takes some to this house of Bethel. Now it is also here as we keep seeing these places everywhere we go there's there's a stone Reference. Because there in Bethel, when Jacob gets up, he takes a stone, lays it there, anoints it with oil, and declares the name of the place, House of God. When when they were in Gilgal, it's where the stones of flint were. It's where the stones that were of remembrance were. And then they moved from Bethel. House of God. Verse 4, they keep moving, because he offers them another chance. He says, Elijah says to Elisha, Stay here, please, for the Lord has sent me on to Jericho. And Elisha says, Hey, uh no, going with you. You're not leaving me behind. And so as long as you live, I'm following you. I'm committed to following you. I'm a committed follower of yours. Lord have mercy. But he takes him to Jericho and is there in Jericho. Joshua chapter 5 and Joshua chapter 6 helps us to understand what Jer what happens at Jericho. Because there at Josh Joshua is going to run into the angel of the Lord. He's gonna run into the rock who is Jesus. And he runs into the angel of the Lord there and he says, Are you with us or are you against us? He says, I ain't with you or against you. I am the Lord. I I'm here to fight the battle. Lord have mercy. I wish somebody would absorb that this morning. It is here in the teachings of discipleship from Elijah to Elisha that you need to understand that the Lord is going to fight your battle. Y'all still here? He's giving him all these clues about the ministry that he's about to enter into and what he's got in front of him to deal with. And he's laid out for him Gilgal and Bethel and Jericho. And then they come to Jordan. That's the last place. And then the Jordan, which is called the, is known as the River of Descent. It's the place of crossover. It's the place of blessings for Israel where they crossed over to the promised land. All the teaching and testing and training prepares Elijah to receive The blessing. It's all synonymous. And he takes them there to Jordan. And the Jordan actually is the place in which they stack the stones. And as anybody comes in the future in your children's generations and says, if they ask anything, tell them this is where the Lord did a mighty work for us. So to have all of this symbolism that Elijah is teaching and training and pouring into Elijah in all of these places and in all of these places. He's being tested and he's being trained at the same time. But watch this. All of this is one day. So he's been being trained for six years, but this is the final exam. Perhaps today you're dealing with the final exam. And the question is, have you been trained? So we move from this, watch. The training and the testing of the tra of the trainee, because that's what Elijah is doing to Elijah. He's training him, he's testing him. And here's the next part of sewing the mantle to another is the taunting by others of the trainee. Because listen to me, when you're being trained To know God, to love God, to serve God, expect to be taunted. Expect opposition If you thought becoming a Christian meant that you were going to have a nice, smooth, easy life with no trouble, surprise! That wasn't the plan. No, in this life, you will have trouble. In this life, you will have opposition As Elijah is taking Elijah from place to place, he keeps running into these sons of the prophet, and the sons of the prophet Say to Elijah. Now watch this. Now Elijah's been with this dude for six years. This is his in essence his father. In fact, he even calls him father. This is his father in the ministry And he's getting ready to pass away. And the sons of the prophet come out to Elisha and they say, Do you know that your daddy's gonna get taken away today? He's a prophet. Watch this. Elisha says, I know. The text says, be silent. My version is shut up. Because I don't want to hear you trying to distract me. me from being focused on my God is able to do what no one else can do. I don't want you to distract me from understanding and learning the lesson that I need to get in the presence of God. I don't want you to distract me with what It's going to happen later on. I'm dealing with this right now with God. But listen to me. You and I are no different because we've got folk that are going to try to distract us with other stuff. That have nothing to do with your ministry for the kingdom of God. It has nothing to do with your eternal salvation. It has nothing to do with all kinds of distractions. to taunt you, to cause you to fail the test. And we get busied with the distraction. Oh If Elisha had gone for it, you know what? He would have probably fallen on his knees and started crying. Oh yeah, that's right. The day is the day. I'm gonna lose my dad. But he says, shut up I'm sorry, it's it's in the text. Verses three and five. Now the sons of the prophet who were at Bethel came out to Elisha, and they said to him, Do you know that the Lord will take away your master? From over you today, and he said, Yes, I know. Keep silent, shut up. I don't want to hear it. Don't try to distract me. I'm not gonna be distracted because my focus It's on following my master. Where's your focus? Is it on following your master or is it on the distractions of death Or the put possibilities of things that might be going on in the world. Here's what gets us. We get distracted by a lot of stuff. And we forget that our God is an awesome God. We forget that God parted the Red Sea. We forget that God rolled away our sin. We forget the things that God has done. We forget that in His presence there is peace forevermore. And so we get distracted, but Elisha says I'm not gonna be distracted. That's why I think it's great that all these stones were left behind to remind the people that would come up after them. Listen to what it's in verse five. Sounds almost like the like a repetition. It says now the sons of the prophet who were at Jericho. They came out to Elijah and they said the same thing. Do you know that the Lord is going to take away your master today? And he says, I know. Yes, I know. Keep silent. Shut up. Close your mouth. I don't want to hear it. Because what I'm focused on is following and learning all I can learn from my master so I can serve my God the best. So there's this training and testing of the trainee. There's this taunting by others of the trainee. But the final movement of this text is the transfer of the mantle to the trainee. Transferring the mantle. Because this mantle, this robe that Elijah, Elijah has it rolled up. in his hand and he's carrying it around perhaps 'cause of the climate, it's not doesn't need to wear it at the time, but he's got it with him Verse 8, Elijah took his mantle, rolled it up, struck the water, and it was divided. He takes his robe hits the water with it and the Jordan River splits just like the whole Red Sea thing. And he and Elisha walk across on dry land. That's the power of the prophet. Watch this. And so they walk across on dry ground, verse 8. And so it was when they had crossed over that Elijah says to Elisha. Ask what I may do for you. Now, when I looked at that, what it put to mind for me is this is a disciple maker who's Who's training his trainee? He's done everything for him. Six years I've poured into you. He knows he's getting ready to leave. And he turns to his his disciplee. He turns to his his ment And he says, Do you have everything you need? What else can I do for you so that you will be prepared to take on this mantle? What else can I help you with to make sure that when you step out, that you have everything you need? When I'm no longer here to ask any more questions, are there any more questions that you have? You know what we all can probably testify? A whole lot of folk left us and and we had a lot of questions, didn't you? Anybody? Am I the only one? Folk leave you behind and why I why didn't ever tell me this? Why didn't I I didn't know that I wish I had asked him this question What Elijah is doing is making sure that Elisha has what he needs. This is what sewing into someone is like. You're sewing into them so that they have everything they need to take on the journey that's ahead of them. Are y'all still here? We need more sowing because we need to be prepared for these legs of the journey. There's some some things that our parents went through that if they would take turn around and sew it into us Then we will be prepared for the journey. There's some things that in Christianity, if we would just turn around and make sure we're showing it the word of God into other people. Then they will be ready for the journey. And I know what you're saying. Pastor, I'm not I'm not I'm not a Bible teacher. I'm not a theologian. Well guess what? We have made available for you over 20,000 resources through RightNow Media so that you can go there and you can use RightNow Media to go and train other people You could gather your family together, your community together, your neighbors together, your people at your job together at lunch hour, and you can say, we're gonna go through this together. You know what? The lesson teaches itself All you need to do is facilitate it and be that facilitator of the lesson. We've got opportunities for you to teach discipleship training classes here on every day of the week, with the exception of Wednesday during the evening, because we already have Bible study then. And listen, I know we have multiple people who have already been through classes. Some of you are professional students. And you haven't taught anybody what you've learned. And then you got the audacity, Pastor Williams, can I get a witness? You got the audacity to come to Pastor Williams and say, What's the next class? You done took 50 classes. Can you go back and teach somebody else some of those? Pastor Williams gonna help y'all with that one. If you need some help, you want to get connected by teaching a class Say, you know what, I just retired. I'm sitting at home. I ain't doing nothing twinning my fingers. I could teach a class online or something to a group of people. Go talk to Pastor Williams. I took Survival Kit 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9. I took all the other classes. Master Life 3, 4, 5, 1, 2. I took all that I think you You'd have been through a woman and her kingdom and the kingdom and the woman and you've been through all that a man and you know God and the man and a man and a God and you've been through do all them classes, how to talk right, how to walk right, how to stand up, how to sit down. You got the spiritual avenues of up, down, sideways. You've done all them classes. Go tell Pastor Williams, I want to teach this class. I already set it up with him. We're gonna accommodate you. He said, I don't know how to get to right now. He's gonna help you with that too. Matter of fact, I think the media team they probably have it. They're going to tell you how to connect to right now media. So you can go in. You can all these lessons are available for you as a child of God to begin sewing into somebody else Now guess what? If we begin to sow into other Christians, it makes the whole Christian base stronger. If we begin to sow into the unsaved, then we begin to fulfill the great commission of making Christ known We can't just come into these buildings and close the doors and say, yes, let's have good worship and run out and be silent. No, we are the light of the world, and it's getting dark every day. And the darker it gets, the more we ought to shine. But if we're afraid because we haven't been trained, nobody's discipled us, nobody's poured into us. We're gonna hide ourselves and and we're gonna like, oh, I don't know what to do. Oh the world's coming to an end. No, ain't no need in us walking in fear We are the ones that have faith. We don't walk by sight. We walk by faith. The just live by faith. Am I preaching to myself? This is what we need. And so what Elijah says to Elijah, do you have everything you need? Because I'm getting ready to depart. And he says, Elijah says to Elijah, I want a double portion of that spirit that's on you. When you ask for a double portion of the spirit, you also ask for a double portion of the trouble. Yeah. Yeah, I might be making it look easy, but it ain't. I'm asking for a double portion of the enemy's attack. I'm asking for a double portion of stress. I'm asking for a double portion of how Bullseyes on my back. Now I'm not saying don't don't need to be afraid of it because the Lord if he if he provides it he'll protect you. Are y'all still here? But I just want you to know it just ain't like a cakewalk. Oh, I'm gonna have a double portion. I'm gonna be double waveless. No, it's Elijah's gonna have to go through something to get this double portion. And so watch this. So what happens is that they're walking along, they go to the Jordan. There's a bunch of prophets that are there when they get to the Jordan. And they then they're watching them, get ready to go over. And so when they get there, fifty men from the sons of the prophet, they stood facing the at a distance And they're they're watching the two of them and they as they stood by the Jordan. And then as he they walk across there, you got these fifty prophets that are watching them, sons of the prophets that are watching them And they go over, and when they go over, Elijah Elisha is walking with Elijah, and all of a sudden, the chariots of fire come And this whole idea of the whirlwind is like a storm, it's like an instantaneous storm, it's like a spot storm. So, for example, imagine for a moment that where I'm standing, there's a spot storm. So it's not storming anywhere else It's not storming where you are, but lightning comes and flashes and the winds come and the clouds come and and it's like a a torrential storm just happening in one spot, and then in that instance, woof Elijah is gone. Now Elijah turns, he sees it, and he's like, Father, Father, the chariots, the chariots of fire. And by the time he turns around, his father's gone. Elijah's gone. And the only things left Is the mantle. Elijah is gone. Elisha is left. He picks up the mantle. This is the transfer of the mantle. He picks up the mantle. And let me say this. Because you pick up the mantle doesn't mean you're anointed. The fact that you have the mantle doesn't mean the transfer has been legitimized by God. Elijah was God's anointed prophet for Israel. He was not the only prophet. He was the major prophet for Israel. God anointed him to speak on his behalf to the whole nation of Israel, to every king. And even though you've got this whole school of prophets and all these other prophets Who are coming along and being trained? There's one that God has assigned. That's my man right there. That's my main man, Elijah. Now the mantle has fallen, and Elisha picks it up Elisha says, Where is the God of Israel? Now he's on the opposite side of the Jordan now because they crossed the cross on dry land. Now here is the final test as to whether or not you are entitled to the mantle. Does the power work for you? Elijah takes and strikes the waters of the Jordan, and in the same way That it worked for Elijah. It works for him. And he walks across on dry land. And then the others who were standing watching, because there's always somebody watching you. There's always somebody watching to see, are you authentic? Are you the real deal? Does the power work in you? Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at kettering ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He sits Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.