Sometimes folk go around cutting off everything, and you needed that leg in order to go up to the house of the Lord. I don't I mean I have the symptoms anymore, but what's the sign? We know, and probably most famous of Scripture is Judges chapter 6, when Gideon was continuously throwing fleeces before the Lord and asking a sign from God. Y'all do know he's not the only one that sends messages out. I'm gonna heal you. And trust me, trust me, family and friend. The word of God has come as proof. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Hezekiah, I'm gonna deliver you from your enemies of Syria. And there is none other like him. And the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Voices behind the song. Has to ease out. So he heals him. We have the promise from God's Word as a priority of proof. And so God is, he goes through this process with Hezekiah. by the actions of his healing of your of of your your wound, the thing that was incapacitating you? And by the time we get to the New Testament, we'd also see in the New Testament that the Jews, even the Jews asked from God a sign that they might know what is going to happen. In other words, I need some validation that this is your message and not my own. Hezekiah, you can choose for the shadow of the sun to go down 10 degrees, or you can choose for the shadow of the sun to go up. But I but Hezekiah wants to know what is a sign. Yet Lord have mercy. impossible things, things you thought incredible and impossible, there's nothing too hard for him. When God says it, you just ought to believe it. Their prayer, Lord God, as they turn their heart over to you, Lord. Is the day that they have decided to follow you. Artist personally. He had to deal with the boil. uh medicinal effect as they are packed and this this m met medicinal mixture was put on Hezekiah that it would draw up This husband, this wife, this girlfriend, this boyfriend, because they've been a boil, they've been an incapacitation to me. The healing of boils usually does not involve amputation. Don't amputate what God is working on just because it's painful. Listen, God prepares you through his actions for as a proof mechanism that I'm going to do what I said I'm going to do. To the house of the Lord on the third day. What is the sign from God? That this message that I have literally came from God. In other words, the signs strengthen our faith. And so signs were used in ways to validate and verify, in other words, prove that it was God. So he said, I don't want it to go down. Who is three days and three nights in the belly of a fish. And I love this because as Isaiah cries out to the Lord, watch this. Yeah, it was an easy thing for them to take him down, but it's a real miracle if God can bring him back up. that he is God. That he is who he says he is, that he's going to do what he says he's going to do. I want you to make a decision for Christ. Because he's a keeper of his promise. No harm, no danger will come upon those who dwell in the house of God. That you love them, that you care about them, that you're interested in what they're going through, and that you're here to deliver them. I also believe and know that you will answer. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. Sundays at 8 a. I pray for those, God, who are walking the streets, living in their cars, living in homeless shelters, nursing homes. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. But it was all part of a process to get us where God needs us to be. and draw out the infestation in the boil. Ease out or ooze out or be lanced out. in its entirety. As it relates to relationships, because I hear some this morning thinking, you know what? He recovered from this plague. Of signs and miracles as a priority of proof. Well, Hezekiah, what do you mean? So so this so Hezekiah acts for a sign. To you from the Lord. Or about 10 degrees. He says, I mean verse number 10, Hezekiah answered, it is an easy thing for the shadow to go down 10 degrees, but no, let it let the shadow go backwards 10 degrees. So Isaiah has no problem with that, he has no qualms with that. It would have been a miracle. I mean, verse number 11, the prophet cried out to the Lord, and he brought the shadow 10 degrees backwards by which it had gone down. Watch this. Because even as I looked at this story in Hezekiah, I thought, I saw that Hezekiah was given an option. And Hezekiah says, it's an easy thing for the S U N to go down 10 degrees. do anything in our life and he is the God who can do whatever he wants to do whenever he wants to do it And I stand here on this morning to try to speak into your life to help you understand that God Now, will God always give me a sign? Has prepared your heart to listen to a word from God. And trust me, he'll give you what you ask of him. You may have lost some things. God is a keeper of his promises. That you've spent all your energy on can do anything for you when you stand before the judgment seat of Christ. In some sense he gives unto you and unto me. That they return to you, that they come back to you, that they restore the broken fellowship. Spirit of the Lord have your way. Spirit of the Lord, so many are hungry, so many are suffering, so many have lost jobs, so many are in despair. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Father, be with that grieving family today. We pray for this country in which we live and all the political fiascos that are going on. This is your backstage pass. Sometimes the process of getting healed involves letting the boil come to a head, and when things come to a head, all the nasty, all the ugly, all the possible The shadow shall go forward 10 degrees or backwards 10 degrees. As a sign that God would do all five things that He said He was going to do, that He promised He was going to do. Down. I repent of it. To make that decision. Spirit of the Lord, as we humbly bow in prayer, there are so many that are going through. Still wrestling with the virus. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. We need a sign. It was easy for them to take his reputation down. up it's a miracle thing when god can bring it back up and god brought the so in back up Is a promise keeper. As work together as God's proof to you that it's time for you to reprioritize your life. You keep living the way you live and you ain't gonna make it. And I'll say, even as Ecclesiastes says, to everything there's a season. He's proven it over and over and over again. Father, maybe they gave up hope because they were frustrated and the day God let today serve as a sign to them that you're talking to them. 627-9500. requires that it comes to a head first. This is the proof sign. On the third day, and Lord have mercy, it's a sign that God is who He said He is. And the fulfillment of God's word is played out in the life of Hezekiah. Maybe you've been living your life your way, doing things you wanted to do. There also was a season when his priority was proof. To readdress, reprioritize your life. They got to keep walking through the process of the boil coming to a head. So many God have given up hope. And how do I know that I'm fully riddled of the plague? And you're asking, like the Jews, acts, the Jews said Is God who he said he is? Back 10 degrees. By the third day, Hezekiah is able to go up to the house of God to give God the worship, to give God the praise, to honor God with all that he wanted to honor God with. That is so challenging, so difficult, so critical in the decision-making process of your life, that you may need to ask God, God, give me a sign. Our God loves you. He proved himself. Because I realize that so many are struggling, so many are challenged, going through, dealing with even grief. Who had previously accepted the Lord and invited him into their heart, giving God their life. Now is your turn to come to peace with God. But only what you do for Christ will last. Pray that prayer to the Lord this morning. He'll heal you of all of your infirmities. We pray, Spirit of the Lord, that we would reprioritize, put what's most important up front. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. The sign is a means by which God uses to affirm or reaffirm our faith in what He has said. That this is going to transpire, and this is the message of God I pray for those that are incarcerated this morning. I mean Hezekiah, I'm gonna heal you. Lord Jesus. They took him down to Galcotha. Father, you know where we are. If you want to sign, the God is who he says he is. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. And listen to this, listen to Hezekiah. You can find proof, Lord have mercy, through the ways he's prepared you. And he'll keep the city. Now he's bringing you their stories. We clean the wound and let the wounds heal. The enemy is pulling at the strings of their heart, designed to keep them in bondage. What's a sign? Show us a sign. The fact that it goes back 10 degrees, it's a miracle. God provides through this sign proof. That the Lord will do the thing which he has spoken. And the proof is in his word. I no longer desire to live a life that displeases you. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. I hear God saying, Yeah, Hezekiah was right. He recovered from this boil. That's easy. Bus you mean besides the promise of his word that he gave you in his word through Isaiah the prophet? This is not all the ways that God will prove himself to you, but he definitely will give proof. And now stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. And it watch this. It's proof that in him is life. You may have even lost some people. Every now and then you'll get a messenger that may not have come from God, but I I need God, I need a sign that this came from you m. On the third day, he got up from the grave. Put the figs on the boil. What is the sign that the Lord's going to heal me? Hezekiah, I'm gonna send you up to worship on the third day. Bless your children. So God, I'm praying with them this morning that you'd come into their heart, that you would hear their prayer of repentance, that you would hear their So Isaiah says, no problem. So what's the sign? It doesn't even matter what other people think. They've lost a child. or 11 a. So Hezekiah says, well, it's an easy thing for the shadow to move down, verse number 11. Wait a minute, wait a minute, Pastor. Hezekiah says to Isaiah in verse number eight: What is the sign that the Lord will heal me and that I shall go up? And Lord Jesus said to them, There's no sign going to be given unto you, except the sign of Jonah. He will do what he said he's going to do. I want you to ask him into your heart. In Jesus' name. Listen, it's not unusual in scripture that that people would ask for sign. God restore the hope. I'm Andy Christman. Hezekiah, I'm gonna defend this city for my namesake. But let the shadow of the sun go up. Either way, it would have been a miracle sign from God. He'll protect the city from your enemies. To be absent from this body is to be present with the Lord. And once it comes to a head, that that which is inside of it would We have the preparation by God through His through His actions as a priority of proof. He wants the best for you. I pray for those that are on the mission field. I don't think he always will give you a sign because at some point your faith ought to grow enough that you just believe and take God at His Word He proved his word was true. Come into their heart and save them this day. And not only that, the signs are also a means by which there is proof. Maybe last Sunday you weren't ready to hear a word from God, but God has worked some things in your life to prepare you and get you ready so you could hear a word from Him this morning. The proof is in his preparation. He'll come in. Those Heavenly Father who are treating the virus, the doctors, the nurses, the frontliners, we lift them up before you, God. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Because do you do know that God that God is not the only person that sends signs out? You asked for a sign? It's time. So Isaiah said to him, and I love this, I love the fact that God's already prepared. Y'all still here with me? And I believe this kind of kind of brings us to our third area of priority of proof And the boil, watch this, because the process of the boil healing And so after the theag lumps is put on him and they put it on his on his leg, it says he recovered God brings the sun down back up ten degrees m. Lord, I'm preaching way better than y'all saying, Amen And likewise the Son of Man shall be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. God will use signs and miracles to prove to us that He's going to do what He said He's going to do. They took him down to the rugged cross. God has already been working things out in your life. Last year. I want to challenge you this morning. When God says it, you ought to take that. And how do I know that I'm going to be able to go up to worship on the third day to the house of the Lord? And ask him, come into my life, come into my heart and save me. at the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crean Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland It is believed through the medical process that figs have some kind of And life is in the Son. God, prove it to me. He'll protect the city of dwelling place for the believer. It was God's preparation of him so that he can prove to him that I'm going to do these other things I said I'm going to do. I need validation and verification that this came from you and not from the devil. They've lost a mother. Woo! So Isaiah cries out in verse 11 to God What are you talking about? Amen. That's a great question. And then we're in position to move forward with all the parts and pieces that we have Because he hears your prayers and he sees your tears. Reprioritize your life. To give your heart, your life to Jesus, to surrender to Him, to live for Him. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Bucas Sterling III. Stay here with me. And we invite you to join us for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services Is he really God? Restore the joy. You know what each one stands in need of. And so watch this This is the sign. Receive them home. Either way, it's proof that it is God who has sent this message It was easy for them to take his body down. But also, the proof is in him providing for you a sign He'll save you. He'll keep his word. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. There was a season where his priority was praise. I want you to say, Lord, forgive me of my sin. In other words, Hezekiah has a choice. God will keep his word. org or contact our church office at 301 I pray for those, God, that are serving on the battlefields. You can't get up to the house of the Lord now, not because of the boil, but because you cut off the leg What other sign? Hezekiah, I'm gonna add 15 years to your life. He cares about you. I want to plead with you this morning. He'll add to your life not just 15 years, but he'll add to your life eternity. But today, Lord, is the day of their freedom. Lord have mercy. They've lost a father, a brother, a sister. Now the boy appears to have been healed. And amen. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message. In other words, you ain't gotta cut off everything in order to get healed. And also to strengthen the faith of the believer. We pray for the church, God, for the churches in need of you. Not only that, he fulfilled everything he said he was going to fulfill. They're at peace with God. He'll seal you according to his word. This is how you know that God's going to do what He said He's going to do. Let it go back up 10 degrees. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. They're hindering me. Well, let me see if I can walk you into something that might be more relatable. It's proof that God can do anything but fail. Father, in the name of Jesus, we need you today. To let them know that the healing is coming, that the deliverance is coming, that the blessings are coming their way. In order for him to prepare this thing Yeah, I got I'm I'm gonna get rid of this bowl, I got too. I mean what do you mean what is a sign? These five things I'm gonna prove to you that I'm gonna do by turning the dial of the sun back 10 degrees. None of the things, none of the people, none of the stuff. At some point, your faith ought to grow where you don't need signs all the time. He is the God who can do what he said he can do. Even those who've gone on before us. Well well uh I I imagine Hezekiah saying well how do I know that these figs have have completely healed the boil Father, that man, that woman, that boy, that girl who has walked away from you today, God, let today be the day. So, Spirit of the Lord, let us not grow weary, but let us keep on persevering. Welcome to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. God brought him back Through the things he's done to prepare you God The text says, Hezekiah answered. He will raise up the sick. But God has given proof through the days, it's time That it was an easy thing for them to take the S-O-N down. If you're listening to me, you've never trusted Jesus Christ as personal Lord and Savior of your life today This is the sign. Hezekiah is healed They holding me back. Wrap your arms around them. Restore the peace that they once had. They took him down and they crucified him. You wanted a sign? Perhaps the very reason why you're listening to this broadcast this morning is because God All the promises that he gave to Hezekiah. God, draw them back into the fellowship today. Yeah If you want to sign, If your priority this morning is proof, I need proof. They need you, Lord. Today is the day of their deliverance. Praise the Lord. Perhaps all of this You mean other than the fact that he has now prepared you to go up to the house of the Lord by the Lord have mercy. Hezekiah went through these shifts. To take you to prove to you I'm going to do what I said I'm going to do is a painful process. Andy Christman of For Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist. So in the name of Jesus, who is the Christ, I pray. You ask for a sign. Listen, and even as you move into this year, But let me let me let me help you before you go too fast, too far But thirdly, we have the providing by God It's proof that He is the Son of God, it's proof that in Him was no sin. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Then Isaiah said, This is the sign Father, comfort them today. Now he's bringing you their stories. He's recovered from that. Well, he is a sign. There was a season where his priority was prayer. Love on them. He'll he'll protect your city Praying for those, Heavenly Father, who are And so they took my Savior He'll redeem you from the slave market of sin. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministries of Kettering Baptist Church. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Here's a sign. But I hear God saying. It was easy for them to take his life down. Because he'll keep those whose mind is stayed on them in perfect peace. Someone's lost, someone's struggling, someone's ready The One Degree of Andy podcast. That's the sign that you're going to receive. He will heal the blind. I want you to hear this that even those Hug on them. Sometimes, listen to me How do I know these things? But then there are some things Today But what's the sign, God, that I'm going to be all the way healed org and remember to reference the title and broadcast date. And as we looked at and examined even in this text this morning Has a guy asked, What's the sign? If he can get up from the grave on his own power, he can. It's your turn. Hold them close. He took the sun. I'm Andy Christman. They bled him out. Well, you can find proof in his word. You ask for a sign. First of all, I'm going to heal you. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And listen I believe you've heard our prayer today. He will he will heal the lame. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. It's your time. I'm surely going to heal you. That's a great question. They put him in a borrowed tomb. If you love Christian music, God is able to do everything. And so the word