And so, Lord, even now I'm trusting you. There's no crops growing. Let me ease your mind a little bit. It ain't hard to turn over your money to him because it ain't your money anyway. Get your podcasts Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. He sits down with the voices behind the song. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Voices behind the song. I pray, eternal God, that you would edify this body, that we might leave here wiser about you, wiser about how to live for you. Spirit of the living God, I'm praying that you would show up in an extraordinary way because without you, God, none of this is possible. That is just, I mean, this is just over the top, like unbelievable. And the judicial obligation is designed to bring the guilty party back into conformity to a particular standard. No jury, you're just dealing with the judge. What the judge does is he offers a judicial obligation in three parts. Bring it back into the place where the work of the Lord is being accomplished, where the ministry of the priests need the resources that you're holding back from them. Them but God says if you turn to me and trust me, I will open up the windows of heaven so that when the rain begins to fall, I'll pour out And pour out rain, first of all. But guess what? a potiphar's house and when he was in in in the in the kingdom and and they looked at him and the same thing with with Daniel and the same thing with others they That the the windows of heaven will be pouring, pouring, pouring, pouring, pouring blessings on you and everybody who's watching, everybody who's witnessing, they'll even get jealous of your blessings and they'll Buch Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III I want to invite your attention to Malachi chapter 3, and we'll begin reading it, verse 8. to be used in your hand, that you would give me clarity of speech and clarity of thought. If I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out for you such blessing that there will not be room enough to receive it. And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, so that he will not destroy the fruit of your ground, nor shall the vine fail to bear fruit. For you in the field, says the Lord of hosts, and all the nations will call you blessed. Father, for those that have drifted in their fellowship, I pray you draw them back that they might reconnect to the God who loves them most. But have your way, God, that you might raise up men, women, boys, and girls. We're in a place, we're in a space, we're in a time where if you don't speak, God will surely go down to the pit. Catherine, we have been preaching through a semi-series entitled Money, Money, Money. The pathway to prosperity. I want to talk to you today from a subject matter, try me now. You're probably saying, well, what happened in Deuteronomy? And the produce of your land, the increase of your cattle, and the offspring of your flocks. You are destroyed until you perish quickly because of the wickedness of your doings which you have forsaken me So when he's talking to them here in Malachi chapter 28, and he says to them, You've robbed me, and so now guess what? Bring it back into my house so that the ministry can go forward and the word can continue to go forward and that the service of God can continue to go forward. I like the fact that the the blessings are coming out of windows and not doors because there's usually more there's usually more windows on a house than there are doors Coming and coming, and he says, I'll keep pouring it until you just say, Lord, enough is enough. They they saw in them and they said, the Lord's hand is with you because everything you do seems to prosper. Know that they know that you have the hand of God on you and you are blessed. Let me let me point you in another direction because when you're obedient to God, when God comes to you and says, Will you trust me with your life? Spirit of God keeps on moving in your life. Do it. Running over, I'll give it to you in your bosom. My bills. standing here today to to be an encouragement to you not for so much your finances but that you will be obedient to God and if you're obedient to him uh the answer and tithes and offerings. Would you pray with me? That we might be stronger than when we came in the door. obtain great gain and what great gain really was. Fact. 10% of his increase, and that 10%, according to Leviticus 27, is declared holy unto God. and heinous crimes taking place. And then he offers what is called in the judicial system a judicial obligation Because you're guilty, and then as a means to help correct your behavior, we're gonna assign you two weeks. So in verse 9 he says, you are cursed with a curse, Israel, because you have been disobedient to what we established with you back in Deuteronomy chapter 28. If you do not obey the voice of the Lord your God, and observe carefully all of his commandments and his statutes, which I command you today, that all these curses will come upon you and overtake you. The Lord will send on you a a cursing, confusion, and rebuke in all that you set your hand to do until So thirdly, there's the challenge. Put me to the test, is what in essence God is saying. Giving and and putting your tithes and offering in the house of God, try me and I will do this. Lord help me. My call to come and give me your life. I know how to subtract addition subtraction. The number said to me, you can't afford to give 10% to God. All God wants is an obedient people. By today's message. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. The word of the Lord from Malachi chapter 3, verse 8, says, Will a man rob God? Bring all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house, and try me now in this, says the Lord of hosts. Who took the money? And he renders his judgment of guilty without asking how much money you get paid a month, without asking what your bills are. There's nowhere in the text that he says, let me see how much Israel was making. Before they owed everybody else, Amazon and everybody else. of their disobedience to God. And the question is, do I trust him to do this? life and I'm talking about life eternally. That's when I decided to start tithing. six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Used in such a way that you would get the glory. A crime has been committed. This is not an accusation. That man robbed God. This is not like going into court and saying, you know, she took my my bicycle and I think it was her. It is set aside. The judge, who is God, has rendered a judgment in the text. You know why? Because it's wrong to run up debt on somebody else's money. So, for example, if if the police pulled you over for throwing stuff out the window and you know you was littering or whatever, you might go to court and the the judge deals with you don't have That's coming out. So then there is the collection. The question I had as I wrestled with this text this time around was why does God The proposition that God puts before the people of Israel, and I believe before us as well, is loaded You you might say, well, what's eating up my stuff? The Lord says, try me. Third thing, he says, I will cause, verse 12, all nations to call you blessed. I'm gonna I'm gonna fix it so that everybody who sees your blessings, everybody who witnesses your life. At the end of the day, all God's asking us to do is try Him. And I heard somebody say, numbers don't lie. That's what the numbers said. All-knowing God, who sees everything and knows everything, is the one who declared that it happened. And according to Leviticus chapter 27, verse 30, that which man had taken, which belonged to God, was called the tithe, which was of community service picking up trash on the side of the road. He says, And try me now in this, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour you out such blessing that you will not have room enough to receive it. Thank you, Lord. Blessings. blessings he's pouring blessings and when something is being poured it just keeps coming and coming and coming and coming and Do this for you. When you stop robbing me, I'm gonna make it so that everybody will see my hand is on you. You've tried everything else. I guarantee you he'll do what he said. Let me just quick quick testimony and I'm done. Where humanity robbed deity. Cursed you shall be in the city, and cursed you shall be in the country. Challenge us. With countless, abundant, flourishing blessings that will lead us to prosperity and peace I will open up the windows of heaven. The devourer in Israel's case was locusts. And what the Lord says to Israel, I'll tell the locusts to leave your stuff alone. And and they'll know that God's hand is on you. They're going to know oh something special about you. See if I won't open up the windows of heaven and pour you out such a blessing you don't have room enough to receive. Extremely. When you voluntarily obey him, that gives him the greatest glory. He would have created us as robots to do exactly what he programmed us to do. See if I won't do it. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Stolen from the holy of holies of God and taking it for his own personal use. Before they committed to car payments, before they bought dresses and shirts and ties and shoes. It's been declared by the Almighty God that man had done something so brazen as to rob God. The crime is that man had robbed God, and oftentimes when we hear of such hideous He says in verse 9, as a result of the robbery that took place, because they act like they didn't know what what he was talking about. I tried him and he allowed me to live debt-free. Understanding that first of all all the money ain't mine. If you will try me, Israel, if you will try me in I also just I love this. I'm going to make it such that everybody will call you blessed, for you will be a delightful land. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Unexpected breakdowns are eating up your stuff. And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Um I Lord God. And so he's opening up all the windows, and out of every window, he's not tossing blessings. The animals can't reproduce. I got straight A's all the way through through through through school and math. Father, thank you for the word of God. And then on last week we were in uh first Timothy chapter uh six, I believe it was, and we spoke from a subject matter of great gain, trying to help us understand how it is that we can God knows who robbed him. Because the 10% was his before they committed to a mortgage. The judge says you're guilty because we've got a we have eyewitness of you doing this, and so we're gonna give you the night in jail. But the Lord says, I'll take care of you. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Then he says there's a collection necessary. I'm believing in you, God, that you'll do what you said you would do. It is dedicated to God. You've tried alcohol, you've tried drugs, you've tried this and you've tried that. So that your crops will produce. Because just in case you thought this whole subject matter was about your money, let me take it to your whole life. I rebuke the devourer for your sake, because you've obeyed You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor. For in Israel's case, if you're dealing with um the the the grain and things like that that they need, they need rain. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. The good news, I'm on my third point. But the Bible said if you give it to me, I'll give it back to you, pressed down, shaken together. Why does he challenge Israel to try him? I'll give you so much I'll make the windows of heaven open up and pour out blessings. I'm glad you asked. He always tells us this is what I will do if you do. Specifically, the crime was robbery. Even if you're at home and you're in the kitchen doing something and you're listening to the news, when you hear of such a crime So he says to them, Bring all the tithes into the storehouse. Trust me with your life. I got that. I'm a living witness, he'll do what he said. And I I'll put a caveat in there. There's no rain falling from heaven. I'm talking about abundant life. This is not a potential maybe robbery. Everything is dying because they have gone against God and the curse has come against And you are cursed with a curse, for you have robbed me, even this whole nation. That we might be infused with the power of the Holy Spirit to live out this life that you've called us to. And so this isn't this isn't really an accusation. The first thing that most of us want to do is we want to go look at the TV because we want to see the face of the person who would do such a thing. I'm gonna read it for you. I also just begin to pour other blessings out of out of the windows. Try me now and see if I won't That's why he gave us free will in the first place. Let me see if they were making enough. I'm I'm I'm Israel is is in a drought because Try me now and see if I won't open up the windows of heaven and I'll pour you out I tried him and I found out that he's not lying. Father, if there's anyone who's not saved, they've not come to the personal relationship with you, it's my prayer on today, God, that they would surrender their heart and their life to you. And then you give it to God and watch God bless you back. In this thing that I've just given you as instruction to do, and see if I won't do what I said that I'm going to do. You just try me, trust me with your life, and see if I won't Thank you for the privilege we have to stand and declare in the Word on today. It is for God and for God only. So that your animals will produce. Different kind of locusts. So the judge he he issues a judgment of guilty Multiplication, I got division, I got it. In Deuteronomy chapter 28, as the people of Israel were getting ready to go into the land of promise, God has this conversation with them, beginning at verse 15. Lord help me, God, and I will pour out blessings. In this third part and probably final part of this mini-series on money, money, money, The bad news, I haven't really hit you hard yet. Bring your whole life into the storehouse that there might be food in my house. I will rebuke the devourer from you if you try me None of it's mine. I I tried him when I was deep in debt paying everybody almost every penny I had coming in. Have your way, God, that you might be glorified in the midst of all that's done and all that's said. And it's facts. Bring all the ties back into the storehouse. Yeah, it's crazy, right? It started in Proverbs chapter 11, and I spoke then from the subject matter. That's a great question. The locust came in and was eating up everything. It's kind of like when Joseph was in Let me see where they live. He doesn't take into consideration what you've run up in debt of your own. And so in this case that we are viewing in the text, Except when you're giving to God. And he said, Oh yeah, you've robbed me, but you've robbed me in tithes and offerings. I mean, I just can't take no more. Cursed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl. Verse 11. I'm talking about life where blessings keep coming, where the flowing of the All of it belonged to him. There's no crops. No, this is not an accusation. That you would allow me, Lord, as a surrendered vessel, to be We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together Use me, Lord. It's an occasion where man has robbed God I I know how to count. That he doesn't ask any of those questions how much the mortgage was. My life is where it is because of him. We pray that you have been richly blessed In this text that I've read here in Malachi, You're not going to be able to pay your bills That's a great question. For you will be a delightful land, says the Lord of hosts. So that everything that you need that will cause you to be prosperous and stable will be taken care of. That's the devourer. This is a reality, and that man had robbed God, and so it's truth. org or contact our church office at 301 The judgment is guilty If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. That changed my life. And then thirdly, he says, I got a challenge for you. Interest rates are eating up your stuff. Now as it relates to money, Speak, Lord, in our midst because we need to hear from you. Cursed shall you be when you come in, and cursed shall you be when you go out. In other words, you robbed me of what was mine, that the 10% that was mine. God said, I'm gonna make it such when you watch when you give me what belongs to me I'm gonna bless you in such a way Because you've robbed me, you've disobeyed what I've instructed you to do. Lord help me God You've tried him and you tried her. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. You blessing me too much He's telling you the truth. God gets the most glory when you voluntarily You're blessed. He's not dropping And we'll give you the glory and the honor and the praise. He says, and I will rebuke the devourer for your sake. And if if it were not so And I know it's fact because the omniscient See if I won't give you everlasting life and see if I won't guarantee you a place in glory. It was crazy. You don't have room enough to receive. That's what he's saying here in this text. Verse 10. And man had taken it As I looked into the original language, in some look at this as a test, test me Devourer is coming at you every kind of way. Now He says, first of all, there's a curse. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass: the One Degree of Andy podcast. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Yet you have robbed me, but you say, in what way have we robbed you? It was an occasion And so I'll open up the windows of heaven and I'll pour out the rain so that you can you can get the reproduce And I ran the numbers, and the numbers said to me This literally happened. Then I said, you know, g understanding, give giving it to him. I pray, eternal God, even as I stand as a vessel. God knows And the locust was just eating it up, eating it up, eating up. Lord help me. I'm Cursed shall be the fruit of your body Second part of verse 10. Because I I this this thing, man, I I don't even have time to tell y'all how what this this changed my whole life. m. Matter of fact, they'll say they might even say you you just you just got something that everybody else don't have. You've tried everything Because I'm I'm extremely good at math. And now, Pastor Sterling. Now he's bringing you their stories. He didn't ask that. And it wasn't until I began to try him that he opened up those windows. at the Legacy Center. And what I like about this is he doesn't there's a couple of things I like about this. That's what he's saying here to us today. If you trust me with your life, try me. The One Degree of Andy podcast. He said, you know, would a man rob God like In Jesus' name I pray. He says they robbed me. Try me now. So he says, bring it back. Now he's bringing you their stories. That's what the uh And nothing satisfied you, but if you just come try me now Now you're cursed. You've robbed me of that. I'm Andy Christman. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Try me. Now bring it back into my house. Amen and amen. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. I'm Andy Christman. I had to try him. It shall come to pass Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get. I'll open up the windows of heaven. I tried him and he paid off all my In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. See if I won't do it. One