So Jesse called Abinadad and made him pass before Samuel, and he said, Neither has the Lord chosen this one. But the Lord said, Take a heifer with you and say I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. And Samuel said to Jesse, send and bring him, for we shall not or we will not sit down till he comes here. And he says, okay, I got a plan for you. And when you go there with the heifer, let the people of Bethlehem know that you're coming to sacrifice unto the Lord and invite them to the sacrifice. He says, I haven't chosen. And so verse 12 says, So he sent and he brought him in. Don't worry about that, okay? So I thank God for the selection of you. Breathing Indy Podcast. You're gonna need somewhere to rest your feet, and you're gonna need them enemies to rest your feet on. Neither has the Lord chosen this one. For the foundation of the earth, he already had in place a man, he already had chosen a David, he already had fixed and fashioned, he was already prepared for his king to take place. There's some sacrifices that were made to put us in the place that God has for us. God has chosen you. Voices behind the song. Kettering Baptist Church. Bethlehemite, for I have provided myself a king among his sons. that he looked at Iliab and said, Surely the Lord's anointing is before him. And Samuel said to Jesse, Are all the young men here? The celebration of gospel, Pastor Marvin Sapp sang a song in tribute to Steve Harvey, and the song was entitled He Saw the Best in You. Samuel, how long will you mourn for Saul? Sammy, Sammy, don't worry about it. I don't need to go through an election process. See, after he says, you know, go, I'm sending you to Jesse Bethlehem's house, verse 2 says, And Samuel said, How can I go? Ruth and Boaz would have never had a child that would have brought forth David, and David is the one that God chose. So he's a I I came in peace. Does God provide us for Himself? Samuel for an examination. fingernails he he wasn't paying attention to the tie he wasn't looking at outward stuff he was looking at something other than what man looks at he was looking at hearts and when each one of them passed by God rejected them he refused them But now we've got Eliad running through and Samuel says, it must be him, which in essence says it can't be David. 6 through 11. Rejection of everybody. redheaded. Marches them all through. Get up, um, Samuel, and anoint him because this is the one whom I have formed. Anoint him because I need somebody like that to be king. I I I need him, but I need somebody to understand shepherding. track she she didn't go to the right school but but but anoint her yeah get him yeah that's the one anoint this one but watch this samuel took the horn and he anointed He's gonna let you know. your foot to so when you get done doing the ministry of God when you get done doing the work that He's anointed you and appointed you eight a. I thank God today that he's not like man, that he does not look at the outward appearance, but God looks at the heart. Get it right today. under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III. Will you mourn for Saul, seeing that I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? What you shall do you shall anoint for me the one I name to you. Elders of the town trembled at his coming. First Samuel chapter 16, we'll begin at verse number one. Song became very popular very fast. Uh when he began to uh jot down the words and even sing as a invitational song, God saw the best in you. So much because this song when it finally came out under the CD Here I Am, it began to set records even in the R and B and hip hop areas. That it helps us to understand that there is more to you and I than meets the eye. And so as I looked here, it says, you know, Samuel, so you can stop crying, stop mourning over Saul is over, is done. King among his sons. Already got the plan set in place. That sometimes when you see somebody doing something, it doesn't mean necessarily that God hasn't chosen you to do it, but it may mean that God has chosen you who may be better in doing it than the person who's doing it. or so after they go through the sacrifice that Samuel came and he he when he came the people was all they were uptight and they the leaders came out to meet him and they were like you know what wait a minute hold on here comes Samuel now it never was good news when the prophet showed and go to a place and die in in that place. And so what they do, they put on their best garments and they go walking in front of the prophet of God. Kingly, so that perhaps we will be the one that will be chosen. At the heart. Consecrated. Sons and marched them before the man of God, and David wasn't even considered. Said you ain't gonna be nothing either. This is what man sees. Him as God sees in you and I is not where we are or the trouble that we've been in, but God sees the potential of what we become become. You were anointed in the womb. Know how she got that spot. Building. Their stories. This morning, Catherine, actually, I'd like to begin a series of messages. The song was actually sang as part of a CD called Here I Am, and the song was actually sang prior to the release of the CD. probably by now are tired of hearing was inspired from this very text. Us in the first place. He was a good-looking dude, head and shoulders above everybody else. And we want it so bad, we want him so bad, we want her so bad, we we want it so bad that we get ahead of God, and then we choose our choice instead of waiting for God to bring us the choice he has for us. But they were determined to have what God had already prepared for them, but they were not prepared to wait for God's timing. According to Colossians chapter 1, verse 16, everything that is made is made through him and for him. This heifer has to be sacrificed, but there's some sacrifices that take place even before we get to this. Before Ruth and Boaz got together, they had to be the sacrifice of a man called Elimelech. Up in town because usually when the prophet of God came, it was bad news. Shama comes by in verse number nine, and the Lord says, I refused him. Us the way man looks at us. And while we're marching folk in front of Samuel for consideration, nobody in Bethlehem even bothered to say to Jesse, Hey Jesse, you got another son. In us, he sees what we can be. And he he's not the one we would have chosen because he's not the tall, dark, and handsome. Child. my sheep. kid that's playing out in the field with the sheep and he smells like the sheep and he hang out with them too much and and he loves the sheep and and he he's nurturing the sheep and it and he cares when the sheep get hurt. Anointed him with the oil in the midst of his brothers. Already is on him. God will anoint you, position you in places that you don't even think you qualify for. When it happens, don't expect them to celebrate you. Excellence. Excellence. Sanctify yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice. to you from these verses from the topic the selection of King David with a sub-idea he sees the best in you. different about God. For himself. Because God says through Samuel, look, tell Saul that he's going to be replaced by his neighbor. There's another sacrifice. And watch this as God looks at the heart, God refuses other folk in order to choose you. After my own heart. And anoint him for this is the one. Looked into his heart and seen his heart. 1 Samuel chapter 15 lets us know also that not only did he have this king for himself already prepared, but it was a better king than the king that was in place. God refuses others to select David because God is looking at the hearts. And sometimes, unfortunately, that kind of rejection comes from your own family. Not only does Samuel reject him, and his own father rejects him, but keep in mind all of Bethlehem has been invited to the sacrifice. But warriorship. And so when God brought him about, he was already anointed for God's purpose. And what it does, it validates it for the prophet and it validates it for the people who are watching. m. Brought him in, now he was ready, with bright eyes, and good looking. David, as well as reasons why he selects you and I. For himself. Samuel rejects David because Eliam looks like a king. He's not qualified. David, he's a little short kid, and he's got bright eyes, but he's eccentric. There is no way we would be able to do what we do for him had it not been for that sacrifice. Look with me, I'm gonna walk you through. Then after Samuel rejects him, his own father rejects him. or eleven a. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Stature, because I have refused him. And they come to the sacrifice. On Andy Christman. But what I like about him being selected as the one, he is the one that God has formed in the womb. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at There's only one vacancy, and and after I've seen all uh those other seven marks through, this is the one I praise God that today that He doesn't judge us on our trouble. I've chosen him. He David wasn't even invited to the sacrifice. He's got that discoloration. Or contact our church office at 301-574-3515. He refuses these others. His father never brings David before. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. He says, Fill your horn with oil and go. Everybody has cast him aside. I've chosen you, I've anointed you. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. I think it's because God provided you and I for Himself. He says there's this the young kid, he's out there with the sheep, keeping the sheep, and Samuel said, you know, bring him in. What happens when an abortion-minded woman hears her baby's Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. If your heart is wayward, come back in line today. m. They're not rejecting you, they're rejecting me because I'm the one that rules over them. I'm working through him so that one day he'll write the twenty third song. I need someone who's able to kill a lion and also a Goliath. Y'all do know about this one. You were prepared in the mind of God before he even knit you in the womb. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. He knew man would sin. And the Bible tells us that when the people came and they kind of bum rushed Samuel and said, Samuel, we want a king for ourselves, and they would not relent. David was made for God's purpose. Man sees David. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. Uh not that this is a knee-jerk reaction to the plan, but I got a plan for you that's going to help draw a picture of something that's yet to come. Now, what they think is happening that there is a physical examination that's taking place, and they've consecrated themselves, they've got themselves clean. David was born anointed. You know, she ain't even been to school. And I wonder why would a song like this have that kind of impact on that many people? That's the problem with a whole lot of us. I know yes, that's the one you did know that boy always in trouble. The first idea I see here in the text as it relates to why God would choose David in the first place is because God provided him, David And he's come and he drags the heifer in and they consecrate Jesse's house. It says, look at verse number 6. That's what the world sees. Don't worry about that. Praise the Lord. God is different from man. Eliab comes by in verse number six. Thus Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel, and Samuel said to Jesse, The Lord has not chosen these And the second thing that I see here and I appreciate as we see somewhere around in verse number seven, I believe it is, is that not only the He looks at the heart, and and the heart is the intentions of the man. I don't need for the people to raise up Mr. And watch this. But watch this. He knew Saul would fall short. There's a sacrifice that happened at Calvary. But what they did not know is God wasn't looking at the outside appearance, He wasn't looking at the weave, He wasn't looking at the He is the one that God anointed before the foundation of the earth, and now he is the one who is having the oil poured on him right in front of all his haters. He's got that bright redness in his face. Verse number seven says, But I have refused him, for the Lord does not see as man sees. It says, So it was when when they came that he, that is Samuel, looked at Eliab, and Eliab said, Surely the Lord's anointing is before him He looked like a king. He's the eighth child. You've been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of That's what I'm looking for. I need somebody to understand sheep. But He also God looks at the heart. And David, the Bible says, he's ruddy. What has happened thus far in the text is that Saul, the people's choice of a king, has been rejected by God because of And not only did he die, he had two sons, uh, Malon and Chileon, who also died, one of whom was the husband of Ruth. It was unbelievable how fast and how quick this song gathered steam. We look good on the outside. The good news is that God looks at the heart. You need your haters. You don't necessarily need a bottle of oil. But God sees his heart. And they said, Do you come peaceably? Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. I need someone whom I've been working through his eccentric personality to love And secondly, I think what uh c gathers the attention of people in this song and in this text is David was left out in the field. They're gonna talk negative about you hard. The oil being poured on David is more for the affirmation of the anointing that Matter of fact, when he consecrated his sons, he didn't even bring David in to get I praise God that He doesn't hold us captive for where we've been. Now he was ready with bright eyes, good looking, you know, red head, bright eyes. Then he consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice. For the Lord does not see as man sees, for man looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart. He looked like he was in charge. It was like y'all been cutting up, and God's coming to bring wrath, and he's coming to bring judgment. I am sending you to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have provided myself a king And I want you to understand something, and I'm not just talking about David, I'm talking about you also. God says, I've refused him. He's not the oldest child. Before God began to form him and shape him and knit him in his mother's womb, he was thought of anointed. And then what we're getting ready to witness is God saying, Okay, I'm going to now replace him with my choice. Jesse marches the rest of his sons by in verse number 10, and the Lord says, I refused all of them. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. God looks at the heart, and he's looking for a people whose heart is after his own, so he can use them for his glorious purpose. I'm gonna ask you to turn to first Samuel chapter sixteen I'm looking for a man who has a heart like mine. He knew that Saul could not stand up to the requirements of God. He's the youth. The folk that did not want you and did not think you were qualified in the first place, they're gonna come after you later on. Uh I'm calling it the Seven Sermon Series summarizing the life of David. In order for the selection of David to take place, there's a sacrifice that has to take place. Y'all know about that, don't you? That's a great question. That's the one. And when the time comes, God's going to also point to you and say, You are the one. The anointing says, yes, this is God's choice. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message. I need someone who can who has songmanship and and not only songmanship We dressed up on the outside. He was born for God's purpose. And they're saying we don't want God to rule over us, we want a king to rule over us. I've got a better king that I'm going to put in place to replace him. His own father said, Ain't no way it couldn't be David. Then he said, There remains yet the youngest, and there he is keeping the sheep. Now I need you to understand something. I want you to understand that there's a lot of sacrifices that have been made to get us into the place of being selected by God. They want to go and walk before him so that they can appear priestly. Then he'll he'll end up in prison or dead. Now Samuel should have known better because Samuel should have remembered how we got Saul. As I look at this text, there are three reasons, if you will, that I see that God selects Sometimes it's your own family that dashes your hopes. I love that. What the oil is going to do is going to affirm the choice of God I thank God for the selection of King David. What I want you to understand and the reason why I believe that song took off and has caught fire and means Tall, Dark, and Handsome again. He's the red-headed one with the bright eyes. That's the one. That was Naomi's husband. He he doesn't look kingly. The Lord is my shepherd Let the haters come, but God saw the best in you And Samuel said, How can I go if Saul hears it, he will kill me? But the Lord said to Samuel, Do not look at his appearance or at his physical state If I go to his house, then what's going to happen? There's been some sacrifices made to get us where we are. His own father bought seven Pastor Marvin Sapp said he was actually listening to a pastor preach from this text. And the people chose him and they anointed him king. And the Lord said, Arise and anoint him, for this is the one. First of all, in chapter sixteen, verse one, it says, Now the Lord said to S For those of you that know something about biblical history, let me just throw this out first of all: David is the grandchild of Ruth and Boaz. Pastor, how did that happen? He's he's not even the seventh child. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. And he said, Peaceably I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. Ruddy means red. Anoint him. Had it not been for the sacrifice of God Himself at Calvary, you and I would be eternally lost, and there would be no hope for us. He's unusual. This is the one who I have determined, this is the one who I made for myself to be king. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Then invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what And in fact, God says of this David, whom he's going to choose, he is a man. I I love that about this text, and I love that about the fact the of where we are that God does not look at Because the Bible says that God will make your enemies Abinadad comes by in verse number eight, and the Lord says, I've refused him. And they invited them to the sacrifice. Oh, anoint her. We smell good on the outside. The word of the Lord reads as follows. God is not a reactive God, He's a proactive God. And I'm trying to help somebody right about here because sometimes we get ahead of the timing of God. It's right here in the text. He says, Look, Samuel, the Lord does not see as man sees. In the midst of this text, I don't want you to miss this verses 6 to 11. For the assignment that I need, for the position that's open, there's only one position Because that's how they got Saul. You were born for God's purpose. He is the one whom God has Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the Spirit of God. Fill your horn with oil and go. So Samuel did what the Lord said, and he went to Bethlehem and the What I've come to the conclusion is that people need to know that there is something I praise God that He looks inside of us and sees what we can become, and He sees the best in us, He sees the potential. And what God sees in him Because if you look through those verses, He's either red in the face or he's red. Then Jesse made Shama pass, and he said neither That includes you and I. He had to leave Jerusalem. Yeah, yeah. If your heart is not right The one that sits out in the field playing harps and singing songs to sheep. They're gonna beat your reputation down hard. I've already rejected him as being my king What I see here in the text and what I see here in our own lives is that they He's ten to fifteen years old. Yeah, he's the eccentric strange. And He'll do it in such a way that He'll do it in front of your enemies What I want you to do is I want you to take a heifer. Y'all better repent, or something like that. And and seven would have equated him to being the child of perfection. She's the one. It was being played across the nation. And so he had already foreordained before And Saul's going to hear about it and he's going to have me killed. Some of y'all know how that feels. It tells the prophet God has chosen you, it tells the people God has chosen you. For man looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord God looks at the heart. The whole town of Bethlehem did not consider David. That's what I see in David, and so he chooses him because he provides We're not gonna move on, we're not gonna go forward until you get him in. Y'all do remember Saul was tall, dark, and handsome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom. David's brothers are going to go before Saturn She didn't come up on the right side of the Samuel was getting all depressed and all sad about it. So all dr all of Bethlehem and Jesse's house is invited to the sacrifice. So what I want you to kind of understand, even as I go I'm talking about me. We look good on the outside. It's your own family that tells you you're worthless. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast So he made us for himself so that we could fulfill a purpose that he has for us. Now he's bringing you their stories. But this song that you But nonetheless, what happened was the But even more so Now the Lord said to Samuel, how long But that wasn't God's choice. I need us to understand Secondly, as I look further in this text and we move on down, look at verse number six. I am sending you to Jesse the And they want to know: have you come with plagues and condemnations, or do you come in peace? The One Degree of Andy podcast. So it was when they came. He's too young. And God says, I'm gonna give you what you ask for For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministry. So he sent and he brought We we all in this text as well. That's a great question. And finally, Samuel has to say, Is there anybody else? And the Lord said, Arise If he hasn't done it already He says, Look, I have provided myself a king. Ain't no way you ever gonna be anything In other words, He doesn't just react when man sins. But then the inside we're wicked. They're gonna talk about your family. Today I'd like to begin speaking God had already provided a king I'm Andy Christman. What I want you to see is how everybody else rejected David. As we look through this passage, what I And God said It's your own family that says, I never wanted you. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And had he not died, guess what? Why would God choose The whole town, the whole neighborhood. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. He's the eighth. That's the one that's the one that that that's the one I want to They're gonna talk about all the disqualifying things about you. He's already fat And so God looked David is dealing with the reason. He's a Ruth would have never met Boaz. Now he's bringing you The one degree But