AI can help you write, research, and solve problems faster than ever before. But there is a problem. Most AI is built on a worldview that does not reflect biblical truth. That's why Dominion Chat exists. Dominion brings the power of AI under the Lordship of Christ. All the benefits of modern AI built on a biblical worldview foundation. Your work matters, but so does your soul. Sign up today at Dominion. chat. Here's Pastor Rick Warren. The Bible says this. Look on the screen. If you insist on saving your life, you will lose it. Only, this is Jesus talking, only those who throw away their lives for my sake And for the sake of the good news, that's what we're talking about, will ever know what it means to really live. Until you get on mission for God, you're not living, friend. You're just living existing because you were made for a mission What would your life be like if you could learn to think, act, speak, love, and serve the way Jesus did? This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope, the audio broadcast ministry of Pastor Rick Warren. Today we continue with a series called The Jesus Model. In these lessons, Rick will carefully lay out the process of true biblical discipleship. Giving you the tools you need to become more like Jesus Christ in every area of your life. In a few moments, we're going to tell you about a resource. That will allow you to take a virtual walk along the same path that Jesus walked on his way to the cross. It's called the Journey with Jesus Deluxe gift book, and you can take a sneak peek at it right now by going to pastorick. com or by texting the word daily to 99000 while you listen to today's broadcast Right now, here's Pastor Rick Warren with the final part of a message called Succeeding in Your Mission. See the thing I love about Jesus. Is that Jesus just didn't fax in his love? He came in person. Okay. He came in person. And this is what God wants us to do. Now, he says here: first incarnation. Invest the time to build relationships. Notice the point here. He says, when you enter a town Don't move around from home to home. Stay in one place. And he says, settle down, stay in one place, don't go looking for better accommodations. This place doesn't have any air conditioning. Don't be fickle, don't be hard to please. Just stay in one place. Now, why does he say this? Well, there's several good reasons. First, it's good for your character. Because you learn contentment. Paul said this. I've learned to be content whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be in need and I know what it is to have plenty. He's saying, I know what it's like to stay in a five-star hotel, and I know what it's like to stay in the Roach Motel. He said, I've learned to be content in everything. It's good for your character. But there's a deeper reason when Jesus says when you go into an area, stay in one place. It's the only way you build It's how you build relationships. And this is what we call the presence principle. What is the presence principle? Is that in order for you to make a difference in somebody's life, you gotta show up. You be there. You get in their life. You can't help somebody unless you're there with them. You show up. You can't, you know, it's so important. It's how you how you build relationships. You have to be with people in order to win people. You can't do it long distance. You can't do it distracted and disconnected. You gotta be with people in order to win them. You gotta spend time with them. And when God wanted to tell you that he loved you, he simply showed up. He said, I'm coming to earth. I'm gonna be there. I'm not faxing this in, I'm not emailing you. I'm gonna be there. The Bible says this: the word became flesh, incarnate. The word became flesh, incarnation, and made his dwelling among us, and we have seen his glory. The glory of the one and only who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. And that's what we want to set grace and truth. Sometimes the most Christ-length thing you can do. For somebody in that office, somebody in your neighborhood, somebody in your family, somebody at school, is simply show up. You know, when they're going through a tough time, you go, man, I, you know, I'm embarrassed. I don't know what to say. They just had this terrible crisis. I don't know what to say. You don't have to say anything. Just show up. Sit in the corner of the room and sit there. Just being present with somebody in their pain reduces the pain. It halves the pain. Being there is the sacrament of presence. Chill out, relax, build a relationship before you start working on activities. Now that's true whether you're going across the street or across the ocean. Build the relationship. And you build the relationship between your heart and their heart, and Jesus Christ comes and walk across. That's how you do your mission in life. Just relax. Don't try to do everything. Just Just showing up means you care. Now there's a seventh principle, and this is a really important one. In your ministry, in your mission, whether it's local, global, or personal. This is the principle of accommodation And the principle of accommodation is adapt to local tastes. Now, this is the seventh thing that Jesus gives us his instructions to his peace teacher. He says, Eat and drink whatever they give you. Oh no And when you enter a town and are welcomed, eat what is set before you. Now again, what did it mean then? What's the timeless principle? And what does it mean now? Jesus talks about this. He's talking about far more than just dietary rules. Now they included that, but it's more than that. There's a principle here. Here's what Paul says. I have voluntarily become a servant to any and all in order to reach a wide range of people. You know, I just adapt to people. I entered their world and I tried to experience things from their point of view. I've become just about every sort of servant there is in my attempts to lead those I meet into a God-saved life. He says, my whole reason for this is I'm on a mission. For God. Here's another verse of Paul. I try to accommodate everybody in everything. That's the principle of accommodation, not looking for my own advantage, but for the advantage of everybody else so that they may be saved. Who do you need to be a little bit more accommodating to in order to build a bridge of love so Jesus Christ can walk across? There's somebody in your office who looks a little different, talks a little different, acts a little different, smells a little different. Who do you need to be a little bit more accommodating to in order to show the love of God so you can build that bridge of love? That's accommodation. Number eight. The eighth principle Jesus gives to his peace teams is the principle of alleviation, pain alleviation. And here's the point: begin where they hurt. You don't begin with your agenda, you begin with their hurt. The hurt of the person you're trying to reach for Christ, the hurt of the person you're trying to reach for Trying to help, the herd of the person you're trying to show the love of God. You don't begin with what you want to do, what you need to do, what you'd like to do, what you think would be best for that village or that team or that location or that office or whatever. You do what's best for them. What do they need based on their hurt? Jesus said this: heal the sick who are there, and tell them the kingdom of God is near you. Now what's he talking about? Heal of the sick. Well, friends, there's all kinds of sickness. And the truth is everybody's hurting. Everybody has hidden wounds. Everybody has certain sicknesses certain sins, certain insecurities, certain fears. Everybody has been hurt by the past. And everybody needs healing in different ways And he's saying, find that hurt and heal it. Find that need and fill it. Find that problem and solve it. He's saying start with their agenda, not your agenda. The silent hurts, the silent fears. Just look around. And you never know when you'll say something that'll be healing to somebody else. Sometimes you'll say something and it just brings healing to their life because they needed that insight. Oh, that's That's what I need to do. I need to let go of that. I need to refocus, whatever. Now, you know people in your life. I want you to think of somebody in your life you think that person will never accept Christ. Okay, everybody get somebody like that in mind. That person will never in a million years accept Christ. You're wrong. Anybody can be one to Christ if you find the key to their heart You're listening to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. There's more great teaching coming up. If you'd like to connect with Rick, just go to Pastor Rick. com and click on his social media link. And while you're there, be sure to sign up for his free daily email devotional. And if you'd like to let Rick know how this broadcast has touched your life, you can email him at rick at pastorick. com. Every year at East We remember Jesus' sacrifice for us and celebrate his resurrection. Some Christians are able to travel to Jerusalem to walk the path that Jesus took on his way to the cross. It's called the Via Dolorosa, which translates to the way of suffering. Since you may not be able to travel to Jerusalem Jerusalem, Pastor Rick created a unique resource called Journey with Jesus that will give you a way to celebrate, reflect, and pray about what Jesus did for you on the cross. This brand new, one-of-a-kind resource. We'll take you through the 15 stops that the Bible tells us Jesus took on the road to Calvary. Every stop Jesus made along the way of suffering Details the biblical account of what happened there, and reflects upon the sacrificial love of Jesus. You'll learn why Mary, from Bethany Anointed Jesus with a specific oil, why Jesus prayed so often in the Garden of Gethsemane, and how he handled obedience to God Journey with Jesus will give you deeper biblical insights as it takes you through the betrayal by Judas, the trial of Jesus, the denials of people. Peter, and the Death and Resurrection of Christ. Journey with Jesus is a deluxe hardcover gift edition book with high-quality, glossy pages and includes photos of commissioned mosaic tile artwork that represent each stop Jesus made on his path to Calvary. This is a great gift book to keep and study time and time again. And it would make a great gift for your family and friends too. We'll send you our Journey with Jesus Deluxe gift book. When you donate to Daily Hope this month, it's because of the generosity of people like you that we're able to share the certain hope of Jesus around the world. Just go to pastorick. com right now to get your copy of this amazing study tool. Or you can call 800-600-5004. That's pastorick. com or 800-0 600-5004. Thanks so much for your support. You're listening to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. Once again, here's Pastor Rick Warren. Anybody can be one to Christ if you find the key to their heart. And what is the key to their heart that unlocks the door? It's always a hurt, a need. or an interest. A hurt, a need, or an interest. And when you start with where they're hurting, where they need healing. Where they need a blessing from you, an encouragement from you. You start with that, it opens up the doors. The Bible tells us that Jesus. Jesus went into every village doing three things, preaching, teaching, and healing. Now you're not going to heal people like Jesus did. But he did preaching and teaching and healing. Now that meant one-third of his ministry involved the soul, preaching. One third of his ministry involved enlightening the mind, teaching. And one-third of his ministry involved caring for the body, healing. Jesus didn't just care about salvation, he cared about education, and he cared about health care It is not by accident. You go into any country in the world, and the first school, almost always the first school ever started in that country, and the first hospital started in that country were started by Christian missionaries. That's almost every country in the world. Why? Because that's our faith. Our faith cares about the mind, the body, and the spirit. Our faith cares about salvation, education, and And so our our our it's the whole person that we care about. And that's why in the peace plan We promote reconciliation for those who are hurting because of conflict. And we train servant leaders for those who are being hurt by oppression and corruption. And we assist the poor for those who are being hurt by poverty. And we care for the sick, for those who have been hurt by disease. And we educate the next generation for those who are being hurt by ignorance. Why? Jesus said, heal them. Go and tell them this is the kingdom of God. What is the kingdom of God? It's not just about getting to heaven, it's about living life to the fullest here on earth. to and relieving the suffering of people around us. So we go to these churches and we go directly to church. We work church to church. Because it is a church that's going to last long after we're gone. And they tell and they tell us what to do. We don't tell them. We say, what's hurting in your city? What's hurting in your village? What's hurting in your town? There's one last principle. Number nine is the principle of mobilization. And Jesus wants you to do this too, and it's to pray. Others. will join us. Pray that others will join us in this mission for God. God says, I want the whole world to know that I love Him. I want the whole world to hear the healing message of salvation. I want the whole world to know that I care. And the Bible says this. These were his Jesus' instructions to the 31 teams that he sent out. The harvest is so great. He said, look around the world, so many people. So many people need God. But the workers are so few. Pray to the Lord who is in charge of the harvest and ask him to send out more workers for his field. You know, when I drive up and down the freeways of Southern California, I often look around at all the people and I think, Lord, how do I get them to slow down long enough just for me to tell them the good news? Because they're moving so fast, they're not listening. And the good news is only good news if it gets there in time. You've got to learn to have eyes like Jesus and see all around you people in need need of hope, purpose, forgiveness, love, meaning, salvation In need of healing, of physical healing, emotional healing, spiritual healing, relational healing, all these different things. Now, if you want God's blessing on your life, here's how you get it. Care about what God cares about. If you have the same heart that God has, God says, I found somebody after my own heart, I'm gonna bless them. Bless them, bless their socks off. Because they care about what I care about. Now, what does God care about most? I'll tell you what he cares about most First, what matters most to God is the death of his son, Jesus Christ. He gave his son Jesus to die for us on the cross. Cross, the greatest possible sacrifice. And the second greatest thing is that that news gets spread to all around the world because God wants his lost children found. He wants everybody to know him. He wants everybody to love him the way he loves them. He wants everybody to live the kind of life that he intended for them to live. And so what do we do? We pray that other people will catch the vision, catch the heart of God, to begin to care not just about themselves, but to care about everybody. To care about the people around us that we live by, we work with, we drive by, we go to the movies with and see all around us. Now God wants to use you, and I am offering you the adventure. Nothing comes close to the adventure of being used by God. Nothing comes close to the adventure of being being on mission for God. Nothing comes close to knowing that your life is making a difference, not for five years or ten years, but for eternity. And that there will be people in heaven who will be thanking you forever, going, thank you, because you cared enough to be on mission. In your neighborhood, in your office, in Southern California, in America, and around the world. The Bible says this. Look on the screen screen. If you insist on saving your life, you will lose it. Only, this is Jesus talking, only those who throw away their lives for my sake And for the sake of the good news, that's what we're talking about, will ever know what it means to really live. Until you get on mission for God, you're not living, friend. You're just existing. Because you're not you were made for a mission. Let's bow our heads. I want to challenge you to commit yourself to a lifestyle of peace. Say, God, I want to do this wherever you want to use me. I want to get a partner. I want to depend on you. I want to keep it simple. I want to stay focused on my purpose. I want you to use me to bless other people with a look, a word, and a touch. I want to build relationships of love so you can walk across that bridge. I want to be willing to adapt to things that aren't particularly comfortable for me for the benefit of others. I want to begin where other people are hurting. And I want to commit to praying that other people will join the army of compassion. I commit to practicing these principles Wherever I am. If you'd say that, I want you to just in your heart say, dear Jesus, I'm in. I'm in. I'm signing up. I'm saying I'm in. I want you to use my life for good and for God and for your glory. In your name I pray. Amen. Hi, this is Pastor Rick. If you just prayed to accept Jesus Christ into your heart, congratulations. You're now my brother or sister in the Lord. And you need to tell somebody, and why don't you tell me? Write to me, rick at pastorric. com, and tell me your story. I would love to read it. And by the way, I'll send you some free material to help you start in your new journey with the Lord. God bless you. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. If you've missed any part of this broadcast, Including portions we didn't have time for today, simply go to pastorick. com and listen online anytime. That's pastorick. com. While you're there, you can also download Pastor Rick's Daily Hope podcast. To your phone or tablet so you can listen on the go anywhere you are. Rick will be back in just a moment with a final word, so please stay with us. Every year at Easter, we remember Jesus' sacrifice. For us and celebrate his resurrection. Some Christians are able to travel to Jerusalem to walk the path that Jesus took on his way to the cross. It's called Via Dolorosa. Here's Pastor Rick to tell you more. Every year, Christians from all over the world remember the death and resurrection of Jesus. Christ by traveling to Jerusalem where they walk the path that Jesus took on the way to the cross. The way of suffering. Now, since you may not be able to ever travel to Jerusalem, I want to suggest a way for you to celebrate. and reflect on and pray about what Jesus did for you on the cross. So I've created a brand new one-of-a-kind resource That will take you through the 15 stops that the Bible tells us Jesus took on the road to Calvary and his death on the cross. Cross. Now we're calling this resource Journey with Jesus. And every stop in this guide through the way of suffering is focused on a part of the biblical account that reflects the sacrificial love of Jesus. For instance, you'll learn why Mary from Bethany anointed Jesus with specific oil. And you'll see how Jesus prayed in the Garden Gethsemane, where he did so often. You'll also see how Jesus handled being obedient to God even unto death, even when he faced his own death. The way of suffering is going to give you biblical insights into things like the betrayal by Judas and the trial of Jesus And the denials of Peter, and then of course the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Journey with Jesus. Is a deluxe hardcover gift edition book that's illustrated with really beautiful photos, high-quality, glossy photos of mosaic tile artwork that reflect each of the stops that Jesus made. You're not ever going to forget this gift. It's a great gift book to keep and to study over and over again each year at Lent or prior to Easter. And it make a great gift for your family and your own. friends too. This gift book is available when you donate to Daily Hope this month. Now why do I want you to have this particular resource called journey with Jesus. Because it can prepare your heart and your mind to walk with Jesus in the very last steps he took on the way to the cross. You know this is the most important journey in history. It's the reason that we can know God. It's the reason our sins are forgiven. It's the reason that we can go to heaven. What Jesus did in going to the cross for us changes everything. And this resource, Journey with Jesus, will help you understand it like never before. Just go to pastorick. com right now to get your copy of this amazing study tour. Or just call 800-600-5004. That's pastorick. com or 800-600-4 Thanks so much for your support. Be sure to join us next time as we look into God's Word for our Daily Hope. This program is sponsored by Pastor Rick's Daily Hope and your Generous financial support. We're here at creditrepair. com the most recognized name in the industry when it comes to resolving credit report issues. AI can help you write, research, and solve problems faster than ever before. But there is a problem. Most AI is built on a worldview that does not reflect biblical truth. That's why Dominion Chat exists. Dominion brings the power of AI under the Lordship of Christ. All the benefits of modern AI built on a biblical worldview foundation. Your work matters, but so does your soul. Sign up today at Dominion. chat