Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling I want to invite your attention to Isaiah chapter forty-three. We'll begin our reading at verse twenty-one. The Lord's word reads as follows: This people I have formed for myself. They shall declare my praise. But you have not called upon me, O Jacob, and you have been weary of me, O Israel. You have not brought me the sheep of your burnt offerings, nor have you honored me with your sacrifices. I have not caused you to serve with grain offerings, nor wearied you with incense. You have brought me no sweet cane with money, nor have you satisfied me with the fat of your sacrifices. But you have burdened me with your sins, and you have wearied me with your iniquities. I, even I, am He who blots out your transgressions for my own sake And I will not remember your sins. Put me in remembrance and let us contend together. State your case that you may be acquitted. Your first father sin, and your mediators have transgressed against me. Therefore I will profane the prince. Of the sanctuary, and I will give Jacob to the curse and Israel to reproaches. Amen Father, I need you on this morning that you might declare your word clearly in this place. As I surrender myself as an instrument in your hands, accomplish your will in this place. God, we need to hear from you in every kind of way. And so, Lord, I'm praying that in everything that you say and do through me, God, that you would accomplish your will in and through your people. God, someone may not know you in the pardon of their sin. They may be living on the edge of eternal destruction. I'm praying on this morning, God, that somehow this word would come to open up their eyes and open up their understanding to know that they need a Savior. I'm praying, eternal God, that you would save someone who's lost and reclaim someone who's drifting. I pray, God, that through the preaching of the word, that we might be edified. In our understanding of who you are and what you desire of us, I pray, God, that we would be able to apply what we've learned in this text, that we might live more powerful, more brilliant, light type lives for you that in the darkness they might see Christ in us. Father, I need you. Because I'm weak and I'm weary and my flesh is limited. But I know, God, if you take over, your will will be done, and your way will be accomplished. And so now, Lord, have your way, and all that is done, and all that is said. I need you, God, on this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Ketter and I've been preaching through a just a short series of messages I wanted to share with us, and that series is entitled Handling the Holy Well. We started in 1 Samuel chapter 15. We spoke there from the idea of stealing a little from God. And then on last week we were in Luke chapter 10, and we also highlighted A Psalm twenty four and Proverbs nineteen, but we spoke there from the subject matter, lending to God. close up our series of messages this morning on handling the holy here in Isaiah chapter 43. Ketterin, what I think is critically important for us is to understand that we as feebile fractured, broken people have been trusted by a holy God to handle things that we shouldn't even be able to handle But yet God, through his omnipotence grace upon us, has in entrusted us to handle holy things. And I think it is contingent and significant for us to handle what he hands us and to handle what he entrusts us to handle that very well. Here we have A holy word that is in essence the life of God Himself. It is God's breathed word written on paper and God has uh who is a holy God, first of all, has entrusted, broken, fractured, messed up, tore up us to handle his holy word. And not only has he trusted us with us it as preachers of the gospel, but he's called us to it. And he said, I'm picking you and I'm choosing you to handle what is holy unto me, but I'm going to hold you accountable for handling that which is holy. Are y'all still here with me? I think sometimes we we we probably don't get the full understanding of what what we really possess and what we're what's in our hands and what's in our our grasp and what's in our grip. Uh but God has entrusted us with the holy tithe and with the resources that belong to him and even as we walked through and understood last week everything belongs to God. We don't own anything. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, everything that there is that is therein is his. He made everything for himself and by himself. And through himself, and it's not for us, it's it's his. He owns everything. And if he owns everything and made everything, and he made everything well, because when he got finished making everything, he said it's very good. And when a holy God makes something and he looks upon it and says, This is very good, that means it's holy. As we approach this text on this morning, my idea was to bring you a sermonic chat about this subject matter on this morning because I have a a looming question that I wrestle with And I talk to God about and I monitor and I watch and I I pray about and uh and I'm trying to figure out and the question that I have that causes Me so much trouble and so much concern is how is it that children of God can Have that which is holy to God, and then withhold contributing anything to his kingdom I'm struggling with how how it is that Christians don't have a heart to give. Now, I have some some ideas about it, and this is not all inclusive, but one of my thoughts is one of my I answers I've come up with is that That they don't love God. And I know everybody who's a Christian says, no, no, no. I love God. Well, the Bible says, if you love me, you'll keep my commandments. If I love you, I'll honor you. Another thought I had is that they're really not Christians at all. They're just pretending to be Christian. So maybe there's some that really just, they're not really Christians, they're just faking. And so, because if I really don't love you, it doesn't bother me not to give you anything. And it especially doesn't bother me not to give you what is special to you and honorable to you that is holy to you. It won't bother me a bit if I don't love you. But then the third thing I thought about is that they don't regard holy things. So they have no respect for that which is holy. When m most of us were growing up There was always a table that sat in the forefront of the church. It was the communion table, and written around the communion table were the words This due in remembrance of me. And on some of them it even said Holy Communion Table. And, depending on where you grew up, as a child, you knew through some uh encounter with that holy table. And some deacon or some mother of the church, that you better get yourself off of that table because that table is holy. And so we were taught to have a holy a respect for a table because the table was holy. Yes, you're here with me. And then for others, you have uh either purchased or received a book. Like this one. And on the book, and I I like the fact that they write it on the book, it says holy Bible. But maybe the reason why we can not honor God with what is his and is holy is because we don't respect the holy. In fact, I was talking just the other day about even how we had a holy respect for life. And when someone's funeral procession went by, everybody would stop, pull on the side of the road, if you were sitting on the porch, you take your hat off. Because you had a a respect for that which was holy. Life was holy. But now we we we're in a different day now. I've been in many funeral processions where you or somebody who drove like you cut us off broke in front of the hearse, had no respect for the funeral procession So maybe, maybe, maybe there's just some issue there that's going on with a disregard or a disrespect for that which is holy. In this text, Judah is serving a 70 year sentence They've been tried, tested, and convicted by God's court, and they are serving a 70-year sentence in Babylon. As a consequence of disrespecting a holy God. And the word of God comes to Isaiah. To say to them in the middle of and in preparation for their release, the word comes to this nation who is serving their sentence. That says to them, let's sit down and talk about your present giving condition So this morning I want to just dabble in it a little bit and and speak from the subject matter. Let's chat about your giving record Because it is a requirement of a uh a nonprofit organization in the state of Maryland and in the United States, there is a requirement from the Internal Revenue Services that we also provide you a giving record. That says at the end of the year, this is what you gave or contributed to the nonprofit organization, Ketteran Baptist Church Incorporated. And so we send you at the end of the year a giving record. So if you if you have given before, you will have gotten one of those. And for others, this is brand new news for you. So let's chat about your giving record. Apparently there were there was an issue in Israel. That there were some issues similar to church life where They literally weren't giving to God. And there's this issue that That which was holy was not being honored by God, and the God who was holy himself was not being honored, which consequently was the reason why they were in seventy years of captivity in the first place. So as I de delve into this text here, the Lord starts off here by helping me to answer my questions. As we chat about the giving record of Israel and us, is that perhaps the reason comes out here in these first few verses, this is uh this people I have formed for myself. And they shall declare my praise, but you have not called upon me, O Jacob, and you have been weary of me, O Israel, and you have not brought me sheep for the burnt offering. uh and not honored me with your sacrifices. Um these verses represent Israel's distrust of God God says to Israel, verse 21, This people I have formed for myself. I formed them that they would declare my prey. Israel, that you would be my chosen people, my my royal priesthood. I've chosen you specifically, Israel, so that you would honor me As born-again Christians, we've been saved, we've been sanctified, we've been set apart to God that we might glorify Him with our life, that we might honor Him. We are His chosen people. And we've been created for him, not for ourselves, and we've been set apart in the same way that Israel has been. And he says, but yet, even though I've done all this for you, I sent my son to die on a cross, to suffer, to bleed, to die, and to spend days in the grave for you So that you could be mine. And yet, he says, you have not called on me. Israel, you're you're in captivity. You have not called on me. Now, there's an understanding here that though they haven't called on him who Who saved them and set them apart for himself, they have been calling on others. But you haven't called on me, he says, to Israel, and you have been weary of me, O Israel. And I think in some senses, perhaps some of us are in that same place. We haven't called on God for what we needed. We haven't called on God for our substance. We haven't called on God when we got in trouble. No, we've been weary of God. And most specifically, is we don't trust God. I always say this and I think it's very true. I think one of the major problems and struggles that people have with giving is trust. Because I don't trust that God is going to do what he said he's going to do. That's where it starts. I don't trust God's word is true that when He says, if you try me now in this I open up the windows of heaven and pour you out such blessing that you won't be able to receive the blessing. I don't trust that. And so we have this issue of trust, and then we transfer our our issue of trust that we have with God. We don't believe that God can sustain us on His resources. Unless we steal the other part that belongs to him, that's holy. So trust is an issue we have. And so we don't give. And we add to our debt. More things to make ourselves happy. You have multiple subscriptions to multiple TV stations. And you can only watch one station at a time, except and unless you are rich enough to have screen in screen. But that's not where you started. You started with a black and white with a coat hanger stuck in the back and you were shaking it to get the picture right. Has some aluminum foil tied on there. But we don't trust God. Israel didn't trust him either. And they were weary of him. He says, You've been weary of me, O Israel. You were skeptical of me. And so sometimes we we fall in the same trap as Israel. We're skeptical of God. We're not sure that God's gonna do it. And all I say is look back and see what he's already done. If he can do it back then on two fish and five loaves of bread, he sure enough can do it now when you own the factory. You're skeptical. You you you've been weary of me, and he says, because you are weary of me, you have not brought me any of your sheep or your burnt offerings. You have not honored me with your sacrifices. Now, just to give you some great context here, Israel is in captivity. They don't have the tabernacle to go to. So they can't do the sacrifice in that way, but they still haven't honored God at all with what they had When Israel went into Babylonian captivity, the Lord said, You're gonna be here a while. Go ahead and find yourself homes and get married and you know grow some vineyards because you're gonna be here for 70 years. And they were. So it wasn't like they had nothing to honor and offer to God as sacrifice, but they just didn't do it. And they're weary of God and and they're concerned about But you know, God, maybe God doesn't care about us. Maybe he can't take care of me. Maybe he can't deliver me. I don't know. Maybe that there's a better God that we can depend on or we can invest our confidence in. Maybe the moon god, maybe the sun god, or or the stars. Or monkey God or pig or elephant, or maybe there's a God that we can depend on, and that is more faithful than the God who chose us for Himself. And not honor the God. So they, like many Perhaps who find it acceptable not to give to God, they didn't give to Him. They didn't honor Him. And the Lord calls them out on this. He says, You've not honored me with your sacrifices and you you didn't you didn't bring nothing. You didn't bring no No sweet aroma, no nothing, and no sheep, no burnt offerings. And as a result, their distrust of God, they did not, they didn't bring anything. So it is a proven purpose, for Israel at least, that they don't give to God because they distrusted God. And is is it possible that maybe that's the reason why some people today don't give Though they are God's children. They don't trust him. And then my question came: well, how can you trust him with your eternal life? But you don't trust him with your temporal needs of provisions day by day while you're living in earthly realm. So there is this distrust, our distrust of God, but then the text moves on to God's grace to us. And he says, I have not caused you to serve me with grain offerings, nor wearied you with incense. And then yet you've brought me no sweet cane with money, nor have you satisfied me with the fat of your sacrifices. But you burden me. So the Lord says to them, look, the offerings were not intended to be a burden on Israel. But an opportunity for Israel to have their sin atoned for so that they can have an intimate relationship with God And they could worship and praise a holy God whom they have been separated from because of sin. But I can't do it without some kind of atonement. Pastor, what about us? When we don't do animal sacrifices while we still give it similar purpose. One, I can stay in fellowship with the God who saved me. Because I I I'm handling holy stuff. And because he's trusted me to handle his holy offering, I need to make sure that I handle it well so that there's no broken fellowship. Between me and my holy God, who saved me by his amazing grace. I need to keep that thing intact. So I'm going to keep on honoring him in his holy things So that I don't mess that up because it means a lot to me to be able to get into the presence of my father. I need to talk To my daddy. I need somebody's hand to hold. I need a shoulder to cry on. I need him because he's always available, even in the latest midnight hour. And so it I need that So it keeps the door open by my obedience to him. Not only that, because I'm now a part of the kingdom of God My offering is also an investment to help the kingdom of God grow and to expand to reach other people who don't know this Christ, who don't know the grace that we've experienced. So my investment is an investment into the eternal lives of people who have not come to know him. So my offering has purpose even now. But I'm handling that which is holy. And I want to do that well. And I guarantee you. You'll see God's faithfulness flood into your direction. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He sits Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.