So I go to church, I go to the sanctuary, I go to the temple, and I focus on God. It's made to hold full-color Bibleverse cards that will help you memorize God's Word. The newest set of scripture cards are based on the theme, Hearing the Voice of God. They'll help build your confidence in asking God for what you need, and they'll help you find the biblical wisdom necessary to understand God's vision for your life Quantities are limited, so make sure you act quickly. Thanks in advance for your support. Look at the next verse. Be sure to join us next time as we look into God's Word for our Daily Hope. Pastor Rick is always reminding us about the importance of getting God's word into our hearts. So study after study have shown that if you teach a child to memorize scripture, they'll be a better student at school too, because it strengthens your mind. As they can see God's faith journey in your life. Voices behind the song. And that gives honor and a compliment to God. The Audio Broadcast Ministry of Pastor Rick Warren. Right now, here's Pastor Rick Warren with the final part of a message called How to Get Guidance from God. In fact, the counterfeit is, but the counterfeit is just a copy of the real thing, which is biblical meditation or biblical visualization. So I'm going to give you an imagination. It's just a perversion of what God wanted to do. You can email him at rick at pastorick. While you're there, be sure to sign up for his free daily email devotional. That's pastorick. This time I read it and go, BAM! This is called this is, by the way, is called the spiritual habit of journaling. You just simply write down what you're saying to God and you write down what God's saying to you. Then you go back and you write down what God said to me. So if you take some time just to sit down and write out what lessons was God trying to teach me in my life through what happened yesterday, that can help you to focus on what If I can write it down, it helps me to disentangle my thoughts. Unless I write it down, I just keep forgetting it. It's one thing for you to sit here and take notes on. And tell me your story. To find out more about this ministry or to sign up for Rick's free daily email devotional. Here's Rick to tell you more. You say, I can't do that. It's made of a soft black leather-like material, and the Bible verse cards feature all new art. Make sure you get yours today. That's Pastorick. Personally, now he's bringing you their stories. Is your backstage pass. In just a few minutes, we're going to tell you about an easy and stylish way to always have God's Word right at your fingertips with the completely redesigned scripture box You can take a sneak peek at this wildly popular study tool while you listen to today's broadcast. You see, God gave human beings the ability to imagine. Animals do not have imagination. It didn't just appear. You're sitting on a chair that somebody imagined first how it would look. In fact, when you visualize the wrong thing, one of the ways, one of the terms for that is called lust. Man, you just see it in your mind. Seek and you will find. for he is always ready to give a bountiful blessing, excuse me, bountiful supply of wisdom to all who ask him. Don't be general in your prayers. You ought to be very careful when you say, God bless me, because a blessing might be a trial that helps you grow in character. And that gives honor and a compliment to God. That's why he's created a brand new version of the Daily Hope scripture box. Open it up. Put the events of your day the day before. He has to do. But you've got to have an impression before you test an impression. Now, this is the natural response of hearing from God. Why is God silent sometimes? And the most amazing truth in the universe is that the creator of it all wants you for a personal friend. And how do you become a friend of God? Help me to practice these steps this week and to share them with other people, to pass them on. And you need to tell somebody, and why don't you tell me? That's why I've had my team create a beautiful scripture box so you can practice memorizing the verses. You know, when you're tempted, you rarely have a Bible by your side. So you need God's word in your mind so you can remember it. So store them in this beautiful box. In fact, studies have shown that if you learn to memorize scripture, your brain will actually get stronger and you will remember other things better as well. One verse a week. Did you know that whenever you expect something really big from God, you're actually complimenting God? And when you see the whole picture and you see the big perspective, all of a sudden your little problem seems a whole lot smaller in the whole scheme of things. Then I saw the whole picture. Because most of the time you go through life with a little tiny narrow vision, seeing only this much of your problem and not seeing how it fits. Now, some of you thinking, Rick, isn't all this visualizing? Now, anything that God creates can be misused and abused. God thought up food. And the same is true with visualizing. And so, for those of you who are naturally visual thinkers, it's going to be easier for God to talk to you this way. In fact, over 20 times in the New Testament, we are commanded to ask. God says, I want you to ask. But when you ask him, be sure that you really expect him to tell you. Second, he wants you to be specific. Be specific with God. In fact, these cards are so nice, you can put them up around your home. Tom's going to talk about the next one. He says, the Lord gave me this answer, write down clearly what I revealed to you. Now, this is just a practical thing, so let me give you some practical suggestions about this. And I worship you in awe. He may be saying, in this particular issue, the choice is yours. And God wants a conversation with you. You can't hear God unless you know God. And you love us enough to talk to us. Now you pray. Jesus Christ, I want to know you more and more every day. Write them down and keep them deep within your heart. And you'll be so much stronger as a believer. Ministries. So how do you watch in prayer? Here's the second thing you do. Listen, if your prayer life is stuck in a rut, and mine sure does get stuck in a rut sometimes, you know, you feel like you're saying the same rope prayers over and over, or your prayers aren't getting above the ceiling. And look back at the events of the day before and think about what lessons was God trying to teach me through that? And so you just keep going. Let's bow our heads. In their minds. And I see what he's doing in my life. Because everything that's ever been created in the world, somebody dreamed up first. And then from that the dream became a reality. Pervert, misuse, and abuse. None of us would be here without that one. Look at this next verse, James chapter 1, verse 5. And as you write those things out that you're saying to God, don't expect God always to say something to you immediately. You know, sometimes when I pray, I ask God, I say, Jesus, is is there anything you want to say to me? It will turn prayer from a monologue into a dialogue. Well, I'm not a visual thinker, so let me give you two ways that help me. You're actually giving God a compliment because you're saying, God, I believe you're so big that you can take care of this, and I'm expecting you to answer this problem or this need in my life in a way that could never be done in my own power. You see, all of the answers for life are in this book. And now I'm gonna look at your word. God didn't put you on earth to be an acquaintance of His. In his play As You Like It, Shakespeare described death as mere oblivion. You're actually giving God a compliment because you're saying, God, I believe you're so big that you can take care of this, and I'm expecting you to answer this problem or this deed in my life in a way that could never be done in my own power. He says, when I tried to figure it all out, all I got was a splitting headache until I entered the sanctuary of God. Napoleon said, imagination rules the world. You're not bothering him. What is a blessing? Acquaintance or friendship. The next group are those of you who say, well, I'm an acquaintance of God. And I invite you, Jesus Christ, to be the manager of my life. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And then I just wait. And then I watch, then I write, and the last step is I worship. If your prayer life is like that, one of the greatest things you can do for a solution is begin to write down your prayers. Did you know that whenever you expect something really big from God, you're actually complimenting God If you couldn't write down your prayers, we wouldn't have the book of Psalms. In my family, in my future, in my finance, and in every area of my life. This is a very, very powerful habit. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Nope. Oh yes, you can. The Bible says this. Two ideas, two suggestions for how to do this. That's a good thing, okay? These are the steps. The one degree of Andy Podcast. Satan perverts food. I mean, a lot of people go and say, oh God, give me a bunch of things. All of a sudden it pops out at me, and I see something I've never seen before. com. You can see it in your mind. Just put yesterday. I would love to read it. Somebody saw it first in their mind. Knock and the door will be opened unto you. And then number three, he wants you to expect an answer. Well, there are a lot of different reasons. Everything's okay. First, by getting to know his Son, Jesus Christ, and second by having conversations with him. One of the most powerful ways you can transform your spiritual life is to memorize scripture com. After you ask a specific question and believe him to answer, you look into God's word. And there are others who only know you as an acquaintance. Say, dear God, I am amazed that you would want me for a friend. Act quickly. Or you can call 800-600-5004. It's one other thing to practice it. Hi, this is Pastor Rick. They do not create tools. The Bible says in Proverbs 7, verse 2, guard my words as your most precious possession Look at this next verse. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. It's a real pretty box that will make a great conversation piece. It's not like Tom said, he's interested in every detail of your life. Could you define a blessing? There's a fifth thing that Habakkuk teaches us about getting guidance from God, and that is to write, to record the ideas that you receive. Biblical visualizing of focusing on God and thinking his thoughts can be abused, and people try to get you visualizing on crystals and visualizing on this and that, which is not what God wanted you to do. Remember, Jesus said watch and pray. And as you open and read the book, I can't tell you how many times in my life God has taken a verse and pulled it directly to me. Very simple thing, but it makes a powerful difference in your life. Or you can call 800-600-5004. On Andy Christmas. Now, what we've talked about today will revolutionize your prayer life if you do it. One verse a week in one year. Okay? And so He tells you to ask. It helps you to test the impressions that you get from God. Write to me rick at pastorick. You can go down the list. And the more specific you are, the better, because it builds your faith when you ask God for something specific, and then he answers, and then you bless God for it. When you receive God's response to a question, it makes you love Him more. Now, I said last week that for you to hear God, you have to know him Jesus, is there anything you want to say to me or show me right now? Write down some of the events. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope, the audio broadcast ministry of Pastor Rick Warren. So writing it down sees the impression. Supplies are limited. That's got great benefits in your life. It helps you to remember what you said and what God said. And through a picture, God gave David perspective. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. David said, you know, I had this problem going on my life, and I couldn't figure it out, and I couldn't figure it out, and I couldn't figure it out. One would be to vertically put a line down the center of the pages. So I hope you'll get this tool. com. Go to pastorick. It's a habit that many, many great Christians have had for centuries. God may be saying, wait a minute, I'm not ready to tell you. God thought up sex. He created you, He formed you, He made you for a friendship Open my eyes so that I may see the wonderful truths in your word. The Bible says in Psalm 102, verse 18: write these things down for the future, so that people who are not yet born will praise the Lord. Some of you are just in the recognition stage. And yet, Lord, there are so many people here who have never experienced the joy of a conversation with you. And by the way, I'll send you some free material to help you start in your new journey with the Lord. Today we continue in our series called Can You Hear Me Now? Sometimes I just stop and Jesus, is there anything you want to say to me? So what he does is he tries to take all the good things that God does and tries to pervert them. Others of us, we just read it and all we see is words. Isn't this kind of like new age stuff? Now, about 50% of you, as typical in America, are visual thinkers by nature. Number one, ask God a specific question. Pastor Rick is always reminding us about the importance of getting God's word into our hearts. I worship. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. They do not dream like human beings do and create things through dreams. In fact, that is Satan's entire purpose. Father, I thank you that you love us enough to listen to us. Everybody here is in one of three relationships with God. Everything that God has created in the world, Satan tries to abuse, misuse, and pervert. And once you have calmed down, you say, God, I I want to hear from you, and I'm going to withdraw, and I'm going to wait, and I'm going to watch. But if you will start following these six steps, If you just prayed to accept Jesus Christ into your heart, congratulations. The second half of today's study is coming up, so stay with us. I want, I withdraw, I wait Imagination. And then when you need them, the Holy Spirit can bring them back to mind. Let's read this verse aloud. Because Habakkuk wrote it down, we have the book called Habakkuk. I know God and God knows me, but we're not very, I don't know him very well. And when you are imagining and when you are creating, you are doing a talent that God has given you as a human being made in his image. It's all David's prayers being written down. But make this more than a diary that talks about the events of your day. The Bible says you have not because you ask not. And when you're witnessing to somebody who doesn't know Christ, or they're under stress, or they need comfort, or they're in a crisis, there's not usually a Bible hanging around. Go to pastorick. And so God says, I want you to ask a question in prayer. Either one is okay, so it doesn't matter to God. And I want to depend on you for guidance. To keep them deep in your heart, you have to remember them Has Satan perverted it? You can even frame them. Some of you wouldn't know if a blessing hit you or not. Rick picked out 52 Bible verses that will inspire you to listen for God's voice in everything you do. And this is what Habakkuk did. You will have memorized 52 verses from the Word of God. It's one of the greatest gifts God has given you. Einstein said, imagination is more important than intellect, and it is. Then they put it into architectural drawings, and then it became a building Not listen and pray, watch and pray. Well, what does that mean? Here's Pastor Rick Warren. Just a practical way to say how am I going to do this? If you've missed any part of this broadcast, including portions we didn't have time for today, simply go to pastorick. That's a great question. And, if you'd like to let Rick know how this broadcast has touched your life. And then they designed it and then they created it. And it is beautiful. com right now to get your copy of this great resource. It helps you to focus your thoughts as you write these things down. Now I know some people have a problem with this. It also, this next verse in your outline reminds us that this habit also helps you to be able to pass on a spiritual legacy to your children. The cards all feature brand new artwork and graphic design. We're doing it for you. com. And just like God can think things up and create them, the Bible says God has given you an imagination. Now, this is a very important verse because it tells us three truths. And while I'm focusing on God and I'm calming myself down, he gives me this picture, and all of a sudden it all makes sense. This program is sponsored by Daily Hope Ministries and your generous financial support. In your name I pray. There's that faith issue. Just email me rick at pastorick. Rick's going to be back in just a moment with a final word of encouragement, so please stay with us. That's 800-600-5004. Because He is. The second practical suggestion would be to take the same sheet of paper, instead put a horizontal line and up above the line Just by going to pastorick. It will turn prayer from you just talking to God to a conversation that He is talking to you too. Oh, you recognize that God exists, but you really don't know anything about Him. God says, I want you to ask in prayer. Sometimes it's later in the day. I don't know about you, but I forget what God said to me a lot of times. May today, right now, be a greatest, the greatest turning point in their lives. And by the way, this is a skill that you can learn. com right now to get your copy of this great resource. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope You're not bothering him. In verse 2 of chapter 3, he says, Oh Lord, now I have heard your report. That's why he created a brand new version of the Daily Hope Scripture box, and it is beautiful You'll find 52 Bible verses on the very important topic of hearing the voice of God. Because it helps you to see what you're praying, it helps you to make them more personal, it helps you to make them more real, helps you to be more serious about those prayers that you're praying. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Yes, in many, many ways Oh, and this new scripture box makes a great gift too Well, it can be Satan cannot create anything. He may be saying, you're not ready to hear it. How do you watch and pray if you're not a visual thinker? What happened? Of course, it's okay to write down your prayers. I worship. In the last message in this series, Pastor Rick's going to be talking about six ways to test an impression. Or even like say, don't even pray, God bless me. The all-new design has a soft black leather look and feel with an embossed Bible verse on top. You're sitting in a building that somebody had to dream up first. It's a little bit harder for the rest of us. And people use their imaginations for all kinds of evil things today, too. He tries to teach us lessons through what happens in our lives. This brand new box is called the Verses for Hearing the Voice of God Scripture box That's 800-600-5004. If you want to know what God wants you to do, ask him, and he will gladly tell you. They think, is it like okay to write down your prayers? I want to learn to have conversations with you. It's a collection of spiritual tools that will help you keep God's word in you so you have it when you need it most. It doesn't come that clear in living color. No. Think about this. Look at this with David in Psalm 73. In these lessons, we'll learn how to truly discern the Lord's voice in the midst of a world full of distractions. He says, don't pray and ask me for help unless you expect that I'm going to help you. He's waiting for you to ask. That's what it's all about. It's a habit that will help to refresh your prayer life. It's what makes you different from animals. And God says, I have created you in my image Sometimes when I'm praying, I just say, Jesus, is there anything you want to show me right now? Sometimes you're driving down the street. And that's why you were made. One side write out what I said to God, and the other side write out what God said to me. I thank God for speaking to me. Now, last week I said sometimes God speaks through silence. You're doing fine. And if anybody can give you the big picture, if anybody can give you the big perspective, it's God because He sees it all. And I get a direct answer. Now, if there's anything that you need in your life more than almost anything else, you need perspective. God just opened my eyes in a way that I've never seen it before, and he speaks directly to me. Underneath the line, write down life lessons. Andy Christman, afore him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist person. This microphone, somebody imagined this microphone. He may be saying, I want you to trust me. You're now my brother or sister in the Lord Imagine this, if you only memorized And I just listen and wait. Either recognition I would be very specific. Get a ledger book or get a notebook, whatever. If you'd like to connect with Rick, just go to pastorick. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Ask God a specific question. Thank you for caring about all the details of my life. Amen. Now, the Holy Spirit can't bring up something you haven't put in your heart or in your mind. It was just really stressing me out, and I'm getting a headache. In fact, sometimes a blessing is a problem. He asks God a question, God gives him an answer. Thoughts disentangle themselves and they pass through the lips and the fingertips if I can say it You can't make a friendship without having conversation. In fact, it's a spiritually healthy thing to do It's just an acquaintance. com. com or by texting the word daily to 99000. For instance, it was God's idea to think up sex. You keep going. Sometimes you're in a meeting at work. I want you to grow up a little bit more. God, I need your guidance in my job. It says, ask and it shall be given. First, God wants you to ask him for advice. God bless you. Now he's bringing you their stories. Once again, here's Rick. Nothing. Look into God's word. You say, I can't memorize anything. That's right. And I miss them all the time. You're you everything's copacetic. The One Degree of Andy podcast. And you need to step up to the next level or even closer. And so, how do you get perspective from God? I may have read this chapter a hundred times. He's never had an original thought in his mind. Sometimes you're in the shower. Nope. What's the size, the color, and the shape that you want? You ever feel like that? You just naturally think that way. He writes it down. But don't make it too complicated. How do you know if he's answered or not? I bet you do too. I'm Andy Christman. Oh yes, you can. That's what it means to watch and pray. Shouldn't praying be like more spontaneous? Sometimes it wakes you up in the middle of the night. He may be saying the timing isn't right. He asks God a question, God gives him an answer, and he writes it down. We all feel like that sometimes Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. That's not what God wants. Is that what you're praying? Because we get so busy, we rush right past them. If you read a story in the Bible, com and click on his social media links. And that's why we taught this to you today. That's pretty simple That's a great question. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Aren't you glad he thought that one up? Let Him give you a picture. It's a very simple thing. com to listen again All he can do is copy. God, give me a bunch of problems. Now think about this. Now If you love Christian music, this