Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Blessed the name of the Lord. Mark chapter 9. Beginning at verse 14. The word of the Lord reads as follows: And when he came to his disciples, He saw a great multitude around them and scribes disputing with them. Immediately, when they saw him, all the people were greatly amazed and running to him greeted him. And he asked the scribes, What are you discussing with them? Then one of the crowd answered and said, Teacher, I brought my son who has a mute spirit. And wherever it seizes him, it throws him down, he foams at the mouth, gnashes his teeth, and becomes rigid. And so I spoke to your disciples that they should cast it out, but they could not. And he answered him and said, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to me. And then they brought him to him, and uh when they uh Uh he saw him immediately the spirit convulsed him and he fell on the ground and he wallowed, foaming at the mouth. And so he asked his father, how long has he has this been happening to him? And he said, from childhood. And often he has thrown him both into the fire and into the water to destroy him. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help us. And Jesus said unto him, If you can believe, all things are possible to him who believes. Immediately the father of the child cried out and said with tears, Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief And when Jesus saw the people came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, death and dumb spirit, I command you, come out of him and enter him no more. Then the spirit cried out and convulsed him greatly and came out of him, and he became as one dead. So that many said he is dead. But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose, and when he had come into the house, his disciples asked him privately, why could we not cast it out? So he said to them, This kind can come out by nothing but prayer and fasting Would you pray with me this morning, Father? We need you. Even now that the power of your presence would manifest itself to the tearing down of strongholds. God, that in the process of preaching that you would allow your word, God, to go forward in a way, that if anybody doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, that today would be the day that they would surrender and they would commit themselves to you. God, I'm praying for the preaching of the word that it might draw men and women to you. Those that have drifted in their fellowship, God, I pray that they will be drawn back to you. Father, those that are discouraged and came in broken and abused this morning, I pray that healing through the word would heal their very spirit God, I'm praying for deliverance to take place in the process of this preaching moment. I'm praying that your power would manifest itself in a way that we could not deny we've been in the presence of God. But Spirit of the Lord, I stand as a broken vessel in need of a powerful God to speak anything on your behalf. And so, Lord, use this vessel of clay to declare your word. In a way that you can get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. Strengthen me, Lord. Give me clarity of thought, clarity of speech. Allow my words to be clear. Allow the power of the manifestation of your spirit to show up today. God, I stand in need of you and I surrender all to you. So have thine own way, O God, even now in the precious and powerful name of Jesus Christ, and you will get all the glory. And all the honor and all the praise. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen. And amen. Katarine, in this passage of Scripture on this morning, Jesus has been on the mountain of transfiguration with three of his disciples. Peter, James, and John, it was a glorious experience, not only for the disciples, but it was an uplifting time and an encouraging time for Jesus Himself. And as they come down from this glorious experience of being in the very presence of the Father, having opportunity to witness Jesus glorified right before their very faces. They come down the mountain, and when they come down the mountain, the other nine disciples are in a contentious discussion with the scribes. And it's unknown at the point what the discussion is about, what are they arguing about, but as they come down, Jesus goes and acts the describes What is it that's going on? What are you discussing? And I think that's a light way of putting it. What's happening? What's going on? What are you discussing? And so While he's asking the question before the scribes get a chance to answer the question that Jesus has posed to them, a man whose son has been possessed by a mute spirit. Has speaks up and says, Teacher, my son has been possessed with this mute spirit, and he goes through and he tells him all the things that has happened, and he lets him know what's going on. This is what's happening, and And so as Jesus gets all this information that introduces us to this text that I've read and you're hearing as to how we got to where we are. And as I read this text and as it began to sink in, I thought about this word that's used in the text. Regarding this spirit. The Father calls this spirit a mute spirit When I thought about this word mute, I thought about one of the things that came to my mind was being on a Zoom call and You are speaking, but nobody else on the call can hear you. And you might go on and on and sooner or later somebody's going to interrupt you and say, you're muted. But the muting prevents the voice of the person from coming through. And so as I continue to kind of walk through this idea of being muted, I thought about the word mute as well as it relates to um our usage of the word and um I guess you would call it in some sense the etymology of the p the modern day etymology or progression of the word because you know at a time someone who couldn't speak We called them a mute or someone who couldn't didn't have the ability um to talk. They couldn't hear. We called them deaf and dumb. And so now we it there's softer, politically correct, more um less offensive ways that we identify someone in that condition and we say that they are now non-verbal. So in the modern-day vernacular, this spirit is a non-verbal spirit. But in the hardest and harshest context of the passage, it's a mute spirit. Are y'all still here with me? I realize as I walk through this that this mute spirit that I'm reading about in the text is still impacting the church of today. Stay with me. I don't mean this in the physical sense of those who may be born with uh some inability to speak or talk. I'm not really talking about the the physical or medical condition of of muteness. I'm I'm talking from a spiritual Dynamic from an emotional depravity perspective, that the spirit of muuteness is still impacting The people of God in the church of God. Stay with me. There are some who have had their testimony muted. You've been through hell, high water, and some mo, but your testimony of the power of God moving in your life to delivering you to the place where you are has never been told. Because the spirit has muted you to believe that nobody's interested in what you've been through. I'm gonna say it anyhow. There are others who have had and have a problem with their worship, and their worship is muted. In other words, while the worship experience is going on and the power and the spirit of God is moving in the midst of his people, your mouth is shut. You can't open your mouth. And I'm going to say, uh, some of it is that you can't, and some of it is that you won't. I'm gonna say it anyhow. I told you I'm mad at the devil this morning. This ain't about you. And so he's muted the worship of some people in the house of God and As much as we stand and declare, I won't be silent, I'm going to give my testimony I looked around this morning and I still saw the spirit of muteness affecting God's people. There are those whose praise has been muted by a variety of things and you are more concerned about what people think. about your praise than you are about giving it to the one who's worthy of it. And so therefore your praise has been muted. You've watched other people and you've gathered your opinion about what you think about what they look like but you don't know what they've been through and so your praise has now been muted And so the spirit of mukeness is saturating itself and moving through the church of God. Some have their gift and their callings muted. You've been called by God. You've been gifted by God But the spirit of muteness has caused you to be silent and you've done nothing with your calling. You've evaluated yourself by other people and you've determined in your mind I can't be what they are and so therefore I won't accept my calling. I won't Step into it, I won't do it. And so the spirit, the mute spirit has muted your gift and your calling. And so there are some who are in the church. Who have been muted. Their voice has been muted by pain of their past. They've been through some difficult things in life, and some have been through some hellish things in church. Lord, help me. They were worshiping with other worshipers and it was the worshipper who stabbed me in the back And the spirit, the mute spirit, was unleashed on them to keep them silent. And so the pains of life and the pains of ministry and the discouragements of people who have never told you anything good about yourself Who has caused your self-esteem to be in the toilet and you don't even think enough of yourself to open your mouth. Even when people talk to you, you won't have nothing to say. And when you say it, you hold your head down. In this sense of, I'm not even worthy to look at your face. It's a spirit Of muteness that is impacting the house of faith, that is impacting the children of God. And I believe that whom the Son has set free is free indeed. I I'm just a believer of that. But I want to talk on this morning, lest I be before you too long. I want to I want to talk from the subject matter dealing with a mute spirit in the church. The first thing, if you're going to deal with a mute spirit in the church, you've got to recognize the demon. Verse 17 helps us in identifying or recognizing the demon. The father of the son says. I brought my son, teacher. I brought my son to your disciples. My son has a mute spirit. And your disciples couldn't do anything about it. It is helpful in the recognition of the demon. That the testimony of those who are in close proximity can identify what they see. Lord help me here In other words, the demon is identified first of all by the father of the son. And the father of the son has uh surmised and come to the conclusion that the that my son is under the possession Of a mute demon. Y'all still here with me? And I'm I'm just trying to help you to see how we can identify the demon and someone who's in close proximity. as a parent would have a better sense of identifying what's going on in the behavioral pattern of the person. Are y'all still here? Then verse 18 he comes back and he says, and I want you to look at these behavioral patterns of the demon. Verse 18, he says, and whenever it seizes him. This demon something is happening to my son and my son is being seized. That means something is taking hold of him. Is taking control of him, and the text says, whenever it does it, in other words, this is not something that that's happening all the time. Sometimes this demon comes and he takes over my son. Lord help me Jesus. And when he takes over my son, his behavior is such, Lord help me, God, that it is demonic in nature. It takes over him, it seizes him, it throws him down to the ground. Are y'all with me It is right here in the text. Whenever it seizes him, it throws him down. He foams at the mouth. He gnashes his teeth and becomes rigid. So I spoke to your disciples about that. And they Asked them about casting them out and they they couldn't do it. In in the recognition of this this mute Spirit. He seizes the boy. He throws him down. Can I just pivot there for a moment? Whenever there is demonic influence, the direction of projectory is always down. In other words, your spirit goes down. Your joy goes down. Your hope goes down. His direction of preference is always down. I was a happy person and now I'm always down. I used to smile and be full of joy, but now I'm always down. I went to the doctor and the doctor said I am depressed. Down. Y'all still here with me? And so this demon, when he seizes him, he takes him down He throws him down physically. He throws you down spiritually. He throws you down emotionally. He's taking you down. And then he foams at the mouth and he's gnashing at the teeth. And this whole idea of gnashing of the teeth, it's like holding your teeth tightly together in a grinding matter almost like a growl, a growl or uh And for one who's observing this collective behavior on the outside, they would think first something wrong with him Secondly, we would probably try to equate it to something, and some have equated his behavior and combination of conditions to epilepsy. But the text says this boy has a spirit called muteness. It's a mute spirit. And his mouth, when it attempts to move and say and declare What's in his heart to say the spirit has locked his jaws such that his teeth just grind together and nothing comes out And the motion of the tongue inside the mouth, behind the teeth that are locked in place by the power of a demonic force, causes foam to come out of his mouth. Look at the behavior process. He he throws him down, he's foaming at the mouth, he's gnashing at the teeth. Um he's he watch listen to this. Um he become stiff Now, I couldn't help but read through those terms and those behavioral patterns that were on the boy And not see a person in church who fits the same characteristic A person who comes to worship, but instead of being full of joy, instead of coming entering in his gates with thanksgiving and into his courts with praise, they come in down. And they can't open their mouth. And their teeth are shut. And they look like they've been sucking on lemons. And when everybody else is up clapping, they just as stiff as a board. Y'all sat next to him today, probably. I don't know, man. That's why y'all so quiet. It's like, oh wait a minute. Let me roll this back and see. Was I was I worshiping today? Did I was he he talking about me? Oh Jesus. The mute spirit got me. Is it just me or does that sound like some church people right there? Won't open their mouth. I mean h high worship. I mean the spirit is moving. Even the devil wanna get a step in sometimes. And you sitting there just as stiff as a boy won't move. Josh screaming at the top of his lungs. The organ player about to play his fingernails off. And y'all ain't moved a bit. Like And we got a close lip on and you might have foam coming from your mouth. Recognizing the spirit and in the process of the disciples who have been given power to cast out demons, this one they couldn't cast out. I'm going to come back to that. But the Spirit, verse twenty, tries to kill this boy on multiple occasions. Immediately the spirit convulsed him, and he fell on the ground and he wallowed, foaming at the mouth. Watch this. They bring the boy to Jesus. This is another indicator that this is the demonic spirit. They bring this they bring the boy who's possessed with a demon to Jesus and the closer he gets to Jesus He falls down. Can I help y'all with this one? Do you realize that even demons have to bow before Jesus? The demon was inside the boy, possessing the boy, ripping his flesh apart, rending him, tearing him, and yet when they brought him before Jesus, the demon said, I gotta foul. The demon throws the boy down because he has to bow before Jesus. And he convulses the boy. He's ripping him, he's rending him, he's trying to kill him. Because the devil only came for a few purposes, John chapter 10. He only came to steal, kill, and destroy. But aren't you glad that Jesus came that we might have life? Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor. Buch Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed By today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down With the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.