Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Daniel chapter four at verse number twenty-eight. The word of the Lord reads as follows All this came upon King Nebuchadnezzar at the end of twelve months. He was walking about the royal palace of Babylon, and the king spoke, saying Is not this great Babylon that I have built for a royal dwelling by my mighty power and for my honor and of my majesty And while the word was still in the king's mouth, a voice fell from heaven, King Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is spoken. The kingdom has departed from you, and they shall drive you from men, and your dwelling shall be with beasts of the field, and they shall make you eat grass like oxen. And seven times shall pass over you until you know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men. and gives it to whomever he chooses. That very hour the word was fulfilled concerning Nebuchadnezzar. He was driven from men and ate grass like an oxen. His body was wet with dew of the heaven and Till his hair had grown like eagle's feathers, and his nails like birds' claws. And at the end of the time I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted my eyes to heaven And my understanding returned to me. And I blessed the Most High and praised and honored him who lives forever For his dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom is from generation to generation. Amen. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we need you on today that you might declare a word in this place. Speak a word, God, that may draw someone out of the darkness and into the marvelous light. Father, speak in such a way that those who have come in discouraged might leave encouraged. I pray, eternal God, that you would draw someone who's drifting in their fellowship back to you. that they might restore the and renew the broken fellowship. Spirit of the Lord, let the preaching of the gospel edify this body, and let your name above and beyond all other things be glorified in the midst of it. Father, I stand as a vessel, an instrument to be used in your hands to accomplish your will. But in my frailness of flesh, I need your power, I need your strength So preach through me, God. Speak through me. Use me as a vessel in your hands to accomplish your will. And when it's all said and done, I'll give your name all the glory and all the honor. And all the praise for it is in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen. This text tells the story of King Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon. Who gets filled with pride and self-aggrandizement as a result of the grandeur of the kingdom and the growth of Babylon? And he fails to acknowledge God's part and God's role in it all. In fact, he takes the credit for himself, thinks that he did it all by himself. And as a result of while he's speaking those very words to praise himself, the word comes from heaven and uh the kingdom is removed from him, and a declaration is given unto him that he would be in this beastly scenario for seven years. In an effort to explain this uh theological Context many have moved to the teachings of psychology to explain that what we are reading is not really what was happening. And so they have said that perhaps King Nebuchadnezzar had fallen to some psychological disorder like Boanthropy, which is when a person believes that they are a bovine, some kind of cattle, oxen, beast. But rather than try to explain away the biblical texts I believe that we ought to just take the word of God for what he says. I gave him a heart of a beast, and I caused him to be removed from his kingdom, and I Literally, he his hair grew like feathers and his claws like that of an eagle, and he ate grass like an ox. I mean, I just believe what the word said. How about that? But I believe as we look into this text, what we'll discover is that there's a lesson here that the king learns that we don't have to go through. To learn. We learn lessons different kind of ways. There's some folk that you know they just have to go through everything to learn the lesson There's other people you can tell them and they'll learn the lesson from listening to you, and there's other folk that will watch the experience and they'll learn from the lessons of others. And so as I looked into this text and as I uh expound upon it on this morning, I want to talk to you from the subject matter: a lesson in humility. Honor the King. What's happening in this text is that there's a lesson that King Nebuchadnezzar is learning that the king deserves the honor. And so I say this that we don't fall prey to the same kind of pride that Nebuchadnezzar falls into, and then we have to learn it a whole nother way. And so I I think that we can learn from him and this lesson of hum lesson in humility of honoring the king The lesson begins here in verse 4, where the king is literally rehearsing for us the experience he has. He's telling the kingdom of the experience and how he came to the place where he was. He begins out by literally, he's glorifying God. He's going to tell the story of what he went through. And so this story, this teaching begins with a troubling dream. Nebuchadnezzar says the dream was so troubling it scared him. He was afraid and he called for his his soothsayers, his magicians, his people. He wanted somebody to interpret the dream and they sent Daniel to him to help interpret the dream. And Daniel comes He gets the dream and interprets the dream. Now the dream that he has, I'll give you my version of it. There's this tree that grows up in the middle. And the tree grows up all the way up to heaven. And the tree is so big that it provides food and it's got all kinds of fruit on it. And and the The animals and the beast are finding shelter underneath it and shade underneath it, and the fruit is feeding all the people, and everybody seems to be being satisfied by this one tree. And as he's enjoying the dream of the tree, a word comes from above from heaven, and the voice speaks and says, Cut down the tree. I want you to put an iron band around the the stub of it the stump of the tree and and just leave that stump on it for seven years. And this dream becomes extraordinarily troubling to Nebuchadnezzar and he He's searching and he gets Daniel and Daniel comes and he interprets the dream and he says to the king, King Nebuchadnezzar, you are the tree. And God is going to chop you down. And on you will fall this dew for seven years, and you're going to eat the grass like an oxen. And so then As the story progresses, and as you continue to read through, all these things come, and all this this the fear and the anxiety of the dream is haunting Nebuchadnezzar. Now, verse 29 picks up and it says Now at the end of twelve months, all these things that were in the dream start to come to pass. I believe that there are Always warnings from God when we're out of place and doing what we ought not do. I believe sometimes the warnings might come in a dream like they have come to Nebuchadnezzar Sometimes the warnings of God will come through our devotional time, and he'll trouble us with his word that'll address the issue of our life. That's drawing us away from him or causing us to sink deeper in sin or leading us away from the pathway of righteousness. And other times they come through sermons like this one on this morning. Where the preacher has labored in the Word, and he's declaring to you the very Word of God, and through the Word of God, the warning of God comes to you that says, Beware and learn the lesson, in this case, a lesson of humility that We ought to honor the king. Now, as I was thinking about this, I thought, you know, Nebuchadnezzar's issue was pride, as God was dealing with this issue, and the issue that he had was an issue of his heart. It was something that was buried in his heart, but watch this, but was not fully manifest until he opened his mouth Nebuchadnezzar's issue might have been pride, but your issue or my issue might be jealousy. Your issue or my issue might be hatred, it might be anger, it might be unforgiveness. And as I looked at those variety of issues and those variety of concerns that could be issues of our heart, I couldn't help but see that every single one of those issues still had in its roots In issue of pride that we somehow were above God. And that God was not king When I'm jealous, it says that somehow there's something available that I don't have that I wish I could have. But wait a minute. Your father is the king of everything. He owns everything. And so if your father is the king, how can you be jealous of something someone else has when you have everything that your father has? You're a joint heir with him. When you have hatred in your heart, it's an issue that says, I have a right to hate you who were made in the image of God and in the likeness of God, just like ours. I'm trying to get to us here. I want us to understand that this troubling dream was just a warning about what was in his heart. And this morning I want to speak to us about what perhaps might be in our heart. And I want us to think through what might be in our heart that might be drawing us away from the righteousness of God. There's this thing that has caused you to think that you've got a right to do what God said, don't do Which means you put yourself in a position higher than God. That's where the troubling dream begins with Nebuchadnezzar and looked out over the expanse of all of Babylon and all of its beauty and all of its expanse and said, hmm Look what I did. And God said, oh yeah? You did that? So this troubling dream came To Nebuchadnezzar to warn him. Nebuchadnezzar, you're filled up with pride. And Nebuchadnezzar, this is what's going to happen to you. You're going to have to go through this judgment. You're going to have to go through this chastisement for seven years. You're going to have to go through it. But then as I keep moving my way through the text, I move from the troubling dream to the tragic declaration. It comes up in verse 30 Because after twelve months he's walking around in the royal palace of Babylon, verse 29, the king spoke and said, Is not this great Babylon that I have built? For a royal dwelling by my mighty power and for the honor of my majesty That's a tragic declaration. It's tragic in that he pointed only to himself. He did not acknowledge God. He declares with arrogance and pride. That he, apart from everybody else, did build this kingdom. Part of the tragedy of it is he speaks this thing knowing that he didn't do it himself. And God hears it, and the moment that God hears it, as the text says, while the words are coming out of his mouth, God says, strip, strip some of the kingdom. I'm removing you from the kingdom. And not just removing them from the kingdom, I'm throwing you out in the field. And I'm gonna throw you out of the field for seven years. And you're gonna you're gonna you're gonna be like a beast for seven years. It's tragic that you move from the king in a palace overseeing a grand city and a grand accomplishment to a being a beast in the field. That's tragic. It's tragic that he he doesn't take time to say thank you, Jesus. a little bit into this whole thing about him taking credit for it all, is that he doesn't acknowledge there were people who built with their labor who who sweat, who who put bricks together, who who drew images and architectures. Who put together how it was going to look and people who painted and and people who laid tile and and people who did aqueducts and people who did all the other pain. He didn't acknowledge any of them. He says, I built this. And as I thought through that, I thought about us coming to church and we think about we look look look what we did. Look, Pastor, look what you did. Pastor didn't do it. Let me tell you something that happened when you came into this church this morning. When you came in this church this morning, you came in and the foyer was clean. The floors were shining. When you came and sat down, there wasn't bubblegum on your seat. When you went into the restroom, the restrooms were clean. We've got a cleaning crew Who come in during the week and they keep this facility clean. For those of you who who like to sit at home and watch online. From your bed. There's some cameramen. There's some people in the A V room. There's a sound technician sitting at the soundboard so you can hear me When you came into the parking lot and they were showing you to park here or they were telling you to slow down. That's the parking lot ministry. They they're involved in this process. When when you listen on the radio and there's there's a radio broadcast that comes on, whether it's XM or FM, there's There's a whole different set of people who are who are working and laboring to do that. Pastor Sterling didn't do that. And what I'm trying to help you to see, we all are working together. And we can't do what we do without the anointing and without the filling of the Holy Spirit. So we're doing what we're doing through the filling of the Holy Spirit. So God deserves all the glory. So here this this declaration of Nebuchadnezzar is very tragic that he ignores all of that. He doesn't give credit to any of the other parts and pieces. He says, look what I did. Now how foolish does that sound Now, I've been here for 44. 7% of the whole history of Ketteran's existence. Okay? So almost 45% of the time that Ketter's been to church, I've been the pastor. But wouldn't I be stupid to say look what I did? Crazy. Crazy. I would be in the same boat as him. Getting ready to be turned into a beast. Eating grass in the field. Sister Sterling be crying, wondering when I'm coming back. What happened to my husband? Anybody sing Pastor? He got feathers on him and claws like a eagle. Last I saw him, he was grazing down 301. Did y'all see him? No, we have to be careful It's a lesson not only for me and not only for us as a church, but it's a lesson for us individually. We have to give God the glory. We have to acknowledge that God did it. Not me. Not you. God did it. God's the one working. That everything that's coming together, it's it's God doing it, and he's building his kingdom for his glory. Last thing, and I'm out of your way, in the text what we find here is that Nebuchadnezzar goes through this whole process. He's driven out by the men. He's out in the field eating like a beast, eating grass, like an ox. He's there for seven years. For seven years. Why why seven? Well, we could say it's it's the biblical number of completeness and all that, but it takes him seven years before he looks up. What I've noticed. About grazing animals. The grazing animals who have to take in a certain amount of grass a day They're always looking down because their focus is on the grass. Y'all still hear? I've never seen a cow looking up in the air. Nor will a person fill with pride. You know what a person filled with pride is always looking at? Themself And for seven years he was in the field, the dew fell on him, his hair had grown all over him like feathers, his his hands had become like claws of an eagle, and he's eaten Grass and looking down, and it takes seven years before he comes to himself And let me read what the text is. Verse 34. At the end of the time I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up my eyes to heaven. And when he lifted up his eyes to heaven, my understanding returned to me. And sometimes our struggle, sometimes our beastly scenario of life. is because we have not looked up to the deliverer. We have not looked up to the God who will deliver us from this field of mess. Nebuchadnezzar takes seven years to look up, and when he looked up, his understanding came to him. Something dawned on him. It it hit him between the eyes that you know what seven years ago I made a stupid statement that I had built this. But when I look up towards heaven, I realize that it could not have been I because it's God who made the clouds that are in the sky. It's God who had the moon in the sky. It's God who made the sunrise and the sunset. It's God who's in control of this. And it dawned on him all of a sudden This is all about God. His understanding returned to him. And what did he do? I blessed the most high and I praised and I honored him who lives forever. He began to worship God. I'm trying to imagine A beast in a field that has feathers all over his body that are wet and soaked with dew, and feet that have claws like an eagle and who's who's eaten grass and been doing it for seven years. I'm trying to imagine this beastly looking thing all of a sudden out in the middle of a field where there's grass all around him. I'm trying to imagine things that beast glorify God and worship God and give God the glory. Watch this. While He's still a beast, I'm trying to help you here. While you're still a mess, he starts worshiping God. While you're still in trouble, he starts worshiping God. While He can't see what the end's gonna be he starts worshiping god while the the trouble hasn't ended yet he starts worshiping god and then change happens We want to wait till the the victory is over to shout no you need to start shouting before That's what faith is all about. The just live by faith. I praise him and I worship him in advance of what he's done. Because I believe he's going to do it And for Nebuchadnezzar, he starts worshiping God because he realizes God is the one who is sovereign. God is the one who is righteous. God is the one who I need to give glory to. And he Declares he for his dominion is an everlasting dominion. God is over everything, and his kingdom is from generation to generation, and he is so far beyond me. That this can't be about me. It's about the living God. When our gospel becomes about something else, it's no longer gospel. It's no good news if it's not about Him. This book that we have called the Bible is a hymn book. It's all about Him. For Him I live and move and have my being. I take up my cross daily and I follow him because it's all about him. We serve sacrificially because of him, we give sacrificially because of him. It's all about him. It's about a kingdom that has come. It's about a God who loved us so much. Who left glory and came into the earth and lived for 33 years amongst us, fulfilled every aspect of the law. offered his life as a full payment for all of our sin. Past, present, and future. They crucified him. Y'all know this story. He died on the cross and shed his blood until there was enough blood to cover every single solitary sin that man would ever create, has ever created, and even the things you got on. your calendar for next week he stayed on the cross until all of that was paid then he went and he buried him in a tomb And he rested himself and went and set the captives free from Hades. And on the third day he got up with all power in his hand. Then he ascended to the throne room of God, put back on his royal diadem, sat down and started making intercession for you and me. And even right now he's still there Praying for you, pleading for you, extending his hands towards you and saying, Come unto me, and I'll give you rest. If you want your life to be fully transformed, honor the King. Give the glory to him Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. At the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-627 Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family Minister in the Spirit of Excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the songs. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to 1Dree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.