Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. And then we get to uh the second movement, Mary's response. But when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying and considered what manner of greeting this was. So Mary's just trying to get her bearings about, you know, this dude comes in, you know, doesn't knock, doesn't ring the doorbell, I mean, just appears out of nowhere and rejoice. This highly favored one. I mean how how else would I mean I think anybody else would re uh react the same way. She's she's perplexed, she's she's fearful, she's she's trying to understand what w what what's going on. Highly favored one. I'm just a little peasant girl from Nazareth, and you're telling me I'm I'm highly favored. And the angel goes on to say, do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. He repeats that refrain. reminds her again of your favor, Mary. Don't be afraid. This is a common refrain that angels share to to humans and and when they're introducing themselves because it can be an awesome, fearful wonder, amazement. When God decides to reveal Himself through His angelic host. And I'm thankful that Fer favor is not just reserved for Mary, although she had a favor uh different amongst women, but we too have received the favor of God. Um Proverbs 3:33 says, The curse of the Lord is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the home of the just. Surely he scorns the scornful, but gives grace to the humble. The wise shall inherit glory, but surely. Shame shall be the legacy of fools. Continuing on in verse thirty one it reads, And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus. Now it's getting even stranger. You know, uh Pastor Sterling had a series, The Strange Plans of God. Now we're getting into the strangeness here, and it's beginning to be a little bit more revealed. Mary. You're you're highly favored and I know you're about to get married to Joseph and and just let me tell you something. You are gonna have a baby, it's gonna be a son, and you're gonna call his name Jesus. And I was thinking about when my wife and I, you know, uh were getting ready to have our first child and we had to go through the sonogram and we were debating names back and forth. Well I like I like Roscoe and I like I like I didn't really like Roscoe, that was just a name. Uh Um you know, and we're going back and forth and debating and you know in the end I think I just you know let her have it. So um but you know and then well if you get the first name I get the middle name and you know it none of that. God God is so ordered and And and so detailed and and has such a plan that he says, You're gonna have a son, and here's the name. Um, because I don't want you to just name him anything. I don't I don't want you to conjure up in your own mind and your own thoughts and and confer with With Joseph, I need him to have the name that fulfills the prophecy. I need him to have the name that when people call on it, they can be saved. I need him to have the name that at his name every knee shall bow and every tongue shall fill. confess that he is Lord. I need you to give him the name Jesus. He's given the name Jesus or Joshua, Yeshua, which means Yahweh saves. I need him that have the name that means something that when people hear it they'll know that he's my son and Mary not only that but in verse 32 he will be great and he will be called the son of the highest And the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. How amazing is that for our mothers and our parents out there to to know not only what your child um is, the the sex of your child, and not only the name but but who your child will be and who your child will become and the plan that God has established for his child. He says he will be great. He's going to be the son of the highest he's going to have this kingship he's going to fulfill the Davidic covenant, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. Unlike any other man ever born before, he has this eternal nature that's only associated with God. And lastly, and I'm out your way, um God confirms his word. Uh verse 34. Then Mary said to the angel, How can this be, since I do not know a man? Hmm. So God proclaims this great and mighty wonder and uh lists off, you know, Mary, you're highly favored, and here's the plan that I have for you, and here's what I'm gonna do in your life and the life of your son. And Mary stops the angel, just like Zechariah did, and And said, hold up now, wait a now, I don't know I don't have a degree in medicology and biology, but I do know one thing. It takes a man and a woman that they need to come together and know each other. as the word says. So how is this going to happen, God? You know some c sometimes God speaks into our own lives and he tells us great and wondrous things. He gives us promises and he tells us what's going to happen. And we want to stop God and say, but how, God? How are you gonna deliver me through this? Don't you see what's happening? Don't you see what's going on? Don't you see what's stacked against me? Don't you know where I come from? Don't you know the family that I'm gonna do? that I'm from. How are you gonna do this, God? And we shouldn't be looking at the how, but trusting in the who. Because if when we trust in God, we know that He's able to do Exactly what he said he could do. Anything that he said he could do, he's gonna do it. But the angel gives her grace, and in verse thirty-five, he he reveals to her how. He says this. And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore also the that Holy One who is to be born will be called the Son of God. He gives her a glimpse into the details. Gabriel says that God is gonna work through the power of his Holy Spirit, his dunamis power. There's a Greek word in here. It says the highest will overshadow you. Episcazo. It denotes like a cloud. In the book of Exodus, at the end of Exodus, Moses and the people had built a temple to God. And God decided to let allow his presence to be in the tabernacle. And it filled the place with a cloud. And it overshadowed the people. And it was there to remind them that I'm God, I'm with you, and I'm all powerful. And and I will be with you forever, and I will guide you. And that's the same thing that Gabriel is telling Mary. There is going to be a power that overshadows you and is with you and is inside of you, and it will be the one that does all this. Unlike any time before, this is the power. But that will be with you, Mary. And so there's no confusion. This son will be the son of God. I know it's Joseph's legal son, but this is my son, Mary. The Immaculate Conception of the Birth of Christ. Amen. Praise God. Praise God. As we continue on this Christmas story, if you stay in Luke and join me in chapter 2, we'll begin our reading at verse 1. And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This census first took place while Corinius was. governing Syria. So all went out to be registered, every one to his own city. Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary, his betrothed wife, who is with child. So it was that while they were there the days were completed for her to be Delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, wrapped him in swaddling cloths, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. Now there There were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night, and behold an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were great. Then the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of good great joy, which will be to all people. For there is born to you this This day in the city of David a Saviour, who is Christ the Lord, and this will be a sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling cloths, lying in a manger, and suddenly there was with them An angel of multitude of heavenly hosts praising God, saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. Kettering, guess what? Tomorrow is it's Christmas, and I can tell you I'm so excited, but my kids have been even more excited. I've had to brush up on my elementary math because my daughter has always asked me, how do more how many more sleeps, Daddy? How many more sleeps till Christmas? Five, six, two? It's like they've been recognizing what's to come. Christmas is a time filled with Great anticipation. It's a build-up worldwide. It's a time for peace, giving, time for receiving. It's a time for taking a break. It's a time for preparation for For what's next. New Year's is just a week later. It's a time for celebration and joy. We see lights, decorations, music. Christmas is finally. Here and Christmas transcends cultures. You can be American, German, Jamaican. Doesn't matter. Christmas is here. But Christmas also frustrated. Transcends whether you're a believer or a non-believer. It's become very secularized, materialistic. Nonetheless, Christmas is celebrated all around the world. The question is, how did we get here? How did such a day impact the world so significantly? And as we look through this text, we see that it started with a celebration far dwarfing what we Experience year after year. I want to talk to you from the subject matter, the birth and life of Christ. As I listen to my brothers preach and I read this text in my preference. I realize that God is intentional. He operates in phases for his purpose, and oftentimes it encompasses some unfavorable circumstances. But he leaves bread. crumbs of evidence to let you know if you look back it's him at work. But here we find ourselves in a situation. God had promised the Messiah, we heard, to Israel, with very specific Details. This Messiah will be of the line of David, Isaiah 7. 13, Luke 1. 27. Joseph's got that covered. We're good. This Messiah will be born of a virgin. Isaiah 7. 14. We see that Mary was very confused when she was given this information. And if you look at Matthew, Joseph was about to end the marriage when he heard that Mary was pregnant. So I would argue that we got this covered. She was a virgin. But also as we heard then Micah 5. 2 that he should be out of Bethlehem. And herein lies the problem. For nine months, Joseph and Mary have been dealing with this weight of an assignment to bring forth the Son of God. Imagine the anticipation of the weight that they have to deal with. And the problem is that we're running out of time. They are in Nazareth, south of Galilee, 90 miles away from Bethlehem and they don't have cars. This is a four-day journey, and there is no reason for them to go to Bethlehem naturally. And we are at nine months. We're at a situation, there's a problem. This is where God's timing shines a light. In a completely foreign idea, the Roman Emperor Caesar Augustus created a census for the first time for all people to be registered to their hometown. This was in order to instill property taxes for the new province of Judea. Perinius was governing Syria at this time. So what's happening is behind the behind the scenes, while all this promise is going. down God is working completely different politically to allow Mary to be in position because she is not in position right now. So this this census goes out and now Joseph has a responsibility. He has to take his family with baby and toe to his ancestral lineage, the house of David. Anybody know where that is? Bethlehem. So now we're in position and many. Mary is where she needs to be. And she made this 90-day journey or 90-mile journey with baby in toe, and she finally has completed the term for baby. birth. But this again was not a planned trip. There are unfavorable conditions. She wasn't prepared. There was no formal place for her to stay. She didn't make a reservation at the Marriott or Hilton. She didn't have Family members to have a spare room. So here she is in haste with her family, and she now has to give birth, and she is not prepared. And so now she has to give birth in a very unclear. Unfavorable and unique circumstance. She gives birth to the Son of God in a manger. What's a manger? A manger is a place where you keep animals away from the elements. To keep them warm. You are a brand new mother tasked with giving birth to the son of God. And you're giving birth next to animals. Imagine what's going through her head. Imagine the shame, the disappointment, the failure that she must feel that was promised all these years ago. Well that's why I love God because He is so intentional but He is reassuring. So at the same time that all this is going on, there's some shepherds that are minding their own business. And they are visited by an angel. And they're presented with the greatest news that mankind has ever heard. The Savior of the world was born today. And I love the language of the text. The text says that the Savior, who is the Christ, was born to all people. For born to you a Savior was born. Not to Mary, not to Joseph. But to you, to us, this was a a magnificent gift. And so while the shepherds are minding their own business in awe of what was just delivered to them, the angel then further gives them very good detail that you need to find. This baby. You need to go to the city, Bethlehem. You need to understand what this baby is wearing, swaddling clothes, and it's in a very unique situation. This baby is in a manger. Make no mistake, when you find this baby, you will know. So God's intentional. And as the angel delivers this, there's a reaction, a celebration, unlike anything that has ever happened. The heavenly hosts come. With the anticipation of Christ finally coming. Why? Because the heavenly host has seen the fall of man. They've seen the destruction that Satan has created. In Genesis 3:15, God said, I am going to create. Create enmity between you and the woman, and it is finally come. And the multitude of heavenly hosts, praise God, glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace and goodwill towards men. He is finally. As you read through the text, the shepherds go and they find this baby. And they deliver this message of what they just experienced to Mary. And you can imagine the news that she received in her heart that she had done well, that the heavens were praising God for what she was able to bring forth. Mary, don't be ashamed. You've done it. And she undoubtedly, emotional and awe, pondered this in her heart. Why is Christmas so significant for us on this side of the cross? Because Christmas is grounded in Christianity. They are not to be separated despite secular desires. And Christianity comes down to two fundamental questions. Is Jesus who he said he is? And can he be trusted? Put another way, did this baby live up to the hype? I mentioned that Christmas is a time for preparation. For what's next. It's not just the virgin birth, but it's the life that Jesus lived afterward, which is what's important. Because he lived 33 sinless years, changing the world in just three years. Of ministry. Jesus is the true reason for Christmas. The ultimate birthday celebration kicked off by heavenly hosts. But Satan, he doesn't want this celebration to receive its true meaning. Satan is the author of confusion. He will often use God's work, switch it and change. Change it to play on our fleshly desires and and what we want. The lusts of the flesh and materialism, that's how he gets praised. So in this moment of celebration, Satan needs to do whatever he can do to take the focus away from Christ. We need a new hero, he says. Enter Santa. Santa will give you gifts. He'll give you what you need. Let's chew on something real quick. Let's take Santa, let's take that third letter N and move it to the end. And you'll see the author of confusion spelled out very clearly. Jesus is the true gift of life, of hope, of joy, the Savior, the Redeemer, not only for the life he lived, but for the life he gave. We can call on him in our lives for our purpose, for his purpose. The question that we have to ask ourselves truly is, have we allowed him in our life? So that he can put us in position for his purpose, just like he put Mary in position for his purpose. And I don't know who's here under the sound of my voice, physically or virtually. But if you don't know him, let today be the day that you know him. Because this baby, Jesus of Nazareth, he lived up to the hype. He lived up to the hype. Through this baby, Through his life, through him alone, is grace, joy, peace, everlasting life, and a return to the Father. Amen. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.