So they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words. And indeed your sheep stood all around and bowed down to my sheaf. You say you end up being a oh yeah I can see that. But his father kept the matter in mind. So he tells them the dream. But here's the deal: God's not concerned about them accepting it. Why do they envy him? She didn't want to receive it, but she held it in her heart just in case the matter might be true. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. This is your backstage pass. And where you're destined and inevitably going to achieve and accomplish, your past struggles cannot hold you hostage, nor can your current struggles cause you to give up. It has nothing to do with the people, has nothing to do with your like or dislike. He has to have picked up on that, unless he's a little slow. At Kettering Ministries. Voices behind the song. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III And his father rebuked him and said to him, What is this dream that you have dreamed? And this is where you're going to end up. Your current struggles, no matter what you're going through right now, you're not going to quit on getting to where you're going when you're driven by destiny. Us because we've got a lot of other things that drive us in life. And there are some that are driven by power. Through the dreams to Joseph, what it is and where it is he's going to take him, what's going to happen in his life. Going to want to hear your destiny that has been revealed to you when they already don't like you. You got a job, get a promotion, look like you beginning to pull things together. And I pondered that and I meditated and I wonder, why do you want them to hear it so badly, Joseph? In Jewish tradition, it's the first who has all the rights and who has all the privileges. You probably heard this too. You gotta let folk know how you're gonna come into what you're coming into. Are you gonna rule over us? They're gonna hate you even more, not just for what you said, but they're gonna hate you for the dream itself. When they hate you because of the dream, it's not that they're really hating you. I'm trying to help us because the enemy is going to use folk that are close around you, sometimes even your own family, to tell you, I don't believe And send us somewhere else. Secondly, we don't believe it because you're not qualified. Favorite in your life have turned and told you I don't believe it for you. Even though folks don't want to believe it, even though folks don't want to accept it, but you begin to walk and act like you really do believe it, they're going to envy you because they're going to get jealous that Folk around you are going to begin to envy you because even though you're still living in the ghetto, you're acting like you're living at Wall Street. And his father, and his brothers, and to you, and to me, and we all have to now bow because he was lifted up. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. Church Welcome to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. And said, Look, I have dreamed another dream, and this time the sun, the moon, and the eleven stars bowed down to me. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety And they hated him even more. On this morning, I want to continue looking at this theme driven by destiny. There's other that are driven by excellence. Sometimes it starts off good because you it's an educated knowledge, but then after that, because you're driven by knowledge is any kind of knowledge, and then you become nosy because you want to know everything. And you know, so we drew them by all kinds of things in the natural sense. Some of us are traveling down some roads and some side streets that we really shouldn't be on because we're not driven by God's destiny. Oftentimes when God reveals what it is he has for us, we first of all don't understand what he's saying. Because we're busy people. Uh not me. Now they're fine with you as long as we're struggling together. Which I have dreamed. To hear the destiny that God has for him because his destiny is going to be a blessing to them. And when you get there, God gets the glory. The vision you just had, the disclosure you just gave about your destiny that you want to sit there and tell us about, we don't believe it because you're not qualified to reach it You're not rich enough. And what's getting ready to happen in me, this destiny that I'm on, is not because of me. And they hated him for his dreams, and they hated him for the words that he spoke. But you need to tell them don't hate God for blessing me because when God blesses me, He's gonna bless you because my favor becomes your favor So I need us to hold on to this idea that as I reveal my destiny, one, nobody may not want to hear it, but two, nobody may even believe it. But in reality, they're upset with God who sent the dream to tell Joseph that this is the destiny that I have for you But here's the key. If you can tell people about where you're going and they can believe it so easily, maybe it ain't God that's sending you there. And you say God has shown me I'm gonna be in a position where mathematics is gonna be my whole life cycle. That's gonna take God. Keep pressing on, keep moving forward. And you keep dreaming these dreams. He told to his father and his brothers, verse number 10, and his father rebuked him and said to him, What is this dream that you have dreamed? Me. Sun, moon, that's mama, daddy. Because they already was mad. But I need to help y'all right here because even if the one who favors you rebukes you, don't let that stop you because of all the people of the text who should have understood that This is possible. But listen to me, sometimes it happens this way. Look at what she's doing. The greatest blessing and seeing the most awesome things of God work in their own life, they won't believe it for your life. Should be the one that would accept our dreams, should be the one that accepts the vision that God has given us, and they don't even accept it. Like you already mentally have prepared yourself to be at a different place. The text says, verse number 11, his father kept the matter in mind. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Die on the cross and to be exalted above all his brothers and his sisters, to have a name that was above Mary's name, to have a name that was above Joseph's name, to be exalted and to be favored by all the community and all the people and all the Praise the Lord. First of all, when you're driven by destiny, your past struggles cannot hold you hostage to where you're going. And now, Pastor Sterling. You can be driven by a whole lot of other things, but when destiny drives you, even when you fail, you're gonna get up and keep pressing on. And when you get to your destiny without the struggle, you're not prepared when you get there. In other words, when God sets a divine destiny in our life, it's not without struggle. The struggle is going to help me get to my destiny and be ready when I get there. Joseph is the first son born to Jacob and Rachel, and that son became Jacob's favorite boy. As we kind of look into this whole idea of driven by destiny, we've learned and gleaned some things about destiny and going to pick up a few more out of this text today because I'm trying to focus on the destiny God has for us. God is going to reveal to Joseph what destiny he has for him. I think in this process of the revealing of destiny, we need to be forewarned about a few things. God said, This is what I'm doing for in your life. There are some people in our lives that really don't want to see us do better. For your life. He doesn't say it this way, but this is really what's happening. They don't want to hear it though. People that you tell your destiny to that God has revealed to you, they don't want to hear that you're getting ready to do better, and they're not going to believe that you're going to do better. His brothers ask this question because they don't believe it. Because eventually somebody's gonna tell you you ain't enough. Because here it is, God is not like man, he doesn't tell lies. We don't want to hear no more of your dreams. Here it is. All they focus on is the bow down part. Jealousy that would have gone on with that, but when he died, his destiny became a blessing to his mother Because now it's really growing up in you into reality. This boy is saying has some validity to it. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. Because he met his destiny. ended up blessing the whole world. Personally, now he's bringing you their stories. Indeed, come to bow down to the earth before you, and his brothers envied him, but his father kept the matter in mind. Certain destinies for us, and if we are prudent, we would allow those destinies to drive us in life. Our own thing is driving us and we're doing it our way and guess what? turmoils that you don't really need to go through because you're going your own way. There's no way, God, that what you just showed me, that that could be for me. And then God spoke to him in a dream, and he goes to his brothers who already don't like him, who are already jealous of him because he's parading around. They don't want to hear it when you tell them God has revealed to me I'm going to be the manager of this department. And so they really didn't like them anyhow. Secondly, verse number 8 says, And his brother said to him, Shall you indeed reign over us? When you haven't made it out of algebra to trig analysis, when algebra without the trig got you In the midst of you, so that he could be beneficial to you. When you get to where God is taking you, God's gonna use that to bless so many others. And ultimately declared, I'm not letting go until you bless me. And if we are driven by those destinies, not only will we fulfill what God has for us, but it'll save us from going down some roads that we don't need to go down. And move or be driven towards it. in a coat of many colors that they don't have. He told it to his brothers and they hated him even more. No, that's not gonna happen. I don't believe that God's gonna do it in you. To keep them alive. When I get promoted, I'm gonna be able to help you. But don't be discouraged because the people don't want to hear it. Y'all need to hear this one. You like to be the one that everybody's looking at. Especially when they already hate you. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Our preaching what we've been actually referring to is that place that inevitably you will get to. Joseph, we we don't like you dude. Almost every day we continue to hear the devastating news from many countries inside of Africa that are in desperate Andy Christman afore him has spent forty plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist We began a series of messages and preached from the subject matter driven by destiny. What God is doing, God is clarifying for Joseph what he's going to do, and how the favor that is being put on Joseph is going to be beneficial to the whole family. Because now, Joseph, you're not just talking the vision, you're starting to believe the vision, and you're starting to walk in the vision. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. It's not important for other people to believe it. It should have been his father, Jacob, because Jacob was also the younger son. Nobody wants to hear it. And we don't really take a lot of time, one, to listen anyway. I'm not doing that. They don't have no parts of it. You've been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. They're already upset. You're not qualified. Are you gonna have dominion over us? Now he's the favorite. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Joseph goes back to them. Ultimately, that's what he's gonna do. Doesn't matter where you are or where you've been, but this is the destiny that God has for you. org or contact our church office at 301-574-3515 And all the lemon, that's all of us. You like to be in control. And I know you can't see it yourself, but if you could see it yourself, it wouldn't be a divine destiny Here's the last one. Look at what he's doing. Now it takes believing God, not believing you. And he dreams still another dream and he went to his brothers that hated him. So he said to them, Please hear this dream which I have dreamed. And so you're on the run from the destiny that God said he's going to have for you. You like things to be done well and excellent. I'm gonna call you to preach. That's why you gotta keep on pressing and being driven by the destiny God has for you. Because you don't qualify to rule over us. You're not whatever enough. We didn't believe your first dream. I want to invite our attention on this morning to Genesis chapter 37, beginning at verse 5. You like to be the one that's always fresh. And so now you're telling us about your dreams, and we don't want to hear it. Yeah you good you good at math and and I can see you being a mathematician and oh no I can understand that but when they can't see it when you failed math Verse number 9 through 11 picks up. They already don't like him. They don't want to accept that what he just told them is even gonna come to pass. And his father rebukes him. And so they don't want to hear Joseph's plan. Mama and Daddy, and y'all gonna bow down to me. I'm Andy Christman. And then thirdly, there are those who understand it. Joseph is saying, My destiny is getting ready to bless all of us. You need to believe it. Don't be discouraged because the people don't believe it. You gotta hold the range. They already hate him. His destiny blessed all of us. When we come to this part of verse number five, the text already told us his brothers didn't like him. And now you're telling us that the sun and the moon Who do you think you are? He acts like he really believes he's going to rule over us. We all bow down to you, Joseph. His brothers now they envy him. You're not smart enough. And so Joseph is told, man, you're not enough. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. You'll take a job you don't even like just to get the money, because money's good. In fact, Joseph was telling on them anyway. What they don't realize is that God says, I'm gonna raise him up Are you gonna reign over us? Sometimes we go to the person that we think should be the one that will understand And I want to kind of glean from that and see if we can talk on this morning from the subject matter, the revealing of destiny. They're hating the one that sent the dream. They're upset with the dream, and they're upset with the words of the dream. So he says to them, Look, I have dreamed another dream, and this time the sun, the moon, and the eleven stars bowed down to me. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. They already hate him. You're gonna be this, you're gonna be a pastor, you're gonna be a teacher, you're gonna be a this, you're gonna When I get in a better position, I'll be able to bless you. But in the spiritual sense, I believe that God has set Praise the Lord. They don't see that part. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. It reminds me of Jesus' mother. We hate you, man. Stay here with me. He's concerned about you accepting it. We talked about some who are driven by money. And so when we hear it, it's like, huh? He says, Then he dreamed still another dream and told it to his brothers and said, Look, I have dreamed another dream. Now you know you're in trouble when the one who favors you rebukes you I don't want to hear about your second dream. Well, how come you can't believe it for me when it happened to you You're the 11th child all the way down the pedestal. And listen to me, when you start living and being driven by the destiny God has for you, Everything you do, you are driven to make sure it's done perfect. And he doesn't play these tricks on us to tell us one thing And we look here in Genesis chapter 37, and we've now moved from the life of Jacob to the life of Joseph, his son. And when they tell you you're not enough, let them know you're right, I'm not enough, but he is. Then he dreamed still another dream and told it to his brothers You gotta set at the top and all the time. You're gonna go through some rough patches and some places and some They don't want to hear what Joseph has to say and people are not There are some people that are not happy and they don't want to hear that God is going to bless you or has declared to you that he has even better plans. Because you know as well as they know, ain't no way you're supposed to get there. You're 11th. We on food stamps together. And they've told you that too. And his brother said to him, Shall you indeed reign over us? Some of them are kin to you as these are akin to him. That's a great question. Leave us alone. So they hated him even more But the struggle, getting there, is going to help you be powerful when you get there. And then people begin to envy you because you're no longer doing what we do. His father didn't completely dismiss it. I know we don't like to go through no struggles, but I want you to understand your struggle is a part of your destiny. You want people to tell you how good you look and how you know nice your matchup is. But now in this particular text, what we're going to get a chance to see is Now, the first movement of this text is that in the revealing of destiny, nobody wants to hear it. They already don't believe him. And I come to the conclusion that Joseph wants them But we discovered a few things about people who are driven by destiny. And I believe that God still reveals to us what his plan is for our life. So we don't believe it. It's because of him. First they hated him, then they hated him more, then they hated him even more. Here's their pretense for saying that. If nobody else believes what God said, you believe it See, because people only want to see the part that's gonna make them mad And in this case, God's gonna use the destiny of Joseph to bless his brothers and his father and his family. For additional information, go to our website You have to believe it and keep walking and keep being driven to it. That's when we know it's God that's doing it. What was that? They got it. You're not tall enough. Shall your mother and I and your brothers We don't want to hear your stuff. So, in other words, God gave you the vision, God gave you the dream, so it's God they hate, so they're hating God for blessing you. Even though folk didn't want to hear it, they didn't want to believe it, and they didn't want to receive it. You're 11th child. And I know he gotta know that they hate him by now. We don't want to hear your dream, Joseph. But look at verse number six. Matter of fact, Joseph, we don't really like you. And God had prophesied that I'm gonna cause you, Jacob, to rule over your brother who's older than you. That's basically what he said, because it didn't take a genius to figure out what he was saying in the dream, what the dream meant. You weighed down the road. The dream you just had. As we looked in Genesis chapter 32 and spoke from this subject matter, we looked at the life of Jacob as Jacob wrestled with the man of God. How many folk in here have been told you're not enough? And so you've got to keep pressing on and being driven by the destiny that God has shown you. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And then thirdly, we also discover that your struggles will lead you to fulfill your destiny. Your drive in life is to get paid. And we keep on going. They understood exactly what God said, where their destiny is, what they're supposed to be doing. And Joseph then therefore is going to reveal to his brothers and his father. And he's enough to get me there. And so when you are driven by that destiny, when you're living to fulfill what God has said about you and of you And so they begin to become envious. And so therefore we don't begin to function. If people can look at your life and say, Yeah, I can see all the little pieces. There we were, binding sheaves in the field. Now I do believe, even as God does in this text, he's going to reveal But when you start working. So I just want to warn you: in the revealing of your destiny, some people are not going to want to hear it. But don't stop being driven by the destiny because people who are spiritual or people who are That place that God has said, I have assigned In other words, just because I'm going through struggle doesn't mean that I'm still not going to accomplish where God said I'm going to be. They don't want to accept it. Then there are some that's driven by knowledge. When you begin to tell people about the destiny that God has for you and what God is bringing you into. And let me back up a moment and define destiny. You already prancing around with that coat of many colors and you dance favor. They wasn't doing what they were supposed to do. You're far down the road, and it's not gonna happen. Here's the key You're not qualified. And guess what? They don't want to hear your aspirations that you're going to do better than they are. But you hating on me because God is blessing me. Don't want to hear about him. He kept the matter in mind. Her name was Mary. And some of you spent many years on that job because the money was good, but you don't even enjoy the job And when you start walking in the vision that God has for you, even though folk don't want to hear it Joseph said to them, Please hear this dream. When they're already jealous that you've got a job that they wish they had. Sometimes you got to tell people where you're going, because where you're going is going to be a blessing to them. Here's the second movement text. We don't believe in your dreams, Joseph. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. And so he tells them anyway. You're not qualified to lead over us, reign over us. Even though you're still poor, you're living and acting like you're rich. Two, I think a lot of times we don't believe it could possibly be for us. m. You're not wise enough. First of all, we don't want to hear it, because we hate you, man. It was the destiny of Jesus to go to the cross to org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. or 11 a. The word of the Lord reads as follows. We hate you. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Everything you do is all about money There are some folk that are just driven by attention. that and you said oh no When it's hard to believe Are you gonna rule over us? Now he comes back and says, I had another dream. We're driven by our own. He ran back, told it, fall. And the Bible says, even though she heard what the angel of the Lord said, she couldn't believe it. Or shall you indeed have dominion over us You just always got to know Shall me and your mother and your brothers all bow down before you? Now, even though his father rebukes him, but his father does something else. m. Now he's bringing you their stories. If you haven't been told that yet, keep on living. And then the text says, Then they envied him Not only do they not want to hear it, they're not going to believe it. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center. But when you get there, you can say, I told you, God told me I was gonna get here. He forces them to listen. But thirdly, watch this: nobody wants to accept his dream He pondered the issue. And they ask these questions, two questions they ask. Now herein lies the problem The One Degree of Andy podcast. So he told it to his father and his brothers, and That's not going to happen, Joseph. When we talk about destiny in the context of You're the 11th son. Amen Then behold, my sheath arose and also stood upright. Verse five says, Joseph had a dream and Now Joseph had a dream, and he told it to his brothers. What you need to do is be praying for me He was tattle-tailed We don't want to hear. But they have decided: I'm not going to do it. Mm-hmm. He presses them. And you didn't need an interpreter. I'm Andy Christman. You like to be the center of attention. And he says, Please hear my dream Now you had another dream. Yeah And I'm not talking about getting in debt either. And But his destiny Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Because ultimately, where you're going is going to bless other people. Like, in essence, maybe what? They say Daniel didn't have to show up for this one. Please hear the dream. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. So watch this. And his brothers envied him. That's a great question. Ugh Sometimes the people who have already received I'm talking about you've got an attitude. Anybody can tell you what this meant. If you love Christian music, this