Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Bless the Lord. For all that has transpired on tonight. Amen. Just want to take a moment to ask you to give some praise to our Our choir, our choir director, a dance ministry. Bless the Lord. And for Sister Morette Brown, Clark, who, amen, bless you, bless you, bless you so much. I think she pretty much sings almost all the songs on the radio, so no wonder they put you on the radio. After while they have a radio station for you We're blessed by your ministry in so many ways, not just tonight. Many times when your songs come on, when we're going through. It's just ministering to us, ministering to me, helping us make it through, reminding us it ain't over. Until God says it's over. Reminding us, don't throw in the towel. Don't give up. Because God's not finished. Amen. So thank you so much. Thank you so much. For the gift you are to the kingdom of God. We're very grateful on tonight for all that has transpired and for all those who have given themselves to the ministry of the Lord uh in this particular season. On tonight as we bring a word that God has laid on my heart and a thematic idea for the year of 2025, I want to invite your attention to uh Ecclesiastes chapter 3 and we'll begin reading at verse 1. The word of the Lord from Ecclesiastes chapter 3 beginning at verse 1 Reads as follows: To everything there is a season, a time for every purpose under heaven, a time to be born, and a time to die. A time to plant and a time to pluck what is planted. Would you pray with me for this word on tonight? Father, I bless you. for the occasion and the opportunity I have to stand and declare this word. Father, every moment I realize how much I am in need of you And so, Lord, if you would use this vessel of clay, I surrender to you that you might use me, God, to accomplish your will and your way. Give me clarity of thought, clarity of speech. Allow, Lord God, the words that flow from my lips to be the very oracle of God. Spirit of the Lord, as I stand to preach and as I declare your word, I pray that you would break down the barriers. in the hearts of the listener, that they might hear from you, God, and not from me. That a spiritual transformation and a spiritual encounter might happen in this place tonight. That through some miraculous movement of God that we would know that we've heard from heaven. And beyond all that we've hidden, and beyond all that we've Been concerned with that you would address us and remind us that you still care. Father, there may be someone who doesn't know you tonight, I pray that you would save them by your amazing and incredible grace There's someone, perhaps, Lord, who's drifted away and they just came to New Year's Eve service or they tuned into this New Year's Eve service just so they can say I was at church. But God, that's how encounters happen Through what seem to be random occurrences, you have a way of meeting us on the pages of our life. So I pray, God, that you would encounter that person tonight Perhaps they've been drifting in their fellowship, and it's time for them to come back home. Father, renew the broken fellowship. Lord, in all that is done and all that is said in this time of preaching, I pray, God, that your name would get all the glory. And all the honor and all the praise. For you, God, are worthy of it all. And so we surrender to you tonight. Have your own way. In Jesus' name. Amen. And amen. In this book of Ecclesiastes, some of you may be somewhat familiar with it. The author calls himself the preacher. The author of this book is King Solomon, who is the king in Jerusalem. And as the preacher, he sets out on what I would describe as a a journey to pursue the answer to what life is all about. And in the book of Ecclesiastes, he goes through what Could be described as a series of experiments. And through the process of the experiments and the process of the experiences that he has in life. Solomon continues to come up, and I'll say, first of all, prematurely, to the conclusion that life is empty. Vanity of vanities. Life is vanity. And he uses that word vanity to speak of the emptiness of life. And he progresses throughout this entire uh book and comes finally to the end of the book after So much toil and so much struggle, and the reason why it's not good to just read part of Ecclesiastes, you need to read it all, is because you could be left halfway in And you can walk away from the book believing that life is worthless. In fact, there's one portion, I believe, that Solomon says we ought to just eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die. But that's a premature conclusion to his experiment. By the time he works his way through all the scenarios and all the uh experimentations that he's experienced in life, he finally comes to the conclusion that life is empty without God. That's important. That if we go through this life, if we push through the uh the daily grind, if we Go through the ups and the downs and the sideways and we go through all of that and we don't have God. You've wasted your time. And life was empty. In fact, uh let me describe it this way. It was empty, uh, but it had a few a few sweetnesses along the way. It had trials and tribulations, but you had a little bit of joy and a little bit of happiness. But when you compare your little bit of happiness and your little bit of joy And your uh, how do I say, positive experiences to eternity without God, you lived an empty life He says here in chapter 3, and he uses 14 opposing activities which he uses to bounce off one another. And as he goes through this, he says In the first verse to everything there is a season. Um there's an appointed time for everything. Now here's what I believe is important. Man doesn't have control over the time, but he needs to know what time it is. Lord help me, Jesus. Because if Solomon, who is the wisest man, who ever walked the face of the earth apart from Jesus, If the wisest man, through all of his experimentations and all of his explorations and all of his examinations, comes to the conclusion that God has set a time for everything. It might behoove us as we move out of 2024 into 25 to know what time it is. Help me Lord. Now when I talk about time, I'm not talking about what your Mavada says. Timex. I'm sorry for those who haven't got to that yet. No, it literally is what has God set and appointed this season up for And so as he navigates all of this in the text and throughout life, we will also find that We need to discover what time it is. And so as I was praying and some of you may know I I'm always waiting and just seeking God throughout the year. Sometimes I I get an idea uh of what direction God's gonna lead us into the following year. Sometimes it might happen in July, sometimes It may happen earlier, it may happen in, you know, December sometimes, but I'm always really prayerful because I I want to be sensitive to where it is that God Would have me as a pastor to lead this congregation as we have to navigate all the demonic traps, tricks, and devices. In the year that is ahead of us, and through all the pain and the strain and the struggle, I want to make sure that the word that I'm pouring into your heart week after week is benefiting you for the journey that's ahead. I don't just pop up on Sunday morning and say, you know, I think I'll preach about this. I'm not I'm not that kind of preacher. I'm really really meditative. I'm really thoughtful because I realize that this isn't this isn't my how do I how do I say this is this isn't my pulpit. This is his pulpit Um and I've been privileged to be able to stand here and to declare not my word, but his word. Because if I preach my word, it'll do nothing for you but give you something to talk about and laugh about But if I preach his word, it'll change your life, it'll change your destiny, it'll change your eternity, it'll allow you the strength and the power to face tomorrow when tomorrow comes. So I believe that as I've been praying and seeking the wisdom of God for what is his word, what is his message, what is his theme for 2025, I believe that What God has laid on my heart is that it's time to sew. Not S-E-W. So not needle and thread. S-O-W It's time to sow. That's what God's been laying on my heart. It's time to sow. It's time to sow. It's time to sow. And so as we delve into this passage here In Ecclesiastes, actually in chapter 3, verse 2, he says, there's a time to plant and a time to pluck up what is planted. The idea there of planting is sowing. Same thing, same idea. And so Solomon begins by telling us that to everything there is an appointed time. To everything. There is an appointed time. Do you realize that God has appointed a time for everything? Everything And the reason why I want to I want to pause and labor on it just just a little bit is because for some of you you can't wait until midnight strikes so you can put 2024 in the rear view mirror Because for some you're thinking, you know what, 2024 was a horrible year. I know 2025 has to be better. And I can't wait to get beyond it because in some senses we might even declare secretly, not not to God, but secretly we might declare to ourselves this was a wasted year. I want you to know something. God doesn't waste anything. And twenty twenty-four, with all of the hell that you went through, the hell had a season. There was an appointed time for the deaths That you endured, for the sicknesses that you went through, for the breakups that you had. There's a time that's appointed by God for everything. Everything under heaven. There's a specific time that God has appointed for it. But remember what I said, we don't control the time. But we need to know what time it is. And my suggestion and my encouragement to you is to know it's time to sow. It's time to sow. He says to everything uh there is a season to everything there is a season, there's a an appointed time that there's Uh and and as he works on this idea of time, I do need to lay this out before you as well that time uh is what we encompass in terms of our life and life is As it relates to time, life is no matter how long you live, whether you live 10 years or 110 years, life is declared biblically as just a vapor. Stay here with me. It's a vapor and there are, if I can say it this way, woven together seasons and times uh that God has framed together. They are woven together in what we call life. So as I'm walking through life, 10 years, 20 years, 30 years, 50 years, 70 years. I'm walking through these woven together uh seasons and specific time frames that God has woven together for me And the same for you. And your season is not the same as my season, and my season isn't the same as your season, but God has appointed a season for everything. Are y'all still here? To everything there's a season. Solomon has discovered that God has appointed a season and a time for every purpose under heaven. Everything that happens, the rain that happened tonight, it was designed by God to happen at the time it happened, regardless of what meteorologists said Regardless of what they thought was going to happen, God appointed every single thing to happen when it happened. Now, these time frames are, again, it's important for us to know, especially as we walk into a new year. Um because here's what we don't want to do. We don't want to walk into this new year and not know what time it is, and we go in wasting time I'm now preaching better than you saying amen. You see, because a lot of times because we don't know what time it is, we're doing something else. Help me, Jesus. Y'all gonna make me preach harder. See, sometime when it's praying time, you you online doing something else Sometimes when you need to seek God, you'll try and get your girlfriend or your broman on the phone so you can ask them the question that God said if you come to me, I'll take care of your issue Cast all your care on me because I care for you. But see, sometimes we're wasting time because we don't know what time it is And so as we move into a new year, we're we've we've transcended through uh twenty twenty-four and we've bumped our head and we've we've bounced around like a a a pinball all the way through the year for some. And then we get to the end and Wouldn't it be good to know what the season is for 2025? It would be helpful to know what what time is it? What is the season that God has us in. And I believe it's it's sowing season. It's time to to plant. Now I'm gonna get way deeper into this whole idea and this whole i ideology of planting and sewing because I've got at least five parts to the series to to work us through over the next few weeks. So um but what I'll say is this um when we plant something there ought to be an expectation that it grows Help me, Jesus. And I'm only going to plant something if if I have need of the fruit that it bears. I'm trying to get y'all there. I like working in my yard and I I I love um to to spend the whole day out there without eating, without drinking. My wife always is whoop she Do you have something to drink? Oh I do I have that means I have to stop I don't like to stop, but when I'm out there, I just like to be in the yard and doing all that and I'm I'm doing all this stuff. I'm planting plants and I'm I'm I'm sowing grass seeds. And it's not watch this, I don't eat the grass, but I want the fruit of the grass because I want the grass to look stellar. That know what I mean I don't want the weeds to take over, so I'm out there with the fertilizer and I'm no uh what do you call moles in my yard. So I I put down the stuff that kills all the bugs because if ain't no bugs in the grass, then the moles don't show up to eat Y'all understand what I'm saying? Y'all don't work in the yard. Y'all don't know what I'm talking about. Look, the you only have moles in your yard if they have something to eat in your yard. If you kill the food they have nothing to eat and they'll go to your neighbor's yard. My neighbor got moles and groundhogs. I ain't got none of it. So I want fruit. So I sow. And so the Lord said it's time for us. to sow. We need to be like the sons of Issachar and uh Uh I think it's 1 Chronicles 12, who knew the time and the seasons. They knew what was happening. They knew when to do what to do We need to we need to be like that as opposed to just randomly waltzing through life. I always laugh when I hear people say I'm I'm trying to figure myself out. I want to kind of say how's that working for you? Because you know we really ain't too good at figuring ourselves out. Amen, Jesus. But we sure be trying. But I think if we knew what time it was, we'd know what we should be doing at what season. And watch this and we wouldn't get frustrated doing it. I'm not frustrated in the spring when I'm sowing seeds. Because I I don't expect while I'm sowing that I'm immediately gonna have results. It doesn't bother me that my grass is green, I'm sorry, brown right now, nor in the first few first few months. of the season because the type of grass that I have while everybody else they they have the people come and they spray this stuff in the yard and the grass look green. I don't even know if that's paint or what it is, but it it looked green for about two weeks And then after rain and when it got hot a little bit, nothing but weaves. My grass looks like it's dead about that time, but I have what's called zoe grass, and zoey grass doesn't green until a certain point in the year. And so I don't get concerned when I know the time and the season that is supposed to green I'm trying to help you. I'm really I'm really trying to help you. So what I'm trying to help you see, I'm I'm trying I want you to understand is don't get fr Freight it, won't win when you when you're oper when you're operating in the right time and you know the season that you're operating in you won't get frustrated when you don't see the results because it's not time for those results to happen yet Are y'all still here? There's a time. There's a time for everything. Let me move to the second point here. I believe it is time to sew, Ketterin. How do you know When it's time to sew. How do how do you know? How how would we know that? How would we definitively know that? Now, from a horticultural perspective, um A lot of farmers, a lot of people, even some of you may use what's called the Farmer's Armonac. Farmers Armonac. Some people swear by it. Like They just that's the thing. Um and the former almanac, what it does, it determines the time that you should sow and plant based on the assessment of the positioning and the the movement of the moon. Stay with me And so what it does is it uses what I call planetary or celestial clock to determine based on how the moon is positioned and how the moon has moved from one phase to another. That based on that because watch this because when the moon moves or goes through a certain phase, it changes the atmospheric pressure. Lord help me Jesus And when the atmospheric pressure changes, it changes also the distance and the distance that perhaps the sun is from the earth and the the warmth and the degrees and the temperature and the the cycle of the season. And so based on all these uh compilations, they determine this is a good time to sow. Well this is a good time to plant. And so some people swear by that and some people are using that to determine, okay, when is a good time to plant? And so you might use the farmer's almanac. For planting. Or you might use um uh an uh what I would call an atmospheric or uh or climatic clock uh which says to plant between the frosts Wait until after the first frost is over, and between the first frost being over and the last frost, anytime in between, you can plan. So that's that's the atmospheric clock. Now there's another way to determine when is a good time to sow, and that is to seek the one who controls everything. All right. Because guess what? I have discovered because wh when I was growing up my my dad he used to do the farmer's almanac thing and and I I have some friends that are farmer's almanac people and farm farmer's almanac ain't always right. I learned that. Sometimes the farmer's almanac is wrong, gravely wrong. But God is never wrong. So if God is the one who is moving us From season to season, and if God is the one who has assigned a season for everything, why not ask God? Why not pray? Why not get quiet before the Lord and say, Lord, what What season am I in? And is this the season for me to plant? Or is this the season I should be expecting to reap? Ask God. I know that's kind of foreign to us because we don't, you know, like to spend a lot of times praying. We kind of think God is just He's a figment. He has become unreal to a whole lot of people. But I just thought about to let you know on this New Year's Eve night that God is real. We serve and worship a real God. And he's not a dead God. He's alive and real. So We ought to be able to go to him if he's the one that's holding everything together, if he's the one that's moving from season to season, if he's in the one who set a time for everything, I should be able to go to my father and say, Daddy, what Time is it? And is this planting time? And I believe that he'll he'll let you know. Now from a practical perspective, there's another way that you can determine when it's time to sow. And that is when all of the fruit that you planted from the previous season Has dried up and died. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.