Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Katarine, if you have your Bibles with you on today and you should, I want to invite your attention to Acts chapter 2. Beginning at verse one, the word of the Lord reads as follows: When the day of Pentecost had fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting. And then there appeared to them divided tongues as of fire, and one set upon each of them And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. And there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven. And when this sound occurred, the multitude came together and were confused, because every one heard them speak in his own language. And then they were all amazed and marveled, saying to one another, Look, are not these who speak Galileans? And how is it that we hear each in our own language in which we were born? Parthians and Medes. Elamites, those dwelling in Mesopotamia, Judea, Cappadocia, Pontus, and Asia, Phrygia and Pamphylia Egypt and the parts of Libya joining Cyrene and visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabs, we hear them speaking in our own tongues. The wonderful works of God. So they were all amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, Whatever could this mean? Father in heaven, we stand in need of you that you might speak a word that's clear in our hearing on today. Lord, that if anybody doesn't know you as Savior of their life, that this might be a day that they will surrender their heart and their soul to you. Spirit of the living God, I'm praying that you will show up in an extraordinary way, that the very words of my mouth might come forth as the very oracle of God. That it might change someone's eternal destiny. It might draw someone back to your side. Someone who believed you and who loved you but walked away from you, God. I'm praying that today they'll be drawn back to you. Spirit of the living God, I'm praying that the word will help to encourage someone, to edify someone, to lift up someone's downtrodden head. God, I'm praying that in the preaching of the word today that you will accomplish a great thing. When all is said and done, we will give your name glory and honor and praise. I stand in need of you, Lord. I'm a vessel willing to be used. Accomplish your will, even now, God, as you speak through these lips of clay. I need you, Lord. So have thine own way in this preaching time. In Jesus' name I pray. And I call upon heaven to bind up everything that's not like you That your Holy Spirit might have its way in this place on today. In the name of Jesus Christ, I pray. Amen and amen. Kevin on last Sunday we began preaching a series of messages entitled Church on Fire And we began that first message last week in Isaiah chapter 43, and we spoke there from the subject matter, hope in the fire. What I wanted to and prayerfully was able to do was to encourage us on the pages of life where we find ourselves right now that we could have and know that despite what things look like, there's still hope in the midst of your fiery situation. So as we walk through Isaiah, we saw four things there. We saw Isaiah lay out for us that there is a promise of problems in our lives. In other words, we're going to go through some fiery trial situations. Then secondly, we saw that there was a promise of passing through, that he's going to bring you through the fire, and you'll come out on the other side. But we got good news from Isaiah that when we came through this fiery situation that we are also promised, God is going to protect you as you go through Such a way that when you come through on the other side you won't have even the very smell of smoke on you. And so the question was raised, and the understanding was given finally in that text that there was proof. of the power of the fulfillment of all the promises. It's easy for a preacher to stand up and say, God promises this, God promises this. But the text was the proof for us that God was able to do what he said he was going to do. And we found out that the proof was in the testimony of the one who made the promise. For the Lord said, I am the Lord God. I'm the God of Israel. I'm your God. I'm your Savior. I'm the one making the promise. The one who was able to snatch your soul from the very grips of hell. And to rescue you from an eternal destiny in the lake of fire, he made the promise that he'll protect you through the storms and the fires of life that you walk through right now. This week as we look at the second part of the series entitled Church on Fire. I want to talk to you from the subject matter. Tongues of fire. Now, I already realize that walking into this text, there is a host of controversy in the text. Now, if I can make it real clear, the controversy really isn't in the text. The controversy is in us. See, the text knows what it's talking about. So it's not confused. But because of the historicity of church life We have become tense about this text. And here I am standing in a Baptist church this morning, getting ready to preach from Acts chapter 2. Now, if I was in a Pentecostal church this morning, if I was in a holiness church this morning, if I was in a church where the Holy Ghost ruled and reigned this morning, By the time I opened up Acts and said Acts chapter 2, everybody would have jumped up. And they would have said, oh yeah, it's on now. It's on, it's on. And Pastor getting ready to go. In James chapter 3, verse 5 and 6, it says, even so, the tongue is a little member and boasts great things. See how great a forest, a little fire kindles, and the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. The tongue is so set among the members that it defiles the whole body and sets on fire the course of nature. And it is set on fire by hell. The difference from James is Address and our address is that James addresses the tongue from the negative perspective That it is rooted and grounded and draws its fire from hell Y'all see that? But on this morning, as we look at these tongues of fire, these tongues don't come from hell. This fire is not kindled in the pit where Satan dwells. No, these fire are coming down from above. Coming down from heaven, these fires are rooted and grounded and sourced in the power of God And this is the means by which God uses to establish the church And it is here in Acts chapter 2 that we get to see and witness the infancy and foundation of the church of God. Now, the church is set on fire by these tongues of fire, and as we look closer and examine them, I believe If we can dig into these tongues of fire that founded the church, that were part of the establishment of the church. We can also gain some wisdom as to how we can today set the church on fire again. The church of today is not on fire. In fact, if I were to make an analogy of the church of today, we probably would get an edict that we were lukewarm. I'm of the firm belief that the church is in need of some fire. As a matter of fact, even in our worship, even though the Lord has been so good to you. You still need a cheerleader to cheer you up to get you to the point of worshiping God. That tells me you ain't on fire. Because the word of God says that we should enter into his gates with thanksgiving And into his courts with praise. We should be thankful unto him always. And I mean but we wait and well let me see what the organ is gonna do. That's not what ought to set you on fire. There ought to be a fire already burning inside of you. And when you get to the house of God, there ought to be an explosion of The fire that's in you that causes you to worship a God who's like none other. God who's done for you what nobody else could do, would do I don't want to put it on nobody individually, but collectively when we all have this issue, it creates a sense of a cold and a lukewarm state of the church The church is not on fire in the sense that it has lost uh its love, as perhaps we would read through the Ephesian church. Uh in Revelation or maybe we might consider the church of today to be in a place where it's preoccupied with being churchy, not being the church. And when you displace your purpose, you become lukewarm. And so as we talk about tongues of fire to help perhaps set the church ablaze again. The first thing I see in this text is that all is on one accord. The text says, when the day of Pentecost had fully come, And they were all with one accord in one place. Well, there's a number of things that are happening in the text. And just from that little bit I read that are indicative that the church is all in one accord. There's a perfect unity on this day that allows for the tongues of fire to show up First of all, the events of the day were all lined up in one accord. They were perfectly lined up. The Bible says When the day of Pentecost had fully come. Now, for those of us who are not Jewish, we probably don't even know what that means. And so we blew past that and myth the reality and the power of unity that's happening in that sentence. In that sentence, when we talk about the day of Pentecost, Pentecost was the day, or rather, it was the culmination of Seven weeks of feast days. So there were seven weeks of seven days of feasting, and Pentecost was the culmination day of those seven. Weeks of seven days of feasting as the people were celebrating God being their provider. Lord have mercy. And watch this. And so Pentecost would be the 50th day, which the 50th day is Indicative of the day of Jubilee. And so as the people had finished celebrating how God had provided the 50th day, represented the day when everybody would be set free. Okay? It was the Pentecost Day. There's some other things that are happening on Pentecost. Pentecost was also associated with the renewal of the covenant that God made with Noah. And later on it becomes synonymous with the renewal of the covenant, not only with Noah, but also with Moses and with The day that God gives the Ten Commandments to Moses on Mount Sinai. I'm trying to help you to see how all the stars are lining up together on this particular day. It was on this day that The people not only appreciated God's provisions, but the people understood the delivering power of God And thirdly, it helped the people in their mindset as they were celebrating Pentecost to understand that the Lord had Fulfilled his promise. Now, all of that was looking back on what had happened, but now we're getting ready to move into a new thing, a new dispensation from law to grace. From law to church. And so now as everything has lined up together on this day of Pentecost, not only were the events of the day lined up, but the text says that the people were lined up. It says they were all with one accord. I like that because this is unusual for people. It's unusual to get people to be on one accord. It's unusual to get church people. I ain't talking about secular folk. I'm talking about church people. It's unusual to get church people on one accord, even though we've got the same God Even though he died on the same cross, even though you were a sinner and I was a sinner, even though we've come into this relationship by his grace and not by our works, It is unusual for all the people, and the text says all. In the Ebonics, it's erbody. In English, it's everybody. Everyone was together in unity and in one accord with each other. On this day When all the events of the day had come together and were in one accord, all the people were together. In one accord, and on this day, the Holy Spirit showed up in one accord. The Holy Spirit shows up on this day When they were all in one place and in one accord with each other, verse 2 says, suddenly, in that instant when everything was in unity, the sound From heaven came as a rushing mighty win And it filled the whole house where they were sitting. Now, let me see if I can paint a better picture of this for you. Everything is lined up. The events of the day have lined up. The people have lined up with one accord. And as they've lined up, they've lined up in order with God. And the events that have occurred are in line with God. And then the Holy Spirit shows up in line with God. And it comes, the text says, like a rushing mighty wind. Now we read this text, this probably would have sounded like a hurricane coming, like a tornado You know, people say I heard a tornado sound like a train coming. It would have been like a train coming. It would have been a rushing mighty wind coming down from heaven. And this sound came into the house where the disciples were. And imagine for just a moment you've got the sound of a tornado inside your house. Luke, the author of Acts, he's trying to describe as best he can what the events were like. The sound as of a rushing mighty wind. But the interesting thing about this, y'all can't see it on the surface, but underneath the surface in the original language, this word he uses for wind is Numa, which is spirit And so what Luke understands is that what came wasn't wind like a tornado. It was the Spirit of God. coming and rushing in at the instance that everything was in one accord and when the spirit came It knit together everything that belonged to God. Let me take you back. There was a time back at the Tower of Babel. Where the people thought they were superior and they were intellectually growing and they decided that we're going to make a name for ourselves and they built this tower up to heaven that they might be the gods of themselves. And God has a conversation with himself and says, I've given man this kind of intellectualism, and I've given him one language, and this is what he does. And the Bible says, and so God sent down and confused their language and divided the men and their languages. But on this day. When everything was in one accord, on this day, after Jesus has already given his life Already fulfilled the law. Already died on a cross. Already gotten up on the third day. Already ascended to glory on this day. The Holy Spirit shows up to reunite the languages and to unify man who had been separated from him And one another by giving them tongues of fire. There is power, y'all, in things being on one accord. Being on one accord gives permission. For God to show up. God is not an author of confusion, nor does he like to hang out around it. But when everything's in sync and and everything's in order and when there is unity in the body. And unity towards God and His purposes, it is an invitation for the Holy Spirit to come. On this day in Acts chapter 2, on the day of Pentecost, when all the events of the day were in order, all the people were in order, the Holy Spirit came in order to accomplish the purpose of God. Everything was in one accord. As I looked at the text, not only did I see that all is on one accord, but all received tongues of fire and spoke. Listen to what the text says. It says there appeared to them divided tongues as of fire and One sat on each of them. And they were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. The Holy Spirit appears as of a fire, and it if I can say it this way, it divides itself. Among those disciples in the room, and each one gives equal part of the fire. No one filled with the Holy Spirit got more than the other person. You don't have more Holy Ghost than me Just because I'm a pastor, I don't have no more Holy Ghost than you. When he came, he came to give his promise and to fill us with his power. He comes in the room as this rushing mighty wind and fire And divides and sits on each one of them who are in the room as he promised that he would back in John chapter 14 Somewhere around verse 8, he says to his disciples when he was leaving, I will not leave you as orphans. Y'all remember that? I'm coming back to you and I'm going to give you a helper. I'm going to provide for you an Allah. Another who is the same. In other words, I'm coming back to you in a different form. And then he's fulfilling his promise here that he made then. And even what he said in John chapter 16, verse 7, he says, It's to your advantage that I leave. Because if I don't leave, then the helper won't come. And we need the helper to set the church on fire. And so this is just the fulfillment of that promise that he had made. And Luke had Already told us through John the Baptist. When John was baptizing in the wilderness, and they were all coming around and they were watching John baptize, and they thought John was somebody. And John said, I'm not the one. But there's one who's coming whose shoelaces I'm not worthy to even tie up. And he says, When he comes He's not only gonna baptize you with water, but he's gonna baptize you with fire. This is that fire baptism that John the Baptist was talking about. This is the time when the fire comes. The fire from God comes to bring about the baptism. And it comes and it sets on each one of them To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web Please visit our website at kettering ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 627 9500 Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.