Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence, under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety And now stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. Third thing, and I'm out of your way The tithe, which we thought we were going to skip over, right? Pass up. Oh man, I thought you was done. Just one more thing. Just one more Verse twenty-nine says, No person under the band, that is, that is in the line to be destroyed. And dedicated to the Lord as most holy, may become uh who is who is banned, who is it in the band, who may become doomed to destruction among men, shall be redeemed, but shall surely be put to death. In other words, this was a case of Agag. Agag was not to be held back. He was to be utterly destroyed. He was supposed to be put to death as God had declared it. That's the whole verse 29. Alright. Now y'all ready for verse 30. And all the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land or of the fruit of the tree. Is the Lord's. It is holy to the Lord. All the tithe is the Lord's Tithe. What do we mean? Tithe is 10%. All the ten percent is the Lord's in a restrictive sense. It is off limits for your use, for your consumption For your indebtedness, for your pleasure. It is non-negotiable. You cannot Put it to a dedication. You cannot offer it up on your sports app. No, it is the Lord's. It is the Lord's in a special sense. Lord help me God has given us stewardship over a hundred percent, but he has restricted ten percent. Watch this. You can utilize the 90% for your consumption, for your benefit, that might bring glory to God, but the 10% It belongs to me in a special sense. You cannot touch it. It is holy to the Lord If you consume that which belongs to God, you will be condemned to the judgment that comes along with consuming that which is holy unto God. So man, we are you going to touch the untouchable, eat the uneatable, consume the unconsumable? Um this is not the uh establishment of tithing in Scripture. Okay? Just in case you say, oh Tithing, that's under the law. No, tithing actually began before the law was even put in place in Exodus chapter 20. Before the law was put in place, law was put in place in Exodus chapter 20. Tithing begins and is seen all the way back in Genesis chapter 14. When Abraham gives the tithe to Melchizedek, because it is holy to God and it belongs to God. Y'all still here? So just in case you're trying to write tithing off as a issue of the law, it it it precedes the law. And it succeeds the law. It doesn't go away. It's always God's. Y'all hear? It's it's restricted to God. Now Let me let me dig into this final piece because I think this is really really really important. And I know you guys are you holding on to your wallet. I'm not trying to get your wallet. I I'm I'm I'm trying to get you I'm trying to get your heart. Watch this And the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land or of the fruit of the tree, it is the Lord's. It is holy to the Lord. Now, if I can let you in on something, I want to show you something. I want to show you how great the responsibility that we have in tithe in stewardship is. Okay. How great our stewardship responsibility is a great and awesome responsibility, so weighty responsibility that we have to manage God's property. Okay? And and I want you to see how serious it is to do it well. How important it is to be found faithful as a steward There are only three things of all the possessions that God lists as absolutely restricted As it relates to what man was managing. He said, the firstborn is restricted. Now the firstborn I've already shown you points me to Jesus, who is his firstborn. Stay here. And the firstborn, God help me, was restricted because The firstborn cannot be used for your benefit. At your leisure, the firstborn belongs to God. Stay here. God's got a purpose for the firstborn for you. Watch this. But not for you to use as your own. Jesus. In other words, there was a there was a purpose that God was working by telling them they couldn't Use the firstborn for their own consumption because the firstborn became the offering in the temple of God that took care of the people of God that were serving in the temple, the priest of God who was serving in the temple was taken care of by the offerings that were given in the temple so that he could do the work of the Lord for the people and go in behind the curtain on behalf of the people. God used all that to take care of them so that the man himself Who gave the first offering back to God, the firstborn back to God, could have his spiritual needs taken care of. Oh, I hope this is making sense this morning. God has a purpose for the firstborn, and he's going to use it For your purpose, but you can't use it for your purpose because you don't know how to use it to maximize your spiritual potential. Lord have mercy. And so the firstborn is off limits. Secondly, the devoted thing is off limits. Jesus is the devoted offering that was off limits for man Watch this. As much as we may have wanted to save him, God had already, before the foundation of the world, dedicated his son. As an offering for the sacrifice to redeem us from our sin. If we had redeemed him from death Then we would have plunged ourselves eternally into a sinful state that we would never have been able to be to recover from. Y'all still here with me? I'm trying to help you to see how how this all ties together. And so we've got the devoted thing, we've got the the firstborn, and both of them point to Jesus. And God has a purpose for them. Watch this to work on our behalf. To take care of our eternity. Jesus was a devoted offering to God to take care of our spiritual eternity. In the Old Testament, the the priest and the offerings of the priest was a foreshadow of Jesus that was going to be the ultimate offering that was to come. That's why it's off limits. It's devoted, it's dedicated to God. The only thing out of all the things that God could have listed in this text That God equates to the firstborn and the devoted thing is the tithe. I'm trying to show you how how heavy the weight of this is. And so God includes as the third thing That is off limits and restricted in our stewardship. The tithe and the text says it is the Lord's, it is holy to the Lord. Y'all still here? So imagine for a moment what else can I put on the level with Jesus? Nothing. But God puts ten percent Of everything he gives you on that same level with Jesus and said, don't touch it. He puts everything else on the same level of the firstborn and says don't touch it. He puts everything else on the level of the devoted offering and says don't touch it. He puts the 10% on that same level. But why? Here's our question. And this is where the major argument begins. How come I can't spend that? It's mine. I work for it. It's in my bank account. Right? All these questions If I get that, I ain't gonna have enough. Right? Okay, I I may talk to the people online, the people in this church, they That for you that are listening via live stream, that's that's what the people in the church won't of they won't confess to. Oh no, I need that. I need that. I I I I you know I pay I I pay my tithe sometime. Sometime. No, the text doesn't say that. It says all the tithe Of all the land, all the fruit, all the seed, all the increase belongs to God. It's holy to God. So why can't why it's almost like a child? Why can't I have that? It's restricted, it belongs to God. Now there's a couple of reasons I could suggest that maybe God does this. One, it gives us opportunity to test your faithfulness to handle what belongs to God. That's one. Will you be faithful in holding and handling that which is holy? But more importantly, in line with what we've already seen with the first fruit, with the I'm sorry, with the firstborn and with the devoted thing, in line with that is this: God has a purpose for the tithe. Watch this. That is the purpose for the tithe is greater than your use of the tithe. The purpose of the tithe is still for your benefit. You giving back to God the tithe is for your benefit. It is an exceedingly An abundantly powerful blessing that comes back to you that you can't have room enough to receive. Can you imagine that God puts me in a place that if I I give back to him that which I can calculate, that which I can tangibly hold, and I give it back to him because it was his in the first place, and then he turns around and he pours out from heaven blessings I can't even receive. He pours out finances I can't receive. He pours out health I can't receive. He pours out blessings in ways I can't even comprehend He pours out blessings you can't pay for. How much is peace of mind worth to you? How much is how much is how much is is grace worth to you? How much is favor worth to you? And watch this. This is this is how this is how God turns around your faithfulness. As a result of our faithfulness in handling the holy, God then therefore opens up and blesses us in the multitude of ways that we could not have even comprehended. And so the blessing of leaving alone and giving back. to him what belongs to him works out in our favor and not to our demise Here's the problem. We think we're good at man. One plus one is two, two plus two is four, four plus four is eight. Eight plus eight is sixteen. What if our math just ain't right? What if earthly math don't work like heavenly math? What if 10% in doesn't bring 10% out? What if one plus one equals obedience? And obedience equals innumerable, immeasurable. Favor blessings. I can't teach this into your head This is not a head knowledge thing. This is a heart knowledge thing. I've got to be willing. I'm trying to get it in your head and push it down to the heart, but it's really gonna be up to you to let it flow. Because for you to understand one and comprehend everything belongs to God And for God to ask you to be restricted from the 10%, because I have a purpose for the 10% that's going to bless you and take care of you far better. Than you could ever do with the 10. You can't invest the 10 in anything that will bring a greater return than giving it back to God because it's He is anyway. Y'all still here with me? There's just no way. There's just no, there's absolutely no way. I I don't want to go on a long storyline with you, but I can I can tell you for myself. God has a way of even preserving. What the enemy and the devourer wants to devour when you honor him with what he is. Some of you know this to be true because you're still driving cars that should have been on the junk heap by now. And it just keeps going and going and going. And you haven't had a flat, you haven't my you you you haven't had Put a new battery in, nothing. I mean that God has just been preserving and preserving and preserving and preserving. Now, I don't really know how long a battery is supposed to last, but I'm just gonna give you a hype Hypothetical situation. I had a car when and I was and at the time I was tithing too. I was giving to God. I was blessing God. I was giving back to Him, just like I continued to do. I was giving back to Him what was His. I don't get no credit for this, but I need you to understand something. I had a car for nine years and never had to change the battery. Nine years. Never change the battery. That's God. And He has a way of just keeping you with like stuff like that. He blesses you with family that loves you. God of mercy. Oh my God. Everybody don't have that. And then some folk that don't have family that love them, God will bless you with people that are better than family. I'm trying to help you here. But see all of it comes down to being obedient in handling what belongs To God because it's most holy unto him. So we do need to hold on and comprehend all of it belongs to God, but he has put some restrictions on what we can meddle with. What we can use for our own benefit. The firstborn, you can't mess with that. Holy It's the Lord's. Don't be making no don't be dedicating your first child to the Lord. He's already the Lord. She's already the Lord's. Dedicate the second one. I can hear now well second children they can get the dedicated they gonna get some baby dedications It's already the Lord's. That's the text. It's already Lord's. The devoted thing. The special. Sarah did this with Samuel. I mean, I'm sorry, Hannah did it with Samuel. She committed him to the Lord for all of his days to serve the Lord. He gave them to the Lord. That's the Lord's. Because the Lord blessed me with them. I'm giving them back to you. For all of his days, he will serve you. Who's dedicated. To the Lord. Special offerings, special deep devotional commitments that are made to God. You can't take him back. Lord, I'll never drink again because you helped me make it through this. Be careful what you vow You can't take it back. It's it's devoted unto the Lord. But more importantly, that which God has devoted To his own self. He said, This is mine. Dedicate it to me. Offer it to me. Commit it to me Then there's the tithe, and he says, as mine. It's holy to the Lord's. It's off limits. I'm done. But when you mess with the holy, it's consequences. Because the text doesn't exactly put it this way, but in my as I'm looking through this, I feel like messing with Anything that's holy is like messing with Jesus. It's like abusing Jesus. I dare not abuse my Savior. I dare not mishandle his property Father in heaven, we need you even now to speak to us. Someone under the sound of my voice may not understand and realize the value of Jesus in their life. Maybe there's someone who doesn't understand and comprehend that Jesus was crucified as a special offering to God. To buy our pardon from sin. No one else can do it. No one, nothing else could have satisfied the price of our sin except Jesus. And so he died on that cross that he might save each and every one of us, and then you've provided the opportunity for us to surrender our lives to him. He's the way, the truth, and the life. We can't get to you except we come through him. So, Father, I'm praying on this day, if there's anybody that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, that today would be the day that they would surrender to you, that they would commit their life to you. That they would Harem their life to you. Spirit of the Lord, there are others that are wrestling with this stewardship issue on this morning. Some God don't want to hear that you've got special requirements on this, and some can't fully understand it. But God, you I think you've made it as clear as we could today. That these things you have set aside as restricted in our management But we've got to manage them even in a specialness because they're holy to you. So Spirit of the Lord help us. To grow to that place, to let our hearts grow to the place where we fall so in love with you that our love for you provokes us to be obedient to you. You said it in your word. If you love me, you'll obey me. So, Spirit of the Lord, help us to grow to a place of obedience in you today. Not out of compulsion, but out of love and commitment to that which is yours. Help us, God. Father, there's so many others that are in need of you today, and I'm praying even now that you're speaking to their hearts and that you're bringing them to the place of repentance and reconciliation. Bringing them to a place, God, where they can stand before you in faithfulness. Spirit of the Lord, have your way. We'll give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD Or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at kettering ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services. Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you can. You get your podcasts.