Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. We'll begin our reading in verse 10. Of Ephesians chapter 6. The word of the Lord reads like this: Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in heavenly places. Therefore, take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. Stand therefore. Would you pray with me this morning, Father, and honor you and bless you? Thank you for your grace. Thank you for your kindness and your love. Father, thank you for the privilege we have to be able to declare your word on this occasion, Lord. I know that you have plans even now. And as we move forward in the preaching and the proclamation of the gospel, Lord, I speak that You might have your way in all that is done and all that is said. I'm praying for the salvation of the lost. I'm praying for the reclaiming of the drifter. I'm praying for the edification of the body. God, I'm praying that your power would manifest itself and tear down the strongholds of the devil. I'm praying even now, Lord, that every device and scheme of wickedness and everything that seeks to hinder your word from going forward today I declare, Lord God, that you will remove it right now in the name of Jesus. Father, we need to hear from you. These are the last and evil days, and it is uh it's essential for us, it's imminent for us. God, that we hear a word from you. So Lord, use me as a vessel of clay to accomplish your will on this day, that you might get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. I have an image I want you to see this morning, and I want you to see this because there is an October 16th, 2018 article that I was reading. on this past week. And as they bring that image up for you, it's a Times article. And in this Times article, it's written by a man by the name of Jim Dalrymple II. And this article and this story tells of a Mexico Beach, Florida home that survived a Category 5 tornado. Let me read a little bit of this article for you so I can bring it into context. The home uh remains standing, the article says. Even as Hurricane Michael obliterated most of its neighbors. The home dubbed the Sand Palace. by owners Russell King and his nephew, LeBron Lackey, was built in 2017, the New York Times says, by these two men reportedly they used Uh this home for family vacations and getaways, and they rented it out sometimes. But the two men told the Times that they built the home to withstand winds up to 250 miles per hour. Far above what Florida's building code required. The building codes of Florida only required them to be built up to 120 to 150 miles per hour. But listen to this. They said we built this house for the big one. We just didn't know the big one was going to come so soon. We, they said, uh they achieved their accomplishment, uh the level of resilience of the home by relying on durable materials. And fortress-like construction. The sand palace also sits high above the ground on concrete pillars that keep it safe from flood waters and storm surges. The concrete extends deep into the ground to anchor the building in place, and the roof reportedly is designed to block out the wind so that it can't tear away from the structure. Listen to this. All of the materials down to the screws holding everything together were chosen to withstand storms. Can I talk to somebody this morning? This is an earthly building. But the building God built that's called you was built with everything. Specifically to withstand every storm that would ever come in your life. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter still standing. Still standing. For like this house that you've seen the image of this morning. You will know that you have achieved your full potential in Christ when the storms come. And you're still standing. Let me let me see if I can walk you slowly through. I don't want y'all go too fast. Um while the storm is Blowing and the category five type spiritual winds are banging against you And you're still standing. You're pressing your way towards achieving your full potential in Christ. Stay here with me. When the storm winds have finished blowing, and the storm is over and has passed. And you look around you, and most of your neighbors have been obliterated, and you're still standing You will know and realize that you are achieving your full potential in Christ. You will never know if you are achieving your potential if how you were built doesn't get tested. So I want to dig into this text this morning to help you and talk about still standing. In order to be still standing, you first of all need to be strong in the Lord. That's what the text says. Paul is writing this letter to the Ephesians, and he has said to them earlier in chapter 5, he says, I want you to I want you to walk circumspect and be wise. I want you to understand what the will of the Lord is, and He's going to lay out for them all of what the will of the Lord is and how it is that they can walk circumspect and how it is that they can live wisely and and and redeem the time and et cetera et cetera. He lays all that out for them. And then when he gets to this part, chapter six, all the way over to chapter he's been talking about it all the way since chapter five. And by the time he gets over here to chapter six, he says to them, finally, My brethren, be strong in the Lord. Um I I I like the way he articulates this, and that I'm gonna I'm gonna break it down for you because Sometimes when we say be strong in the Lord, we we think that what someone is telling us is that we need to muster up some strength. Stay here with me. Be strong in the Lord. This this passage, in fact, is all about being and not about doing. It's uh the house that we looked at that weathered the storm, the the the house did not muster up strength in order to endure the storm. The house had built in it strength to endure the storms that came against it. Uh uh uh uh realize that that your strength to survive the storms that come in your life Are not going to come from you grunting and mustering up and settling yourself and gathering up some strength. No, the strength that you need to survive is going to come from what's already in you. That's why Paul says, be strong in the Lord. Our strength is going to come from the Lord, not from ourselves. Can let me let me let me walk you through this a little bit further. He says, be strong in the Lord, because in order for you to survive Satan's storms and life storms. Uh God has put himself in you, and all you need to do is be strong in him. That's in you. Watch this. Let me say it another way. Let him who's in you be strong. Because the problem with most of us is not that God is not strong enough, but that rather that we're hindering God from doing what he does. When when you're trying to be strong, when you're did y'all hear what I said? When you're trying. I'm trying past. I'm trying. No, don't stop trying. Just just let him be strong. Let God be God and let him be strong in you. And Paul says, be strong in the in the Lord and in the power. That's that's a Greek word. It's a Greek word kratos. It is the it is the the d dominion. It is the great dominion. He's saying, be strong in the great dominion that God possesses. I love this because when I thought about this idea of the great dominion of God, it is got God has strength that is dominant over everything. And he says, let the the great dominion of God in you withstand the storm outside of you. And then he goes on, he digs in deeper, he says, not just be strong in the Lord, but he says in the in the power, in the kratos. of his might. That's another word. Ish ishkus which which gives the idea of forceful or divine ability Be strong in the Lord. Be strong in his dominion, but also be strong in his straining strength. It's the idea for us, it would be like might is when you draw strength from straining, but imagine that the divine God strains and gives you the straining strength. To be able to stand up against whatever's coming against you, and all you need to do is stand. Y'all still here? So he says, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might, be strong in the Lord, be empowered. in the Lord and then the great dominion of his forceful straining strength I I this is this is really good um because if if we are going to be able to deal with the attacks that are coming on us and the And in a minute you'll see um what you're up aga what you're really up against if you're going to survive these schemes and devices and traps and tricks that the devil has set. If you're going to overcome them, it's going to require of you strength that is beyond what you ever can accomplish in and of yourself. You can't work out long enough. You can't bench press enough. Y'all still here with me? You can't run enough. You can't squat enough. To build up enough strength to deal with what's coming. But in you, you've been built like a mighty fortress. You've got the Lord in you, every believer. You've got the Lord in you who can overcome everything outside of you because he is above everything. And all the power belongs to him. So the first thing, if you're going to st be still standing when all of it's said and done, and while it's being done, if you're going to be still standing, you've got to be strong in the Lord. That's first of all. But secondly, the text moves on and says to us that he says, Finally be brother, be strong in the Lord in the power of his might. Then he says to us, put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. The second thing you need to do, you've got to do, you it's essential to do, is to be dressed in the full armor of God. You've got to be strong in the Lord. You've got to be dressed in the full armor of God. Put on the whole armor of God because you're going to need it. Amen, somebody. Put on the whole armor God. I know this it seems simple, but this this is the simple things that help us to be still standing. Put on the whole armor Um, you know why a lot of us get beat up and and can't stand the opposition that's coming against us? It's because you're half dressed. You you can't win this battle half dressed. You you've got to put on all the armor because all the armor is essential for the attack that is coming against you. Help me God. You think that ain't necessary? That that piece right there ain't necessary. And you won't discover how necessary it is until the winds of the devil start blowing against you. Let me let me tell you something what happened to me. When when I was I was um I was in the Air Force and I was stationed in North Dakota and when I got to North Dakota it was about The windshield was about 60 something below zero when I got there. Beyond me thinking, what in the world have I got myself into? Um They gave me all this equipment, this gear, coats and jackets and gloves and muckle ups and mask and all kind of stuff. They gave me a whole lot of gear when I got there. And so when I got there, um my wife and I we didn't have a car, but we had gotten to this um we got into this place, and so I I I was supposed to I needed I I had to go to the store. We didn't have any food or nothing, I had to go to the store. And so the only way I could get to the store was to walk. And I thought to myself, I put on, because my I put on my Long Johns, I put on my shirt I put on my jacket, but the jacket had a liner, and then they gave me another, like parka, and the parka had a hood, and then they had these gloves and they had these boots. And I thought to myself, I'm going to be walking. And so I don't really need that mask thing. And if I put that liner in, and on top of this, I'm gonna be too hot. And so I thought to myself, I don't need this part. And so I I didn't take that part and I went out into the 40, whatever it was, below zero wind. And I'm not lying to you, it was like somebody was throwing knives through the stuff I had on. And I felt like I didn't have nothing on. And as I walked into the wind, the the the way the wind would pick up the little particles of snow and throw them into your face, it was like It was like somebody ripping your face away. And it wasn't until then that I realized that's why they gave me that armor. To put on. In the same way, some of us, even though God has given us a full armor. To put on. We think I don't really need to pray. I don't really need to get the that stay in the Bible like that. So I'm just gonna go out here into the warfare Without it, and when you go out there, you'll find out. Man, I should have brought that Bible. I should have brought that that I should have brought that breastplate. I should have put a helmet on or something because I'm getting worn down out here. Paul says for a very good reason, put on the whole armor of God. Watch this. Your armor is not sufficient for this kind of attack. That's why he says, put on the whole armor of God. So in other words, put on God's armor, not your armor. And and I'm gonna read read a little bit more. See, I want you to get this. Um verse twelve, it says, for we do not wrestle against Flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers and rulers of darkness of this age, against a spiritual host of wickedness that is in the heavenly places. That's who the warfare is against. And you see, as we face that kind of opposition, your earthly armor cannot withstand that kind of opposition. opposition. That that that hat, that coat, those muckalux could not stand up to spiritual, that was that was physical armor that that was not going to stand up to this kind of attack. Um uh a clef lar vest is not going to stand up to this kind of warfare. Um a military helmet is not going to stand up to being attack with this kind. See, this is spiritual war. And and I I don't even know how to dig into this the way I want to, but but I need you to get this that If you don't put on spiritual armor, you will never be able to stand, and you won't be still standing when the warfare comes. And if you're just half dressed, that's not sufficient. You you you it's not good enough for you to say, you know what, I got some stuff in place. No, because when the storm comes, let me let me show you something. When the storm comes, what it will begin to do, it'll begin to take away pieces and parts of You and as these pieces and parts fall off, it'll create access to other pieces and parts. And before you know it, the whole building then fell to the ground and you're not standing anymore. Because little by little see you need to understand the enemy that you're up against. He's he's he's a trickster. He's he's slick, he's sly. He's he's been around a long time. He's been pulling his games for a long time, and our armor will not stand up against him. It won't. So that's why Paul says, put on the whole armor of God, put on everything, put on God's armor, because who you're fighting is, your earthly armor won't stand up to that. It's spiritual. It's not your husband that you're fighting against. It's not your wife. It's not that supervisor on the job. It's not that wayward challenging child. It's not that overbearing parent that you're fighting against. It's not that neighbor who won't cut their grass and keep blowing weeds over to your side And they think that um it's the person. No, it's not the person. We're not wrestling against people. We're not wrestling against flesh and blood. We're wrestling against a spiritual army. That is well equipped. But the good news is what has been put in you is able to withstand The warfare that's coming against you, but you have to be fully dressed. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministries of Kettering Baptist Church Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web. Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title and broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries Dot org or contact our church office at three oh one six two seven nine five zero zero Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Beginning Sunday, January 2nd, 2022, the new service times for Adult Sunday School, New Members Class, and Young Adult Power Hour will be 8:45 a. m. to 9:45 a. m. The new service times for in-person worship service, children's church, and nursery will be 10 a. m. Continue to connect with us in-person or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.