Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Amen. Ruth chapter 3, beginning at verse 1, the word of the Lord reads like this. Then Naomi, her mother-in-law, said to her, My daughter, shall I not seek security for you? that it may be well with you. Now Boaz, whose young women you were with, is he not our relative? In fact he is winnowing barley to night at the threshing floor. Therefore, wash yourself and anoint yourself and put on your best garment and go down to the threshing floor. But do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking. Then it shall be that when he lies down, that you shall notice the place where he lies, and you shall go in, uncover his feet, and lie down, and he will tell you what you should do. And she said to her, All that you say to me I will do. So she went down to the threshing floor, and she did according to all her mother-in-law instructed her. And after Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was cheerful, he went and lie down at the end of the heap of the grain, and she came softly and uncovered his feet and lay down. Now it happened at midnight that the man was startled and turned himself, and there a woman was lying at his feet. And he said, Who are you? And so she answered, I am Ruth, your maidservant. Take your maidservant under your wing, for you are a close relative. And then he said, Blessed are you of the Lord, my daughter, for you have shown more kindness at the end than at the beginning, in that you did not go after young men, whether poor or rich. And now, my daughter, do not fear, I will do for you all that you request, for all the people of your town know that you are a virtuous woman. Now, it is true that I am a close relative, however, there is a relative closer than I. And so stay uh this night and in the morning it shall be that if uh he will perform the duty of a close relative for you, good. uh let him do it. But if he does not want to perform the duty of uh for you, then I will perform the duty for you as the Lord lives. Lie down until morning. And so she lay down at his feet until the morning, and she arose before one could recognize another. Also he said, Bring the shawl that is on you and hold it. And when she had held it, he measured out six ephods of barley and laid it on her, and then she went into the city. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we bless you for the word of God and for what is before us on today. I pray, eternal God, that you would use this word to transform someone's life. God, someone may be standing on the edge of eternal destruction on today, and it is my prayer that they would come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ Lord, I pray that the power of the word today would work in our lives to change us and to transform us, to make us look more like you, to act more like you. To trust you in every aspect of our lives. Father, I pray that the word of God today might be an instrument of edification. We might grow to know you more and to understand your word better. Spirit of the Lord, if there's any who have drifted in their fellowship, I pray that you would draw them back to you. Father, we've perhaps been away too long and it's time That we might reconcile ourselves to you. Draw men, women, boys, and girls, Heavenly Father, as the preaching of your word. I stand as an instrument, God. Use me in your hand to accomplish your will. I came not to entertain, but I came to preach your gospel. And so, Lord, let me preach according to your divine inspiration and will. Let your will be done in this place, let your way be accomplished, and we will give you all the glory and all the honor and all the praise for you alone, God. are worthy of it all. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. And amen. On this morning we find ourselves in chapter three as we continue to press through this book of Ruth. This young Lady Ruth has gone out into the field. She's worked hard in the field. She kept her eyes on the field. She shared what she got from the field and she found favor in the field. But this young Moabite woman still has a lot to learn about this this new place that she's in, this new country that she's living in, these people that she has joined herself to, and this God that she has adopted. She still has a lot to learn and fortunately she has her mother-in-law, Naomi, to guide her along the way and to give her wisdom As to how to move and navigate in this new place that she finds herself. And so we'll see in this process of chapter three that Naomi is going to teach lessons, if you will, to Ruth about how to live and how to navigate and how to assure that her life is stable, if I can say it that way. And so I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter lessons to be learned. Now, I want to start by saying that these lessons are not just lessons for Ruth. Amen, somebody. Some of these lessons, not all of them, some of these lessons might be helpful to you too. Amen, Jesus. The chapter begins by exposing some very important motives of the lessons of Naomi as she is going to share them with Ruth. Verse number one, it says, Naomi, her mother-in-law, said to her, My daughter, shall not shall I not seek security for you, that it may be well with you. This is important. The motive behind what Naomi is about to do and what Naomi is about to share is because she's looking out for Ruth. She's she wants Good for Roof. She wants security for Roof. She wants she's looking out for her well-being. Uh, she's looking out that she might have and be able to be settled in life You need to understand something about this text, and we jumped in on chapter three, and if you haven't read chapter one and two, you don't know what's going on. So in chapter chapter one we uh Ruth married um one of Naomi's sons and uh they they were together and then all this death start happening and so Naomi's husband died, and then uh her sons, uh both her sons died, and Ruth was married to one of her sons, and so Ruth is grieving the loss of her son, and she's left her hometown, fifty miles with uh Naomi back to the house of bread, and she's here, but she doesn't know nothing about nothing that's going on. She don't she don't know nothing about the people. She don't know how to survive. She don't she don't know nothing about what's Happening here And so Naomi, her mother-in-law, who's from Bethlehem, who's from Judah, she knows how to help this young lady. She she her motive is I I'm I may not be around for long, but I'm gonna give her some guidance so that she can live life and be stable in life. I'm looking out for her good. I want her to be settled in life. I I don't want her to be just wandering around from field to field for the rest of her life. I'm looking out so that she can have a settled and a stable life. Are y'all still here with me? And so she begins to share these lessons. for her. The first lesson that um I extracted from the text is the lessons on social behavior. Uh it's here in the text as we pick up in verse number two, now Boaz, here's Naomi talking, now Boaz, whose young woman women rather that you were with, is he not our relative? In fact, he is winnowing uh barley tonight on a threshing floor. In order to fulfill helping Ruth out, in order to fulfill allowing her to have a stable life, what Naomi does is she begins to recommend to her a choice of boaz. Boaz literally is a representative of perfection for us all because he is a representative of Christ. He's the redeemer for us all. He's the one that redeemed us and paid the price that nobody else would and no one else could So here is Naomi recommending Boaz as a suitable mate for Ruth that she might have and live a stable life. Now This lesson of proper social behavior is demonstrated by her making the choice, watch this, to pursue a deeper relationship. After you understand the way Boaz has treated you and the way Boaz has protected you and respected you. Stay stay here. I'm I'm open it up. So so Boaz, whose young women you were with, he's a relative. So what Naomi has done before she recommends a Boaz to Ruth The the good social behavior is that she has some insight on Boaz before she recommends Boaz. Lord help me God. So, but watch this. Naomi has already observed how Boaz has looked out for Ruth. She's already observed that Boaz has made sure that Ruth has more than enough of the grain that's dropped in the field. She's already observed that Boaz is the kind of dude. That protected Ruth and told his workers, don't touch her. She's already observed that Boaz is a man of character before she recommends him. to her her daughter-in-law. Y'all still hear? This is a good social behavioral practice. Um mothers who see the tall, dark, and handsome dude that you wish you had married and you want to refer him to your daughter. First you need to see how this dude is. How does he treat your daughter? Matter of fact, can I can I just be for real, for real? How does he treat his mother? I'ma dig deep. I didn't this really wasn't a plan, but it's y'all making me, y'all forcing me. It's a good social behavior Before you push forward into the recommendation or even the consideration of a deeper relationship, it's good social practice to watch somebody first. I don't want this to be just a woman thing because men, we need to observe as well. You need to put eyes on the situation and observe some behavioral practices before you invest your heart Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord. Um Naomi has made some considerations. She has she has knowledge, first of all, of Boaz's family Stay here with me. She says, isn't he or is he not this young man, the man who you're with? In fact Is he not our relative? She knows his family. Lord help me, Jesus. A good social practice. I don't know what happened, but somewhere along the way, we stopped At making it important to know the family of the people we get hooked up with. There was a time when before you took out somebody's daughter, help me God, you went and met the father. Lord have mercy. And you ask permission from the Father. Can I court your daughter? Lord, help me, God. I know, I know I'm this way, this is old school stuff. And that was just to date her. That wasn't for nothing else. That wasn't for marriage. But before you said, you know how I'm so in love. You met the family. Can I help somebody right here? It's a good thing to meet the family. Lord have mercy. It's a good thing Because you don't know what you might be marrying into. Now, now don't get me wrong. Now the person might be different from their family. They might But if you go meet the family and everybody in the family is a certain way. I mean everybody Is doing the same thing. It doesn't mean that the one that you getting ready to marry is going to be that way It's a high probability, but it I'm trying to I'm trying to walk the line. I'm trying to it's a high probability that at least I'm aware of what the family is like. Even if they not like it, this is what I gotta deal with at the family cookout. This is what I got deal with at Christmas. This got to deal with with the baby birthday party. Oh, here they come You just might want to know the family first. I'm just saying. It's a good social practice to know the family. And Naomi knows the family. She says, Boaz is a relative of ours. I know the family. She not only knows the family, she knows the kind of favor that this guy carries with him. She's like I said, she's already observed the way he's taken care of of Ruth, the way he's looked out for Ruth, the way he's looked out for her, because she knows that he's not just sending all this food for Ruth, but he's also making sure that Naomi has something to eat as well. And he's looking out for her and her daughter-in-law because both of them are widows and both of them have no other substance and no other man looking out for them. So she knows about his favor, the favor that he That he's willing to pour out because she's seen a roof come home from the field and and expand walking at with all the favor that's been laid on her. So she's familiar with the type of favor that this guy has and the type of favor that this guy is pouring on. And I'll say this you might want to observe the behavior to see if favor is coming before the stakes get too high. Naomi knew about his family, she knew about his favor, but she also knew about his financial capability. Naomi, when she recommended Boaz to be this suitable and stable mate for For Ruth, she already knew that Boaz had the ability. I'm gonna say this a real a fancy way, he had the ability to afford her You really do need to know that the person who you want to hook up with can afford you. Because some of y'all are expensive. It's a social lesson. To understand before I hook up, before I invest too much, before I look to you to provide me with this stability of life, I need to know: can you afford me? Can you take care of me? I need my nails done every week. I get extensions, I get hair pieces, I buy new shoes, I smoke cigars with the boys three times a week. I whatever it is. Can you afford me Can they afford you? That's the question before this is this good social practice. So what when Naomi does, she says, look, can I throw this in too? Because she says of Boaz I know he has the ability to take care of you because he's already shown that and and guess what? And he's working right now. He got a job. It's right here in the text. I ain't making it up. Look at verse 2. It says, in fact, he is at work right now winnowing barley tonight. He at work at night at the threshing floor. So she has she has made her consideration based on her knowledge of his family, his favor, and his financial status. But she also gives Ruth some some additional good advice if you want to attract his attention. She says to Ruth, she says, first of all, it's in verse number three, she said, this is This is this is the I need to say this is the text, okay? This is the text talking, not me talking. She said wash yourself if you want to attract Boaz Take a bath And when you get out, she said, this it's in the text. I'm not making this up. She said, wash yourself and then anoint yourself. And anointing is not putting Vaseline on. This ain't that kind of anointing. This is This anointing is to put some perfume on, put some on, some fragrance on, and can I add to that and do it in moderation? Yes, it smells good, but we want to smell it next week too. Like, don't try to put it all on today. She's giving Ruth some social lessons. This is the social stuff. To help her to attract Boaz. Take a bath, anoint yourself, and dress well. These are good social lessons Good social lesson. Society is corrupting all this and just people throwing all this out the window. This is this good social stuff from the Bible. Ruth is giving wisdom, sharing lessons to her daughter-in-law as to how to be attractive, how to carry yourself as a woman of God In this case. Now, this is applicable to men too. You need to take a bath too. Men. Amen, Jesus. You need to put some some fragrance on. And she says to her, another social lesson, she's loaded with social stuff. She says, Don't disturb the man while he's working. Look at verse 3. She says, he's down on the threshing floor, he's working. Do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking. Let him finish his work. Don't be interrupting him while he's working. He's trying to make money That's a good social lesson. Don't be showing up on his job talking about I just can't just talk nothing. Don't be showing up on her job talking about what you doing? I'm working Let the man work, let the woman work. Okay, let them work. Let them finish their work first. This is that's this is a good social. This is social stuff. I know y'all I just said, Pastor, this is not even biblical. It's in the Bible, but it's social. This is social stuff. These are social lessons. I'm gonna get to the biblical stuff in a moment So there's these social lessons that she shares with Ruth so that she's preparing her to be able to be in position that she has a stable life Then she comes and begins the what I call cultural lessons of behavior. So those are lessons were on social behavior. The next set of lessons are on cultural behavior. She says first of all in verse 4, she says Then it shall be, when he lies down, that you shall notice the place where he lies, and you shall go in and uncover his feet, and then lie down, and then he'll tell you what to do. So this is cultural to Israel. This is cultural to Jerusalem. This is cultural to the land in which they are living. So she says now notice the place where he lies down and make sure That you when you lie down at it at the feet that you you know that you know it's the right person. Okay? Because you don't want to be lying down at the wrong person's feet. Now there's some really practical implication here because you know it's gonna get dark and you won't be able to see, so you gotta make sure you watch him until he goes and lay down so that when you go to do this ritual practice that you show up at the right person's feet And there's some stuff I could pull out of that, but I won't mess with that right now. But I just say this is the cultural thing. So she says make sure you know that you know where you're going and you get and you when you get there Uncover his feet, then lie down at his feet, and he can tell you what to do next. Now, this ritual practice is something that Naomi is very familiar with, obviously. She's teaching Ruth a practice That Ruth is unfamiliar with. She's a Moabite. She they don't do this in Mo Moab, so she doesn't know what this is all about. Um actually, as you look through scripture, we don't really see this whole practice uh anywhere else, but there's no other time when we have a situation where we got a widowed mother-in-law and a widowed daughter that are trying to f you know s find the a suitable redeemer. So we don't see that anywhere else. So this text gives us that. But this obviously a ritual practice that they are familiar with and Not only is Naomi familiar with it, but Boaz is familiar with it because she says when you do this, Boaz will know what to do, and Boaz will tell you what to do from there. So this is a a ritual practice. It's It's it's cultural is something that's common to the culture that they do, and it's the means by which a woman in this case, a woman um demonstrates respectfully that she is desirous and willing to come under the umbrella of the home or the uh how do I say the mantle of that particular man. It's a respectable way. Lord help me Jesus. It's a respectable way for a woman to say, I'm willing to be under your leadership. I'm willing to be under your household. I'm willing to be your woman. It's a culturally respectable way of doing that. And this lesson that Naomi is teaching her, um now I we we probably this is cultural, so this is not something I'm gonna recommend y'all go laying at people's feet. Not not a good idea in this day and time. But it again was her respectable way. And but I do say there are some cultural lessons that that do need to be taught. um to our children, to our young ladies, to our young men, that need to come from us as Christian parents. We are allowing the culture of the world to teach our children how to act. Amen, somebody. Those lessons need to come from us. Amen. And listen, and we need to be able to say. This is how we do this in this household because I know I'm getting trouble for this one. I pay the rent here. I pay the bills here. You're eating my food. You're sleeping in my rent room, in my bed that I bought, watching my TV, playing with my PlayStation that I paid my money for. This is my house. I know y'all parents that's that's very tough for y'all. Yeah, I know it is. This is good lessons. I'm I'm trying to teach y'all right now. This is a good cultural stuff Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.