And on this morning is Resurrection Sunday. They they pounded on him the way they nailed him to the cross, the way they pierced him in his side, the way they put the crown of thorns on and said, No, no, no, they didn't consider him even to be human. Can I get a witness in the house somewhere along this uh channel that you came to a place that you call on the name of Jesus because you realize For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Lord God, the one who does not know you in the pardon of their sin, I'm praying, God, that the preaching of the gospel today will open their eyes, remove the scales from them, that they might see their need for you, Heavenly Father, and they might reach out and ask, Lord, come and save me on today. We talked about the axe head miracle. He was wounded for our, that includes you, transgressions. Because you're hard-headed and stiff-necked, you walk on the left side. Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Voices behind the song. I want to invite your attention on today to Isaiah chapter 53. But the angel answered and said to the woman, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. uh worship you, to glorify you, to preach and declare your truths in the nations. Uh uh a lump of clay trying to proclaim a holy word, uh the very oracle of God. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving, and I do expect God you will answer. In fact, most miracles, if not all, that someone has experienced, they would declare to you that no one needs to remind me of that miracle. First of all, can I just stop right there? In the Hebrew context of the word, it it means that not only was he despised in the sense that he was looked upon as vile, he was not one to even be considered the Hebraic example of what he's really trying to articulate. To be human. Six seconds as they despised and rejected George Floyd. reputation who is always having to deal with the sorrows of mankind, the sickness of sin's disease, the I'm at a place where I can't handle this by myself. pushed you to the edge and you said, uh Jesus, I can't handle this. When I get to verse five, I'm just about ready to lose my mind. For it was me that should have been the one that the six-foot soldiers were pounding upon and asking, prophesy who hit you. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Uh just wanna read a few verses here from verse one. His countenance was like lightning and his clothing as white as snow. There you will see him. into every mind and to every spirit. God volumes into their circumstances and situations to allow them to know that they are not alone and is not over. House of God and for them that was a time of disconnect. uh wandered off God and though they love you and they care Lord God they've drifted I'm praying you draw them God by the preaching of the gospel this morning Lord, speak a word in this place. And so I want you to, when you hear me say, Jesus, I'll never forget what you've done for me, I want you to repeat what I say it. Then the then the text says not only was he despised, but Isaiah comes back and says he was despised and rejected. in the humanity and the and the naturalness of our 21st century our our ideologies of today. To look upon and one which we didn't even we didn't care about or we considered him cursed. By remembering how they whipped him and how they beat him, because nobody, nobody considering someone, a human, would literally do the things they did to Jesus. The memories of him would be one who was a man who hung out in sorrow. He was a man that was sorrowful as he took on the the sorrows of the world. That's what the text says. Issues that people had to deal with, the hunger that was in the street, and the problems of death, and the problems of hurt, and the issues of blood. So the second movement here in the text is that not only was he uh he was vehemently rejected, but he vicariously suffered. You've got cancer or you've got COVID or you're dealing with this issue or that issue or your child is in danger Grief and yeah, held me up through the midst of the storm. And in my life, I'm glad that he vicariously stepped in and said, Sterling, I'll bear that for you. to go through he vicariously substitutionarily stepped in on our behalf and so jesus I couldn't handle being shut up in the house. Morning, that surely he has borne your grief and carried your sorrow. that when the burdens got pushed on me, he became my substitute burden bearer. I'll carry that for you. Transgression Jesus. Cheating because of my attitude, because of my sin, but he was wounded. The beard out of your face. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. He is despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows acquainted with grief. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. And so Isaiah chapter 53 and then Matthew chapter 28 is where we'll be looking on this morning in just a couple of began to dawn, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the tomb, and behold there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat on it And as he said, Come see the place where the Lord lay. on earth. Father, for that one who's drifted in their fellowship. What he did. literally he did on our behalf. No, because he was despised and rejected, because he was vehemently rejected, uh, we we looked upon him and and the and the the the the the the the the how do I say uh the On a street, and in all of the reality that he still is God As if he was the rejected done on our shoe. felt what we felt. Can I get a witness in the house that when mama died or daddy died or another call came that said In my eyes, God, you came through and you carried me through it. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. my way through but but but but he was wounded for our transgressions I know I made it personal but for my sanctified holy think I never done nothing wrong people in the house and online he By today's message. Down with the voices behind the song. Now, we've been preaching through a series of messages entitled Miracles. What you've done for me. Okay, because I want to I don't I don't I don't want this to be just my message this morning. One who's not considered even to be human in the same way that if I can paint a modern-day picture of uh of a police officer kneeling on someone's neck for eight minutes and forty-six seconds. with grief. rejected to the extreme that we hid our faces from him and we did not esteem him, but rather we uh we esteemed him as stricken and smitten by God and afflicted things a bit when we get to verse four because he says here that uh surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows He stepped in vicariously. Carried what we couldn't carry and handled what we couldn't handle, even though we rejected him six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor A bruise is something in our language that happens when you walk past and you accidentally hit something and you get a mark on your arm or a little bruise, it ain't too bad. But no, this Hebrew word that we translate bruise means crushed from the inside and the outside. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. For our transgressions. We are healed. And Jesus spoke and said, All authority has been given to me in heaven and Here we are in this text of Isaiah, the prophetic message of the coming of the Lord and his death, burial, and resurrection spoken by the prophet Isaiah. Lord help us here. became such that he was known for uh or known as being a man of sorrows In other words, he was a man that he he he they they didn't reflect upon him as a uh if we were giving the uh the obituary over him, we would not have said he was a happy Jesus. What you've done for me. I'll never forget what you've done for me. Lord have mercy. What you've done for me. He was vehemently rejected. What you've done for me. He vicariously, well, that's that's a big word. He was despised and we did not esteem him. But yet every year we pause Christians and non-Christians alike to to celebrate the resurrection of Christ and in some ways perhaps to make sure that everyone never forgets Sunday. The way they the the way they the the way they ripped flesh off of his body, the way they beat him mercilessly, the way they were waiting for him to die, the way Acquainted, associated, affiliated, made to feel the grief of man. Because we vehemently rejected him as human. I might not have done you right, Lord. Praise the Lord. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And uh in the process of Isaiah's prophecy, he helps us to have clarity in the sense that Jesus was vehemently rejected. Walking and living and moving in the flesh, we still rejected him and despised him as less than human. You're you're considering them less than humanity. Passages on this resurrection morning. It is the miracle of the resurrection of Christ Jesus from the dead in an effort to reconcile an unholy humanity to a holy deity. But Jesus, I'll never forget what you've done for me. He has borne our griefs. He was crushed inwardly and outwardly for our iniquities. The Bible says he uh we we hid our faces from him. Lord, that they punched you in the face, and I was the one that deserved the bee punch. Y'all getting it, y'all y'all getting it. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Would you pray with me this morning? Wow. What you've done for me. He was not even desirable to look upon, as the text says earlier. And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. It is a miracle that you would think that would never ever be forgotten The illustration and the and the true manifestation of the way they treated Jesus puts to mind one who is despised and rejected. And he was abused. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Vehemently rejected him. He was despised. Not for his transgressions, but he was wounded for my transgressions. Behold, I have told you. And during that time they're leaning on a lifeless body as if they were leaning on a deer or a moose that they had just shot. God, that you might encourage those who are discouraged on this morning, Lord God, that you might lift up their heart and lift up their head, that you might speak He became, if you will, acquainted. I'll handle that for you. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Today is a day that all across the world, Christians and non-Christians alike, pause to acknowledge the greatest miracle that ever took place. That this miracle is never forgotten. He uh has endured what we endured, and so he took on uh what we were carrying because we could not handle it ourselves. For our transgression. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Lord, use me as your vessel to accomplish your will in an extraordinary way. He was despised and rejected. When they put the crown of thorns and pressed it in your skull, it was me that should have been there dealing with my own sin issues. Bruise is deeper than our word bruise Bless the name of the Lord. He he became the substitute burden bearer. Father in heaven, we bless you for your word. Lord, I'm I'm trying to contain myself here. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We went from there to Exodus chapter 14 and talked about the Red Sea miracle. The word despised gives the idea of one who is unworthy of one's notice I couldn't handle being quarantined, but God, you came through and you carried my It's been a year now, God, for some. He and the results of our rejection of him here in the text says he was a man of sorrow acquainted with grief, his reputation. We'll we'll get we'll you'll get some practice along the way I want to begin as I delve into this idea of Jesus, I'll never forget what you've done for me. He was bruised for our iniquities. The Bible here says in Isaiah chapter 53, beginning at verse 3, he was despised Who came in and bore all the burdens for you? I'll never forget what you've done for me. But God, I'm praying today it be a time of reconnection for those who've drifted in their fellowship. That's your line right there. What what do you mean by vicarious? I wish I had some real folk up in the house today that you got to a place in life that life had When I had cried my eyes out and there was no more tears left He he was uh vehemently He has carried our sorrows. I'm your God. I'm I'm trying to get y'all there. I might not have uh uh repreciated you, God. He vicariously stepped in to help us. Watch this. And in the way in which they uh Lord help me, Jesus, in the way in which you look upon the video, and if you find it hard to look at the video for eight minutes and 40 seconds. It says now after the Sabbath, uh it's the first day of the week Now I'm I'm gonna ask you to to join me because I I want this to get in you. We despised him and we rejected him, but Jesus, I'll never forget. I should have been dead, I should have given up, but God, you were my strength when I had no strength. Transgression means I know what's right to do, but I'm gonna do the wrong thing anyhow. And the guards shook for the fear of him and became like dead men. And just for uh secondarily, Matthew chapter twenty-eight. And he came and he lifted your burden. Lord, I pray that even this morning that the power of your Holy Spirit would manifest itself through the preaching of the gospel. And what a miracle that took place on resurrection. And and and and we can we can we can we can we can play this out by He was the less than respectable. Verse 18. We bless you for this day. This needs to be our message this morning. Amen. He became associated. They haven't been in the fellowship of the believers. Can you imagine looking at the video of how we despised and rejected Jesus? But when we bring these two together, it denotes that he ceased to be considered to be a man. We vehemently, we we violently, we aggressively rejected him. Sure enough, he's the God who's been there for you when nobody else was, when phone calls didn't work and text messages didn't get answered. That's a great question. And go quickly and tell his disciples, he is risen from the dead, and indeed he is going before you into Galilee. Y'all still hear? He was disdained, he was considered vile, he was he was cursed and despicable as a related to mankind. Lord God. Amen and amen. Because verse five says he was wounded. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. When you're weak, then I'm strong. I'm I'm trying to try to try to I'm trying to work And we'll begin our reading there in verse number 3. What what what literally happens when you bring these two words together in the Lord Jesus, when trouble came on every side and I couldn't go this way or couldn't go that I I couldn't carry all the weight of what was happening. Amen. Well, I I want you to see here in the text uh that Isaiah says, surely, this is this is with certainty. Pastor, what's a transgression? We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together That's a great question. So God use me in your way that you can accomplish what you desire on this morning for those who are hearing my voice We pray that you have been richly blessed He look here. Lord have mercy. Now I need to keep I need to you to keep this in mind that he was God in the flesh, but he now has become Bless you for the privileged opportunity to come together to Resurrection morning. He was a man who gained that as a re org or contact our church office at 301 If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Spirit of the Lord, I pray in the name of Jesus that you would speak clearly into that one whose soul is closest to hell God, I need you as I stand here. I want to talk to us on this morning in the midst of this resurrection miracle. The chastisement for our peace was upon him, and by his stripes. He was bruised. He he he he lord Jesus he vicariously stepped in and I'm I'm never forget, Lord God, that when they pulled the hairs of They haven't been in the He was a man who hung out with the sick. And in all of the rejection and all of that, what we did, Jesus, I'll never forget. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. But I need to bring you back to the Lord have mercy. I'll never forget He was the less than desirable. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. He has I I might not have respected you, Lord, but Jesus I'll never forget He carried the weight that you were supposed to carry, but you couldn't handle it, so he handled it for you I love that idea. I wish I had somebody that's come through COVID that can say, Lord, I realized because I couldn't deal with it. He was despised such that in verse 3 Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. But he was wounded Last week we were at John chapter 5 and we spoke about the poolside miracle. A transgression is when you cross over the law of God, when you're supposed to be walking on the right side, but because Jesus, I'll never forget what you've done for me. Can I dig deeper in the text now? Miracles. I want to I want to delve into this idea first of all by looking at the idea that he was vehemently rejected. In the same way that we would turn our face away from a homeless beggar. Jesus, I'll never forget. The word of the Lord reads as follows. m. I'll be the one, Lord Jesus. I love the thought He is not here, he is risen. at the Legacy Center. Now he's bringing you their stories. And now, Pastor Sterling. Now, I know in the human sense we want to divide that and we want to exegete that. He was the one that we could just assume live without We started off in 2 Kings chapter 6. He was a man of sorrows. And in this particular passage, we get to see a very clear prophetic example of what I should have been the one because of my sin, because of my lying, because of my The One Degree of Andy podcast. Now he's bringing you their stories. We hid, as it were, our faces from him I want it, I don't want be I don't want to be preaching at you. And he was wounded for our You obviously do not consider that person We grieved him when he came. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I wish I had somebody who's been through something that can testify or understand. Because I'm Andy Christman. I want to speak from the idea, Jesus, I'll never forget. I'll carry you through the mess that you have He was acquainted Lord God, that you might speak into every heart. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. I'm Andy Christman. It was my sin that should have been being paid for. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. But then he picks up and turns. I want this to get in you. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. God was the one. He says