If we forget his words concerning the resurrection, we will be like these women rushing to a tomb with prepared spices. And when they took of the fruit that was in the midst of the garden that God says you're not supposed to partake of, God came to Adam because he left him responsible. When when when when they got there and they're standing inside the tomb, the the Bible here says that they were perplexed. We're gonna drink a little bit, we're gonna sip a little bit, we're gonna chase a little women, we're gonna do a little this, a little that, thinking that that is life. At Kettering Ministries. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Kettering Baptist Church. On Friday, on Good Friday, they watched him be beaten. They're working diligently. Remember what he said about the resurrection. Now he's bringing you their stories. Stage Pass. Voices behind the song. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. From the tomb. Indeed, very man. We'll try to cover our own sin with lies. And when the moment when he entered into sin, death came. That they might have clothing, that they might cover themselves up. that say it's alright to sin. When you get inside the tomb and your savior, not just any man, not just any woman, the holy man, the holy son of God, you go in and you know his body was there. And can you imagine their perplexity when they get to the place where they know they killed him and he still shows up? Let me let me tell you what I'm talking about. And finds out that I remembered what he said about the resurrection, and when he comes back, I'm not there. He's got you in in malice and anger and frustration. He was still in Galilee. And that you might have it more abundantly. He went through, you would not possibly believe that that body could get up again. uh crucifixion. Four things happened at the very same time. Of saints. Now can you imagine for a moment we just buried Joe last week and we know Joe was dead and according to Jewish tradition after four days you about the resurrection. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Many, many times before. Than we have on what happened on the day. 24 hours. He covered the sin of man by an offering of an animal that he slew, and he covered them up because they were naked and they were now ashamed. The blood and the water come streaming out of his side. And you get inside and you look where he was laying and he's not there. shows up and he's still alive and he's not in the place where you thought you left him Stealing, y'all steal, y'all will steal the hair off of a pig's back. In the tomb, verse 4 says, Two men stood there in shining garments. To share with them, and they, as they're afraid, and they bow themselves, verse 5 says, and their faces to the earth in a position of adoration or worship. Spices anymore. And he offered it to God the Father, and the Father accepted it and said, Have a seat on my right hand because your work is truly done. Two, when sin entered the world, all the way up to the point when Christ offers his blood, guess what man had to do? Show enough dead. Wait a minute. Death. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. Then as they were afraid and bowed their faces to the earth, they said to them, Why do you seek the living among the dead? Its significance and is being, how do I say, crowded out by so many other things? to the tomb bringing spices which they had prepared. Now, what I need you to understand is that the whole purpose of the spices is just to cover the smell of death And covered and sealed with a stone, uh, that would have been the the the custom and the culture of the time. As a country established us on the word who founded us and on whose prayers even the Congress and the Senate rely. And put in place as if he got up without a struggle at all. Off the agenda. When they go to the box where they know they put him, open the box and RB, he then got out of the box. Now now watch this. For life. When when Jesus died on the cross, if I can remember what he said, it'll help me to understand that I no longer have a need to cover up sin. He goes from here, and where I was over in chapter 27 of Matthew, they went to the tomb. And I'm going only me, I'm going to pick it up on the third day. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our Spirit-Fill worship services, Sundays at 8 a. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III His words. As we examine this particular passage. To the gospel according to Luke, and Luke chapter 24. Concerning the resurrection. Matter of fact, we we've we've we've organized and systemized our services such that we have a praise and worship time. And took the blood up to his father, offered the blood that was pure and was righteous and was the only substitutionary offering that could clean us of our sin. What he did was he washed you of your sin. That we currently have is daily perishing. Is that I believe in this postmodern generation, we have come to a place in time where this day and this event is losing And the Lord of Lords and all of creation and all of mankind's eternal destiny was changed on this day. We read throughout Luke's gospel, he takes great detail and expounds upon in great detail the incidents and occurrences of the humanity of Christ. Pastor, why is that important? Y'all y'all with me? Uh this this process that these women are involved in is a the ritual uh Jewish custom in the preparation of the body. And with great diligence and great perseverance, they pressed their way to the tomb with spices. Here we are and realizing that we live in the midst of a world who thinks that they are confined God to a box. We don't want you coming out. But yet it is penetrating. You know such and so places having happy hours. On the third day he got up and gave Joseph his tomb back. The text says in verse number 8, and they remember his words. He is not here, but is risen. On the first day of the week, at the immediate conclusion of the Passover, these women rise up early in the morning. If we forget the words that he said to us concerning his resurrection, we will find ourselves just like these women, rushing with great diligence to cover the smell of death. Y'all still with me? And it happened as they were greatly perplexed about this, that behold, two men stood by them in shining garments, and they were afraid, they bowed their heads to the earth to them. The graves were opened up. Hi, Don Crow here for WAVA and we're partnering with the Bible League International on SNEA Andy Christman a for him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. They and certain other women with them came to the tomb bringing spices which they had prepared. But what is critically important for you and I to know is that it wasn't the resurrection of his pneuma, but it was the resurrection of his Summa, sarke flesh. Instead of us trusting in the forgiving compassion of Christ that is brought and made available to us because of his death, burial, and resurrection. The smell of sin. See before sin there was they were naked and not ashamed, and there was no shame because there was no stench of death. They saw that the tomb's uh rock had been removed, the stone had been moved away, and after even getting to that place, uh, as curiosity overtook them, they went inside the tomb. The devil knew that you and I were dead and we had the stench of death on us. The living among the dead. The third point here is when we forget the words that he spoke of his resurrection, we will find ourselves pursuing life in dead places. We shall be changed. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Oh great, where is your victory? Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. But here we are today still trying to cover the smell of death. And be crucified. So self-absorbed, so narcissistic in our mentality of life that that we have gone to the place where we've placed more emphasis on the day. It was that woman you gave me. When you forget what he said about his resurrection, there's a perplexity when you don't find the body. bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep. Praise the Lord. And here they are in the middle of the tomb. Why are you looking for Jesus in places where he is not living? They're getting up out of the grave and they're walking the streets of Jerusalem. Luke writes from the perspective of showing Jesus Christ as very man It's done very rapidly. Can you imagine the perplexity when you get to that place and you find out he's not here? where he ought to be. But society thinks that they have done a good job at killing God. He is not here. When Jesus went into that grave and on that third day, when he got up, because he got up, he took away sin Uh my my brothers don't don't don't don't think I'm gonna leave y'all alone. Can you imagine you buried Joe two weeks ago or a week ago? This this carnal has put on immortality. I don't have no problem with you dying Easter eggs and rolling them hide and all that kind of stuff. I'm not just gonna talk about society in which we live because the church has put them in a box too. They get there and they're perplexed because the body is gone and they're wondering, what can we do? I'm trying to help you understand something. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. And verse six says, He is not here. But when we look for life, we don't go to Jesus. Now don't beat up on these women too bad because guess what? Is that Luke helps us to understand that the resurrection was the resurrection of his pneuma, which is a Greek word that means spirit? What what I like about this text, what I like about this whole idea of these women going back to cover the smell of death and not finding the body there and being perplexed about it is because in the same As I shared earlier, he got up in a fleshly body. They've taken um the Ten Commandments out of the courtroom. That opened up. The significance of this day happens to be that on this occasion that we celebrate the resurrection of the King of Kings. Don't be coming out in the middle of the preaching. I believe the reason is because they forgot what he said about his resurrection. That he would rise again on the third day. I don't need to be perplexed that he's not here anymore. Then they went in and did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. You understand how they beat him, how they brutally mutilated his body. Luke chapter 24, as we've read this very familiar story in your hearing, and I know that you have heard it So I don't have to waste the rest of my days trying to cover up the stench of For some of you he buried you in lying and you got a problem with lying. org or contact our church office at 301-574-3515 Now that's critical, that's important for you to know. That they experienced after getting up early in the morning at the close of the Sabbath, and they rushed with all diligence to the tomb, and on their way there they saw that the door was open. He told you, he said, the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men. Um girlfriend, you know what you need to do? He said, no one can take my life. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. I'm Andy Christmas. Come on, hang out with me, man. Well, that's important for you and I because we need to understand that we're not just gonna be resurrected spirits floating around. All four of those things happened simultaneously when Christ died. The body is considered holy. He immediately tried to cover up the smell of death that was upon him because the wages of sin is death. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Verse 2 says, But they found the stone rolled away from the tomb, and then they went in, and they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. This mortal must put on immortality. In Luke's gospel, chapter 24, verse 1, it says, Now on the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they and certain other women with them came Sin that's contrary to the word of God, contrary to the God who saved us Can you imagine his perplexity? Come on go with me. This question that is raised here in verse number five is quite unusual. And the third day rise again. So it is my assignment this morning to see if we can dig into the text and find out what does God have to say on this particular day And don't you know that the smell of death will rise up into the nostrils of God? And every since then, up until the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, the only thing man had was a covering for sin. The Bible says that the veil of the temple was torn from top to bottom. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. These would be understood to be angelic beings, and they're standing there in the tomb. The resurrection, if we remember what he said about the resurrection, you will comprehend and understand that this flesh Don't come out in the middle of the service. I remember he said I'm getting up on the third day. They watched when they took him down and they laid him, and his body was limp. The interesting thing about that is when we look at this whole idea of resurrection Let me back up a minute for those of you who weren't there on Friday. But by the grace of God, even before Christ came, I wish I had time to deal with this. You you steal everything. They watched him be nailed to a cross. He says, destroy this temple and in three days I'll raise it up again. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. See, they've taken the prayer out of schools. We're gonna have a good time. We're gonna we're gonna chill together, but we're gonna chill and we're gonna really set this town on fire. And now all of a sudden here comes Joe walking the street in a new body, talking about, hey, I said, Joe, I thought you died of cancer. I was searching my scripture and I was looking for the place where the egg dying came in. He's got you in unforgiveness. We do the same thing. It's clean. He is risen from the dead. This flesh has put on a new flesh. What I've also come to realize, and which is becoming somewhat alarming to me, Why do you seek the living among the dead? Remember how he spoke to you when he was still in Galilee, saying, the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men. Now, as we dig into this text, I want to I want to talk to you from the subject matter. Um we we we we call each other up man what you doing? These women who have gotten up early with great diligence and perseverance that they might go and prepare this body of the Lord. Why why is it that you're in the graveyard looking for life? He is risen. Now what these women, and this first uh point that I want to pull out of this text is that Not all the saints who had fallen asleep, but many of them, a select group We'll begin our reading at verse number one. It's prepared. He says, I am the way, the truth, and the light. Don't come out in the middle of the offering because we don' You need to go out Because he got up on the third day, he cleaned me of all my sin. That's a great question. He got you in adultery, he got you in fornication And verse 53 says, and they're coming into the city, and they show themselves to many after Christ's resurrection. They've removed religion from the workplace. And it happened as they were greatly perplexed about this: that behold, two men stood by them in shining garments. We're gonna experience life. And death is swallowed up in victory. That's what he said. But the Bible says it this way: in the moment, in the twinkling of an eye, the dead in Christ will rise up. You just lie all the time. Let me take you back. As a matter of fact, he gave such attention to perfection that he folded the napkin when he got up. When the angels laid out this proclamations, they they all of a sudden remembered the words of Jesus. At the instance of his death, all those four things happened simultaneously. It's wrapped in white garments and it is put in a tomb. Can you imagine the perplexity of Satan when he comes? But I'm going home to be with the Lord. Um the passion of the Christ gives us a a a visual pictorial of of possibly some semblance of what he went through. And he knows exactly where he buried us. These women come to the tomb, they they're trying to cover up this smell, they What can we do? Now those of you who have any idea and have read the prophetic Psalm 22 of his Now I don't need to cover it up with sin They watched him when they stretched him wide. He says, but I'll lay it down. He must be crucified, and on the third day he would rise again. Friday night, there were four simultaneous events that occurred at his death, at the instance of his death. We're lying to cover our personal sins, but in in our legal system, we're constituting and developing and passing laws. What's going on? But what I want us to do is come back to the significance of the day. Why are you in a dead place looking? But why are we looking for life in dead places? But what I see in the world in which we live is that there are a lot of people that are perplexed because they can't find Jesus. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And and one of the gospel authors says the napkin that they had placed over his face was neatly folded. And he said, Adam, what have you done? But after sin now there's the stench of death, and God by his grace covered it up with an offering, an animal that was slain. But that body got up and gathered the blood. Now, because these women did not have a chance to for completely um address the body needs and the cultural needs. They've taken the Bible out. You can't kill God. Remember how he spoke to you when he And they remembered I've got a new flesh. And I remember he got up with all power in his hand. The word of the Lord reads: Now on the first day of the week, very early in the morning, And what Adam tried to do is cover the smell of death with a lie. They watched when Joseph came and picked him up. Some of you he buried in We're gonna live it up. For additional information, go to our website. And they meet these two men Ain't nothing chillin' man chillin' Want you to see what's going on, we got him in a box too, and we think we have killed him to a certain degree, but can you imagine the perplexity when he And the question is, death, where is your sting? I'm going home to be with my father now to sit on the right hand of God. Adam and Eve took of the fruit that was in the midst of the garden, and God said you're not supposed to eat of that. They they're doing a good job at killing Jesus Why seek the living among the dead? He wasn't there. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. I believe that we have become so self-indulgent. I'm no longer bound. I remember what he said. I got a new body. But we're gonna be resurrected in new bodily form. And these men begin m. You're not gonna find him in this tomb anymore He had already gotten up. And Adam lied right away. Can you imagine their perplexity? Jesus Christ said to us, I came that you might have a life. And now, Pastor Sterling. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. They watched him when he said I thirst. And they said to them, that is, the the angel said to them, Why do you seek or 11 a. But they found the stone rolled away. No one can come to the Father except by me. We're gonna light it up. Now, on the day of his resurrection, many Now he's bringing you their stories. The more you press him down, the higher he rises up. Let me help you with this one Cover sin And I'm showing myself to the people in Jerusalem. m. Even before Christ came, God in his great compassion for mankind. They watched his limp body. When you go to the place where you know he should have been and his body's not there. at our new edifice. He said, It wasn't me, it was that woman But but here in our second point as we look at the perplexity when That is, those rocks that covered up two The One Degree of Andy podcast. Remember his words. I'm not enslaved to the enemy anymore. We're gonna live it up. No, I've been resurrected. You saw when they put him in the tomb The Bible says that those great Burials typically take place within I remember Remember what he said? Because watch this from Genesis 3. We're gonna have some good time I'm Andy Christman. They watched him when they pierced him in the side. They know he was dead. Welcome to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. I want to call your attention. That's a great question. I've got a new body. They watched him on Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. He is in But it did not cover up. But now watch this. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Can you imagine the perplexity? But can you imagine the perplexity? I've been set free. I've got a If you love Christian music, this is your backstage. But if you had seen what he Y'all remember that? They watched him.