Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. Second Corinthians chapter nine, beginning at verse five, the word of the Lord reads as follows, therefore I thought it necessary to exhort you, brethren To go to you ahead of time and to prepare your generous gift before which you had previously promised that it may be ready as a matter of generosity, and not as a grudging obligation. But this I say, he who sows sparingly will also reap sp So let each one give as he purposes in his heart, not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loves a cheerful giver And God is able to make all grace abound towards you, that you always having all sufficiency in all things may have an abundance for every good work. As it is written, he has dispersed abroad, and he has given to the poor, his righteousness endures forever. Now May he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food, supply and multiply the seed you have sown and increased the fruits of your righteousness, while you are enriched in everything. For all liberality which causes thanksgiving through us to God. For the administration of this service not only supplies the needs of the saints But also is abounding through many thanksgivings to God. Amen. Father, we bless you on this morning. Thank you for this privileged opportunity to share the Word of God. I pray even now, God, that you would empower me to have a clarity of thought. A clarity of speech, Lord, and that the word of God that comes forward today might move on the altar of someone's heart. I pray, God, if there's any that don't know you. Who are hearing this word, this will be an opportunity that they, Lord God, might turn their life over to you and surrender to you as Lord. Spirit of the Lord, save someone who is lost. Reclaim someone who perhaps has drifted in their fellowship. Draw them, God, as only you and the Holy Spirit can. I pray, eternal God, that even now, Lord, that you would just Plough up the ground of their heart that it might be prepared to receive the fruit that is the seed that is sown on this morning. Lord, I'm asking in advance that you would get all of the glory and all of the honor and all of the praise. I believe you have something. to say to each and every one of us. Meet us on the pages of our life. Transform us, God, and make us better for your kingdom's purpose. All these things I ask in advance with expectation. In Jesus' name. Amen. So on this morning, as we look in this text here in 2 Corinthians chapter 9, the Apostle Paul writes to the Corinthian church, who uh had previously made uh intentions to give a special offering to the churches. In Macedonia. Up to the point of the writing of the letter that Paul writes to Corinthians, they haven't given anything in the offering that they promised and said that they were going to give. And so Paul writes to them to remind them, hey, you guys said y'all were going to provide this offering. And guess what? We're on the way Uh, and so I'm I'm sending this letter ahead of time so that when we get there, it doesn't become an embarrassment to you because I'm bringing some folk from Macedonia. And I don't want them to get there and you have not uh prepared the offering that you promised and said you were going to to provide. And so I want I want you to be able to be prepared to give this offering and so that when you give it it's not being given out of compulsion or it's not going to uh embarrass you nor uh ruin the testimony of boasting that I've had of you. Because I've been Paul's nothing says I've been boasting and bragging about this and this this offering that you all said you were going to do And the excitement that you had about giving it, and up to now you haven't given it. And so I'm sending this letter ahead of time, I'm sending these ahead of time to allow you to get the things together and be prepared to give this offering. And so he says in essence to the church of Corinth, hey, uh Corinth, it's time to sew. You've been talking about it, but you haven't been about it And it's time to do what you said you was gonna do. Anybody ever been in that space? Yeah, yeah. You might be there this morning. You might be talking about something, but you ain't you ain't done it yet. And the Lord is saying it's time, it's time, it's time to sell. Here's an interesting thing before you get too quiet on me, because I know what's going to happen. Often when we think about Sowing, our mind, especially when we talk about financial sewing, our mind goes to the idea of loss. I'm going to lose But I need to say something. There's a difference between sewing and throwing. Y'all still here with me? Sewing is intentional. It's directed at a specific area and place and target. Throwing is random. Y'all still here? Uh it's kind of how we spend money sometimes. Sometimes we just randomly spending money. You know, like a sale pops up on your computer. Oh my god, I gotta have that. It's random. You didn't really need it, it's just random. You just throwing money away. That's called throwing Throwing has no no no guarantee of return. Sowing has a guarantee of return multiple fold. It's deliberate, it's intentional, it's unto the Lord, and it's guaranteed to bring a multiple return. So there's a difference between sowing and throwing. And so I want you to kind of get it in your mind before we get too deep into this that as we talk about this whole idea of sewing, and then on on this morning specifically, we want to talk about sowing financially I want to cause you to realize that sewing financially is not it's not wasting. It's not throwing away. It's not loss. It's literally gain. Y'all still here with me? Financial sewing is also not a lottery. for you to put in and take out. Some people think that, oh, I'm gonna I'm gonna give ten dollars and I'm gonna get back a thousand. I guess some kind of a lottery or something. It doesn't work like that. Uh Maryland does have a lottery for that. I don't advise you to play. Because there's no guarantee that you're going to get a return. And oh now that I'm thinking about it, while y'all are really extra quiet, it's just me and Jesus talking. Um I'm just thinking about uh you know when you when you want to put money out there, if I want to guarantee return, I can put it in the kingdom. If I don't want to guarantee, I can put it in the world. And so um just I'm just thinking, this is me, me and Jesus having a conversation. Um Lord, it's probably better to sow into the kingdom, isn't it? Yeah Well, okay. Oh I'm sorry, y'all, I didn't know I had company. Um this morning, Katarine, I want to talk to you from the subject matter so the blessing. Here's what I want you to understand. Take a moment. I got a lot of ground to cover, but I'm gonna cover it kind of quickly. But I I wanna I want to do this. 'Cause sometimes we can we can pick up stuff visually. If you have a dollar or something um change or something, I want you to pull out some kind of money. I'm not gonna ask for it. You get to put it back. I'm gonna allow you to put it back. You can put it back. Just take out, you know, if you got a dollar bill, a fifty, a hundred, you know, whatever you have, you know, some of y'all big rollers You pull out the whole wad. If you got it, you know, just pull it out. You know, I I I just want you to to look at it for a moment. Just a quick moment. Don't meditate on it. I just want you to look at that dollar, that 50, that five, whatever it is. And what I want you to understand is that. That you have in your hand is a blessing. Amen. Amen. And so what we're Want to move into this text this morning to talk about is sowing the blessing. Now put it back, put it back, hurry on, put it back. Lest y'all say I was trying to you know shuffle money out of you. I'm not I wasn't. I just want you to look at the money, I want you to see it, even if it was a dime or whatever I just want you to look at it and see it. That is the blessing. So for many of us, it's the multitude of money that we consider the blessing. But I want you to see even the dollar or the dime or the $10 bill or the $5 bill or whatever it is you just took out of your wallet, pocket, sock, whatever, that's the blessing That's a blessing. It's a blessing. Okay? Stay with me. I'm gonna get you there. I'm gonna get you there. So I want the subject today is to sow the blessing. Okay, so so the blessing, so the blessing. As I walk you through this text, I want you to understand this offering that the Apostle Paul is dealing with in the text. Is not your general ties and offering. That's not what this is. This was a special offering That the church of Corinth said that they were going to give to bless another church that was struggling. Y'all still hear I just need to I need to unfold context for you. Okay? So that and they they said they were going to give this money, they didn't, but they haven't given it Okay? And so what Paul says in verse 5 for us, which is my first point on this morning, so according to what you promised. Okay? Look at verse five. Therefore I thought it necessary to exhort you, brethren to go to you ahead of time and prepare your generous gift beforehand, which you had previously promised So Paul is saying to them, I want you to sow according to what you promised that you were going to sow. There is in the process of making a promise There's an expectation of being true to your word. Help me, Lord. There's an expectation when I say I'm going to do something. that I'm literally going to do it. There's there's some ethical uh there's um some ethical experience we expect you to be ethical and and true to you where we expect Expect you to do what you said you were going to do. And so what Paul says, you said you were going to do this. And so I've come to you to tell you to sow according to what you have promised. Can I talk to y'all this morning? Let me tell you the best way to ruin relationships is to promise that you're going to sow and not do it. Let me tell you the best way to ruin your credit is to say you're going to pay your bills and not pay them. You said you were going to do it because when they offered you the credit card, you signed on the dollar line. You never paid attention that the interest rate was going to be 29. 84% But you signed anyway, and on the small print that was on the flip side of what you signed, it said, I agree to pay back this money according to certain increments at a rate of interest at 29 42 whatever percent it is and you can use my credit card if You pay back this money on a monthly basis, and if you don't pay it back by this date, you're gonna incur a penalty and fines And etc. etc. Watch this. But what happens is we get the credit card, we spend the money, and when the bill comes, we don't pay back what we owe. And watch this. When when they call us on the phone, then we catch an attitude. How dare them call my house? Pay them what you said and they won't call you. Am I right? But now you've ruined a relationship with the bank or with the credit card company. You've got friends or or family members that you say, oh yeah, I got you. It's gonna get quiet. I'm gonna I'm gonna help you with that. And when the time comes to help, you don't pay what you owe, and then relationships start falling apart. Can I take y'all to the grave for a moment? This happens a lot when folk die. Help me Lord because nobody else ain't gonna People die, we need money to put them in a grave. They didn't have insurance or whatever the deal is. We need some more money. The family comes around, and there's always somebody in the family who wants the most expensive stuff and they ain't got no money Oh no, mama would have wanted that $25,000 cash. They ain't got a dime to put to nothing. And then what happens is they say, well, this gonna cost so much money to do whatever we're gonna do and then they say well we need to pool our resources together and then you not you But somebody says, okay, I got you. I'm in. But then when the bill comes, they disappear. And watch this, this is to my point. Not paying what you owe or not paying what you say ruins relationships. Now the family relationship is ruined because you have disappeared and didn't pay what you said. I know I got at least 10 people in here that know that happens. And ten more that were the ones that disappeared. Paul says to the Corinthian church, you promised to do this. You said you were going to do this, so so according to what you promise. Now, even though I I brought in some other illustrations and examples, if we stay in the context of this, there are times even in our offering that the Lord provokes us or the Lord moves on our heart and we may make a commitment to say, you know what, I'm going to give to a specific project Maybe we're trying to raise resources for uh a ministry somewhere or for some other project or another or like as we were going through uh the debt retirement process and we were trying to pay off the building and maybe you say, you know what, I'm gonna I'm gonna put I'm gonna put $5,000 of that. And you said that, but when sowing time came, you didn't keep your word. And so Paul says, we need to sow according to what we promise. Are y'all still here with me? I'm not gonna beat your bed. I'm not. So Paul says, look, I want your offering. He says here in verse number five. He says I'm going ahead of you because when we come, we don't want it to be a problem. You may be ready as a matter of generosity and not of grudging obligation Because when someone's has to press you to give what you said you were going to give, then your spirit changes. Am I right? That's when the credit card people call you. You got a whole different spirit Your continence falls, your your face changes, you you got an attitude. But Paul says I the reason why I'm warning you and call coming ahead of time is so that when you When you do provide this gift that you said you were going to give, that you will be able to do it as a matter of generosity and not grudgingly. You won't have a twisted face when the Macedonians come to watch. No, you said you were gonna do it. Nobody made you say that. And so Paul says, okay, so according to what you promised Verse number six. Verse six says says, but this I say, he who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and he who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. Now Paul knows they haven't made a commitment to an amount But he also kinda throws this in, which I think is great, because he probably is getting the sense that they might go low. You know, like he won low ball. It's like Yeah, let's just throw some stuff together, and when they get here, we'll give them this little bit. But he says, wait a minute, before you do that, I need you to understand something. Here's my second point. So according to the amount that you wish to receive That your reaping is in direct proportion to what you sow. And he says, sow sparingly and you will also reap sparingly, sow bountifully and you will also reap bountifully. Uh if I can say this in another way, Paul says if you cheap in your sewing, you'll get cheap in your blessing. Let me give you another another way of looking at it. And I brought some little tools up here to help me. If your sewing is in the form or in the amount of a coffee cup, then your blessings will also be coffee cup blessings. Y'all still hear? So I can sow according to a coffee cup and I will reap according to a coffee cup because sowing is directly proportional to that. If I sow sparingly, let's put some change in there and feel that, then I will reap. Sparingly. But he says now if I read more, and I have an option I can I can sow according to this big jug here, and if that's quite a bit and significantly more Then, watch this, it's significantly more than a coffee cup, but I could choose to sow according to this because if I sow according to this, I'll be blessed according to this. Are y'all still here? Because my sowing is directly proportional to my reaping. Now I got one more step. One more step. We're gonna go hard just for the moment. This is This is just for illustrative purposes because I know that you can't even imagine thinking about this. But if you if you decide to sew according to this trash can And that's a supersized trash can, then your blessing or your reaping will be according to this So it's your choice. You can sew according to this container here or this coffee mug or this trash can, but know this That your sowing is directly proportional to your reaping. And so Paul says, I need you to sow according to what you desire to have returned to you. Y'all still here? Can I say this another way? Sow the blessing according to the way you want to be blessed. Is it sinking in yet? Sow the blessing. Where's the blessing? You put it back in your purse. Put it back in your pocket. So the blessing according to the way you want to be blessed. It is. I'm gonna leave that up here so y'all can just keep looking at it. It's kind of a it's kind of a visual reminder That I'm a sow according to how I want to be blessed. Okay, y'all still here? Alright, so he says, so according to that. So So when we go through this process of deciding how we want to sow, then it informs our heart. Watch this. It will inform our heart as to how much we want to give to the offering That we have before us because we're dealing with a special offering. This is not the Tizen offering. So my amount is now being informed by my knowledge of my of the reaping and sowing principle. Okay? Now, it's informing my heart on how much to sow, not my how much I have informing my heart. On what to sow. Because oftentimes we sow and we're informed in our sowing according to what we have or what we're willing to release. I'm really preaching good. I know y'all must be thinking about what I'm saying. That's why y'all say. Yeah. So we kind of when I I gotta think through this, how do I want to be blessed? Show of hands. How many people want to be blessed like this? Look at that How many people don't want that kind of blessing? I'm good right here, Pastor. Bless me right here. Alright, you got some cheap people in the house. They good. How many people they just coffee cup people? I don't need no more blessings. I just just bless me like a coffee cup. Well, here, just figure it out. Um I'm I'm glad to see I had at least two categories, but So now that informs me how to give. I'm not being informed how to give based on what I have. I'm being informed on how to give based on how I want to be blessed. I'm gonna come back to that because I I know what's on your mind. Well that's I can only give what I have. What you mean? What you talking about? I'm coming back to you Verse 7. Verse 7 says, So let each one give as he purposes in his heart, not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loves a cheerful giver. What we purpose in our heart, here's our third point. So according to what you have purposed to cheerfully give, so according to what you have purposed To cheerfully give. Don't sow according to what's gonna make you mad. Because we want to give cheerfully Am I preaching right? What I've purposed in my heart starts with obedience to God. Don't purpose in your heart to give according to what measures up to robbing God of what is due to God. Y'all still here with me So if God's if God's plan for me of giving and if God's mandate for me in giving says that the tithe, 10%, I'm just talking about regular giving now, if the tithe belongs to to me, don't purpose in your heart to rob God and think you can be cheerful about it. You can't be cheerfully giving while you're robbing God. You still hear? Now, because we're dealing with a special offering and not the tithe, I just wanted to throw a tithe in there just to help you understand. Don't be thinking you're throwing five dollars in the plate and you making five thousand dollars a week Don't think that you're really doing anything. You can't be, oh, I'm so cheerful to give my five dollars. No, that's not cheerful giving. You are robbing God. You need to go to jail. Do not pass go. Do not collect $200. That's monopoly for all y'all that don't know. Because you putting monopoly money in the plate and thinking you're going to get a trash can blessing. You ain't, that's not happening. Y'all still here with me? So look, I need the purpose in my heart to first please God Watch this. So sometimes when we're doing special offerings, the Lord will lay on your heart an amount. Praise the Lord You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.