Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling Alright, John chapter 8, verse 1. The word of the Lord reads as follows: But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. Now early in the morning, he came again into the temple. And all the people came to him, and he sat down and he taught them. Then the scribes and the Pharisees brought to him a woman caught in adultery. And when they had set her in the mist, they said to him, Teacher, this woman was caught in adultery in the very act. Now, Moses in the law commanded us that such should be stoned. But what do you say? This they said, testing him, that they might have something of which to accuse him But Jesus stooped down and wrote on the ground with his finger, as though he did not hear. And so when they continued asking him, he raised himself up and said to them He who is without sin among you, let him throw the first stone at her. And again he stooped down and he wrote on the ground And then those who heard it, being convicted by their conscience, went out one by one, beginning with the oldest, even to the last. And Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. And when Jesus had raised himself up and saw no one but the woman, he said to her, Woman, where are those accusers of yours? Has no one condemned you? And she said, No one, Lord. And he said to her, Neither do I condemn you. Go and sin no more. Amen. Father in heaven, we honor you this morning. We bless your holy and adorable name. We pray that your spirit, God, would have its way. Preach through these lips of clay, Lord, strengthen my physical body, allow my mind to be clear, my thoughts to be clear. Be clear, my words to be clear, that your word might be articulated in a way that the very oracle of God might be experienced in the hearer this morning. Father, if there's anyone that doesn't know you in the pardon of their sin, have not come into a personal, intimate relationship with you, God, it's my prayer that today they would surrender their heart and their life to you. That their eternal destiny might be changed. Spirit of the Lord, I'm praying for that one who's drifted in their fellowship. They know you, Lord, but they've Fallen away, but God today, this first day of the year, perhaps they're coming back to say, Lord, I'm recommitting and rededicating myself to you. Father, draw them with a sincere heart that they might not just be drawn today, but they might be drawn to stay. Father, edify this body as we come in need of you and a word from you, God, speak in the midst of your people. Lord, a word of strength, a word of edification, a word, God, that would change our Stance. We want to be more like you, God. Help us, Jesus, in the midst of this time. In Jesus' precious name, I pray and I thank you. Amen and amen On New Year's Eve, uh we began uh preaching from the theme, which is our theme for 2022. Achieving our full potential in Christ. Achieving our full potential in Christ. As I shared on New Year's Eve that I've been praying and just seeking the Lord as to what message, what does God have for us? In 2022, that we need to tune in on and focus in on. And so the Lord led me to this thematic idea that we Are yet to pursue achieving our full potential in Him. And so I began on New Year's Eve this series. Achieving our full potential in Christ from Philippians chapter 3, as uh Pastor Williams read earlier. And we discovered there in Philippians, if we are to achieve our full potential in Christ, there are three things that are essentially necessary. First of all, we have to be honest and acknowledge our present condition. The Apostle Paul says, I have not yet arrived We need to acknowledge that we have not yet arrived. Secondly, we said that we need to forget the past. Paul said, I'm forgetting those things which are behind me, and we looked at it from the perspective not just those things that were good, but also those things that were bad. And then thirdly, if we are to achieve our full potential in Christ, it is essentially necessary for us to reach for the future. And the question was raised on New Year's Eve, how will you reach into the future of 2022? Because 2022 is loaded and packed with the unexpected. It's packed with blessings, it's packed with uh favor, it's packed with trouble, and it's packed with triumphs, it's packed with tribulations, it's packed All kinds of challenges that will come our way I never want to be the one that says to you, you know what, this year is going to be perfect and everything's going to be wonderful. Because no year is ever that. We've never had a year without trouble. Every year has trouble in it. Now some perhaps more than others. Or we felt it more than others, but nonetheless, there's always trial. But if we're going to push forward and achieve our full potential in Christ, which I think is vitally important for us. These three components I did an overview on for the purpose of getting us into this idea. On this morning in our text, as we've read in John chapter 8, we find this woman whose situation similar to our own. Where there's this woman who has things in her past That are now catching up to her, things that were in her past, some she did deliberately and intentionally. And others that were done unto her that she had no cause or fault in. Her life, her situation, similar to yours and similar to mine, is a life that has Past issues that have potential to arrest us for life. Stay here with me If this woman, or if you or I are not able to prevail beyond our paths We will become fixtures for the future. I'm preaching really right now. I need you to get this. I I I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm praying even now as I'm talking to you because I I I really don't want to leave this text. And just have you walk away and say, Yeah, I was at church on Sunday. No, I want you to leave saying church was in me on Sunday. The word got in me on Sunday, and God spoke to me on Sunday. I need us to get this because every single one of us has the potential of failing to achieve our full potential because of our past. One of our major hindrances, and I'm going to lay this out as a major hindrance, is one of our major hindrances to achieving our full potential in Christ Jesus. Has a lot to do with what happened to you in your past. Some a few days ago, many years ago. The past, the past. Some things like I said that you did when you know when you was bad enough to do 'em. And if I can be honest with all of us this morning, some some stuff we did because we was big and bad enough to do And as long as we was bad enough to do it, we did it, and we did it intentionally. We did it willingly. We did it with all the strength and all the power and all the vigor we could do it with because we was bad. I I I'm talking about us. Bad choices we made. We made 'em. And at the time it seemed like the right thing. It felt right. It was that's what I want to do. Bad choices. Evil deeds, things we did to other people. I know y'all holy now and sanctified, set apart, Holy Ghost filled, fire, baptized, running for your life, got certificates on the wall and all that. But there was a time. When you did some things to some people and watch this, some of those people are still struggling today for the things you did to them We did it intentionally. Evil deeds. Hateful things. Hateful conversations, hateful things we posted up online, hateful letters we wrote, hateful attitudes we portrayed. We did it intentionally. Nobody forced you to do it. You were just bad enough to do it and you did it. That was your pass. But then there were some things that were done unto you. Some even when you were a child, some people spoke in your life and told you you will never be anything. There were people who told you you cannot achieve. You went to the counselor who you expected, the school counselor to be the person who is going to help you to direct your future. And they told you you would be no more than a than a retail worker. But but counselor, I I thought maybe I could be a doctor, maybe I could be, maybe I could be a lawyer, maybe I could be an accountant. No, no, no, no, not from your background. You you you you take this program right here and this program will get you a clerk job and you can be a clerk for the next 40 years and and that's all you're going to achieve and they messed your life up. You retired thirty-five years later as a GS4. Because somebody spoke into your life and told you what you could achieve instead of you listening and letting God direct your footsteps. I'm talking to you this morning. There are things that folk did to you. There are hateful things and unspeakable things that people did to you. They abused you in ways that we don't even want to talk about this morning. And they have affected you and they're impacting you and they're still troubling you today, and they're hindering you from achieving your full potential in Christ Jesus. Things you're ashamed of, things that you don't want anybody else to know. You haven't spoken to anybody about it. You haven't shared it with anybody, if at all. And these things of our past, the enemy will use them to condemn us to a limited achievement in the Lord. And even in church life, can I can I really say this? Even in church life, we're afraid that if the people in the church find out about my past, they'll never let me do this. They'll never let me do that. And so our past has become a cage, it's become a trap, it's become a holding ground to keep us from achieving our full potential in Christ Jesus. But as I look at this text this morning, I want to try to open it up to speak to us from the idea of freedom from your past. Freedom from your past. Now, this woman in the text Is caught in the act of adultery. It is believed to be festival time and And she no doubt has a history of this kind of behavior. Nothing in the text suggests that she's a first-time offender. In fact, the scribes and the Pharisees knew exactly where to go get her. Probably for a couple of reasons. They knew. Yeah, all the sc the church leaders. They knew where The adulterer hung out at the very time that Jesus was in the temple teaching. But as I looked at this text, as the scribes and Pharisees brought this woman and her past to the temple to condemn her. The text proves out, not only for them but for you and I, that the people cannot condemn you. Stay here with me. For the people in the text did all they could to condemn her, but the people could not condemn her The scribes and the Pharisees, they they they they they sought to uh condemn this woman through public humiliation, first of all. Stay here with me. Here is Jesus in the temple. Just like I'm here at this morning in the sanctuary and I'm preaching, and in the middle of him preaching, in the middle of him, he's sitting down, he's talking, he's teaching. In the middle of him preaching, they the the the church leaders bring in this woman, frazzled and no doubt sh sh you know kind of scuttled, and they put her in the middle of The temple with all the people who have come to worship and to s to hear the word of God. And they say, Jesus, hold up. Interrupt his sermon. We caught this woman in the very act of adultery. Now imagine if that's you. Now we know you don't want anybody to know you ever committed adultery or fornication or sex without or beyond or outside of marriage. You don't want anybody to know that but just so happened it happens on this Sunday that they caught you in the very act and they brought you and set you in front of the church. That's what they do to this woman. And they want to humiliate her and condemn her through humiliation. And so they present her case. They present all the charges against her to the entire they presented to Jesus, but in front of everybody. And so I as I looked at that, I said, you know, this is just like people. People always want to flush out your sin in front of everybody else They always want to post what you have done online, on Facebook, on Instagram, and Twitter. They want to talk bad about you. Hush-hush and shh and shh shh around the church and let everybody in church know what you've done. To condemn you and to To watch this, and to use your past as a weapon against you for you achieving anything greater in Christ Jesus. Lord help us here. I I I see the I see the church, I see the world in this text uh uh taking someone who's who's caught in the act of sin and and blowing it up in front of everybody So that everybody can know and I can publicly humiliate this person for the sin that they've done And for the life that they live, for the past actions that they've been involved in, and so they do to this woman. And then secondly. They, if I if I could pick up a little bit further, it says they said to him, Teacher, this woman was caught in the in adultery in the very act. And then they say, Moses. This is the church leaders. They like they know the Bible. Now, now Moses in the law commanded us that such should be stoned, but what do you say? Now I'm gonna get to this in a moment, but they're really trying to test Jesus, but in the interim, they're trying to condemn the woman. So they're trying to condemn her through public humiliation, but they're also trying to condemn her through the law. The law says, as a result of this sin, as a result of her past, as a result of what she's done, she ought to be stoned to death. That's what the law says. And so they bring that to Jesus. And but the problem is, is there They're not applying the law the way the law is written. They're partially applying the law so that they can exalt themselves and humiliate and degrade her. I'm talking the way people operate today. They'll use the scripture to degrade you and to condemn you while they're trying to exalt themselves to make themselves look better as if they're doing better than you are. The law doesn't just say bring the woman and stone her. No, you gotta go back to Deuteronomy chapter 22 and 22, Leviticus chapter 20 and verse 10. And the Bible says that that both the man and the woman are to be stoned to death, but they only brought the woman. Ain't that interesting? Isn't it interesting how people want to bring your past up and condemn you based on your past? But everybody else who's done the same thing gets to float away and have no condemnation at all. But the people are doing all they can to condemn the woman, but they can't condemn her. Why? The people want to condemn her based on what she's done, and they want to condemn her On the partial law, not cold law, but the reason why they can't do it is because watch this. Their how do I say this? Their attempt at condemning her with part of the law is proof. That they are guilty of the same thing. Y'all still here with me? See, they only they only brought her. They didn't bring the man. She couldn't commit adultery by herself. I wish I could talk to some churches this morning. Don't just be looking at the girl funny because her belly is popped out, and the guy get to walk off and be peachy keen and still serve on the deacon ministry and still be a preacher and still sing in the choir and playing the instruments and usher at the door. Why you telling a woman you gotta sit down, you can't do nothing. No, no, no. If you're gonna use the law, bring the whole law Stone 'em both. That's what the text say is. But the people they want to condemn her and ignore the sin of the man in this case. And I'm going to suggest, I'm going to throw this out as a suggestion. Forgive me if I'm wrong. But they want they want to condemn her for her adultery, but they don't want to raise the reality that they perhaps have been involved with her also. So they they they they they want to do that but they can't. They can't do it. Verse 6 says, This they said, testing him, that they might have something of which to accuse him. That's Jesus. Watch this. And I want you to see something about this about your past. See, people want to condemn you of your past not because of you. It feels like it's personal. But they really want to accuse Jesus, who loves you. Watch this. See, they they don't even know it, but the enemy is using them. To try to condemn you for what you did 10 years ago, 15 years ago, five minutes ago, an hour ago. The enemy is going to use them To try to put all your stuff out there to try to humiliate you, to try to talk bad about you. But they're really, the enemy's not really, he don't really care about you. He really wants to humiliate Jesus For loving you the way he did and dying for you on the cross like he did. And then the first thing they're gonna say, she's supposed to be a Christian He's supposed to be a man of God. They do it to condemn Jesus To accuse him so they can have an accusation against Jesus. To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministries of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Bucas Sterling III. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title and broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us for one of our Spirit-filled worship services Sundays at the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Bucas Sterling III, and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Beginning Sunday, January 2nd, 2022, The new service times for adult Sunday School, New Members Class, and Young Adult Power Hour will be 8. 45 a. m. to 9. 45 a. m. The new service times for in-person worship service, children's church, and nursery will be 10 a. m. Continue to connect with us in-person or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.