Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to John chapter 10, verse 27. The word of God reads as follows: My sheep hear my voice. And I know them, and they follow me, and I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish Neither shall anyone snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all. And no one is able to snatch them out of my father's hand. I and my father are one. Father, in the name of Jesus, come before you on this morning. I stand in need of you. We've come, God, with all measure of burdens on our shoulders and all measure of life circumstances we're facing. But we come to the one who's able to do something about it, and we've come to cry out to your name. Father, I'm praying that you would use me as a vessel in your hand today to accomplish your will. In such a way, Lord, that if there's anybody that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, that today would be the day That they surrender their heart to you. Lord, I'm praying on this morning as I stand to declare your word that you would open up this word on today, God, that it might edify this body. We might be the wiser, the more inclined to know who you are and know more about you because we've set through this experience of hearing your word. Father, in the name of Jesus. Somehow I feel that there is oppression in this place. And I'm praying, God, that you would bind up every spirit that's not like you. That you would remove it from this place and from our presence, that even now, God, as the word goes forward, that it would come forward in such a way that it would speak life to those that are lifeless. God, that it would change the circumstance, that the power of the word of God might cause change to happen in our midst. Spirit of the Lord, I'm crying out to you on this morning because I know you have all the power and I know that you're able and capable of doing anything but failing. So even now, God, as I stand here, use me as an instrument in your hand, strengthen my body, give me the clarity of thought and speech that I might say what thus saith the Lord: speak in this place, God. And when it's all said and done, we'll give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise for you, Lord, are worthy of it all. It's in Jesus' name I pray. The people of God say it together, Amen. Katerin on last Sunday we began a series of messages entitled, Are You Sure? We looked at, just really taking an evaluation of reconciliation. Have I been reconciled to God? And so we walk through the text also in John chapter 10, and we saw there in the text that first of all, he is the way. And not only is he the way, but he's the truth. And he came back and said, I am also the life. And so I want to keep building on this, if I can say, evaluation process because I believe That in order for us to be sure, uh it is helpful for us to go through a series of evaluations. Uh on last week we looked at the evaluation of The uh reconciliation. On this week, I want to look at the evaluation of the relationship. One of the things I've come to realize is that in relationships, we oftentimes don't evaluate them until there's problems. Once you get into an argument, having spoken to the other person for a week or two, now we want to evaluate the relationship. When I'm going through premarital counseling with couples, I oftentimes encourage them to make sure you have a season of evaluation, not on your anniversary. Because it might not make for a happy anniversary Matter of fact, you've got some relationships with some people in your life right now that are toxic, but you have not really evaluated them. You just don't really like it. There are some some relationships that you have, and it might even be your marriage that really needs to have some honest, transparent Conversation before the argument happens. So as we delve into this whole idea of being sure I want to do an evaluation. I want us to go through this process of evaluating our relationship with God. Because when we're in a relationship with someone, we typically want to feel safe. We want to feel loved, cared for, protected. We want to feel like we're seen, and we want some reciprocal Benefits to the relationships. Are you sure about your relationship with God? Because a matter of fact, what kind of relationship is it? Is it a good relationship? Is it a toxic relationship? Is it a personal relationship? Is it a stable relationship? Is it an intimate relationship? So a lot of times when people say I know God, they they are talking about the level and the distance of the relationship. They don't say I have a personal, intimate relationship. I say yeah, I know I know God. That speaks of the distance of the relationship. So in this text, Jesus speaking here says, he makes this very powerful statement about the relationship that he has with his sheep. He says My sheep hear my voice. Here's the question about evaluating your relationship with him. Do you hear his voice? Do you hear his voice? Jesus says, my sheep, whom I have a relationship with, they hear My voice. And when he utilizes this word here, he's literally speaking of listening They listen. Now, the reason why I need I need to walk you past our high-level translation which only says hear, because I know and you know, sometimes we hear, but we're not listening. And the reason why oftentimes we can't hear from God is because our attention is on something else. And so the question is here, because Jesus says, My sheep hear my voice, they listen To my voice and watch this. And the idea is not just listening, but also responding. In other words, they do what I ask of them. So if you're evaluating your relationship with the Lord, it's to see to determine, do I even have a relationship, ask yourself the question, do I hear his voice? Do I listen? Am I responding? Do I do what he asked me to do? It speaks literally. of the level of intimacy in the relationship when he says, My sheep hear my voice. I know on the surface it doesn't seem like an intimate thing, but this is a really an intimacy Call because he says one, he says, my sheep. These are the ones who I am in relationship with. They They hear my voice when I call them. And in the shepherding process, this is something that we're probably not as familiar with here. uh in in the suburban Maryland area because we don't really raise sheep and we're not familiar with sheep. Even literally in the and and what Jesus is In his conversation here, he's talking to people who are familiar with shepherding. And so he knows that a shepherd makes a sound and a noise and a voice. His voice is so in tune to the hearing of his sheep that you can have three flocks of sheep together, but when the one shepherd comes and he calls out his sheep, his sheep will leave the other two Flocks of sheep and only his sheep will follow him. I know y'all thought I was talking about historical shepherding, but I'm talking about your life. I'm talking about examining. Do I hear his voice? Do am I listening to him or am I listening to another? Is it his voice that I seek out or is it somebody on the internet? Is it some famous writer? Is it some man? Is it some woman? Is it some other thing that's garnering my attention? Because where your attention is, that's where your heart is, and that's where your relationship is. Who are you listening to? Who whose voice are you locked into when you that you have to hear? Romans chapter 8, uh verse 14 and through 16. It says, for as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of bondage again. To fear, but you receive the spirit of adoption by whom we cry out, Abba Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness to our spirit that we are children of God. Now listen, I want to point out two things here. Verse 14 says, For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God. You can't be led by the by the Spirit of God, except and unless you can hear the Spirit of God. Secondly, he says here in the text, I think in verse 16, he says The Spirit, that is the Holy Spirit, bears witness. That means they have a conversation with your spirit. That is, those who are the children of God. Now, if the Holy Spirit is talking and you and your spirit can't hear, that means you're not his. But the Holy Spirit confirms with us that we are his children. Because the Holy Spirit bears witness, has a witnessing conversation. In other words, the Holy Spirit says, you belong to God It's settled in your spirit. I know I'm a child of God. I know I've got a relationship with God. Why? Because I can hear Him and I obey Him and I love Him. So the first step of evaluating your relationship is do you hear his voice? Second thing he says here in John chapter 10, verse 27, he says, and I know them. Now, I need to dig down a little deeper in this because when we talk about the when we use this word no, there are a variety of ways to understand no. Because I might say. I say, you know Yolanda Adams? She said, Yeah, I know Yolanda Adams. When last time y'all hung out? Where she live. So that's that's no from a distance. I I have knowledge of them. That's not what Jesus is saying. That's not the kind of know he's talking about. The word here is the Greek word gnosko. It means I have knowledge of you beyond the facts. There's an a level of intimacy. There's a there's a connection of knowledge here in the text. And and and can I can I just um relate this to relationships when we have relationships with people we we know them First of all, from a distance, and as we as we interact and exchange, we get to know them even more as they uncover and reveal more about themselves. Can I talk to some people for real? Some of the challenges in your relationships that you have, even in your marriages, is that you're not willing to uncover. So you got secrets But relationally, I ought to be comfortable enough to undress in front of God who already knows me. I hope for those of you who've been married for a little while, you ain't scared to undress in front of your spouse. Because they seen you before. And guess what? And the Lord knows us. So we shouldn't be timid about undressing in front of Him because it enhances our intimacy with Him. And so when He says, I know them It's because we've had an interaction of intimacy that not only have I, watch this, I've exposed myself to them, but they've also exposed themselves to me. So as we evaluate our relationship with God, does he know you? Matthew seven says, Not everyone who says To me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he who does my will or does the will of my father There will be many that will come unto me in that day and say, Lord, have I not prophesied in your name? Have I not cast out demons in your name? Have I not done great many works in your name? And he will say, Depart from me, I never knew you So he can have the omniscient knowledge of you, but not have the intimate knowledge of you. This is where we evaluate the relationship with God. Is there a relationship that we have, or is there some distant thing happening here where I just know about him and he knows about me and he knows me, but I'm not sharing nothing with him? Because I'm shamed or embarrassed or whatever it is. The question about our relationship, does he know you? And are you sure about it? If you look at verse 14, Jesus says, I'm the good shepherd, and I know my sheep, and I am known by my own. So not only do I know them, but they know me. Jesus says, My sheep hear my voice, my sheep know me. And finally he says, they follow me. Verse 27. They follow after me. They they obey me. They walk where I tell them to walk. It is an exclusivity in this relationship. They're not just following everybody and anybody. They're following me. They only follow me because they only can hear me. They only follow me because we've got an intimate and locked-in relationship. And the question here that you may want to ask yourself is, do you follow him? Or are you following him and other folks too? Who is it that you're following? My sheep, he says, they follow me, and they won't follow another. He's teaching me in my committed relationship with him how to remain to To the point of what I committed myself to. What I said, Lord, I'm committed to you. I surrender myself to you. My relationship with God is teaching me how to be faithful in my relationships with my wife. It's teaching me how to be faithful in my relationship with you as a congregation. Pastor, how do I how do I become a follower? So what is a follower? How do I evaluate if I'm a follower of Jesus? I'm glad you asked. Luke chapter 9, I think it's verse 23, says, If any man come after me, let him deny himself. Take up his cross daily and follow me. So here's the question if you want to evaluate, if you're following Jesus. See if you're denying yourself or you're carrying your cross every day. Because my sheep Are denying themselves and they're taking up their cross daily and they're following me, which means there's some other people that are following, but they don't have a cross, and they're not denying themselves. Those ain't my sheep. So as I evaluate my relationship, am I carrying my own cross as I follow him Am I bearing up under the weight of it so that I can deny me for my love relationship with him? And for us, as what we're what's happening in the relationship with us and God, we're revealing to God how we've changed Lord, I used to be angry. I used to be mad, but God, look at how I've allowed your Holy Spirit to control me. And now I don't get angry as much as I used to. I don't cuss as much as I used to. I don't drink no more. I don't smoke no more. I'm I'm not chasing men and women no more. Lord look, I've grown and we're telling God about that and we're showing it to him. And he's he's he's he's He's celebrating it on. He's he's happy about that because all of my surrenders, all of my denyings of myself is saying to him, Lord, I surrender even more to you, I love you even more. And the more you surrender to him, watch this, the more he reveals himself to you. There are things that you will only learn about God when you deny who you are. He's the person and we've been created in his image and after his likeness. And guess what? Somebody ain't gonna walk up on you and say, hey, tell me all your business. What you gonna do? You better get out of my face You know, I know my business. But now as you get into a relationship with them, you begin to disclose a little bit more, a little bit more, a little bit more, right? You tell them a little bit more, a little bit more as you as you get into the relationship. Well, God is the same way. God only reveals so much to us until we get closer to Him. And when we get closer to Him and we start unraveling and unexposing ourselves as well. And says, okay, Lord, okay, here I am, this is where I'm dealing with. And as we begin to do that, then God says, okay, you've drawn closer because you've taken off some things that were offensive to me. Some sin issues. And then as we remove some of those things, it allows us to draw a little closer to him. And as you get closer, watch this: it's not that he has changed, it's just that you can see better. The closer you get to him, the better you can see him. And the better you can understand him. And the more he reveals to you about himself. And there's There's some levels that you're never going to get to until you start taking off some of the stuff you are dealing with right now. God is not just going to sit there and say, come on, and and oh I'm gonna I'm gonna get Completely deeply intimate with you and you have not walked away from sin. That's just not gonna happen Yes, he will he will forgive you of your sin, but if you want the depth of a relationship, that takes work. That takes surrender. But here's the good news: He doesn't he doesn't call upon you to do it by yourself. He put his Holy Spirit in you, and if you're willing to let the Holy Spirit do it, it'll help you draw closer to God. And you'll follow him. Because my sheep follow me. And in our relationship with God, Jesus says. Those who are mine and who are in relationship with me, there are benefits. I give them eternal life. It's right here in the text. He says verse 28, I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Why? Because I am the life I give them life for how long? Eternal. Somebody want to know. Well, can you lose this thing? No, this is a relationship you can't lose because I connected you for eternity to God. I give them eternal life and they will never perish. Those who my father have given to me, they're in my hands. No one can snatch them out of my hand. I'm secure in him and I'm sure. This is how I'm sure I'm sure because I'm in his hands and nobody can pluck me out of his hands. You can't go to heaven and accuse me of nothing Because I'm not going to get snatched out of his hand. The devil cannot point his finger at me for nothing I've done because I'm in his hands The devil can't pluck me out. You can't pluck me out. Nobody can pluck me out. I am safe in the hands of Jesus. I'm safe. I'm protected. Yes, sir. I'm in the hands of Jesus. And if that's not good enough for you, let me take you to another deeper level. He says. My father who has given to me is greater than I, and no one is able to snatch them out of my father's hands That's one of the benefits of this relationship. And we can be sure about the security of them because Jesus is declaring it right here. He comes back and he tells you, he says, I and my father are one. I'm secure. I'm safe. And guess what? As it relates to my relationship with God Here's the questions. Do I hear his voice? Yes. Does he know me? Yes. Do I follow him? Yes. Do I have a relationship with him? I'm sure about it. And I got benefits on top of that I'm trying to help us to get under the surface of just saying I know about him or that I go to church. That's not an eternal relationship. The relationship that God wants us to have with Him is personal. It's intimate It's where we exchange conversation and we enjoy spending time with each other. I would challenge you on this week, even in that area, how much time are you spending with him? How much time are y'all talking to each other? I think it's worth investing my whole life into. I don't know how y'all feel. But it's just an evaluation of the relationship. Be reconciled to him. Be reconnected to him spiritually. So that you can begin the relationship, a real, true, eternal relationship with God. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Servic Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He said down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.