Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Lamentation chapter 3, and we'll begin at verse 27. The word of the Lord reads, it is good for a man to bear the yoke of his youth. Let him sit alone and keep silent, because God has laid it on him. Let him put his mouth in the dust. There may yet be hope. Let him give his cheek to the one who strikes him and be full of reproach. For the Lord will not cast off forever, though he causes grief, yet he will show compassion according to the multitude of his mercies For he does not afflict willingly nor grieve the children of men to crush under one's feet all the prisoners of the earth. To turn aside the just this do a man before the face of the Most High, or subvert a man in his cause, the Lord does not approve. Who is he who speaks and it comes to pass when the Lord has not commanded it? Is it not from the mouth of the Most High that woe and well-beings proceed? Why should a living man complain, a man, for the punishment of his sins? Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we need you in this preaching hour that you might declare clearly what uh and how you want to speak to your people. We do stand in need of you, Lord, as we attempt to grow to be more like you. Some God need to hear a word, Lord God, that will encourage them. Some need to hear a word that will draw them back to you Some God need to hear this word that they might come to know you as Lord and Savior of their life. I'm praying, God, even now, that you would save someone who's lost. Reclaim someone who's drifting and encourage and edify this body. Father, above and beyond all else that is done in this place, it is my prayer that you would glorify yourself. For you alone are worthy of all the praise, all the honor, and all the glory. Father, I stand in need of you myself as I stand as a vessel of clay in need of a power and spirit of a living God. For there is nothing worthy of my mouth but that which comes out from you. So speak, Lord, in this place. I yield myself as a vessel in your hand, accomplish your will through me, and I'll give your name all the glory and all the honor. In all the praise. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We began this short series of messages in Lamentations chapter 3 on last Sunday. Um we spoke there from the subject matter. Great is his faithfulness. As we look through this first portion of Lamentations chapter three, we Saw Jeremiah remembering God's wrath as he was watching and witnessing all that was taking place. And we saw him come to a place where he recalled to his mind the God's mercy. And finally, we saw there was rejoicing in God's faithfulness. Because despite the fact that God does bring wrath, and God is a God of judgment, he's a God of mercy. He's a faithful God in all that he does. His mercies don't give up on you. They don't fail. Amen. Jeremiah shares with us what it takes to endure the judgment of God. I want to talk to you from the subject matter what you need to understand to survive God's punishment. Let me start by saying everything that happens to you is not necessarily God's punishment. But on the other hand, There are some things that happen to you and I both that are indeed the judgment hand of God. He is a God of judgment and he is a God of love and kindness and all those things. But he's all see, sometimes I think we we get so caught up in his love that we forget he's a god of wrath too. But Jeremiah lays out for us what we need to do to survive the punishments of God. The first thing he says to us is that we have to have the proper response to God's punishment. For it is good for a man to bear the yoke of in his youth and let him sit alone and keep silent because God has laid it on him. The proper response that Jeremiah begins with here in terms of our bonds to God's punishment is this, and I love it. Bear the yoke. In other words, deal with it. And in fact Jeremiah says do it while you're young. There's a few reasons I believe he says do it while you're young. One because It's easier to bear the judgment of God when you're young than when you're old. Two If you learn how to bear his judgments when you're young, perhaps you won't keep repeating the same, same, same thing. In other words, the reason why some children don't ever rectify their behavior is because their parents never correct them But if God is correcting you and you accept the correction while you're young, it'll modify your future behavior so you won't be acting like a fool when you get old. And so he says, look, as the judgment of God comes, bear it. Deal with it. Conform to it while you're young. If I don't shut my mouth and sit quietly and deal with the judgment of God, my mouth might put me in deeper danger with God. And in fact, the sin I've already committed might be compounded by the next sin that comes out of my mouth. Sometimes you just need to be quiet and deal with it. And that's what Jeremiah says: sit silently. And deal with it. Bear the yoke. You're already in trouble. Don't exacerbate your trouble by saying anything else He comes back and he says this is verse number 29, I think he says, let him put his mouth in the dust. That phrase really means just humble yourself. It's time not to complain. It's time not to point a finger and blame somebody else. No, it's time to be quiet, humble yourself, and put your mouth in the dirt. Imagine burying your mouth in the dirt. That means I ain't got nothing else to say. Because again, it is God who has laid this judgment on us. And please, whatever you do, don't blame somebody else. You're guilty as charged. I know this is really hard because none of us likes to accept guilt. But Jeremiah says the best way to survive the judgment of God is to deal with it, accept your punishment, and Keep your mouth solid, humble yourself and just admit I did it. Now, if God accuses you, you're guilty. Okay, can we agree with that? Because God's not gonna lie. The proper response, Jeremiah says, is is to humble yourself, bear the load, be quiet, accept the punishment. Verse 30 says, let him give his cheek to the one who strikes him. And be full of reproach. Because guess what? In the middle of all of the judgment of God, there still might be hope. Don't give up on hope. Accept the punishment. Man up. But I'm still hoping for a little mercy. Second thing I think he shares with us, if we're going to what we need to understand to survive the judgment or the punishment of God is to have the proper perspective of God's punishment. Because what is God doing? Verse 31 picks up and says, For the Lord will not cast off forever. It feels like he's cast you off, put you aside. It feels like he doesn't care about you, but he won't do it forever, Jeremiah says. He listen, Jeremiah is talking to a people whom he has already prophesied to over and over and over again They have laughed at him, they have mocked him, and now they're in the middle of the judgment. And they feel like, oh my God, God has abandoned us. And Jeremiah says God has not and will not abandon you forever. They're going to be in Babylonian captivity for seven zero years. And he says, Hey, look, God's judgment is not forever. And even to you and I, guess what? When God comes to judge, it's not forever. He has a season for your judgment. And if you bear your judgment well, if you humble yourself and accept the judgment that comes, you'll survive. But God does punish his people. We gotta accept that. But we live in a world now that is so self-indulgent. that all we want of the character of God is love and forgiveness. This is why we have movements That are exacerbating doctrine beyond scripture, that are surrounding the word love. And then they want to marry it to God and say this is of God because God is love and it's okay for you to love whoever you want to love. He says now that's not the only character of God. God also has a character of wrath and a character of judgment and a character of righteousness. And even in the character of his love is the discipline of his loved ones when they're outside of his law. Have mercy. Oh Jesus, when we step outside of what God has laid out for us, we are putting ourselves in position for His judgment. For his punishment. Because you've broken the law and you violated the standard, and there's punishment that comes with violating the standard. So God does punish. I just want y'all to know he's not just the love God. He's also the punish God. And he punishes because he loves And verse 31, it won't be forever. It may seem like he's putting you off forever, but it's not forever. Then he comes back in verse 32. He says, but he will show compassion. Though he causes grief, though God does bring punishment, though God does bring judgment, yet he will show compassion. And he does it according to the multitude of his mercies. God's mercies are so vast. They're unbelievable. They're undeserved. For he does not afflict willingly God doesn't just bring judgment on you and punishment on you for no reason. God does not enjoy punishing us So this is the verse 34. He says, he's not gonna try to crush you under his feet, like all prisoners of the earth. He's not trying to grieve the children of men for no reason at all. That's not who he is. He's not unjust. He's not unfair. He's not unfair either to turn aside the justice that's due. So he's not going to punish you when you didn't deserve it, but he's also not going to ignore it when you did. He's got consequences to your actions. God is just, and that's what Jeremiah wants us to see. He's a just God. He's a God that does punish, but he doesn't punish unjustly. I want to remind you something. The wages of sin is death. That means the just punishment for your sin is to die. Anything above death, you just got a bonus. He extended mercy to you because he loves you. So so he he's he's not unjust. He's not gonna overdo it, he's not gonna underdo it, but he'll do it according to his standard, not according to our standard. Here's the the the last thing I think that we need to understand to survive God's punishment. We need to know that God has the power over the woes and the well-beings of each one of us. It's right here in the text. Verse 37 picks up and it says, Who is he who speaks and it comes to pass when God has not commanded it? Is it not from the mouth of the Most High that woe and well-beings proceed? God Is the one who has the power over your life, your life, your life, and my life. When God speaks, it happens He has the power for us to live lives that are lives of well-being or lives of woe based on his punishment. Jeremiah is with the people, the children of Israel, right now in the midst of dealing with the woes of God because they disobeyed God. And so he's writing lamenting about where they are, but they are where they are because they failed To hear the warnings of God, they failed to turn back to the law of God, they failed to respect the God who had brought them out of Egypt And into the promised land, and so they thought they could do it their own way, but the mouth of God spoke against their way. While they were in the promised land, they were living the life of well-being. They were living in houses they didn't build. They were eating from vineyards they didn't plant. They were enjoying the milk and the honey of the land. And God was blessing them going out, and God was blessing them coming in, and God was watching over them and protecting them And keeping them from danger seen and unseen, and they had the audacity to turn their back on God and decide: I'm gonna do it my own way Jeremiah speaks to them. Judgment is coming. The word of God comes and says, turn around, or you will be put in judgment under a heathen nation. So your woe is getting ready to happen because of the mouth of God, because God has spoken it. But watch this: the the justness of God is that He warns them first. God doesn't just come jump in and hit you and knock you down and say judgment judgment judgment punishment punishment punishment No He warns you first Yes, he does. He will warn you time and time again. And it's up to you to say, Lord, I hear your warning and I'm turning around. We, like the children of Israel, are walking in promised land places. We've got salvation we didn't pay for. We've got guaranteed tickets to glory that we didn't die for, we didn't suffer for, we didn't bleed for, we didn't hang up for. Lord have mercy. We got jobs that we didn't qualify for. We got pensions that we really probably shouldn't even have. We've got positions and houses and homes and cars that we're not deserving of, but God Who is rich in mercy has poured blessing upon blessing upon blessing on your life. He's watched you go out, he's watched you come in, he's kept you through times danger, seen and unseen, and yet God sends warning, come back to me, or punishments coming your way. Now it's up to us. To either turn from our wickedness or to keep on going and get the punishment But I guarantee you God never ever punished you without warning you multiple times first. But we've got to understand this about the punishment of God. God is not He's not just out there just shooting darts at people. Looking for a reason to make your life miserable? No. He's trying to help us. And we need to understand, watch this, that it's me who has to stand account to God For what I do. And it's God who saw you. It's God whose eyes run to and fro. He don't miss nothing. He's not missing anything. You're not slipping nothing past him. It's God. And because he loves you, he allows you to get caught. And God is saying, look, I want you to be conform to the image of my son. That's what I'm after. I'm trying to bring you in and help. I'm not trying to hurt you. But it is God's power that makes the decision whether your life is well or whether your life is woe. And he says that. And then he asks this question. As I close, he says, why should a living man complain? A man who's dealing with the punishment of his sin. So, in essence, what this verse says is kind of poetically laid out. Why should a living man complain when the punishment he's receiving is because of his sin? How do you point the finger at God and call God unjust when He's warned you? When He sent a Jeremiah. In this case for Judah, Judah, God sent Jeremiah. He didn't just send Jeremiah, he sent other prophets. And y'all wouldn't listen to none of the prophets. So how how how do you complain about your punishment when God tried to protect you from what was coming? For the one who will be cast into the lake of fire to burn for eternity. How can that person complain when God has sent his word To tell them that the wages of sin is death and that not just being physical death, but eternal separation from God. How can that person complain when Jesus Christ stepped in from his position in glory Left heaven, came to earth, lived 33 years, died in the place of every single solitary human that had ever and would ever live, and shed his blood so that all of their sin could be washed away. How can you complain? How can you complain when God has done everything and provided opportunity for you so you don't have to be judged, so you don't have to be punished, so you don't have to go through the torment of hell and the lake of fire for eternity? How can that man complain? When finally he's cast into a lake of fire of brimst and brimstone where he's burning, where his flesh is burning every day, but never consumed. How dare and what right does he have then to complain? How do you complain when God has done everything to make it possible for you to live in heaven with Him, to have every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places imparted unto you? How do you complain when you've walked away from God. How do you complain when God is dealing with you and you're only receiving a portion? I ain't talk about all uh just a portion of the Of the consequences of the sin that you're into. How do you dare complain when God has blessed you with more than enough and you've squandered it, and now you're in a situation where you can't even pay your bills, you can't even handle your your situations of life. How dare you complain when God was warning you along the way and now you got a little baby running around and and you didn't really want a baby. You wasn't ready for how dare you complain when God gives punishment for what he warns you for. And how dare you stand and tell God, God, somehow you're wrong because you you didn't do it my way. God ain't doing it our way. No. God has the power. Over woes and wellness. And we have no right to complain. Because God is not unjust. He's not unfair. He's a God that's full of mercy and compassion. Passion. And even in his punishments, God is compassionate. If you've never trusted him as your Lord and your Savior And your sin is going to cause you to go to hell and and be ultimately cast into the lake of fire. And and if watch this. And if if I don't want that. It's okay to say, Lord, I'm guilty of that, but I don't want that. You you died for me, so I'll accept your gift that forgives me of all of my sin. Cleanses me of all my unrighteousness. I'll take that. But guess what? You'll never accept his gift. In place of your sin until you're willing to admit you sinned. So if you're still running and blaming other folk like it wasn't you, you lying and telling, oh no, that wasn't me, I don't know what you're talking about, you still act like that, you'll never get into heaven. Because the first step is I've got to acknowledge I'm a sinner. I'm guilty. I did it. And then I accept what Jesus did on my behalf. He took the punishment for me. He died for me. When they tied him to that post and they stripped him of his clothes, he offered his back for me and for you. He didn't run. He didn't complain. The Bible says he didn't even murmur a word. And he let them rip the flesh off of his back for me. Never complained. And watch this. He wasn't even guilty of anything. But he took it anyhow. He took it for me. He took it for you. And he He uttered not a word when they nailed him to that cross. Could have called a legion of angels to come and deliver him. He didn't say a word. He stayed there and died for you. For me. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass: the One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get. Get your podcasts