Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord from 2 Timothy beginning at chapter 2 and verse 1 reads like this. You therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. I really could just stop there because that's enough right there to carry us through. But he goes on to say, and the things that you have h heard and from me among many witnesses commit these To faithful men who will be able to teach others also. You therefore must endure hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. For no one engaged in warfare entangles himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who enlisted him as a soldier. And also, if anyone competes in uh athletics, he is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules. The hard-working farmer must first partake of the crops. Consider what I say, and may the Lord give you understanding in all things. Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead, according to my gospel. For which I suffer trouble as an evildoer, even to the point of chains. But the word of God is not chained. Somebody should have shouted right about there. And therefore I endure all things for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we honor you, we bless you, we thank you for this day bringing us to the pages of this text. And Lord, it is my prayer that you would speak clearly through the preaching of the gospel, a word that might encourage someone today, that their head might be lifted up. That their heart might be encouraged. I pray that you might save someone who's lost, reclaim someone who's drifted in their fellowship. Speak clearly to someone who came saying, I just need to hear from God. Speak, Lord. Lord, I yield myself as an instrument in your hand, that your will might be accomplished and that your name might be exalted in this place. I need you, God. Use me. Strengthen me. Direct me. Allow me to have clarity of thought and speech. That the power of your word might begin to change and transform lives in this place. And through all who hear, in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Amen Praise the Lord. In the busyness and unpredictability of life that we are dealing with today. There's a new phrase that has become popularized to try to articulate uh and give an explanation for a feeling uh one experiences when they realize that Life has a journey of its own. The phrase is life be life in. Life be life and says that life does what it wants to do. And we can't control it. It reminds us that we are subject to some variables that are outside of our control. And life just keeps bringing them, doesn't it? I wish I had a witness that that new life just be life in. I know to the senior population, like Pastor, that's not good English. This is what they be saying. But the idea is to try to understand, to try to articulate that I am being hit by one thing after another after another, and this is just life. So life just keeps doing what it does. It keeps bringing to me some circumstances that I thought I had control of. I wish I had somebody that would tell me. I thought I had control of, but life proved to me I didn't have any control over that at all. Life keeps happening in a way that Things that I thought I was past and I thought I got beyond. They just keep circling around and coming. And matter of fact, life has a way that it just keeps hitting me one thing after another after another after another. Life just be life in. And so this phrase has become popularized amongst many today and in the process of all that is going on and all that we're facing and uh in our country in our world a lot of people have a lot of stress about that am i going to be making money next year or am i gonna be losing money people got all kind of stress they stressed out about it they they You know, that they they press to the to the max. They losing sleep over it. They their blood pressure is high. Amen. I'm trying to help somebody. Life be life and you can't control this. It's in the hands of the Lord. Y'all do know that. Now, what I'm not saying is I'm not saying don't vote. Go, yeah, go vote. Exercise your right to vote, but the but the results, uh, are in the hands of the Lord And uh Amen. And and he has the government on his shoulders. Amen. Praise the Lord. That's the word of God. I ain't making up stuff for you. That's that's just the scripture. Uh I'm not talking politics because that ain't my thing. Um but I but I will say that in the process of us dealing with the political life and agendas and the election and the weather and the crime and uh the the economic situations that we might or might not be struggling through and and all the weariness of life dealing with children and this and that and the other and All the stuff, I mean it's just so much noise going on in our lives that sometimes it's difficult to hear a voice from God. I mean we just crowded out with one area of noise after another area of noise, another area of concern after another area of concern. And so It's helpful sometimes just to be able to hear from God. And it's a struggle, if I can be honest with you, sometimes it's a struggle to hear from God because everything else seems to be so loud. But I want to talk to you in this text on this morning from the subject matter, A Whisper of Grace. When life be life. Because what I've learned sometimes when things are loud and there's a lot of noise going on, sometimes oddly enough, it's easy to hear a whisper. And so I think what Paul does in the process of this text as he is to encourage his young preacher Timothy, who is stressed out. who's learning that life be life and he's dealing with his perhaps disappointment or frustration in his calling to ministry. As his mentor, Paul, is locked up in prison for preaching the gospel, that now he's found himself called to. Imagine that. Here you are called to preach the gospel, but the person that mentored you is locked up for preaching the very thing. And then additionally, it seems from the text that uh Timothy is also dealing with some disrespect from some folk because of his age. He's been called, but they don't respect him because he's young, and Paul needs to encourage him in that too. And perhaps there's a number of other things that are going on here in Timothy's life, and he's realizing that life is stressing me out, and he needs some encouragement. And so Paul writes, in essence, this letter as a whisper. In the middle of all of his noise, to say to Timothy, Timothy, be encouraged, be encouraged, be encouraged, and endure the afflictions and the trials be In this manner. And so he lays out for us the ways in which Timothy is to endure the challenges of life. So this morning, if y'all walk with me for a while and pray with me, I believe God will help us to perhaps hear a whisper of grace when life be life for us. Amen, somebody. The first thing that the Apostle Paul says to Timothy, he says, You therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Is anybody in here going through anything that might need a little encouragement? Oh, it's about ten of y'all. Okay, I see. Oh, it's look my counting is off. I see. Yeah. So so I might be preaching to the right congregation on this morning. Seeing that there's a few of you going through some things. And so listen to this. Listen to this again, what Paul says to Timothy. He says, You therefore, my son. Be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. If I can walk through this, I hear him saying, endure in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. endured the trial, the tribulation, the trouble, the stress that you're having in your life. Do it, go through it, press your way through it in the grace that is in Christ Jesus and I know I need to unpack this because we need to figure out where the door is, how to get in him and all that, and we gotta we I saw walk with me. The kind of grace that we're talking about, because the question may arise, what what kind of grace is in Christ Jesus And I'm glad that that question pops to your mind because I've got an answer for you. If I can read for you chapter 1, verse 8 and 9, it says, therefore Do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me, he's talking to Timothy, uh his uh his prisoner, but share with me. In the sufferings of the gospel, according to the power of God, who has saved us and called us with a holy calling. Not according to the works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us, listen to this, in Christ Jesus Before time began. Lord have mercy. I'm gonna get messed up here. What Paul is saying to Timothy, and I'm I want to articulate to you, is that the grace that he's calling you to endure in. Is a grace that was given to us before time began. Lord have mercy. Before your situation came up. Before life started life in your direction, God had already Before he stepped out of nowhere, stood on nothing, and called everything into existence, God had already measured out grace for your situation. I'm trying to help you right here. I'm trying to help you to see the eternality of God uh was was conscious in the temporal time frames of your human life to think about what you would need before it even came up as a need. Lord help me Jesus. I'm trying to explain this thing. So uh he's he's he's he says to him don't don't be ashamed of God But this grace that we have in Christ Jesus was there long before we even needed it. And before time even began, I I don't know how my mind can't even wrap around that. That God, before time began Put grace in Christ so that I could experience the grace When all of hell breaks loose in my life. Wait a minute, wait, wait, wait. And watch this. And when we talk about grace, because I know some of you might not even know what that is, grace is favor from God. That you and I don't deserve. Help me, Jesus. So I don't have to qualify. For the help and the support and the rescue from God that He before time began already measured out so that he could come my way. Lord Jesus. This grace that he talks about, this this grace was there before time, and it was it was there not to match your situation. Lord help me God. So in other words, you're saying, well, Pastor, I got a small situation here that's going on, and you know, I need some grace to deal with my small situation But listen, let me tell you about grace. Grace never comes to match your situation. Grace always comes to exceed your situation. Lord help me, Jesus. In other words, his grace is always more than sufficient. Do I have any witnesses that know I'm telling the truth It doesn't come just to say let me let me match up with you. No, grace comes like a river that's overflowing after a storm And it's coming your way in such a way that it plows through you. Lord, help me, Jesus. And when you get washed downstream by the grace of God, you wake up, shake yourself, and say, I don't know how I made it. But had it not been for the grace of God, where would I be? I wish I had somebody that understood That God measured it out, Lord have mercy, way more than we needed before time began. And He pours it out in such a way that it exceeds every need you have. Mm-mm-mm. He says, now I need you, Timothy. I need you to endure in the grace that was in Christ Jesus, the same grace that was in Christ Jesus when he walked the earth. The same grace that was in Christ Jesus before God said, let there be light. The same grace That was in him. Timothy, I I need you to endure. I need you to, I need you to how do I say this? I I need you to bear the burden. Watch this. But you're not bearing it alone, Timothy. This idea of what Paul is calling Timothy to is to join me in suffering. To join me in going through. Whoo, Lord help me, God. And so I want to say to you, join me, Ketterin, in going through. Because you ain't the only one going through. Help me, God. Because of the calling that we have as children of the most high God, in this life we will suffer. I know you think Pastor Sterling don't go through nothing. He the pastor. God got a special anointing on him. But let me tell you something: that special anointing attracts special attention. It attracts special attention from a unsavory place, from spiritual wickedness in heavenly places that's targeted my way Because I've got that special anointing. Oh, yeah. Pastor Sterling goes through some troubles. Pastor Sterling goes through some trials. Sister Sterling goes through trials and tribulations. But we want you to join us. In the suffering, that's what Paul is saying to Timothy, join me in my suffering. But watch this, but we know we're gonna come through it. Because of the grace that was prepared for us before time began. Lord help me, Jesus. I know it feels like you're going under, but I want to tell you, God has already poured out enough grace. To make sure you will arrive on the other side. Lord, help me. All you've got to do is make it up in your mind. I'm going to endure. I'm going to hold on till my change comes. I'm going to keep pressing my way through. Lord help me till God breaks through. Because I know he's got a plan for me. And what I'm going through is preparing me, Lord help me, for what's coming down the road. And so we're going to just go through this thing together. Is that all right? So Paul says, look, when life be life, you keep enduring. When patience be parting you, you just keep on enduring. When strength is slipping away, you keep on enduring. When finances are failing and family is falling apart. You keep on enduring, and we're gonna endure this thing in the grace of Christ Jesus, not on our own strength. I can't make it in my own strength. You can't make it in your own strength. The life that be life in is going to take us out if we try it in our own strength. That's why Paul says to Timothy, Timothy, I need you to endure in the grace that has been provided by God before time began. So in other words, we will make it. Are y'all still here? He comes back and he says to him, he says, look, this grace that I'm calling you into is watch this, it is the empowerment of God. To press on even when you don't feel like you can press on. I don't know. I saw a few hands earlier today. So I'm assuming that there are some people who have Gotten up at various times and days and maybe even today was one of those days and you felt like, you know what? I I just can't take this no more I I you know, you like you like Popeye. You know Popeye, you know, used to open he says, you know, I'd about taking all I can stand and I can't take no more. Sometimes life be life, and then it gets us to the place where we just feel like you know what I can't take no more. And that's when you have honest conversational prayers with God. You know, all the other time you'd be like, Lord, now lay me down to sleep. Now I'm praying the Lord my soul to keep If I die before I wake, pray the Lord my soul to take. You pray like that when you ain't having no trouble. When you haven't trouble and when you get to the point where you feel like you know what I can't take no more, we start having some honest conversations with God Can I just be honest with us on today? We start talking to God like this, Lord, if you don't do something, I'm gonna hurt somebody. We say stuff like we're gonna I'm gonna lose my religion. God, you need to come through. I don't know, I don't know how I'm going to make it, but I I know if you don't come through, I'm gonna make it. And we start having honest conversations with God, and we start talking to God and saying, Lord, this is too much for me to bear. I've been carrying this weight too long. I can't handle this, God. And we start having conversations like that with God. And He hears us. He knows. But the grace of God comes along to give you just enough to make it another day. Just enough not to throw in the towel. Just enough not To say I quit, just enough to say, Lord, I'm gonna see what the end is gonna be. And grace just keeps coming every day. And as a matter of fact, if you look at your situations You probably can look back and say, you know what, I remember three years ago when I was dealing with this or that, and now here I am three years later, I I I came through that. That was that's in the past now, and and I made it through that, and I made it through this, and I made it through that other. Well, that was grace that carried you. It was the vehicle that picked you up when you couldn't carry yourself And it carried you every day. And a day and a day. I don't know if they actually coined it. Uh Alcoholics Anonymous has this saying, one day at a time. Um, you know, you only and I always you know wanna tell people you only get one day at a time. You know, God doesn't give you two days at a time. He says one day at a time. That's all you're getting. But the grace of God is poured out in our direction such that I can still make it when I don't feel like I can. Lord help me Jesus. And he says, Paul says to Timothy, Timothy, now what I need you to do, Timothy, I need you to teach this to others so they can teach it to others. Why would he say that? Now, understandably, there is a context here of Timothy being a preacher, and so we would automatically assume that the whole of what Paul is saying is Paul's just saying, you know, you preach the word and teach the word, which he he is literally, you do need to preach the word and teach the word. But in the context of this encouragement, he needs Timothy to teach others to watch this, to endure. In the grace of God that was prepared for them before time began. Because, watch this, because Timothy as a pastor won't be there all the time to be able to encourage everybody. Y'all still here with me? So as the pastor, I need to tell Andre. So Andre learns it, and then Andre needs to teach somebody else so they can learn it. And then somebody else keeps teaching somebody else. And before you know it, we all get it Y'all still here? Let me read for you. He says, These things that you have heard from me among many witnesses, commit these to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. So to watch this. So that when we have to endure, because in this particular period of time, Christians were enduring at a level that we have never seen in the United States. So they they could lose their life for being declaring, I am a follower of Christ. We we've never had that. But Paul says, I need you to teach others that can teach others. So we all need to know in the body of Christ how to endure suffering. Have you ever had a friend call you who was going through something and they wanted your advice as to how to make it? That never happened to y'all? I'm sure it has. And you might not have had any good answer for them. But because they ask you, you gave them an answer. Amen. Sometimes the answer sounds like lead that man. I wouldn't put up with that. I mean this shoot from the hip. You going through girl, mm-mm, no, then mm-hmm. You ain't you ain't gonna put up with that in this day and time. You got a good job, government job too. You straight. Peace him out. You can take half his retirement and pension, everything. That's non-biblical guidance. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed By today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.