I'm I'm gonna make sure that that I'm gonna send some power back for you. I've already fixed that before the foundation of the world because my son was already crucified and he already paid for that so that you can be reconciled back to me. And then God created man to reflect his image. So he's getting ready to leave them for good, and this m this is the last thing he says to them as he uh is getting ready to ascend. Baptize the heap, the Greek word, baptismo, immersed or put into the body of Christ. And he created him after Lucifer, who was created to reflect the image of God, failed, and he sinned, and he was cast out of heaven. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Voices behind the song. I'm gonna meet you there. to glory. Jesus has already been crucified. He says no power without him. And it filled the place where they were. What they say, well, then how is it that we hear you speaking in our own dialectus? Keep following through the book of Acts. And God is going to bless you in twenty twenty-three I know I got one or two witnesses that they can tell even 2022 the power of God was with me. The Holy Spirit, He's going to come upon you, and you shall be my witnesses. dirt can y'all catch that picture can you catch the image of speaking to dirt and dirt jumps up and says here I am Lord help me, Jesus. When the text says that, watch this, the text is actually saying that the Holy Spirit is the element and the agent of baptism. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. When listen, he when when I Jesus, I hear Jesus, when I, the all-powerful, omnipotent God, leaves, there's no power Been with you for three years. Listen, listen. When the Holy Spirit comes upon you. That had been laid on the altar, but it consumed all the pots of water that he had poured all over the bowl, and it consumed the dirt and the dust and the rocks all around it. Um when the Holy Spirit came at Pentecost. In Pentecost, and it fills the place. From the apostles to the people, and then from that point now we've laid the foundation and from the laying of the foundation, anybody know about building a house, once you've laid the foundation, you don't need to keep going back laying foundation. Y'all still here? Be and from that point on, from every believer who accepts Jesus Christ as personal Lord and Savior, they are baptized That's what the text says. So you will receive power, life-changing power, life-giving power from the Holy Spirit. Is going to come to you as a walking companion, and you have this omnipotent power to walk with you every day to accomplish God's will. And if you walk on your own, you'll be on your own, and you won't have any change. That if you walk in the power of the Holy Spirit, even if in 2023 issue worship Watch this. to dirt and breathed on dirt and dirt became a living being. It's not that he was just laying back with his feet all kicked open and all that. It's the Holy Spirit that's going to purge you of all your iniquity. Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. bringing you their stories. You shall be relieved of the power you have because the power that that's with you won't be with you anymore. So he lets them know without me you won't have power, but I thought about you. I was able to remove demons from people, and I was able to face the enemy to him his face, and I was able to deal with that with my power. And when I leave you, when I'm no longer in your presence, you won't have power, but you shall receive power. And the power that he possesses is not just 110 volts power. He has it all. Glosah, the word is used from the Greek. So what was being spoken was a perfect witness of God. the disciples had when Jesus was walking with them for three years. year changing power when you walk in this power of the Holy Spirit next year can be different from this year If you have a stroke in 2023, if your mother dies in 2023, if your children get wiped out and your house burns up in 2023, the power of God will be with you to carry you through it come forth and and be with that kind of power, a dead man who's been dead for four days. Why so that you can reflect my image? The power comes with purpose, and the purpose is so that you can be a witness, an ambassador, an example of God Himself. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services, Sundays at 10 a. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Minister in the spirit of excellence. under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. And perhaps the thought of some is: how are we going to deal now with all the challenges that come our way when you're gone, Jesus? And now stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. And y'all know that Baal's prophets jumped up and down and they got up there and cut themselves and they were doing all kinds of crazy things and they were crying out all day long. And the Bible says after all day long and it was coming towards evening, then Elijah said, okay, get out the way, it's my turn. So initially, the initial at Pentecost is in Jerusalem. That's why some folk are still trying to have this experience because they want to go back and lay foundation. There's a baptism of the Holy Spirit. Kept me 2022, 2021, 2020, and 2016 and 2013 and 2010 and 2008 and 2001 and 1995 The power of God I'm talking about that kind of power. 627-9500. When he's not with me, I have no power. And the power that he possesses, I want us to get this. And God is not like the lottery. Lord help me God. I'd rather walk through hell with the power of God than the walk through hell by myself The strength of God will get you up the next day. It'll put a smile on your face when you ought to be crying, when you ought to be waving the towel, when you ought to be giving up, when you walk them with the power of God, you'll be okay. That's gonna wash you God from your head to the sole of your feet Satan came, corrupted them, so that the image of God was corrupted, and then God says, no worries. But you shall receive power. When I'm not walking in the in the in the presence and with the Almighty, omnipotent God, I have no power. I'm leaving you. And to raise the dead, I had power to feed those that were hungry with what we had. From the grave with the power that I had. When I send the Holy Spirit, when I send the Comforter, when I send him back to you, you shall receive power. That this is going to be a process where you're going to be my witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the uttermost parts. goes on as they heard them speaking and some thought that they were drunk, they said, no, we are not drunk as you might think that we are. That's why I'm encouraging us to walk in the power of the Holy Spirit. And his power was so powerful that he was able to create everything that we see and even what we can't see. But I'm I'm talking about dunamis power, dynamite power, explosive, uncontainable power that For him. Of baptism. I don't have time to do to hold the whole thing. It says, for John truly baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. It ain't about you, it's about God. Now I'm now I'm gonna tell y'all some real stuff. No one should have to provoke you into being obedient to God. So it's a lonely place to be when you're going through and you've got no hope of God. Is power that will allow us to be the best ambassadors of the kingdom of God Y'all still here? Our God is the same yesterday, today, and forevermore Stay here. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. He's getting ready to leave them there. Let me keep walking ahead. You shall receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. Lord Jesus. And so the Lord used his prophet and said, Okay, let's have a contest. This this axe gets some folk excited because they they read it out of the context of history. Even when you got to cry at night. So I ain't promising you that 2023 gonna be all pretty and fancy. And connect you to the body of believers. It's no power. So you shall receive power, that Holy Ghost, dynamite, supernatural power I'm talking about power that walks to the tomb and calls the name of a specific person, Lazarus. I'm loving this. Hoping that some manifestation of power from bail would show up Elijah just looked up towards heaven and called on the omnipotent God. So j just in case those of you are are waiting to get your uh superhero soup and put a S on it or H S on it, Holy Spirit power. He says finally you shall represent Christ with this power. Of the tomb, I'm talking about some awesome power. John was the agent. As the element and the ancient. Y'all still here with me? I don't care who your friends are. Stay here with me, stay here with me. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Nobody. As a born-again child of God. You already bless if you got a hundred dollars to give, you already blessed. And what I want to encourage us in this text is to walk in that power of the Holy Spirit. I'm Andy Christman. You ever thought about the possibility that the same power that worked through Elijah to call down fire from heaven is in you? I'm talking about power that will move the mountain. And when he gets there to have this conversation with them, he says to them, Look, I'm getting ready to leave you. And you shall receive power. When the Holy Spirit came in for the first time, it was here, here, here for these groups of people as God had told them it would And people like that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Caused uh entity called God to step out of nowhere and start speaking. You'll see it next in Judea, then you'll see it in Samaria, then you'll see it other. You put $100 down here. You shall be my the Holy Sphis power is coming upon you so that you can be my witnesses. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts I'm taking all my power with me because when I got up from the grave, I got up with all the power, and I'm going back to glory with my power. And he says, first of all, that not only shall you be relieved of your power when I leave, but he comes back and he says, but There's just no power. He's been resurrected from the dead. I have done marvelous things in your midst. And so and so um I I don't want to just kind of lead you down some happy you know trail that everything's gonna be wonderful because what I will tell you Gains enough strength to get up from his tomb while he's wrapped up. He says, you shall be relieved of power when I leave, but you shall receive power, because I'm sending back the Holy Ghost. No other God, no, no other power possesses the power he has. Watch this. There's an immersion of the believer into the body of Christ. And he lets them know. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. And the Holy Spirit came in. I'm talking about creating creative power. Because while I was with you, disciples, while I was present with you, I had power to heal the sick. When I'm walking alone and trying to figure it out by myself, I have no power. I don't care how high in power they may sit, but without him, you have no power. The Holy Spirit, watch this. Without him, we're nothing. And they began, watch this, to speak with other languages. It is a word that describes languages, but not just languages, because the text And he said to man, Now that I've created you in my image and after my likeness, you guys get together, you and Adam and Eve, y'all get together, and then multiply my image in the world. The Holy Spirit came. So the power that we have that is power that can move mountains. Um because you know I I know we like to hear folks say I'll tell you what you what's gonna happen. I'm gonna read it again. And when you have received that power You have no power to wage war in the spiritual realm without me. Praise the Lord. Y'all think that's just biblical power, right? This this power he gives has the purpose for us of being witnesses Uh can I say that, Lord? And watch this. Why does he say that? I can tell you that because there's this power walking with God I want that to settle in, that without him you don't have any power because he possesses all the power. It's not put it in, take it out. No, he was wrapped up and and the power that was spoken into his life caused him to be able to stand up while he was wrapped up and come out. But I'm gonna tell you the truth. He'd already let them know, look, I need you to go to Jerusalem. He's been showing himself to his disciples and showed up to them and showed up to them and showed up to him. It wasn't some new internet fancy talker that caused your life to be what it is. So what what was happening in all of the manifestations was for a witness of God. The glory of God will push you on your way. Verse 5. But all of this goes all the way back to creation. Y'all know the story. That's what he says. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. I don't care how smart you are, I don't care how how rich you are, I don't care how educated you are, without him, you have no power. And so I'm leaving and I'm taking my power with me. When you're crying at night and you won't have the presence of God, that's a sad place to be. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry He says that because when I leave, you won't have it. And in Jerusalem, there's gathered there, you've got to read Acts chapter 2. And when the trouble comes, it'll wipe you out. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family. Y'all y'all still hear? I've been the power you've relied on, but I'm getting ready to leave. The power that he possesses is a power that no other god or deity or entity possesses. It's the Holy Spirit that's going to come in you and empower you to be a witness for Him. And and God is going to honor his word. It might not be. As I told you earlier, chapter 1, verse 5 says he's going to be baptized. That's a great question. Now, let me give you a little historical um thing here because I gotta do this for some doctrinal reasons. They were all at one accord and and they they heard a sound as of a rushing mighty wind. And but watch this. Pastor, how do you know that? You shall be witnesses to me. That wasn't your experience, that was their experience in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, when the foundation of the church was being laid. For John truly baptized with water. Then after that, the manifestation of the the and you you see it actually in historically you'll see it being transferred I'm talking about life-giving power that spoke And all those I can get good $100, $100, $200. I'm talking about that kind of power. He says, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit. Y'all know this story. No, God is it's it's He this thing is about Him, it ain't about us. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome In this text, walking in the power of the Holy Spirit, Jesus says to his disciples, now when we get to Acts. And so historically Because it's right here in the text. You've got no power of God. So it's the Holy Spirit that's going to take you when you come to Christ. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. The next time you see it is in Judea. No, this is the same power. org or contact our church office at 301 But without him, there's no power. Andy Christman of 4Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. In fact, the the the prophets of Baal thought they had power to call down fire from heaven. That kind of omnipotent dynomite power. This is all the power. So, in other words, not only in our own language, but also in the in the dialect of our language. But here's the key. The power that God is going has released into our care. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. In other words, the power that you have is me. I I have plans for you, and when I go, I'm going to I need you to go and wait there because We have no power. It might be full of hail. But Jesus had already told them For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Look at verse number five. God is blessing you if you have a hundred dollars. It's not just power that allows you to climb the mountain. And the one who the God who answers by fire, that's the real God. Welcome to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. I I I need somebody to hear this when he's Why did God create man in the first place? And he rained down fire such that it not only consumed all the bulls Y'all still hear? Because that power is sustaining power. Y'all gotta see this. It wasn't for their glory, it was for God's glory. I I know I'm I'm I I'm preaching above your faith right now. Ah, I'm talking about power that can look at The presence of God will make you know it's all right, I can keep on going. In Jerusalem and Judea, in Samaria, and the uttermost parts of the end of the earth. Oh no, that's a lonely place to be. There's gathered there in Jerusalem all everybody from every nation. And the Holy Spirit is like the water. It's like an auctions, like walking, $100, $200, $1,500, $5 But if you walk with God, the grace of God will be there with you. And so you're going to be, you're going to be in a position where you no longer have that power with you. It's right there in the text. Yeah, I should have been dead, but for the power of God I am without power. I'm m. And now at this particular point, we're getting he's getting ready to ascend to heaven. Now he's bringing you their stories. He created him to reflect his image. at the Legacy Center. I was able to multiply it and feed thousands. That takes power. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. The One Degree of Andy podcast. It's the Holy Spirit that's going to be the agent and the element. And when I leave you You're going to be baptized by the Holy Spirit. That's real God power right there. Water was the element. That's a great question. I was even able to go to the grave and get up. It was God. I'm Andy Christman. Everybody's there. I foot the for one of five on hold. Stay here. Stay here with me. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Um historically And so the Holy Spirit shows up on that day. Just like If you love Christian music, this is your backstage past. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Put this money right here and and guess what I don't care how con KEPCSI Now he's Canal canal