Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the Radio Broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message. in its entirety. And now stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message So the second thing that Gideon does, which is, I think, part of a strong battle plan, he first puts out a fleece, but secondly, he positions himself. One of the things that I want to tell you in a strong battle plan to achieve your full potential in Christ Jesus, put out the fleece if you have to, but you position yourself. Stay here, stay here. Once Gideon understood this is God's plan, I've got to do what God has instructed me to do. God said he's going to deliver Uh Israel through my hand, Gideon gets into position. Lord God help me here. Um, because if you want victory for the battle you're getting ready to face. Victory comes when you're in position for victory. Lord God have mercy. You can't be in a loser circle and spec and expect that you're gonna win the battle. No, you've got to get in position of a winner. Lord God help me Jesus. And watch this. And what I love about the text is that when Gideon understood that this is God's will, and I'm I've got to do this. I've got to move. Gideon gets in position, but he doesn't wait till afternoon. He doesn't sleep till 12 or 1 o'clock. The text says he got up early in the morning and and gathered the people with him early in the morning and got into position. If you're planning on victory, you need to get up early. Lord God help me. Y'all heard it this way, the early bird gets the worm. But I'll say the one who knows the will of God will get up early with God. And they'll be ready for what God is getting ready to do in that day. Sometimes you you gotta understand the victory of the day happens early in the morning when nobody else is moving around. The victory of the day happens when you're having your quiet time with Jesus and you're talking to God and you're getting equipped and you're getting prepared because I'm I'm I'm I'm arming myself I'm I'm I'm I'm praying myself up. I'm getting ready for what's coming in the day. Sometimes that's where your greatest victory of the day happens. It doesn't happen when the f when the enemy finally approaches you. By the time he approaches you, shoot you should already be in victory position. Help me God. Here here comes Gideon, he gets into position and watch this. The the text says he he ah Lord help me he with listen he He gets into this the position, the Bible says he encamped beside the well of Herod. I love it. Gideon parked himself. He positioned himself By this well that's called the well of Herod. I did some research and I found out that this well of Herod is a is a is a fresh water spring That keeps on sending up fresh water day after day, hour after hour. moment after moment. And I saw in the text that if I'm going to win the battle, if I'm I'm going to expect To execute a good and strong battle plan, I've got to get in position where I'm close to and beside living water Help me God. Somebody wants to say, Pastor, what do you mean living water? Well, Jesus said it this way. I am The living water. I am the water that flows from Zion. I am fresh water. And so you've got to position yourself beside Jesus Himself. Lord God have mercy. You're not gonna win this battle if you don't have him on your side. Gideon gets in this position beside the living springs of water. And let me say this. Practically speaking. Living water, springs of water, fresh water is good while you're in battle because every now and then while you're fighting your battle, you need a little refreshment. Help me, God I don't know if anybody ever been in a battle, but even though you're doing battle, you get tired, you get dehydrated, you lose strength, you lose power, and you need something that's gonna restore. What you've lost. Oh, even when I'm preaching, every now and then I need to refresh. Get me some fresh water. And I told my administrators, don't get me water out the sink. But ain't nothing wrong with it But I want fresh water. I want bottled water. I want spring water. This is what I drink. Y'all want to know what's in the cup? This ain't vodka or Sarah, nothing like that. No This is fresh spring water. Every now and then, while I'm up here sweating and spitting, I need some refreshment Help me God because even while I'm preaching, I'm at battle with the enemy because I come in the name of the Lord To do battle on your behalf so that you can overcome the battles in your life. Help me, God. Gideon is beside spring water. Not only that, as it relates to his position, verse 8 gives me another clue about his position. Look at verse 8. Verse 8 says, all the way at the end, it says, now the camp of Midian was below him. Somebody should have shouted right there. The position you need to get in is beside Jesus, but above your enemy. Whoa, Lord Jesus. I'm trying to help y'all right about here. Because if you always are on the bottom. Oh God, how you gonna expect to overcome your enemies when you've positioned yourself underneath him? Even a a lion knows, a bobcat nose, a mountain Lion knows that an attack from the top is better than one from the bottom. That's why they sit up in the cleft Of the rock waiting for prayer to come by, and that's why even when David was declaring the 23rd Psalm, he said, Yea, though I walk Through the valley, but that's a vulnerable position. I will fear no evil. Why? Because even in the valley Thou art with me. But if I'm gonna get in the best position, it's not a valley position. The best position to be in is above my enemies. And so when Gideon positioned himself For battle, he positioned himself above his enemy. I'm trying to talk to you this morning. You've got to start positioning yourself spiritually above your enemy. You you've got to start positioning yourself mentally above your enemy. You got the you got to physically get in position above and not beneath A y'all catching this? Because it and I'm trying to give you this is a strong battle plan. Position yourself for the victory. Lord God. And once you know this is God's assignment to do, and you're positioning yourself, like I said, when you get in position, go ahead. Look, if God says to you, um In the in the next, my plan for you, my my my my potential for you is that you get your degree. Then you need to go get in position. Now I appreciate the fact that you're here this morning, but you need to go to the registration line and register for classes. Because they're not just gonna mail you the degree in the mail. Are y'all still here? I mean if if if you get ready to be a beautician or uh or uh uh uh a doctor or whatever it is what you gotta go get in position and get the license and and get the certifications or whatever it is because it's not just gonna happen You you got to get in position. Y'all still hear? Um if if God said I'm gonna make you the the the owner of your own business, then you need to go doing some research and make some moves to get your business set up. Lord help me. I mean I I bet you I bet you right now there's some business owner, potential business owners sitting in this congregation today. Watch this. I don't even want you to raise your hand. I'm just gonna let you know I'm talking to you. God already told you I want you to start a business, but you have not done anything. Okay, I'll they looking at me funny online, folks. Let me talk about y'all. Online, I guarantee you, some of y'all God has told you this is what you're supposed to do, and you're still sitting there twiddling your thumbs I'm getting to it. I'll get around to that one day. And it's been five years. It's been ten years. And you haven't done nothing that you you you googled something. I I can hear you. And maybe that's the people here in the sanctuary. They say, well, I did do something. I Googled it. But beyond Google, you haven't done nothing. And go if you Google five years ago, the rules might have changed. So at least go Google it again today, okay? You gotta move. You gotta get in position. Because guess what? There's a a battle you're gonna have to fight And you've got to get in position to optimize your opportunity for success. You've got to get beside some living water Lord help us. You've got to get in position above your enemies. Because that's how victory is going to come. That's what Gideon does in the text. I'm just pulling it right out of the text. I ain't making up nothing. That's what he did. And and this is the this is his strategy that he's following the instruction of God for a strong battle plan. So so two things. Gideon puts out his fleece. Gideon positions himself. Third thing, and I'm out of your way. Because I'm too far up in your business, young. You and my business now, you messing with me. Now I'm really gonna mess with you. Here's the third thing that Gideon does. And the Lord said, verse number two, Gideon, the people who are with you are too many. Huh? It's too many people, Gideon, because if if y'all win victory with that group, they're gonna say they did it themselves. They're gonna say they did it by their own hand. They won't give God glory. You got too many people with you, Gideon. So here's what I want you to do. Tell all the scared people, go home. Twenty-two thousand people packed up their bags. And went home. And there's 10,000 left. So that means about 32,000 people he had with him. 32,000 people. 32,000 plus people were with Gideon. Y'all hearing this? But watch this. Pastor, I thought you said this was a strong battle plan. This sounds like a strange battle plan when you send them people home. Because isn't the objective in battle to come with as many as you can, and the sheer numbers outnumbering your enemy will bring victory to you? In human terms, that might be true. But this ain't a human battle. This is spiritual warfare. I really hope you get that. God says to Gideon, the people who are with you are too many. Here's the third thing Gideon does, just in case you're wondering where I'm going. The third thing I think you need to do, first you need to put out your fleece. Second, position yourself. Third, prune your support. Now y'all might be mad at me when we get finished. But there's some people with you that you need to prune. Y'all know what prune mean? I'm talking too sophisticated. That's a horticultural term that means to cut back. Cut off. When you get a plant that's growing out of shape, you start pruning it. You cut it back. Cut it, cut it, cut it. Get rid of something. Some people with you need to be pruned out of your life. I wish I had some scissors, I would some scissors, chok, chut 'em. Disconnect them from you. Cut them. Can I start with Gideon's scenario? Two-thirds of the people with Gideon were scared. Now, if the people in your corner. Who you got traveling with you and you're trying to achieve your full potential in Christ. And two-thirds of them, not necessarily that is true in your case, but if two-thirds of them are scared How are they going to help you achieve your full potential? Because every time you tell them what you're getting ready to do, their fear is going to overshadow you. Their fear is going to well up and and it's going to start they're going to start giving you fearful advice. Purn them. You scared. Pastor I ain't got but five friends, two-thirds of 'em. You do the math. They scared. They're not going to help you get to your goal And even if you achieve the goal at any measure, they're going to take the credit and not give it to God. That's what God told Gideon, I'm not giving victory with all these people because they'll take the credit and I'm doing the work. And God's not sharing his glory with anybody. And so the strong battle plan to get to the full achievement and the full potential of God is to start pruning people from around you, especially get rid of people that always naysaying The people that are scared to do anything. And how are you going to advise me to do something positive and everything you do is negative? If you always take the safe and the easy road Some folk just honestly come on. We just need to cut them out. Cut them. Prune them. Prune back. Cut them away. They're not They're not helpful to your circle. So you might have to make a phone call to Pookie and them. And let them know I gotta I gotta prune some folk and you came up on the list. Wow. You you might have to call Bob and Billy and Sally and let them know. I'm doing some pruning in 2022 and I appreciate your friendship and your camaraderie in 2021 and all the years that were before. I'm grateful for the fact that we've known each other since kindergarten, but in 2022, I've got to prune you from my life. I can't get to where God is trying to take me if I keep dragging you behind and if I keep you in the circle of my life, I'm never going to win this battle. I'm doing spiritual warfare and you're talking carnal stuff. You call and me talking about if I was you, I'd go over there and I'd put my dukes up and I'd pull a gun on them. I ain't fighting that kind of war. fighting the kind of war that I when I call you, I need you to fall down on your knees and say I'm praying for you. I'm fasting for you today. I need some friends in my life. I need some comrades in my life that know how to get in contact with God. So thank you for your previous engagement. But where I'm going. I got to cut you loose. And listen, it's not that the people that you're cutting loose are bad. They're just bad for your journey. Let me let me say this. Sometimes the people you gotta cut loose are close to you. Mamas and daddies, sisters and brothers sometime, family members Because sometimes mama or daddy is too much in your business. And you listen, and you listen to them more than you do to God. They're not bad. They love you. But they're hindering you. Some mamas and daddies are trying to posthumously live their life through you that they messed up. Yeah, I should have went to school. I should have done this, you know, but I got pregnant. I I was hanging out on the corner, I was getting high. And now they got a child now, all of a sudden you going to college. You're gonna be a doctor. You gonna know you're gonna be a doctor. Because that's what they wanted to do. And they didn't. They messed it up. And so they're trying to make their life journey yours. And you're listening to them. And you get there and you figure, you find out, man, I don't this is not this ain't I'm I'm not enjoying this. I just did and lived this life out to satisfy mom or dad or somebody else. I told you guys y'all be mad at me by time. Pastor told me cut my mama loose. I didn't say get rid of your mother, I just said she got she can't go with you. He can't go, daddy can't go with you, whoever it is on this journey. In this battle, maybe they they're not the one. Then there's this so he got rid of 22,000. But the Lord said verse 4 to Gideon, Gideon, there's still too many people. We got to get rid of some more. Bring them down to the water, and I will test them for you there. For those of you who don't know how to determine who needs to go, let the Lord test them for you. Put them to the Lord test. Okay. Now I'm not gonna analyze this slapping from the hand versus getting on two knees. version of testing that he does in the text. I do have an opinion about that, but I'm not going to delve into that today. But watch this. I'm gonna make this simple. There are some people in your life that don't pass the God tests. Okay. What do you mean with the God test? They're not even godly. You can't pass the God test if you're not even godly. If we're going into a spiritual war, and you're not spiritual I don't need you. You're gonna hinder me. Yup, y'all still with me? If I need the faith. That is strong and unhindered, and your faith is so weak and so fragile. Maybe you can go with me. I need to maybe cut you out of this battle Because you're not helpful for me in this battle to win. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministries of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web. Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title and broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries Dot org or contact our church office at three oh one six two seven nine five zero zero Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Beginning Sunday, January 2nd, 2022, the new service times for Adult Sunday School, New Members Class, and Young Adult Power Hour will be 8:45 a. m. to 9:45 a. m. The new service times for in-person worship service, children's church, and nursery will be 10 a. m. Continue to connect with us in-person or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.