Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence, under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Job chapter 2. The word of the Lord reads again. There was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord. And Satan came also among them to prepare himself before the Lord. And the Lord said to Satan, From where do you come? And Satan answered and said to the Lord, From going to and fro on the earth and from walking back and forth on it. And then the Lord said to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man? One who fears God and shuns evil, and still he holds fast to his integrity, although you incited me against him to destroy him without cause. Satan answered the Lord and said, skin for skin, yes, all that a man has he will give for his life But stretch out your hand now and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will surely curse you to your face. And the Lord said to Satan, Behold, he is in your hand, but spare his life And so Satan went out from the presence of the Lord, struck Job with painful boils, and from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head. And he took for himself a a pot sherd with which to scrape himself while he sat in the midst of the ashes. Then his wife said to him, You still hold fast to your integrity? Curse God and die. But he said to her, You speak like one of the foolish women speaks and shall we indeed accept good from God? And shall we not accept adversity? And in all these Job did not sin with his lips Father, we bless you on this morning. We stand in need of your presence, your power. Father, speak now in the midst of these your saints. God, a word that would encourage us in this journey. Father, speak a word that might save someone from the judgment that is yet to come. Father, speak a word that would let us know that in the midst of our midnight hour, that you've heard us and you're answering our prayers Spirit of the living God, I stand here as a vessel in your hand. Accomplish your will through me, Jesus. I just want you to get the glory and the honor and the praise. And so now, God, I surrender. Have your way with me and through me. Speak clearly, Lord. Let my mouth be clear. Let my mind be clear. That I might hear from you and speak what thus saith the Lord. God, when it's all said and it's all done, and we come down from this place, your name shall be exalted. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. This morning, Catherine, I felt compelled to return to Job chapter two after having already been there. Part of me was ready to Move on and go forward to the next thing. God, what next? Where are we going? God said, if Satan can come back twice, so can you. And when we get to chapter 2, chapter 2 says again. Amen. After all that just happened, here we go again. I want to talk to you from this subject matter this morning and still. As I was reading through this text, somewhere around verse 3, when there's this conversation happening with the Lord and Satan, the Lord says to Satan, have you considered my servant? Job, that there's none like him on the earth, and he's blameless, he's upright, one who fears God and shuns evil. God says, and still, he holds fast. To his integrity. Although you incited me to destroy him, he's still holding on to his integrity. Regardless of all that Job had just lost, all of his wealth, all ten children I thought it was interesting that in spite of all of that loss, and still, God calls him out. to be offered up again. Now you would think that God says Job passed tests, Job worshiped me. He didn't curse me to my face, like you said. No, Job fell down and worshiped me. You would think that would be the end of the story. But look at this. And still God calls him out again. When the sons of God came to present themselves to the Lord, and Satan also came among them. Some believe that these are the angels that came to present themselves, and others say these are actually the saints of God who came to worship The Lord and in the middle of their worship, Satan showed up. And the Lord asked him a question. Not that God doesn't know the answer to the question, but to help you and I know what Satan's all about. He says, Where you been? This is my version of the story. And Satan responds and he says, I've been walking to and fro, I've been walking back and forth because that's what I do. I'm seeking whose life I might destroy, who I can kill, steal, and destroy from. That's what I do. I was I was doing what I do. And so the Lord says, Have you considered my servant Job? He's a good man, he's upright, he fears God, he shuns evil. Have you considered Messing with him. Wait a minute. Pastor, I thought you said he just did that in chapter one. He did. And and God allowed him to go mess with Job and and and strike all of his livestock and and take away his servants and take away his ten children. And then here we are again and he the Lord says to Satan again. Have you considered my servant Job? There's none like him on the earth. Of the millions of opportunities that you have, have you considered my servant, Job? That there's none like him, there's none like her on the earth, a blameless and an upright man, woman who fears God and shuns evil. And still, he holds fast to his integrity, although you incited me against him to destroy him without cause. Let me go back over here, chapter one. He says, he says, stretch out your hand and touch all that he has, and he will surely curse you to your face. That's what Satan had said to God. And now God says, You did all of that. I let you do all of that. I let you touch all his stuff. And still Job is holding on to his integrity. And Satan comes back and he says, skin for skin, yeah, all that he a man has, he'll give up his life. But stretch out your hand. And touch his bone and his flesh, and he will surely curse you to your face. Job went through losing all this stuff, and still God calls him out. And we're wrestling with that. You know why we're wrestling with that? Because we have a philosophy that once I go through the test, if I pass the test God will leave me alone. Matter of fact, some of us have said this. I don't know what all this is all about, but Lord, I pray I passed the test. And what we're really saying is, God, I want to get past this stuff. But here's Job who passed the test. And still God brings him up again and presents him again to be tried by Satan. And when God and Satan have a conversation, and God says, have you considered him? He says, you you provoke me To go against him, even though he hadn't done anything. But watch this. But he says, and still he holds on to his integrity. This second and still helps me with the first and still. Let me see if I can explain what I mean. I'm wrestling with the first and still. Why would you and still offer my name up? I pass the test. The second and still is because he's still holding on to his integrity. Even though you did all that to him, he's still glorifying me. He's still worshiping me. He's still praising me and giving my name glory. That's why God says I can offer him up again It's what God is proving in essence. Here's one that can withstand the test. Lord help me, Jesus. I know what y'all are thinking. Lord, don't let it be me. Don't let it be me. But I'm gonna tell you you you're missing out when you when you skirt being offered up by God You're missing out on what God really wants to do in your life and how God really wants to use you to bring glory to himself. And so he he says He's still holding on to his integrity. What do you mean by integrity, Pastor? What is the integrity of Job? Job is still acting like The person in private that he has been publicized to be in public. Lord help me, Jesus. Job is still characterized by one who fears God One who shuns evil, one who's upright. When Job lost all of his stuff, including his ten children, steal. Job remained an upright man. Still, Job didn't cuss God. Still, Job did not let words come out of his mouth that dishonored his integrity as a man of God. Still, he held on to being an upright man who feared God and shunned evil. He stayed the same, even when he lost everything. And God said, let me offer him up again. Secondly, I think it picks up around verse 4. It says, so Satan answered the Lord and said, skin for skin. In other words, The man is willing to exchange something for something. Trade for trade. And he says, skin for skin. Yes, all that a man has, he will give for his life. In other words, you'll sell your integrity to save your life. Then here he goes again, trying to trick God. This is Satan talking to God. Stretch out your hand and touch his bone. and his flesh, and surely he will curse you to your face. In this case, what in essence Satan says, is man will not hold on to his integrity if his life is on the line. Job's health is more valuable than his wealth. When he's standing at death's door and his life is on the line, he won't walk in that integrity anymore That's the argument of Satan. And Satan says, stretch out your hand, go ahead, Lord, touch him. This is a trick, because God's not going to do it. God's not going to strike them, you know, for no cause. God's not going to do it. God won't do it. So just go ahead and stretch out your hand and touch his bone. Now this troubles me because the whole idea here is that there's no deeper pain than bone pain. When you got surface pain, you can deal with surface pain. When you have subcutaneous, I'm sorry, below the level of the skin. I'm this is my medical talking coming out You can you can deal with that. But bone pain, I don't I don't even know if they had d any doctors in do they have anything you can do for bone when you when you when the pain is all the way through your bones, they they can narc you up. I mean they can give you all the narcotics Narcotics. You just zone you zombied out, but you still in pain. Bone pain is the worst. And it's and the bone pain is like the penetration of your soul. I mean, it's as deep as you can get into this fleshly person. And Satan says, touch his bones and his flesh. And I will, in essence, guarantee, he will curse you to your face, God. This is Satan's second time that he reveals his motive and his objective and what he's after. He's after Job cursing God to himself his face. He wants Job to curse God, even though he him and God have a good relationship. He wants you and me to curse God to his face. That's what he's after. Even after he comes at us, even as we're going through the trials and the tribulations and the hurts and the pains, he wants us to curse God to his face. Now, let me Let me deal with this, and I think this is going to help somebody. There's two ways you can curse God. One way you're probably too smart and too Christian to do. The one way of cursing God is to curse Him orally That's with your mouth. You form your lips to say curse words to God. That's one way. Most Christians are a little too Christian, a little too saved. A little too fearful of God to do that. But there's a second way that we can curse God, and I'm going to call it your actionable cursing. So there's oral cursing and there's actionable cursing. The actionable cursing is when you act out in such a way that you say, God, I don't care about you. Your actions say, I'm not afraid of you anymore. Your actions say, I'm not trusting you anymore. Your actions say, God, you haven't done it. I'ma do it myself Your actions say, God, I've been praying for peace. I've been praying for calm, and you haven't brought me any of that. So I'm going to the liquor store and I'm going to give me some some some comfort I'm going on the corner and I'm going to buy me some stuff. I'm going to get something. Because God, you haven't done it. I'll take these matters into my own hands because God, you're not enough. That's actionable cursing. Cursing him to his face. Satan says, if you touch his bone and his flesh, You touch his body, make him sick, get him sick. Let him go to the doctor tomorrow and let the doctor say, We're sorry, but we've discovered cancer. Then they'll curse you to your face. But Job doesn't break. The Lord said to Satan, verse 6: Behold, he is in your hand. God doesn't fall for the trick. God's not going to do it. He puts them in Satan's hands. He says, He's in your hands, but spare his life. I'm going to give you permission, Satan, to push his flesh and his bone all the way to the point of death's door, but you can't take them into death. Because I hold life in my hands. Y'all hear me? I don't care what the doctor says, God holds life in his hand. It doesn't matter how much pain you're going through, God holds your life in his hands. It doesn't matter how long you've been going through, what you've been going through, God holds your life in his hands. And regardless of what the enemy wants to do, he cannot do it without the permission of God. Go ahead. Touch his body. Touch his bones. But you can't take his life. And immediately Satan takes off. And he strikes Job from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet with boils, burning sores. So Job's body was covered with these large boils that were oozing out, pus, pusing out, and scabbing up And still, he doesn't give up. He holds on to his integrity. And listen to this. And Job accepts his condition without complaining to God. The text says Job takes a pot shirt, which is a typically is a piece of um pottery that was designed to use so you can scratch yourself. Job, instead of him complaining, he does what he can to ease his discomfort So he he accepts what God has done without crying out, God, just go ahead and take my life. He's capable of allowing God to push him to this horrible place through the hands of Satan and yet still trust God You know why most of us give up in those times? Is because we stop trusting God. Many people when they're going through and and sometimes depil debilitating diseases and sicknesses and and and and things that are going on in their life and And trials and tribulations and hurts and pains and struggles and marital problems and children problems and all kinds of stuff that we go to through. So a lot of times people say, you know what? I don't even want to live no more Job doesn't say that. Job accepts. He says, look, let me do what I can do. I can scratch. But it's not over. Watch this. Job is sitting outside in ashes. Then Satan uses his wife. Verse number nine: Then his wife said to him, Do you still hold fast to your integrity? Curse God and die. But he said to her, You speak as one of the foolish women. Shall we only receive good from God and not adversity? Job goes through all that he went through in chapter one and still God offers him up again. Thirdly, we get to this point where his wife now becomes the instrument the devil is using against him. I want to say, and still he doesn't get it twisted. Satan uses his wife because she's the closest one left to him. Now, I'm gonna make a grand assumption here in this text And that is that Job's wife is also a godly woman. I'm assuming that. Why am I making that assumption? Because Job is a righteous man. And a righteous man has a righteous woman. And they had 10 kids together. And she's seen him offer sacrifices for his children. She's seen him go to worship. She's been, she's a part of that somehow. So I'm assuming she's a righteous woman. But in the midst of her watching her husband go through his pain, she doesn't maintain her integrity because she can't handle his pain. And so now he uses her to come against him and watch this and say the very words that he said to God So now here she is like a puppet in the hand of Satan who comes before her husband and says, you still Holding on to your integrity, you still being a godly man, you still trust in God. Here's the words of the enemy: curse God and die. Two things that that he says here. Watch this. One, curse God, which is what Satan wanted. Job to do to die. What did God say I prevent you from doing? Can't take his life But if he's begging for it, go ahead. Curse God and go ahead. Satan has not given up his strategy. He's got a she's working a strategy So now, Job got to deal with his wife. Can I talk to us? He's saying the same thing to you. Holding on to your faith is not worth it. Trusting God is not worth it. God's not paying attention to you. God doesn't care about you. If God loved you, why is he letting all this happen to you in your life? Why are you holding on to your faith? Why are you still going to church? Why are you still believing that God is able to do in the impossible things? If He can do impossible things, why hasn't He done anything in your situation? Give up your integrity. Stop trusting God. That's what Satan is saying. I want you to listen to Job. Job gives a very divine answer to his wife. One, he doesn't slap her. He gives her a very divine answer. Listen, shall we only get good from God? Is that all God is for? Shall we only expect that God will only give us blessings? Are we in the an exchange business? We just we're just we're just having this relationship with God so he can Gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme. Is this really a one-sided relationship where only God just gives us good, good, good, good, good? Shall we not accept also adversity? You've had more blessings than you've had problems. And if you start focusing on the on the blessings and forget about the problems, your problems get a whole lot smaller when you focus on your blessings Job says, look, woman, we're gonna get blessings, but we're gonna have some adversity too. We're not just entitled to just good old favor all the time. Some tough times are gonna come. And the tough times come for a purpose in my life. God is using these tough times not to break me But to make me what I need to be, to make me what he wants me to be, to make me more like him. Because if I don't go through something, I won't trust Him, if I don't go through trial, I won't lean on him. If I don't have a hard time, I won't pray to him. And so he's using this to make me more like him. In this life, we're going to suffer. There's gonna be some adversity. Job says that is the norm. God's plan is we're gonna go through some good times. We're gonna go through some bad times. But in the end, I know that God is in control of everything. I want to encourage you today, regardless of what is going on in your life. Be like Job and still hold on to your integrity. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Servic Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman of 4Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast. Podcast One Degree of Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree. One degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.