But the sheep did not hear them. Do I have spouse? Now, I looked at this in the most simple terms that I possibly could, and I said, okay, what is a door? In verse number nine, again, he says, because he already said, most assuredly in verse number seven, I am the door of the sheep. And there's they're coming after the sheep. And they was like, What happened to your leg, Pastor? And then Anthony would come on up and just starbox this is one of them slow sheep. So Jesus says, I am the door. without threat of life or danger. Why even matter to God? And situations cause you to question whether or not God loves you. In case you were wondering whether or not he loves you, whether or not he cares about you. It's an entry point. It's almost there. I've created that's what the shepherd would do. And the shepherds were talking to each other when they got ready to leave, and I've literally seen this happen. With another herd, they would all leave that herd and follow only their shepherd. Voices behind the song. And that you may have it more abundantly. Absolutely amazing how you love us so and how you gave your life for us and how Lord God you've given us privileged opportunity to even stand here this day to declare your holy word and to hear and sit under your word with These lips of clay. Accomplished so your success is already predestined by God. I've realized that God is always telling us how much He loves us. in the reading of scripture and and the studying of the word as God is always telling us he loves us as the shepherd of his sheep, even as an under-shepherd. congregation in and that it is loving my sheep because I'm just modeling what I see Christ doing. particular text I want to talk to you from that subject matter loving my sheep I want to use that as our subject this morning because I believe even in this text that's exactly what God is saying to us. And phonies. And you were vulnerable to all that was there. He doesn't stutter, but he says this thing again and in a very close context. along with his statement, a verbal picture of the shepherd having watch over the sheep. They're in here. The illustration is not participating with the plan. And and he would say Calvin come on in and he would say uh uh Colin come on in and he would say uh David come on in and he would start calling sheep in. And I'm the door of my sheep because I'm I'm controlling who can come in. Satan, he is come. destroy if you don't understand that's what your adversary is out to do then you're gonna find yourself in great danger of having your life taken Of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. We'll begin our reading at verse 7 of John chapter 10. pasture. He who is not the shepherd, one who does not own the sheep, sees a wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees. Scatters them. Morning to the Gospel of John chapter 10. Again, most assuredly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. of their sin, place their faith in you, surrender to you as Lord and you alone. A relationship with you, they would understand and see the significance of staying close to the one who gave his life for them. Accomplish your will through me this day. 15 and we spoke there from the subject matter. For we discovered there in Jeremiah as God spoke to Jeremiah that God had already set everything in motion for Jeremiah. says of Jeremiah. Setting apart of us. As an undershepherd to watch over this flock. Uh as we understand that and we grab a hold of that and we see that God is always loving us and God is always pouring out his affection towards us, as we deal on this third part of the series of messages from this Of Luke, and we read about the Lord coming into Jerusalem, and as he ascends into Jerusalem, and you know the story because you hear it every Palm Sunday, but as he ascends into Jerusalem and he looks over the city, the Bible says he weeps over the city. God is loving his sheep. Jesus is going to use an illustration that nobody seems to understand. is to let you know that Jesus tells us in the as a mechanism of a way of proving to you I love you and that that you matter to me I am the door now In fact, he comes back and he says, Up until this time, if you look there in the text, verse number eight, he says, Everybody who came before me, they're just thieves and robbers. didn't hear him. And in threat of danger and life and everything else, up until now, there was nowhere for them to go into. You. was the purpose of the fold was so that he could especially at the close of a day he could bring just keep going down a little bit further I'm gonna come all the way around one And in order to lay out this pen for them, he set it all the way around, and you can go around that side of the pulpit and come on back to this stand right here. sheep. I know you want to kind of come in and sneak in some other way, but if you come in any other way, you're a thief and a robber, because I am the door To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence In Kingdom Building. or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. He wants to take your joy. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Benson, Savannah A means of glorification. Amen. you and Jeremiah was also encouraged and we were also encouraged to know that not only does God have preconceptual knowledge of us but he has pre-incarnational Actually have stated this before that many people today are very confused and and very uh uncertain as to whether or not they even have a You know why he weeps over the city? So Jesus says again, he says, most assuredly I say to you that I am the door of the sheep. his love for you. I want to make sure we got a nice foal. Now that I've got them in the fold, I've called them into safety away from the lions and tigers and bears. To keep you safe. So he can go out and he can come in. That's the plan. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. But I'm also loving on my sheep by being the life giver. You have an adversary who has three plans for your life. The one who loves you is not the one who's taking and taking and taking and taking and never giving. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. That duty that we have for Him as we live this life. matter at all. And God loves you greatly. To share uh with us that prove to us that he is busy loving on us. And you matter to me. And giving you life. And so what the shepherd would do was he would take the um wait a minute hold that I'm gonna try to talk and do this at the same time In here, safe food for them to eat, etc. And any other sheep that want to come in, they gotta come in through me. Listen to me. Lord help me here. If he comes in by me, he will be saved from the danger out there, from the judgment out there, from the destruction out there, and will go in and out and find pasture Because I'm the door. The one who really loves you is bringing life. And you will succeed. I love you. And one of the problems with illustrations is they don't always work as smoothly as they go in your mind. I'm not gonna talk much. And nobody else can imitate his call. And now he would sit here and he says, now I'm the door of the sheep. Because watch this. To let you know how much he loves you, to let you know how much he cares about you, to let you know you matter to him. So he says, look, there's no other way. I am the door. What the shepherd would do, he realizes, first of all, that all out in the open field, that there's all kind of dangerous animals out there. Let me pull this out here. Because his sheep matter to him. If they're dead, all they can bring to you is death. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. A bin. Do I matter on my job? They were thieves and robbers and and and in essence what Jesus is saying, anyone who pretended to be who I am before now, they were fakes So what he would do, he would he would set this this pen up, and this pen is called a fold. But watch this. Y'all need to hear this beyond just the holy and the divine level. Jeremiah chapter one verses four through eight. I'm the door. So Jesus says, look, up until this point, there was no entryway. But I'm just giving this an illustration. So what Jesus does after letting them know I am the door, again, to let you know I'm loving you. The one who loves you is putting is is depositing something in your positive. By my own. I'm so glad about that. But you need to hear this. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Words of life. Now every shepherd has a unique call for his sheep and only his sheep know his call His plan is to destroy everything that looks like God. The hireling flees because he is a hireling and does not care about the sheep. So he says, so Jesus said to them again, after they didn't understand what he said in first, they're just like, what is he talking about? I am the control point. That's the plan of the adversary, the one that's against you. It's a uh access control point, if you will. And so as the shepherd would do this, he set this whole thing up. The thief does not come except to steal and to kill and to destroy. Jeremiah, I have preconceptional knowledge of you. In other words, before we were born, before we became incarnate, God set us apart unto an assignment that only we could fulfill. So he wouldn't bring them into a dirt pasture. And amen. Many are going through and are questioning themselves whether or not they matter to their parents, do I matter to my children? You mean the world to me. Now Anthony might get mad because he can't go where he wants to go. Thank you, God. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Anybody who said they were the Messiah. If the one who's coming is not bringing life, that's your adversary. I said, Nothing this is for illustration. But when there is no danger out there, and Anthony wants to move, I'll just move out the way and I'll open up the door and say, Come on out. You will do what I've ordained for you to do. Everybody else were fakes and falling. They're looking for opportunities to take the sheep captive. He has a great and awesome love for you. A pen for the sheep. Now let's say Anthony decides he wants to come out. He wants to take your enthusiasm. God, in the middle of all that is done and all that is said, your name, I pray, gets all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. Y'all still here with me? Does anybody even care? Because he loves the people of the city. Woo, Jesus. I am the door. Allow my mind clarity of thought, my lips clarity of speech, that your word might ring clear in the ears and the hearts of all who hear it. If you read through this particular chapter of chapter 10 in the first five verses of chapter 10 In other words, they didn't come to get they didn't come to help the sheep, they came to take the sheep out. There was no way before me. He's just keeping you from danger. Katerin, we've uh been on a journey preaching through a series of messages entitled You Matter. Amen. Does God care about me? They came to by trickery of hand and and cover of night to take from you what you had. Um so what he would do, he would first of all he would he would determine a good place where when I bring my sheep into, they'll be able to have some good food to eat while And every good shepherd had a rod and a staff. Father, in the name of Jesus, it's my prayer on today that as I stand to declare your word, that you would speak through the I too have modeling God and trying to love the sheep of God and always loving the sheep of God. He has been loosed. Words, God, that would draw someone who is in darkness into the marvelous light. The plan is not, but it's coming together. And he would he will be calling them in. Y'all still see this picture? I really am so glad about that. Secondly, he says, in verse 10 picks up, he says to them, in essence, I am the life giver. The door is remaining closed for your own good. I am the entryway for the sheep. He's the entry control point. And then he comes back in verse 9 again and he says this thing again. And then finally, the Lord revealed to us that there is predestinational success for you. And so we have this word of God. And he would he would start to lay out this whole encasement, this whole pin for them. He would put it all in place so he got it all wrapped up. Oh my God, I just heard something. John chapter 10. If you want to know whether or not you're loved or whether or not you matter, open up the Bible. And so what the shepherd would do after he's created this pen, he would then start calling his If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find There was nothing, no way to go in, no way to come out. And they can't give what they don't have. I am the good shepherd. Would you pray with me? Y'all wandering? I have come that they may have life and they may have it more abundantly. Do I matter at church? I know who you are. Why does he want you to know that he is the door? He would bring them to a nice green pasture. And as the door, he's always protecting the sheep. I am the true door. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. John chapter 10. Again, uh, we're going to see it in this text, and you'll see it throughout the scripture. Okay, so he would set his rod or staff in place. You know, sheep not that smart. You need to hear this on the secular level. Somebody should have got excited about that right there. And I know you might want to go in through Buddha, but Buddha ain't the door. He's out on the plane out there seeking whom he may devour, and he wants to take your life. They know what he's talking about. The second plan is to kill you of any life you have You will do and accomplish what I've set you apart to do. Anybody who said they were capable of giving you everlasting life. And sometimes, as I said, we get frustrated because the door is not opening when we want it to open. He wants to take your worship. In other words, Jeremiah, I knew you before you were even conceived, before your conception took place. And I know you want to push the door open. If you have your Bibles with you and you should turn there with me. Y'all still here? Father in heaven, we honor you this morning. Did you realize that the Bible itself is God's love letter to you? We spoke from there. He says, I want you to understand something, sheep. It's just simply that. Thank you, volunteers. God loves us. That's a great question. Jesus says, I am the door. It's coming together. And in fact, somebody left this here, so they must have got healed. Oh, he's gonna do it, I'm gonna talk, okay. The one shepherd would begin calling his sheep, and he would start walking away. Well, I'm on assignment this morning to help you with that question, to help you in understanding: yes, you matter to God If you look there, he says And so that when it came time for the sheep to come in from the dangers that were out on the plain. Y'all still here with me? Jesus says your adversary, your adversary, the thief. Father, I pray for that one who's drifting in their fellowship, Lord God, who's fallen away, that you would draw them by the preaching of the gospel back into What is Jesus saying when he says, I am a door of the sheep? Now, because I'm the door, I'm the access control point. All who ever came before me are thieves and robbers And I'm also watch this, I'm also controlling when they come out His his plan is to steal, to kill, and to just The good shepherd gives his life for the sheep. And then what he would do, he would, he would Verse number 7. In fact, in the process of pastoring and and preaching Do I matter among friends and family? Praise the Lord. We have God continually saying this. And he says it again to us. But the one who doesn't care about you, he's trying to take your life. In fact, if you look through this text, and as we walk through this text, there's three things that Jesus is going to So they don't understand what he's talking about. He's always loving his sheep. Wolves, bears, lions. There was no access control point. And even if two herds of sheep came together. But the door is just protecting you. He's the access control point to the sheepfold Because as I read through this text, he says, if anyone enters by me. There was no access point. That's far enough. So when you go hook up with a heathen, you need to understand a heathen doesn't have life, so they can't transfer. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. The one who really loves you is depositing in you and give Oh Lord have mercy. He starts right there. He wants to take your family. As the shepherd would would would do that. You need to hear this on the relational level. We bless you. Because he says I am the door of the sheep. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. I have come that you may have a life And then on last, when we were together, I'm the access control. Don't push the door open. They didn't understand it. But Jesus says, I am the access Like this rope is supposed to be a little smoother than this. One of his plans is to steal your life. Be certain of you. They didn't come to bring them in, they came to take And so the shepherd would start calling his sheep in. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. So y'all still here with me? We thank you for your grace, which is He really, really does. I am the door. And then come back this way. Now, this is my staff for today. They they don't they not that quick Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Don't let the world unravel what God has clearly said about you. Now, this is always interesting to me when the Lord starts repeating himself because Now anybody coming in for the sheep, they got to come through me. But the one who who's a thief and a robber, he's trying to take, take, take, take, take You will be able to accomplish all that I've put my Holy Spirit in you to allow you to accomplish So as we continue to press our way through the series of messages, we And so since God's given me this responsibility The first thing I just want to extract from this text. That's what verse 6 tells us I have an illustration here. So he's trying to help them to understand there's a true difference between the one who really wants to help you He kind of rephrases, regroups, and says this God's word reads as follows. Even in fact, on this particular day as we read the text. But he comes back again in verse number nine, and he says, at the very beginning of verse number nine He wants you to know that he is the door because as the door, he is demonstrating. Then he would stand at the gateway, the entryway So he says, look, I am the door, first of all. There is a threat to your life And when you get there, let me know you're there by saying Amen. There was as as the sheep were wandering over the field and and You are on an open plane But this time when he said it, he paints for us m. We thank you in advance for uniting with us Do I matter? And one of the things I've learned Anybody who said they had hope for you before I came, they ain't nothing but a liar. I know you might want to come in through Confucius, but Confucius ain't the door. God is writing a love letter, saying to you and saying to me I am the way. That works too Y'all y'all see that? He just wants to kill everything in your life. There was no, in fact, everybody who pretended to be a doorway or to who pretended The door is in place or 11 a. Welcome to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. That they might repent I've come over the years to adopt the phrase that I always close all my correspondence to the And so I got this out the lost and found. And now, Pastor Sterling. I'm loving on you. He's gonna reveal this to us, he's gonna open it up to us because just in case you were curious, just in case So I am the entryway of the sheep. You need to hear that the one who loves you is not the one who's trying to destroy you. And so this morning, let me delve into the text here and help us to see how But what was even possible for you Father, I pray that the Word of God would be a means of edification. He says, the fe I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep, and I am none And so he'll bring them in. Am I important? I'm still walking. And every one of the sheep, even though they were mixed in with m. And so the rope is almost there A door is just an access way. Now he's bringing you their stories. I am the truth. And when he comes out, he also still finds safe pasture. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center. And so I always sign off, loving my sheep, Pastor Sterling. And the wolf catches the sheep and Do I matter to my sp Somebody saw me walking with this the other day. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. I knew Everybody see that see the pen that I But a hireling And the fold I'm loving my sheep by being the door. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Am I anybody? But nevertheless, what the shepherd would do, he would begin to set up If see the ropes never participate. Began our series in Matthew chapter 5. And he'd say, Anthony, come on in If there's any danger out there, I'm gonna keep the door closed. Then Jesus said to them, And the sheep And I don't want to call too many because somebody might not come Because he loves his sheep. He'd make sure, check all this out. Lord, I surrender myself a vessel in your hand. I am the doorway of the sheep. In other words, I didn't make you to be a failure, I made you to succeed. Does it does anybody care about me in this world? In Jesus' name we pray. That's exactly org I'm Andy Christman. It's the way you go in, and it's the way you come out. John chapter 10. That's his Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Don't let circumstances Thank you, sir. So all this we lush grass and lush green. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. They're thieves and robbers. Do I? They came.