Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. Proverbs chapter five, beginning at verse one, the word of God reads as follows, my son Pay attention to my wisdom and lend your ear to my understanding, that you may preserve discretion, and your lips may keep knowledge. For the lips of an immoral woman drip honey And her mouth is smoother than oil. In the end she is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. Her feet go down to death And her steps lay hold of hell. Lest you ponder her path of life, her ways are unstable, you do not know them. Therefore, hear me now, my children. And do not depart from the words of my mouth. Remove your way far from her, and do not go near her door of her house, lest you give your honor to others, your years to the cruel one, lest aliens Field with your be filled with your wealth and your labors go to the house of a foreigner. I'm gonna stop right there, but I do want to look at um all of Proverbs 7 Similarly, they they almost in some ways mirror each other. Um, but there's a little bit a little bit more here in Proverbs 7, I think that we can Gleam from my son, keep my words and treasure my commandment or my commands within you. Keep my commands and live and my ways As the apple of your eye, bind them on your fingers, write them on the tablet of your heart. Say to wisdom, You are my sister, and call understanding your nearest of kin. That they may keep you from the immoral woman, from the seductress who flatters with her words. For at the window of my house I looked Through my lattice, and I saw among the simple, I perceived among the youth a young man devoid of understanding, passing along the street near her corner. And he took the path to her house in the twilight in the evening in the black and the dark night. And there the woman met him with attire of a harlot and craftiness of heart or a crafty heart, and she was loud and rebellious, her feet would not stay at home At times she would uh was outside at the times in the open square lurking at every corner, so she caught him and kissed him and And with an impotent face she said to him, I have peace offerings with me. Today I have paid my vows. So I came out to meet you diligently to seek your face, and I have found you I have spread my bed with tapestry, colored coverings of Egyptian linen. Sound like this is really getting hot. I have perfumed my bed with myrrh and aloes and cinnamon. Come let us make our fill of love until morning. Let us delight ourselves with love. For my husband is not at home and has gone on a long journey and has taken a bag of money with him, and will come home on an appointed day. With her enticing speech, she caused him to yield With her flattering lips he s uh she seduced him, and immediately he went after her as an ox goes to slaughter or as a fool to the correction of the stocks, till an arrow struck his liver as a bird hastens to a snare. He did not know it That it would cost his life. Now, therefore, listen to me, my children. Pay attention to my words of my mouth, and do not let your heart turn aside to her ways. Do not stray into her paths, for she has cast down many wounded, and all of who were slain by her were strong men. Her house is the way to hell descending into the chambers of death. Pray with me. Father, we bless you on this morning. We need you that We might be able to open up this scripture to the understanding and the application of all of your people on this morning. Spirit of the Lord, I am standing in need of you as you would provide strength for me to declare your word clearly and allow my mind to be clear and sharp. Allow my speech to be understandable and perceivable, and that the words, God, that proceed from my lips might change the lives of those who are listening. I'm praying, eternal God, that we would hear you on this morning and not me. Praying, God, that you would save someone who's lost and reclaim someone who's drifting. I'm praying, Heavenly Father, that even now that as we yield ourselves to the Word of God, that it might prick our hearts to challenge us to live holy for you. Spirit of the Lord, when it's all said and done, we will give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise, for it is you alone who is worthy of it. So I bless you in advance for what you're getting ready to do in the name and in the power of the Lord Jesus Christ, I pray. Amen. I'm sure your eyes are a little perked this morning as I read the scripture. You're probably wondering, woof, where we going with that? And probably some of you were like, is that in the Bible? The lure of the immoral woman. And I'm not talking about a woman as a gender. I'm talking about this immoral woman as a spirit. Y'all still here with me? I know women was getting ready to throw stuff at me, so I had to clear that up. I'm gonna say, what about the men? Well, this is a spirit. This is a an immoral spirit. And um as it warms up, as is naturally the case, people begin to take off stuff. And so as they take off stuff, the spirit of love and lust fills the air. Amen, Jesus. And the sad part is that some don't know the difference between the two. And if you pray with me, we'll make our way through this on today. And I'll open up to our understanding that we need to be cautious. Because this spirit of the immoral woman, or in this uh pretense, I'll just say the immoral one. This spirit looms not just in the spring and the summer, but it looms all year long in the quiet, secret places of Christian homes, hearts, and families. Y'all thought this was just something that old heathens do? No, old Christians got a problem here too. And unfortunately, if I can be honest with us on this morning, we rarely ever preach about it in church. And I was alarmed and I was blown away when I was looking at a survey from I think it's called uh Pew something, I can't remember the name some organization does a survey, but they said that in their survey, I think it was a 2021 survey, fifty percent and above of Christians Saying that illicit sex was acceptable Um and I was like fifty percent? And I was like, wow. Which tells me that we as Christians have A very skewed view of God's interpretation of sexual purity. And maybe it's the preacher's fault For not preaching about it. Cause preacher, you know that the people that come to church Spirit filled, fire baptized, running for your life folks. They don't always read the Bible. They're waiting for you to read it on Sunday morning. Amen, Jesus. I'm just talking to myself right now. Just talking, me and Jesus having a conversation. And so as I Had opportunity to open this up and hopefully I'm still I'm praying as to how to how to couch it. So y'all just pray for me. Because one, I'm not afraid of the passage because it's God's word, but I do want to adequately present it so that we can all gain benefit from it. Y'all still here with me? In this text, both texts Solomon, who is the wisest man who lived on earth besides Jesus. He shares this insight from the perspective of wisdom to his son And Solomon sends out a warning to his son and his children, which helps me to know that this passage is not just for the men, but this passage is for all. He sends out this passage of warning to all who will listen and all who and he encourages them don't don't turn from my words because these words will save you. From some trouble. Amen, Jesus. And I want to try to speak through the oracle of Solomon. uh and talk to you on this morning from the subject matter, beware of the bait of the immoral one One of the things that I've come to understand is that in order to catch fish, you have to use the right bait. I can go to certain places. I can go to say a pond or a lake and I can throw in a certain kind of lure or I can throw in a certain kind of bait. And I won't get not one single bite all day long. But if I change the bait And I use the bait that is attractive and desirable for the hungry fish that are in the pond, in the lake, in the ocean, in the sea. They will tear that bait up and they will go for it every time. Here's the funny part. They don't have a clue. That there's a hook in the bait. When the moral one hooks you with the bait, you are done. You are headed all the way down. To the end the where the immoral one wants to take you, where this spirit wants to take you, you going all the way to that. Y'all still here? And so beware of the bait of the immoral one. And as I was walking through this text, first and foremost, what we see here in both Proverbs 5 and in Proverbs 7. is a father's commands and observations. He starts off in chapter 5 and he says, pay attention, my children, pay attention. uh to my wisdom he being the smartest man uh who has all the wisdom he says lend ear to my understanding uh i want you to listen pay attention pay attention pay attention He says the same thing actually in chapter seven. My son, keep my words and treasure my commandments within you, and keep my commandments. And my laws, let them be the apple of your eye, pay attention, keep them, keep them before you bind them on your fingers and write them on the tablets of your heart And say to wisdom, you are my sister. In other words, be so close and so acclimated to the wisdom that I'm sharing with you that it is like a sister to you, and to understanding you are my next akin. And he says, pay attention, pay attention, pay at be alert, pay attention, keep these words. And I will say this in all honesty and all sincerity, as I have observed over the many years, many who have fallen to the lure of the immoral one. Um, they have not paid attention. Amen. They have not listened. Amen. Some of you have children and you gave them advice and you said Don't don't don't mess don't mess with that one. Leave that one throw that one back. And you got some friends. Can we just talk? We just want to talk. You got some friends, and and they told you about their their boo, their boyfriend, girlfriend. But I ain't never been to see his mama. And you as a girlfriend said, mm, something's something funny about that. Am I right? And then you start analyzing the situation to help your sister out, right? And and for some of the guys, y'all probably done the same thing, and you said, man, this girl, man, shh, she on fire. You know you went on and told your boys about it and then they said, man, but wait a minute, but but how come you can't never catch up with her? This is an online relationship? You mean y'all just be talking online all the time? You said dude, you might you might be getting catfished. And you helped them out. You says, hey, pay attention. And he says, no, no, man, no, no I got this dude. Right? They didn't pay attention Girls, sisters, they didn't listen. Way down the road they called you crying. And you you like what's wrong? And they telling you it's wrong. You think to you something I told you didn't listen. Guys, same thing. What's wrong dude? Man, that girl it wasn't really a girl with a dude on the other end. I know. I told you listen. Pay attention. And listen, as a pastor, I feel the same way. I'm preaching and teaching. I'm saying, pay attention to the word of God. Listen to the word of God before come to the man. I was like Didn't pay attention. This is what gets us in a whole lot of trouble. We don't pay attention. Listen. And Solomon says, listen and pay attention and commit this to your heart and commit this to your living. This understanding, this wisdom that I'm sharing, Solomon says, will keep you from trouble. And he goes on and he shares here as he shares his advice, he says I need you to internalize this information. I need you to hold on to it. Make this like your sister. Make it like your next of kin. And then if I go back to chapter 5, he says, listen Verse 7, I think it is. He says, Therefore hear me now, my children, and do not depart from the words of my mouth. Don't throw away what I'm telling you, what I'm how I'm warning you to be I'm warning you about debate this out there. But don't throw these words away. Remove your way as far from the immoral spirit from get away from her as far as you can don't even go near her door lest you give your honor away Lest you give your years away. Lest you give your wealth away. Lest you give your wealth to foreigners. Your labor over to foreigners. Leave her alone. Leave the immoral spirit alone. Leave the illicit activity alone. Unless it's going to bring you trouble. Leave it alone. It's going is is it problematic for you? He says leave leave it be. It's it's gonna rob you And some folk have been down this road. You hooked up with Bruh Man, and Brother Man knew he had hooked into a good fish, and he been milking you ever since. I'm telling the truth about it, Jesus. You hooked in a sister girl, and she won't go to work to save her life, but she wants to shop at every Louis Vuitton place in town. I'm preaching way better than y'all saying amen. You losing your wealth. You hooked up with brown man, sister girl, and next thing you know, you sitting down up in Marlboro and they say 50% They didn't even bring 50 cent in the relationship. Now they getting 50% or your 401k. Preaching way better than y'all said, Amen. You better listen, my children. Listen. Pay attention. Pay attention. This is wisdom. Call wisdom your sister, your next of kin. He says, stay away from her. Stay away from the spirit of the seductress, the immoral, one that will lead you down an immoral pathway. Don't even go close to the door. Why not? Because she'll get you. You're not strong enough to resist her This is what he says. He says, and then he tells a story in chapter seven. He says I was looking out my window. And this this is my version of the story. I was looking at he was he he says I was looking out my window And he said, I saw a young cat strolling down the way. He wasn't too smart. He went right over there to her pathway where she lives. And when he went over there, she worked them. This is my version of the story. She worked them over the imagery of a woman and a man, but the imagery literally is a spirit that's talking you into doing what God has told you not to do. Y'all still here? But the way Solomon lays it out, he says, listen, her lips were smooth. Smooth. It was like smooth. And it was like honey. And if you ever kiss somebody who had like honey in their tongue. Solomon said man once you get in there you not want to come out it's you go you trying to get all the honey you all of a sudden you turn into poo bear you trying to get all the honey He said listen he says she was working him over her she was talking to him smooth she was dripping that honey all over him all over her lips was dripping honey and then she came to him and said ma'am looking for you And well listen, she says, I've been looking for you, and you're you're special. You the only one. Lying herself, because Solomon said, I was watching her, this girl don't never stay home. She always in the street, chasing after everybody. Solomon said, I've been watching it. Y'all read the text. Let me read it back to y'all. Y'all look at me like I'm making stuff up. Let me She was loud, verse 11, chapter 7, verse 11. She was loud. She was rebellious. Her feet won't stay home. She always in the street, all the time outside, at times in the open square, lurking at every corner. Then she caught him. Kissed him with an impotent face with with a try to be like a straightforward face. Then she said, I I got I got peace at home for you. She started smooth talking And she lures him in. Today I've paid my vows. I'm a I'm a good Christian woman. I paid my tithes. I'm doing my stuff. I went to church, girl. They be talking to you. Can I talk for real, for real? Because I really need to talk to my church people because church people, we are vulnerable. Lord have mercy, we vulnerable. Somebody say they went to church all of a sudden You get all weakened and ease because they went to church. There's a lot of devils in church Okay, don't let that fool you. And listen, remember this is bait, so if I'm baiting the hook, I gotta make it look like it's something you want. You want a church girl? I'm churchy. You want a church, dude? Boy, I was praying for you this morning, girl. I was on my knees praying. I was Me and Jesus, we just like that. No, they not lying. It's bait. Beware of the bait. Solomon says, This is what I saw. This was his observations. I saw this dude, and he went all the way down, and and she she done grabbed him up, she kisses him, she starts you know just like laying it on And he says when I s when it when it was happening in um I think chapter 7 verse 8 and 9 somewhere around there he says it was happening at night Was passing along the street near the corner. She took the path to his house. Look at verse 9. In the twilight, in the evening, in the black. And the dark. Do you think it was an accident that he put all of those adjectives in there about the time of day and when it was? Because that's when the freaks come out. I'm really trying to help y'all. I really am When it's dark, when it's quiet, when ain't nobody around, when they can separate you from your friends and from your family And then they can abuse you and misuse you and take you for granted cause nobody is there to give accountability to I know what's happening right now. See, y'all think preachers don't know what's going on. I know there's a lot of online stuff happening. And my my mature Christians have have bought into it too But see, some mature Christians are pretty smart because at least Lord Jesus help me God how to say this the right way. They done figured out you ain't getting my social security or you ain't gonna mess that up So we just gonna be friends with benefits. Amen. We gonna be immoral, but I'm keeping my social security. You ain't messing that up. I'm preaching the real truth. I ain't lying to y'all. I'm telling you what I know. And this moral spirit is out there To lure you. And I'm standing here to say, beware of the bait. Don't take the bait. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.