And not only here, Lord God, but I pray that wherever the sound of my voice may travel, that the word of God might impact the hearts, lives, and directions of those who are listening. When the water stores stirs, because when the water stirs, they see opportunity for themselves, and they only look at themselves and they don't care about my situation. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Voices behind the song. And I needed the rest. The word of the Lord this morning from John chapter 5, beginning at verse 1, reads as follows. and then whoever stepped in first after the stirring of the water was made well of whatever disease he had. And you know, let him be on his way. There's a lot of debate whether this literally is angels coming down or is this just some pure water that's flowing from Mount Herman or some other uh part of of a higher range of Israel. We don't have a name. You gave me. Uh and sometimes when when I've read this passage before, I've I've thought and I've almost envisioned this man laying at the pool and he was like a a paraplegic he couldn't move but he says every time I start moving towards the water somebody beats me which means he can move We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. uh stood in and held things down while I had a chance to catch some rest and get a little uh vacation in and Now there is in Jerusalem the sheepgate, a pool, which is called in Hebrew Bethesda, having five porches. Spirit of the Lord, have your way in all that is said and all that transpires. The thoughts you've placed in my heart, the message that needs to be conveyed. For nearly forty years he's been dealing with the same issue. And as we were coming off the boat, there was a kind of tall, frail, elderly man who was walking before us, kind of gingerly. So I want to ask this question as well that we find in chapter 5, verse number 6. is an expository question. And this expository question begins to almost as quickly as you gave an answer, we get an answer in verse 7. Is he hiding and everything? She can't turn around and say, Oh, the system is after me. I I'm gonna get it's it's coming right to your front door. In rectifying my own situation, getting into the pool, but but there's been failure on the part of those who are around me because nobody around me will help me. Sometimes this is what church life looks like. When I was in Ghana and we were ministering there at one of the schools, I noticed that there was this stand out in front of the school and they were there's only a couple kids that w went to the stand they have like So I asked the question, like, what is this like the kitchen? before me that's his explanation why he's still in his condition. He gave this answer. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. Down with the voices behind the song. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. who are praying for me and praying for my wife and I to get the rest we needed. In these lay a great multitude of sick people, blind, lame, paralyzed, waiting for the moving of the water. Jesus said to him, Rise, take up your bed and walk. Glorify yourself in this place and we'll give you all the glory, all the honor, all the praise. And he looked at me with what seemed like for a long period of time before he moved again. To help me. Who you have extended your hand to look up to you when they have fallen or when their life is in a mess and a quandary. at the pool of Bethesda, who's been there for 38 years, and he hasn't gotten or received the help that he needs. That's what the Bible says happens. There is an assumption when we read this, I mean, maybe just me, that he's been at the pool of Bethesda for 38 years. That's not what the text says. And so in the same way that expository preaching exposes what's in the text, this expository question exposes what's in your heart. To answer so quickly. The reason why sometimes we can't be made well is because we won't acknowledge that it's me. Why my finances a mess? Y'all still here? But the best I can is not good enough. to wellness or healing. Help me, Holy Ghost. I'm still not well. And so now there's not only effort failure on his part, there's effort failure on the part of those who are around him. When blessings are being poured out, all they're thinking about is I need to get up underneath that so I can get as much as I can. They're not thinking about I'm weaker, I can't get there. bread and some rice and stuff that was there and some drink and only a couple of kids went to it. Because they didn't have a cafeteria or anything like that, so I thought, you know, kids go on break, they go out and get something to eat and you know that was lunch. So I wanted to know how much was all the bread. So I said, give the kids all the food and we'll pay for it. And there was this one little child. Tears in his eyes, and it broke me. The way they were doing it wasn't working, so they sent all the kids back to the classroom. to eat. to press their way when the water stirs. Sundays at 10 a. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. As we dig a little deeper into this text, we find out that not only that there's nobody to help me, nobody cares, nobody's available to help out. It exposes what I call an explanation of defeat. is because there's a failure on my part and there's a failure on the people's part. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, but while I am coming, another steps down before me. And that day was the Sabbath. And so I hurried to the the man and and reached out my hand to help him to get up. And my hand was extended to reach to help him, but when he turned and saw me, he paused. After a moment and after a little while, I guess he decided I can't help myself because he couldn't get up. And he didn't want me to help him, but he had nobody else to help. And when I say that, I I I understand and I realize that that that those words together can mean a lot of things. And two, you don't have the ability to help me. This miraculous thing that happens every so now and then at the the pools of Bethesda where the water is stirred and and and an angel comes down and The Bible says that the angel comes down and stirs the water, so I'll stick with that. Have no one to put me in, which means in all of my own efforts, I can't get in by myself. To get there on my own. Recuperation, I will tell you for sure. And he turned with the most vehement anger and frustration in his voice and said, No. So I we don't know how long he's been at the pool, but Jesus meets him at the pool, and when Jesus meets him at the pool, Jesus knows he's been dealing with this infirmity for a long time. I'm asking you the question, you who are listening. The man at the pool of Bethesda is an expository question. Answered him, sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred. His answer begins to expose what I call effort failure. Y'all see that? He says I have I have no one to put me in the pool. To help me get into the pool. And they have to pay to get the food. And there was these loaves of bread and they so the teachers started cutting the bread up in small pieces so that every child could have a piece of bread. And as they were cutting the bread, all the kids started gathering around, and some of the kids were a little bigger, a little smaller, and they were gathered around the teachers because they wanted to be first to get the bread. And so what I did with this young boy, I told the the teacher, I said, we wanted to make sure he got some bread, that he got some food. And get something for one day. So the man says, well, I'm trying. Hard. And so I began to I couldn't get the whole incident out of my mind, and so it just is it led me through some scripture, and this is one of the scripture passages that it led me to this this man He looks at a man and being the omniscient God, the God who knows everything. And Jesus asked what I call an expository question. This question is going to expose the heart of the man and the recipient of the question. But but his response exposes that this effort failure on his part because he says, I And so I said to the one of the guys that were I said, how much is the bread? And so I'm standing right here and I'm watching this in awe because our kids go to school and they say, I don't want that school lunch. Our schools you pack their lunch and they dropping along the side of the way or bring it back home. That's sometimes how church life is. This man's answer exposes the effort failure on his part, but also the effort failure on the part of others. So here's the interesting thing about this when he's explaining away why he hasn't been made well. And when Jesus saw him lying there, he knew that he had already been in that condition a long time. And though you're offering them help, they look to you and say, You can't help me. meander through this and see if I can pull out some things. Want to be made whale. My problem began with me. Nobody around me views me as valuable enough to assist me. Yes, in essence, he says his explanation as to why he hasn't been made well. Are still in the same situation. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Walk slowly with me. You said quickly yes. That's me. Today we find ourselves at the pool of Bethesda, which Jesus meets a man who's been dealing with an infirmity for 38 years. This text and my experience combined today to bring you a message that I want to talk about. In this passage we f read early here in the first part of chapter five that there's this feast and they've Jesus is going on his way and he's there at the pool gate and it's And then God turned to her and he said to her, What are you doing? Mess that you've been in for five years, six months. Of defeat. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. You know, it was kind of an awkward moment, but I mean I'm here like dog. And so they they said, well send all the kids back to the classroom so that gives us a chance to cut up all this bread and and spread out some rice and and be able to take some to every classroom to make sure every child eats So the first probably three days, that's all I did was sleep. And he says, What have you done? And what I like about the text is it doesn't give a name, which means it could be you or it could be me. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. He follows it with this explanation. And so if I can relate that to us, in his case, his failure is: I'm doing the best I can to move myself towards wellness. And this man says, I'm trying. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. So there is effort failure on our part. He says, I have no one to put me into the pool. The text says he's been he's been with this infirmity for 38 years, and when Jesus comes and sees him at the pool m. at the Legacy Center. And when he fell, there was, I don't know who it was, but somebody around said, Are you okay? And I thought to myself after this had occurred, I said, Lord, how many other people? The question is going to expose what's in your heart. But an answer nonetheless is good. It started with you. So there's effort failure on his part, but but listen to what he says. He says, it was, he didn't say it was me. But with that answer comes what I call an explanation of defeat. I'm not strong enough. That you're using to justify staying in the position that you're in. But the text comes back and says that Jesus knows that he's been in this condition for a long time. Every man for himself. Because I wanted to buy everything on the wagon and all the food so these kids could eat. No, you after yourself. In fact, every man for himself at the pool. Would you pray with me on this morning? Do you want to be made well? This question that I've asked you, this question that Jesus asked And at this occurrence, Jesus comes upon the pool of Bethesda, and while he's there He was extra small and extra thin. Because I knew he was never gonna get a piece of bread because everybody else was stronger, and none of them thought about his hunger. And you might say, well man, pass away, man. But watch it. And they cut up all the bread because they were coming as as the the people were bringing the bread from the cart, the kids were s with just excitement, enthusiasm, rushing to try to get them something. That's your answer too, probably. There are two things I really want to look at on this morning. And so there's only a few of the children that can afford to get the food, and the rest of them stay hungry. Had I not gotten that time in, um I probably wouldn't have made it. $16 to feed the whole school. He says, I don't have anybody to help me. We find ourselves here through a series of events that happened actually to me while I was on vacation. So I I I want to just kinda kinda And she said, It was that snake. I'm asking you the question this morning. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services I mean, when the water stirs, I'm I'm scooting, I'm doing whatever I can to get to it, but but I'm not fast enough Are y'all hearing what I'm saying? I mean like this is like lunch wagon or something where you know y'all serve the kids the food out of the wagon and then they was like no that's a vendor Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. Have your way. I'm preaching way better than you saying amen. You were the one swipe, swipe, swipe, swipe, swipe, swipe. That's that's that's the picture of this this man at the pool of Bethesda. Father, we need you, and we pray that your Holy Spirit will guide and direct and move in this place. This is a great acknowledgement that a lot of people don't have I don't have the agility to beat everybody else into the pool. He says I have failed in Thank you, thank you, thank you No. Am I right? Yes. That's a great question. Um and so I'm grateful for the rest and uh and for the prayers of the saints. The angel comes down and stirs the water, and whoever steps in the water first, regardless of what their infirmity is, they're made whole. I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred while I am coming. Ain't nobody else helping you. And these kids were starving and couldn't wait to get a piece of bread. What's your explanation? I'm trying. We need you, God. I have nobody to put me in Save someone, God who's lost, reclaim someone who's drifting. That's kind of hard. All they're thinking about is self Well, what's your explanation as to why it hasn't happened? Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome He said it was that woman It's never see the reason sometimes you can't be made well is because you won't acknowledge you got you got skin in the game I thought it was like the lunch like wagon or something. And immediately the man was made well, took up his bed, and walked That's a great question. We have to start with where it begins. And so they brought the bread up. And so he uh he allowed me uh to help him get up and we someone else came along from the backside and they we we got him up and We're opening up your heart. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. We cannot do it by ourselves After this, there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. I want to look at the expository question of the text and the expository command of the text. The sick man, the sick woman, the the person whose life is not in order, the person who needs to be made well. You're being hard on the man. Not all of y'all, but some of y'all, some of you said it out loud, and some of you said it in your heart, and you said, Oh yeah. In Jesus' name. You got a bigger bag, you got a bucket, something I can get in. When I asked you the question earlier, do you want to be made well But I don't have any help. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. I'm going to speak on behalf of God. In the garden, when God came to Adam and He said, Adam, what where where are you? The question that I've asked you this morning And the effort failure begins with the word I. But I noticed all the kids weren't going. But everything about his eyes and his body language says, I don't want you. He knows now the text tells us that the man has been with this infirmity for 38 years. There's a failure in this text Nobody else cares about me. Praise the Lord I need you. But in a pregnant pause, as he had just turned himself over because he fell forward, so he had to turn over, so when he turned over he saw me. I'm really preaching way better than y'all saying amen. And unfortunately, Ketterin, can I tell you this And all the other kids were just pushing him back and pushing him back and pushing him back. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. We're opening up what's inside of you. For an angel went down at a certain time into the pool and stirred up the water You know, the best help he got from anybody else was to ask them, was he okay? You're doing the best you can to handle the situation you have, but your best is not bringing you And so I think it came up to I I I might be a little bit off, but I think it was like sixteen dollars He's he's got an infirmity. He says, I have no one, no one else to put me in the pool. Why are you still in the same Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Now a certain man was there who had an infirmity thirty eight years Do you want to be made well? I don't have nobody to help me. Listen to what he says. And the man says, I. But do you want to be made well? Amen. Y'all still hear? Strengthen me, Lord, that I might clearly articulate the word of God How come you, a child of the living God? And it's not that you don't have the ability to help me, but I don't want you to help me. I like the fact that he he exposes that. That was you. And he said to him, Do you want to be made well? So some of you have already answered might be dangerous. There was like a couple of hundred kids there and only like four or five of them went to the wagon. Everybody stronger is up front getting what they want and pushing him back Um I know I was at a place where I was running on fumes But every day those kids are hungry because they're too weak. Jesus is asked this question: Do you want to be made well? They're not thinking about me Now he's bringing you their stories. And now, Pastor Sterling. And so I'm still Is that your answer too? And as we were coming down, this man fell. And why would you blame it on him? So there's a failure on my part. C and so it The One Degree of Andy podcast. Not a loaf of bread, not a whole not a whole slice of bread, but just a piece of bread. Do you Now he's bringing you their stories. We're opening up what's inside of this man. In other words Another steps down. For the man says Yes, but what's your explanation? The One Degree of Andy podcast. As I said earlier, one, I don't want you to help me. I don't have nobody else to help me. I'm Andy Christman. And so that what they figured out was this wasn't working. We went on a cruise and we were coming off the boat. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And so But No, I'm not I'm not blaming it on him yet. I'm Andy Christman. The sick man. Imagine that. org In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast. You can't help me. And he looked up at me with. Watch this. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said And then Adam So I was thinking like org.