Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. You are the one who's going to die on a cross. How are they gonna how are they gonna turn over the idea that Jesus is God? What that helps me to understand is we as the church have to be in place to contend against the strategies and the plans of the devil and the and the wisdom that comes from the city of hell. It ain't number three fight. He ascended gloriously to the throne of God, sits down on the right hand of the Father, and right now is making intercession for you and for me We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. So what they mean, you get ready to die. I'm talking about the church of the living God. Voices behind the song. Are y'all still here? Uh the in in in ancient times in biblical times the gates was the place where the wise men of the city came together So hell is making a plan. For those who have not received him, you are not his children. Oh, I believe I believe I believe there's a God. And the tricks and the vices and the plans of the devil coming against the kingdom of God. You remember you used to be able to see anything and everything. Who is a liar, but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ. It says, Who is he that overcomes the world? That Jesus Christ is the one who has come, that Jesus is the Son of the Living God. For you neither go in yourselves, nor do you allow those who were entering to go in. If someone here today, God, does not know you in the pardon of their sin, let them, God, be awakened today to realize that you paid the price for their sin so that they would not have to die and spend their eternity separated from you. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. And now, stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. Thou art the Christos. They say you you Elijah or some other prophets. And look around you today. Solid foundation on this petra rock of confidence. He is the truth, he is the life, and nobody can get to God except they come through him. We need to keep telling people who he is. So, yeah, we need the church. And if we leave the world up to deciding what men or who men say he is, we ain't never gonna make it into heaven. And blended itself in with who men say he is. But watch this, and the gates of Hades will not prevail against it. That at the moment of declaration, of revelation of who he is, I ought to expect opposition from the gates of hell. The way, the truth, and the life. Papers, as long as you sell enough moon pies, as long as you visit enough sites, as long as you do all this. And they planned and they strategized so their plans and plots and strategies for the city and for wartime would be made at the gates. When Jesus says the gates of hell are coming against the church, it is, watch this, uh an obligation of the church to contend against the gates of hell. So we're not just conveying the revelation of who Jesus is, but we have the responsibility as the church to contend against the gates of hell. That he is the one that Peter declares by revelation of God Himself. But if you're not ready for it when it comes, it'll defeat you. That Jesus is the Messiah, and when death comes, if you have received that truth, death won't defeat you. That's how we contend against death when it comes. And so here you are trying to be spiritual and he gonna slide you on a way because you don't know the truth. of the devil. It wasn't literal, but it was a figurative speech. Heaven's doors would have been shut up. that he had the key that was given to him by revelation of the father that Jesus Christ is the Messiah but the mystery of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That means without sin. And to use the keys so that he can open up the kingdom of God so that others could come on in. He's issuing some some some woes to them, and his first woe to the scribes and the Pharisees is he calls them hypocrites. And so we like Peter have keys to the kingdom, and the church is needed so that we can open up the kingdom of God so others can come in. He says, you hypocrites, he says, you shut up the kingdom of heaven. Now, I know, I know how it is. Come on, let's just be honest. And we have the keys to the kingdom. Father in heaven, thank you for your word today. This sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Sharing the good news of Jesus Christ and who he is to open up the doors for the person who sits beside you on the metro every day. It is necessary for the church to contend against the traps, tricks, and devices and strategies of hell's gates coming against the church. They can be set free from the penalty of sin. Y'all still here with me? Then guess what? Upper Marlboro, Maryland. to convey who he is. So it's on this foundation. You're the one who's gonna make it possible for us to be called children of God. Peter, also you are Peter, on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades shall not prevail against it. I'm going to build my church on this foundational truth that has been revealed to you by the Father. Help me, Lord Jesus. That the church helped me to understand who he was. He does not say that the gates of Hades will not come against it. to get to God. But expect that the gates of Hades is coming with all kinds of opposition. We ain't all the same. And guess what? Because I'll believe you and me, we just the same. Because we have a responsibility as the church to contend against the lies and the strategies that are made at the gates of hell that's coming against the house of God. you have this truth. Has an obligation to stand and contend even against death. If if we can watch this, if the enemy's strategy is to cause us all to believe we're all okay and we're all the same, guess what? That's why we need the church. Hello, Jesus. Run to the bathroom, but now you get up and sit on side the bed and say, Lord, have mercy. Where this pain come from, Lord Jesus, help me make it to the bathroom. And listen, I don't want to belabor this point, but I just see this thing so clearly, that there's so many people that get pulled away. Death will defeat you when it comes. So you don't have to believe. Because death is coming. And when death comes, death is going to defeat me. And so when the strategies of the devil come, and y'all need to understand something about the devil, the devil is very cunning. Because it is the truth that makes you free, but it's a lie that keeps you in bondage. Of heaven. Bound on earth, loosed on earth, bound in heaven, loosed in heaven. kind of a an an apostolic gifting that was given only to Peter. When he is preaching at Pentecost and thousands of people, Jew and Gentile, come to know the Lord. But he's willing to share that truth. Fold or open up, if you will, the mystery of the gospel. So you've got the same keys. Born of a virgin, lived 33 years, without sin. You've got the same revelation of who Jesus is. How how pastor, how do you know we do that? But since you got your ticket, you know you going in. That neighbor of yours who gets on your last nerve. So that we together, collectively, can convey the revelation of who Jesus is. The church is necessary. In hell. Someone's going through today and they need you in an extraordinary way, God. We need you, God. If we open up the gospel and share the good news, watch this. So with the gospel, we can bind them or we can loose them. Whether or not they will place their faith in the truth. Because if the church don't use the keys, how else will people get in? again as Senior Pastor Buchan Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence But the gates of hell will not overthrow this truth. To denote death. That's proof. We realize that the church is necessary to control the keys to the kingdom of heaven. And their denial of who Jesus is closes the doors of heaven, locks up the doors of heaven, and won't let others come in. With their denial of who Jesus is, if they can lock up heaven with their hypocrisy, you ain't gonna tell me that we can't open up the doors of heaven with the truth and with the revelation of who he is. Amen. So when we declare he is God, the gates of Hades is going to come and say he ain't God. From the truth. Well dressed, smelling good, looking good, saying all the right things that you know. But but no, the foundation of the church is knowing by the revelation of God Himself who He is. That's that's that's a that's that's a postcard from death that says I'm on my way. To read anything and it looked like the letters then got smaller and smaller. To use the keys that he has, to share the revelation that he has. Mystery of the gospel, opening up the gospel that he is who he said he is. And a brother or a sister. To overturn the truth that has been conveyed. Died, watch this, innocent. If we don't do it, it won't get done. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. The attack that's going to come against us and against the church from the gates of hell. But he says this finally. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. And whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven. You can get to God any kind of other way. And so that's why I believe Jesus lets them know the gates of Hades is coming against you. Lord, I'm praying that they will come to accept you today. They're going to be bound in the same sin that they're already in, and they won't be able to escape death when it comes. Just because you acknowledge there is a God doesn't make you my brother in Christ. It's number 12 fight. Sometimes you know you just glad that you say, I ain't well if nobody else can say that's all right with me, but I got my ticket. Y'all still here with me? And the thing that's going to help me overcome death is knowing who Jesus is and believing who he is and putting my faith in who he is. He got up from the grave without sin. We need the church to to declare and to convey the revelation of who he is. We need the church. Praise the Lord. Death is coming. Watch this. But if watch this, but the same gospel that we share with them, that same good news that we share with them, it's up to them if they deny the truth. You are the one and the only one who was promised to come through 42 generations Because he's telling us right here. Nobody can get to God except they come through Him. If the church doesn't do its job, who's gonna do it? They're sitting at the gate making a plan. Death is coming. Now watch this. Sometimes we we we sometimes we get selfish. Who do men say he is? So I'm I'm kind of glad. Thank you for the power of your word. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. So in their particular biblical time, if someone says, you know, you're laying on your bed and the doctor's been coming in, and the nurses have been coming in, and they say, Well, the gates of hell are coming for. So this phrase, if I use that phrase in the context of this passage, if I use that understanding of the phrase, he says the gates of hell will not prevail once We are not all God's children. You don't have to, it's up to you. There wouldn't be nobody else able to get in. It's essential. So does the devil. It's going to be the church's responsibility to do here, he says to Peter in verse number 19, I will give you the keys of the kingdom. Because you don't share the truth with anybody else. We need to keep sharing the revelation of who he is. You want to overcome the world? Because the church is deemed unnecessary, and the church is not about its business of making Christ known It's not just enough to have the key, but you need to use the keys. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. How is the world going to know who he is if we don't tell him who he is? You are the one who is our redemption plan. You first need to know who I am. No, we ain't all the same. And so I just need to throw that out there so that we're not thinking that there's something extra here. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. So in other words, let me tell you, death is coming. It's just an indicator that death is coming. We need to believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. Let me read a couple passages for you. So he opens up the door there at Pentecost and Cornelius' house. We need to do our part. You cannot be his child, you cannot be a Christian, which means to be Christ-like, if you don't know who Christ is. In Matthew chapter 23, verse 13, Jesus is He's issuing out some woes to the Pharisees and the scribes. We have the ability to take the corridor for Christ, but we have to use what God has given us. Y'all don't believe me. It was a common kind of phrase that they used and basically what they were just saying, whatever happens on earth, happens in heaven. The church is needed and necessary And we can loose them on earth. The church is necessary if we're going to claim the corridor for Christ. Draw them to yourself. I don't know how y'all feel about it. You ain't concerned about nobody else, so you won't open up the doors. You're none of his. Let that dye wear out of your hair. As long as you have a good heart, as long as you meditate long enough, as long as you burn enough incense, as long as you sell enough news If I don't have that foundation, when the strategies come, the strategies are going to defeat me. What is the mystery of the gospel? He didn't die guilty. You've got the same revelation of the mysteries of the gospel. I pray that your spirit is moving even now to speak to hearts, to speak to minds. But we need the church to convey that truth. You want to defeat death when it comes? Oh, he's just a good man. How are they gonna overturn the idea that He's the only way? Necessary for us to control the keys to the kingdom. The gates of hell is gonna come and say, Oh no, there's other ways. Here's how I'm going to build my church, but there's going to be opposition from the gates of Hades. And trembles. You had twenty-forty vision, and now you need spectr But those who do believe overcome the world, and we overcome death when it comes. Can I tell y'all one of them? How they're going to overcome this truth that has been revealed I'm gonna build my church. That there was a preacher in the house of God who declared without apology that he is the way That he is who he says he is. Because he went in with only your sin and mine. They'll get me to to want to to accept everything and anything that people throw out. That's what that's what Peter is saying. They got all kind of answers to who they think you are I'm gonna build my church on the foundation of truth In the one sense, Peter opens the doors to the kingdom on the day of Pentecost. In other words, you lock up heaven's doors against men. Accept the truth of the gospel. I'm kind of glad that the church was about its business when it came to me. We need the church to declare by divine revelation who God says he is. And so I would contend against that because I believe if Peter's the only one with the keys to the kingdom of heaven after Peter died. And whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. So Lord, let your will be done and your way accomplished even now. I'm glad you made it in. Let me make it even more plain because somebody just thought I isolated them from Ketteran Baptist Church. That's a great question. I'm just going to tell you what the Bible says. In fact, he says, You are of your father, the devil, who you've been birthed in, and in sin and iniquity. How do we do that? Lord have mercy. Okay, let me y'all y'all y'all look at me kind of funny Okay, I get it. We need the church to stand firmly on the foundation that Jesus is the Messiah, that Jesus is the Son of the living God. Pull up your phone and look at the picture that you took of yourself five years ago. Who in the world made a Bible with number three front He is the Antichrist who denies the Father and the Son. He died innocent. No, no, no. Watch this. Lord, let the power of your presence manifest itself and accomplish what you set it forth to do. If you were interested in somebody else getting a ticket, then you would be involved in opening up the kingdom of heaven for them And if they're loosed on earth, they shall be loosed in heaven. You are the Christ. I'm kind of glad about that. Now, the phrase, let me help you with this. Lord have mercy. He's not afraid to say Jesus is the Christos, Jesus is the Messiah, and to unf Because he tells Peter: it's on this rock that I'm gonna build my church, it's on this foundation that I'm gonna build my church. Because I need us to get this whole thing that we are going to face death. Who is he that overcomes the world? Y'all still hear? Maybe if you open up the keys to the kingdom and let them in, they might become a friend. I want you to understand, it's coming your way Well, here it is that Jesus is God Himself in the flesh. And Peter wasn't ashamed to share the good news And so, in order for the church to keep being built, the church needs to keep conveying who he is Which helps me understand something He's another prophet. And as we keep sharing the revelation of who he is, the church keeps on growing. But death is coming too. Watch this. You haven't done nothing by saying you believe in God. We need the church. We do that by declaring who he is. Sometimes, come on, let's just be for real. We are all the same. He's he's not gonna just show up in a red suit and a pitchfork and a long tail. Now watch this. And he says, okay, Peter, on this rock, on this foundation, on this truth, on this mega truth, on this No, we need to declare with confidence and assurance, he is the only way If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. See how gray it is. You remember when you used to get up in the morning, jump out the bed Y'all still here with me? But you have a choice. We can loose people who are bound in sin by sharing with them the good news of the gospel. But they have a choice as to whether or not they're gonna remain bound or whether they're gonna be loose. When we use this phrase here, He opened up the doors of heaven that Jew and Gentile might hear the truth, that he might share with them not only the truth of the revelation. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. Not only are the strategies That's evidence that death is coming. And the gates of hell, if I use this whole idea that the gates is where the strategies are planned You won't use the keys you have of But your neighbor needs to make it in. Watch this. That's how I'm going to build my church. And so they've come up with all kinds of plans He didn't go in with any sin of his own, which allowed him to get up with all power in his hand. Crucified on a cross. Was buried in humility, raised incorruptible. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. What he doesn't say, stay with me. We need the church to stand against the wows and the gates of hell that's coming. When we declare he is John 1 John 5:5 says, But he that believes that Jesus is the Son of God Because you don't know a whole lot of Bible, but he'll quote enough that you can grab a hold of and cause you to believe that it's spiritual. It's the church's responsibility to convey the revelation of who Jesus is. I'm glad that the church had not compromised when I came along And if you never knew them before, I just told you what they were I'm praying, Heavenly Father, that you move on every heart, every mind. That person who's on their way to hell that's in your family, you won't even open up the doors of the kingdom to let them in You're the Messiah. The Bible says that The gates also, this phrase that is used, gates of hell, is also used But now many of theologians have argued this point and they've argued that this statement here is a You got the same keys. Because if we don't, then people are left up to what men say or who men say he is. We're all God's children. Y'all still here with me? m. The scripture says the devil believes there's a God. You don't have to believe. Lord have mercy. Because we've already seen in the text, the world is saying, when he asks the question, who do men say that I am? He opens the door with the key of the kingdom. or 11 a. If I tell you there's gonna be opposition, you won't be surprised when it comes. So their hypocrisy There's many other ways Death is coming your way. Whoo Lord have mercy. I believe he'd existed, but I don't believe he's God. Sometimes we just we just glad that we saved In Jesus' name I pray Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. But Finally, it is going to be the church's responsibility to control the keys to the kingdom. m. So the key is the truth that he has of who Christ is. Your co-worker needs to make it in. 1 John 2, verse 22 says, He is a liar Y'all sure acting sacred monious at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. Peter said, Thou art the Christ. Watch this Now he's bringing you their stories. Okay. Because I need you to understand something: death is coming. That's a lie from the front doors of hell's gates. We'll stop as the church declaring the revelation of who Jesus is. Y'all still here with me? Let me let me see if I can get to I'm coming down your street. The One Degree of Andy podcast. And watch this. Y'all still here with me? I'm not going to accept that. But if you deny the truth We've got to stand and withstand No, I ain't talking about Ketteran Baptist Church. But without that foundational truth, I'm none of his. That's hell. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Your enemy needs to make it in. And the church If they can lock up heaven I'm Andy Christman. Now watch this. Amen. So we need the church And because we're going to face death, 1 John 5. You shouldn't accept that He's not gonna show up that way. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. It's the church's responsibility to contend against the gates. And what key is that? That's your daddy. Secondly, he says to him. This is how I know that Peter ain't the only one with keys. We need the church to control those keys. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Are y'all still here with me? Now, Peter is not afraid. It's we're not all God's children. He's gonna show up eloquently. Oh, they say you John the Baptist. 5 says this. For a copy of Please join us.