Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Ephesians chapter 5, beginning at verse number 1. The word of the Lord reads as follows. Therefore be imitators of God as dear children, and walk in love as Christ also loved us and given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling aroma. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not even be named among you as is fitting for saints, neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor coarse jesting, which are not fitting, but rather the giving of thanks. For this you know that no fornicator, unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you with empty words because of these things. The wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Therefore, do not be partakers with them. For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness, righteousness, and truth, finding out what is acceptable to the Lord. And have no fellowship with the unfaithful works of darkness, but rather expose them. for it is shameful even to speak of those things which are done by them in secret. But all things are exposed and made manifest by light, for whatever makes manifest is light. Therefore he says, Awake you who sleep, arise from the dead, and Christ will give you light. See then that you walk circumspect, not as fools but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And do not be drunk with wine in which is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit. Amen. Spirit of the Lord, thank you for this morning. Thank you for the grace that you've given. Help us even now that we might exercise your will in this place, that you might give strength to this weak vessel to be able to preach your word in such a way that we would know you have spoken. Lord, I pray that the word that is preached this morning will cause someone who's lost to find their way to you. Someone who's on their way, perhaps, to hell today, God, by the preaching of this gospel, might be redeemed from the pit. Have your way, Lord. Raise us up, edify us through this word that we might grow in understanding and wisdom and knowledge of who you are and how we are to live our lives. Teach us, God, how we are to grow up. I pray, Eternal God, that the word that is preached on this morning might edify this body, that it might save some loss, that it might reclaim some drifter. But above and beyond everything, it's my prayer, eternal God, that you would glorify yourself. For it is my will, my desire that your name would get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. It is in Jesus' name I pray and surrender myself today to accomplish your will. Have thine own way now in Jesus' name. Amen We've been preaching through this series of messages entitled Grow Up, and we began in Hebrews chapter 5. We spoke there from the subject matter, the elementary principles again. Last week when we were together, we were in Ephesians chapter four, we spoke there from the subject matter from babes to maturity. And as I was reflecting on this particular text, as the Apostle Paul talks about how we are to walk. How different it is, the walk of a child versus the walk of an adult. And as we lean into this text, what I want to talk to you as we continue to deal with this subject matter of grow up, I want to talk to you from the subject matter, walk like a grown-up. As I look at this text, the Apostle Paul speaking here uses the analogy for the Christian as they live their life He compares it to walking and he uses the Greek word parapateo. In our English versions of the Bible, we translated that word into walk. But it literally means to live. So as I lean in on this particular text, I want to begin by saying: if we're going to walk like a grown-up, we need to walk as imitators of God. Therefore, be imitators of God as dear children, and walk in love as Christ also loved us and given himself for us as an offering and a sacrifice to God as a sweet smelling aroma. Paul says we are to walk as imitators of God. Parapateo, live as imitators of God, as dear children. That phrase helps us in Paul's articulation because what he literally says, live imitating God As if you are, because you are, dear children of God. Because God loves you so much and has adopted you into his family as his own children. And since you are his dear and special children, let's imitate him, live imitating him. Don't walk imitating God as fake and phony folks that's just trying to pretend like you are Christian. No. Live As if you are imitate God because you are his dear children. When you imitate God, imitate him with the level of respect that you would your own parent. Don't imitate God as a means of just something to laugh about or a joke to talk about. No, be imitators of God as dear children of God He says, walk in love as Christ also loved us. As we imitate God, he says, walk also in love as God has loved us. Now, what I want you to understand is as we imitate God, we need to imitate God in the way he loves people So when you love people, you need to love people like God loves people. If I'm imitating God, I have to learn how to love the person and hate the sin. Because I'm imitating God. God loves the person, but he he he disdains the sin. I've got to learn how to love Love people sacrificially like Christ loved sacrificially for me. I've got to learn how to forgive people like Christ forgave me But we offended God and we hurt his heart badly. And God had the right to act like he was no longer kin to us. But he didn't. What God did was he forgave us anyhow, and even though we wronged him, we talked about him, we embarrassed him He forgave us anyhow. We, as we imitate God, have to learn how to forgive, just like that. Just like Christ forgave us. Watch this. Because it was a sacrifice. And for you to forgive is going to be a sacrifice if you're going to imitate God. God did it for us. as a sacrifice, he left his home in glory, and he wrapped himself up. in mortal flesh in order to live amongst us, Lord have mercy, and to, how do I say, sacrifice his position that he had. in heaven in order to come and live amongst us to sacrifice the titles that he had the the authority that he had and he did it to sacrifice for you and I. If I'm going to imitate him, I've got to learn how to do the same thing. I've got to learn how to. Give in even though I feel like I'm right. I gotta learn how to not let my title be the thing that keeps me from helping someone become reconciled to God I've got to become the imitator of him in my sacrifice. I've got to be willing to sacrifice and give myself even as God gave himself. First John chapter 3 says this. By this we know love that he laid down his life for us. We also ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. So, in the same way that he laid his life down for us, for you and I, and sacrificed his life for you and I, we have to learn in love to demonstrate that to other people. By laying down our life, that's a great, great sacrifice. Our walk as imitators with God has to be in our conduct and in our conversation. Verses 3 through 7. He says, Look But fornication and all uncleanness or uncovetedness, let it not even be named among you. What I found interesting when I was uh studying this passage um is that everywhere in scripture of the New Testament where Paul begins to address the issue of a righteous walk or a imitation of Christ or the conduct of the Christian. In every one of those occasions, he starts with this issue of fornication. He starts with this issue of sexual immorality. This this word fornication we from which we derive the word uh pornography, it's pornia, uh it's sexual immorality. He he starts it all the time and so I was wondering How come every time you deal with how we ought to live, how we ought to walk, why does this keep coming up as the first Subject matter of mention. One, I think it has to do with the fact that we are sensual beings. Help me, Lord. Um, we we are sensual beings, and the flesh wants what it wants. And the reality of it is that even in the house of God, there are born-again fire-baptized Christians who are still struggling with this sexual immorality. And if we're not dealing with it physically, sometimes we're dealing with it mentally In other words, you haven't been with nobody physically, but your mind shortened took you some places you shouldn't have been. And over and over again, he keeps telling us. Let not that be an issue for you as a child of God. Don't let the flesh have his way. So he says: look, if we're going to be imitating Christ and walk as imitators of God, we got to have a conduct that looks like God's conduct. Put away sexual immorality, uncleanness of all kinds. Covetedness. Covetedness is the is the issue of greed. And greed is, if I can define it this way in terms of covetedness, is wanting more of what you already have too much of. I want to outdo you by having more of what you have. He says, Look, if we're going to imitate God, we have to have our conduct in order, but also our conversation. Listen to verse four. He says, Neither filthy Nor foolish talking. I thought I find it interesting that the Lord does address our conversation the way we use our mouth because it does our the way we use our mouth represents our relationship with God. And we can put a negative imagery on our relationship with God by the way we use our mouth the conduct of our conversation. So this filthy and f this filthy and foolish talking, he says it shouldn't even be amongst you, shouldn't be named amongst you. He comes back and he talks about this coarse and harsh joking or jesting. That ought not be a part of what the child of God. conducts themselves in. And so there is the the matter of conversation and he says, don't let that be named amongst you, but rather the way you should use your mouth, if you're going to be an imitator of God, let your mouth be used. for thanksgiving. We should be thanking God always for all things. Our mouth ought to always be flowing with thanksgiving towards God. Not complaining, not Not harsh jokes and jesting and talking and telling people off. No, put the tongue under the control of the Holy Spirit and and let it bless God and rather than curse people. Y'all still here with me? And he says, secondly, picks up in verse number eight, he says, for you were once in darkness, but now you are the light. in your your light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. That's the second thing he tells us to do. If we're gonna we're gonna walk like grown-ups, not only going to walk as imitators of God, but we're going to walk as children of the light because you were once darkness. Not that you were in darkness. You were the darkness. You were blind, you were empty, you were separated from God. You were the darkness, but now you are light. You are light in Christ. You are the light of the world as He is the light. Of the world, we've been connected to him, and since we're connected to him, we are the light. Now, watch this: if we are the light, we can't be walking like we're still the darkness If I am the light, instead of me hanging out with the darkness, I'm going to expose the darkness. Can y'all help me right here? The moment that you walk into a dark room, the only thing that changes the darkness is turning on the light. You are that light in this dark and dying world. But if we as children of God decide to act like babies and we don't want to grow up and walk like the light Then guess what? The world will be full of darkness because you won't turn on the light. We are the light There are people, Christians, who are not walking like the light. And how do you know, Pastor? Because their conduct will bear it out. So instead of them exposing the darkness, they're running with the darkness. As you live your life for Christ, the way you live will make other people uncomfortable. Now some of you are familiar with this because there's some family members that know that you're a Christian. And when we come to your house, we can't drink. We can't bring our weed because the light that's illuminating from you will make us uncomfortable So I'm not gonna pull out my weed at your house. Matter of fact, this is what they do. They put it in the trunk of the car. And it might be a hundred degrees outside, but they say, I'll be back. I'm going outside. So they go tip outside and they pour them a little something in a red s cup. Cause they can't come In your house because it's too much light in your house, it's too much Jesus in your house. You're not just celebrating it. No, you're living it. There's a difference from living as a child of God and just faking it Now, if they're tired of living in darkness, when you come around, they'll come seeking how might I come into the light? That's where it becomes important for you to walk as an imitator of God. Because at that point, you don't need to bring up the fact that they drunk every weekend. You don't need to bring up the fact how many women they've been with or how many men they've been with or how many children they got by different baby daddies. You don't have to bring up any of that because God doesn't bring that up. God loves them just like they are and says, come on in. So we have to do that. When they finally come and they're ready to come into the light. Are y'all still here with me? And he comes back and he says, look, verse 9, he says, For the fruit of the Spirit is all goodness, righteousness, and truth. So, what he wants us to understand, that the life that you live will manifest goodness. It'll manifest righteousness. It'll manifest truth. And that becomes the light that exposes the darkness. Walking as a child of the light is literally chasing or pursuing what pleases God. Because every day of my life, I want to live a life that pleases him. That's what verse 10 is telling us. And he says, so we're going to find out what is acceptable to the Lord and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose them. For it is shameful even to speak of those things which are done by them in secret. But all things That are exposed are made manifest by the light. And therefore he says: awake you who sleep and arise from the dead, and Christ will give you light. That's how we come into the light by having and receiving Christ. And he said he tells us, look, we gotta stay away from the actions of darkness. But our assignment is to live holy, righteous lives, walk as children of light, so that we can expose others who are in darkness. Lord help me God. Thirdly, in verse 15 he picks up and says, See that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. See that you walk circumspectly, the text says. That is, walk accurately, walk carefully. Acrobas is the Greek word that's used here. It's it's to mean it gives the idea of being careful in your steps. It's to be accurate, to be perfect. uh in your in your in your steps walk as wise not as fools we've spent enough of our life in the past Walking foolishly. We we've done we did some foolish things and sometimes we did it for a long time But God's grace is the means by which that I'm not still dealing with the consequences of some of my foolishness. So Paul says, walk as wise. Not as fools. Verse 16 says, Redeeming the time because the days are evil. The wise person is walking, redeeming the Maximizing the time. The child lives as if there is no end to tomorrow. When you were 15, the world is mine. You never even thought about time. You never think about what time it was going home. And for those of you who grew up in the back of the era when the street lights used to come on and your parents said be home, when the street lights come on, that's the only thing that caused you to think about time. You just thought about the street light came on. That was about it But now that you done got up around 50 or so, you start thinking, man, I ain't got that much time left. But my question is: as a child of God, are you redeeming the time? What are you doing for eternity? It's important that we redeem the time because we don't know how much more we have left And I need to put some good deeds in my account in glory. Because I got a whole lot of them that are in the negative category. But I need to be redeeming the time. So that I have some something to stand before God with. It's better to stand before God with one good thing I've done Then I stand up there empty-handed and think about the fact that he gave his life for me. He died on the cross for me He loved me day after day after day after day. And all I got to show is empty hands. I suggest to you that we need to start living To redeem the times. Now, he says here in the text: don't be unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is. So, in order for me to be wise, I need to understand what God's will is And if you have the question for me, well, what is the will of God? I'm glad you asked. Verse 18 gives us the answer. Don't be drunk with the wine of this world. But be filled with the Holy Spirit. The way in which we're going to accomplish walking like grown-ups. is we have to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Now, let me help my Pentecostal people understand this. When I talk about being filled with the Holy Spirit, I'm not talking about some super power overshadowing you that lifts you up out of your seat, causes you to run around, fall on the floor, roll, froth at the mouth, spit all over the place. I ain't talking about that. That's not what the text is talking about. When we're talking about being filled with the Holy Spirit, it means, first of all, watch this: when you accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, the Holy Spirit already came to live inside of you. Y'all still here? But watch this. But inside of you, there is a nature that's not like God. That doesn't want to do what God wants to do Paul says, when I will to do good, evil is always present. So there's two natures inside of you, and you are the one that allows control, which one will have authority in your life To be filled with the Holy Spirit is to subdue and to deny the fleshly spirit and allow the Holy Spirit to fill up the whole space inside of you. So that the Holy Spirit now has full control over you. So that the decisions you make now become the decisions that the Holy Spirit is leading you to make. The Holy Spirit has full control. And so therefore, my actions become the actions of the Holy Spirit. And I then will be able to walk as wise because the Holy Spirit is living it all out through me. Grown-ups walk as wise. Grown-ups walk as the light of the world. That's what God is calling us to, to walk like grown-ups. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the Radio Broadcast Ministry. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.