Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Beginning at verse 30, the word of the Lord reads like this: And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice And be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ forgave you. Amen. Would you pray with me? Father, we need you on this morning that you might speak in our midst a word of edification, a word of encouragement, a word of salvation to those that are lost. Lord Have your way in this morning's time that all that is done and all that is said that it would bring glory and honor and praise to your name Father, I pray that you would meet us on the pages of our life this morning and speak to our hearts, speak to our circumstances, our situations. I pray for that one who's lost, Lord, that they might be just drawn into the kingdom this morning. They might be drowned in the grace of God this morning. That they might experience your presence, Lord, in an extraordinary way for that one who is uh drifting in their fellowship, Father, that you would draw them uh back unto the fold, heavenly father, that they might renew the broken fellowship. Father, for that one who's uh in need of edification, edify the body of believers here on today. God, encourage someone who is discouraged, lift up a head that has Come in downtrodden. Father, in all that we do, I want to assure that your name gets the glory and the honor and the praise. And so, God, I need you on this morning that you might speak through these lips of clay. That your word might go forward in the way that you desire it to, and that it might accomplish all that you have intended for it. It is in Jesus' name that I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen And amen. As I approach this uh text on this morning, I am reminded of a conversation I had uh Um I believe it was this past week. And the individual was sharing their Amazement, their hurt from some of the behavior that they were witnessing among The world at large, but Christians in specific. And so my response in this conversation was Can you imagine how God feels from His vantage point? In other words, if you are grieved to the level that you are grieved and you ain't really seeing everything. Can you imagine how God feels when he sees what's going on? And as I delve into this chapter of Ephesians, this this chapter here The apostle Paul is laying out for us a proper mechanism or methodology, if you will, uh, for the believer to walk in. How should the believer walk? And as he closes this specific chapter in chapter four, he unveils for us a very interesting connection. Between our day-to-day lives as Christians to the Holy Spirit Himself And this is an eye-opening r I'd say uh revelation if you are one of those Christians who believe that uh the things I do Won't bother anybody else but me. And in fact, those who may go about their lives and feel like, you know what, I can I can do it, I want to do as long as it ain't hurting nobody. That's another common uh phrase that you may hear uh people, it's a it's a harmless sin. Uh or it's a harmless behavior. I'm not I'm not m messing with nobody else. It's not bothering anybody else, but But what Paul does is he helps us to understand that not only beyond our actions impacting other human beings' lives It also impacts the being, notice I put that in there, of the Holy Spirit. The reason why I use the word being is because some have uh misunderstood that the Holy Spirit is an it. Well no the Holy Spirit is not an it, it is a person. And so uh what Paul does is he makes it clear that um our actions as Christians, our walk as Christians, our behavior as Christians actually do impact The Holy Spirit. That Holy Spirit that that is with us, and that Holy Spirit that indwells us, He He calls on us to avoid bringing grief to the Holy Spirit. And trauma to the Holy Spirit and sorrow to the Holy Spirit. He does not want us to grieve the one who has sealed us, he says here in verse 30. uh for the day of redemption. Um if I can just tap that just a little bit. Um he he doesn't want us to To impact negatively the Holy Spirit whose ministry it is not only to fill you with the power to be able to do God's work and will and to connect you Back to the God of all creation, but also that that same spirit, that same being that that sealed you Put God's stamp on you that designated you for eternity I thought somebody might catch that there, but but let me let me help you with this. Um, he doesn't want you to grieve the one who has done and is doing so much in your life that you and I are undeserving of. It is the Holy Spirit. He says, grieve not. the Holy Spirit by whom you uh were sealed for the day of redemption. He has prepared you and sealed you Set you apart and stamped you as the property of God, so that on the day of redemption you won't get left behind. Why would I want to grieve the one who has done something like that for me? And Paul says, Don't grieve. The Holy Spirit does one talk to you on this morning uh simply from the subject matter, don't grieve the Holy Spirit. Paul will share with us four things, if you will, that we should do to avoid grieving the Holy Spirit. Are y'all here with me this morning? He says here in the text, he says, Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and evil speaking be put away from you with malice. First and foremost, he says that we should be free of the agents of bitterness. Be free from the agents of bitterness. If we're going to avoid uh grieving the Holy Spirit, we need to be free of the agents of the uh of bitterness. Uh bitterness as it is used in the The context of this passage is uh understood as a resentful spirit that refuses to be reconciled. Now I'm I'm gonna talk a little slower than normal because I want y'all to really let this sink in because I kinda got a feeling that th this kind of a text is the kind of text that you really want me to hurry up and get through. Okay. So I'm I'ma intentionally slow down so that it can really get to you without you getting out the door before it really grabs hold of you. Y'all y'all here with me this morning So somewhere in this text, you just might find yourself. It just might talk to you somewhere. And so he says. Bitterness. We've got to put away this bitterness. Be free of the agents of bitterness, this resentful spirit. Now it might look like uh an argument that you had with a brother, sister, mother, father, friend ten years ago that you have not reconciled with yet. It just that might be bitterness. I'm coming your way. You could just keep dodging and ducking, but I'm coming. See you know how slow I'm going? Refuses to be reconciled. It is embitterment, uh uh resentfulness, a resentful spirit that also likes to. Spread itself around and share with others its resentfulness. And share uh with others this bitter. It's a spirit that likes to get shared. You know bitter people make other people bitter. They like to share their bitterness. They you you come around them and you was having a good day. And all of a sudden they want to share their bitterness with you. And you're like, uh-uh. Anybody that might be talking to? He says as we look at these these agents. There's there's five common agents he lists in the text. That we are to be free of if we're going to avoid grieving the Holy Spirit. Five, five common agents. He says Put these away. Put away wrath. Wrath is rage. Uncontrolled outbursts of anger. Uncontrolled, you just blowin' off. Ain't nobody really do that much to you. And you just firing off. That's rage. That's that's the wrath that he's talking about here. Rage, that uncontrolled anger. Somebody just a little child just drops something on the floor. All of a sudden you You screaming, hollering, jumping up. You you just in a rage. Put that away. Because your rage, your uncontrolled outburst of anger, grieves the Holy Spirit. It traumatizes, it impacts, it makes sorrowful the Holy Spirit wrath. Then he moves from wrath to anger. Um this Greek word, Oji, which it's interesting to me that as you if you're reading the whole thing, he earlier told us Be angry but sin not. Verse 26, he says, be angry, but sin not. And so, but here what he says is he says This anger, this settled, this is not anger that comes upon you because there's an incidental thing that happens, and then you get angry, and then there's a choice of your response. No This is a settled in the spirit type of anger. This is a feeling that's deeply rooted in you called anger. This is an anger that is like the person who's mad all the time. Y'all know any folks like that? Don't don't raise your hand, but you just you you know some folks like that. They mad all the time. Even when they're smiling, they're mad It it took me a while to figure this out, you know, because I you know like some folks, you know, they like they laugh and they and but then it doesn't take anything. For the rage to come out. And the reason why is because they're even when they're smiling, deeply rooted in them is anger. Now, I don't want to play psychiatrist this morning, but for some, I throw this out. Some of it goes back a long way, maybe even to your childhood And things that people did or didn't do for you or to you, and you're angry about it, some of us It's because of relationships that didn't work out. People who mistreated you and you're carrying that anger around and you're mad all the time and you're just waiting for the opportunity so that you can use that anger that is deeply rooted. in you to have an outburst of wrath and take somebody's head off. You can't wait. You sitting around like go ahead make my day. He says, put that, put that away. Um, if you're because your anger that you have allowed to take root in your life, that you're walking around mad all the time. It's grieving the Holy Spirit. And from a physiological perspective, can I just add some years to your life? It's killing you. Walking around being it it it's killing you being mad all the time, you mad all the time, and your blood pressure is up high All the time because you mad all the time. And you you you flipping off on everybody thinking that it's releasing pressure, but really what it's doing is it's increasing pressure. And it's taking years off your life. I'm preaching way better than the high blood pressure folks are saying, amen. It's taking years off your life. And is killing you while you're angry at somebody else who's gone on living their life having a good time. They don't even know you mad and and you dying it's like here you are you drinking a poison thinking that it's gonna kill them And the poison is the anger that you have allowed to deeply root in your life. And he says, that grieves the Holy Spirit. Put that thing away. Uh clamor. Clamor. Harsh work. This all this stuff kind of goes together. And if if I didn't get you somebody on the third punch right about now. Clamour is harsh words, shouting, brawling. You you want to fight. You want to fight verbally and you want to fight physically You just can't wait. He says put put that away. Um clamor. You that's The idea here is and I almost see them building up. You angry all the time, then rage comes. In the midst of your rage, you cuss folk out. You know, you violent, vulgar, offensive communication, clamor, and now you throw throwing the dukes up and you ready to throw down. Like come on Come on, let me take my earrings off. Let's go outside. All that And you think, watch this, you think that it's a means by which listen, listen closely to this one. You think it's a means by which you are defending yourself Can I help you? You're not defending yourself. You're grieving the Holy Spirit, who is your defender. Because let me tell you this. He can protect you. Better than you can protect yourself. Paul says if you don't want to grieve the Holy Spirit, put these agents away, this bitterness of wrath, anger, clamor, evil speaking. I know I got everybody right here. Got you. Checkmate right here. Evil speaking, he says, put it away. This whole idea of evil speaker actually literally comes from the word blasphemy, the word that we use for blasphemy, the Greek word uh blasphemia. It's slander. It's talking uh negatively about people, um, disregarding or uh degrading their character, their personhood, um, it is to bring one down with your comments. Um now oftentimes because I'm I I don't live in the church. I'm I do live in the world, so I know what goes on. And so oftentimes what happens is these kind of conversations happen behind folks' back. And so, you know, you you get on the phone or you get on Facebook or Instagram or you get Wherever you're doing it on it now, and you there and you talk. Oh, it's in the bedroom, bedroom conversations. Anybody familiar with that? Husband and wife conversations. Yeah, you know what? They just raggedy. They just raggedy. I just they got a raggedy life. They just live any kind of way. I don't understand. I don't understand Somebody just need to get a job. They just some over and they they all got the handout. I'm I'm all up your street, I know. It's that kind of conversation. It's e it's evil speaking, it's slandering folk about things and Talking negatively about them, bringing down their character, attacking their character, oftentimes a character you're unfamiliar with. He says put that away. Um and he says with all malice. Here here it is. He wraps it up in this whole idea of this put uh put all the all the malice away the malice is the desire to inflict injury harm or suffering on someone out of a hostile impulse Or a deep seated meanness. Evil speaking behind the back conversations has a intentionality to bring harm or damage or suffering to someone out of a heart out of a out of a being that is seated and rooted and grounded in meanness I I'm sorry, but I I I when I was reading that understanding and definition and depth of what he was really talking about when he said get Rid of all that with all with all malice. It reminded me of some jobs that people have Now, please forgive me. This is just what came to my mind. I'm not talking about anybody specific. What came to my mind is that you know how sometimes when you go and you get served at certain places And the person behind the counter is just me. I mean you walk up, hello, how you doing? What's good about it? Here take the paper, go sit down, go back and get in the end of the line again. You know some folk just they just mean. Like for no reason mean like you I don't know you but they mean just mean all the time Somebody drove to church with somebody like that this morning. Somebody's laying in bed. You sitting right at the coffee table next to you. He's talking about you. Just mean And with that meanness, with that meanness of spirit, there is a desire in this whole idea of malice that Paul says put it away. This is the desire to hurt people. with that meanness. It's a desire to to demoralize people with that meanness. To to bring negativity into their lives because you've got it in yours. It's the contagion. You want it to be contagious. You want to pass it on to somebody else. Paul says that action, that behavior, that attitude grieves the Holy Spirit. Put that away. Put it away. That's what he says in the text. He says, put it away So the first thing, and I'm I'm a move, I'm moving. He says so we gotta be free of the agents of bitterness. Secondly, he says we gotta be kind. It's verse thirty two. He says, and be kind to one another, be kind, be kind to one another. Crestoy, the Greek word. And and the tense of this word, I love it, it the tense that is used, the Greek tense of the word, it means to keep on being kind If you don't want to grieve the Holy Spirit, keep on being kind. It's the opposite of embracing all the agents of bitterness. He says, instead of being bitter, be kind and keep on being kind. Now it Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family. Minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman of 4Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the songs. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage past. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.