Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And so we understand that there are some other venues by which and reasons by which you or will reach the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. So he gave the church individually gifts. If it's got to stay there two days, let it stay. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. Voices behind the song. We started on a journey last week preaching from the subject, do we need the church? Lord, speak to this body, edify those who've come and enter into the doors. To accomplish your holy and divine will in the name of Jesus, who is the Christ, I pray, with thanksgiving and expectation. To the holy priesthood of Jesus. And he being our intercessor is even now making intercession for us. And never again do we have to go back and have a priest or a high priest to intercede on our behalf, but we now have an opportunity to boldly approach the throne of God. Beat up on those who legitimately don't come and can't come to church. Being able to make it into the house of God. And one God who's over the whole church. Our X Factor generation, our millennial generation, our modern-day folk who always want to know before they involve themselves in something, what's in it for me. Why I gotta go to church because there's benefits to going to church. And he is the one who is the head of the church. Y'all still here? These apostles, these evangelists, these prophets, these pastor teachers for the equipping of the saints. In the church. I'll try to be there before you close. Of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. And he gets together with the builder, and the builder comes up with a strategy for how we're gonna get it to look like that at the end Pastor, what's the architect's plan? After my likeness, we're supposed to look like him. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. or rather to the measure of Christ's gift. for the equipping of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come to the unity of the faith. and the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, that we should no longer be children tossed to and fro, carried about Father, I pray that the preaching of the word would cause someone who came in discouraged to leave encouraged in the Word of God. by what every joint supplies, according to the effect of working by which every part does its share, causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love. And because of his holy priesthood, that is not like the priesthood of men, that went in before the holies of holies once a year and offered over and over and over again blood Your presence, my presence, our presence together encourages us and enhances us in what we have been called to do in the body of Christ. As a result of this sermon that I preached on last Sunday, got some emails, got some text messages, I got some some folks that had wanted to have a little discussion with me, some calls. Not because they got a running nose this morning. The question may come, well, why do you even do it then if we supposed to assemble? And so sometimes what the Bible says will convict you where you are and push you to where you need to be. Cause some folk to get up from bedside Baptist. It's important, I think, to hear this. There's one body. And so I address this because I realize that there are a number of people in our postmodern generation are Who is overall, he is the head of the church, and this head of the church, Christ, he not only descended into the depths. But he ascended, that means he got up from the depths, he got up from the grave, and he led captivity captive And evangelists. And so, as a result of that, there are three purposes or three benefits that this collective body of gifted people, along with gifted leadership, can have. But the Bible says, this is why I stay with the Bible. This is verse number 12. Images of perfection. The guy called me and said, um, uh, Mr. It becomes an equipping center for the saints. Praise the Lord. again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence But what for the work of the ministry? Help me, Lord Jesus. We want to encourage your attention on today to Ephesians chapter 4. And he himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers. I was just kind of filling up some space while y'all were still searching. Praise the Lord. Now this. With every wind of doctrine by the trickery of men, and in cunning craftiness of deceit, plotting But speaking the truth in love may grow up in all things into him who is the head, Christ, and from whom the whole body joined and knit together. to the safe shores of salvation in you. That they might find themselves overcoming the obstacles of being wayward and be drawn closer to you God, in the process, I stand as an instrument and a vessel who needs the power and the strength of the Holy Spirit. Because of the blood that was sprinkled on Calvary's Mountain, that was shed on Calvary's Mountain for the redemption of our sin. Because of what he did that no one else could do, that the animals couldn't do, but because of his blood that was shed, we have an obligation. To the blood of Jesus. We have and we need each other in this body called Christ. Stopped me along the way, and I think it was because the message convicted some people. But let me just give a little qualification, a little clarification, if I can say it that way, a little clarification to my message on last week. Because I understand and I realize even as we broadcast our services via live stream and as well through the radio, I realize that there are people who legitimately can't make it to the house of God. On a regular or consistent basis. And not forsake the assembling of yourselves together. Tell us this. God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all and in you all. When I was growing up, we didn't have to ask that question. the benefits of the church. Why do I need to go to church? Member of the body can utilize its gifts for the purpose of the body, but he also gave gifts to the church in the form of the men. And so he gave these gifted men as gifts to the body, and he gave everybody in the body gifts so that we can accomplish what God has ordained for us to accomplish. The first one picks up in verse number 12, and verse number 12 says, He gave these gifted men, and he gave the gifts to the body, but he gave specifically these gifted men. The church is the place where these gifted men were given for the purpose of equipping the saints. So this is the place where people come to get equipped. Whew, I'm preaching way better than y'all saying amen. And the idea here that's used in the text is that one of being made ready through mending and restoration So in other words, let me see if I can fix this for you. To do the work of ministry. But it's not cooling the way it's supposed to be cooling. No, I said keep that car until you get it perfected. Until you get perfected to do the work of the ministry. Matthew chapter 28 lets us know what our mission is. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, teaching them to observe all things that I have taught you. So we need to be careful to stay about the business of God. Watch this. Put under the plan to be developed so that we can ultimately look like him. Katerinawan, last week as we started this journey in Hebrews chapter 10, we spoke to you from the subject matter, our inherent obligation. to attend church. Amen. It will convict you. Wow, why gotta go church? To men. Is the church the place where we come to get equipped to be better basketball players, to improve our game, and be better baseball players? Clubs and cliques. To do the work of the ministry. For the church for the edifying of the body of Christ. but also the edifying of the saints. Edifying that is building the church, building the people. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 7. That are driving across the country and they're delivering packages and all that kind of thing. They can't get out of the house. Amen. So literally, praise the Lord. And this one faith that we have, this one body that we have, Colossians says that body, Colossians chapter 1:18 says that body is called the church. And we are righteous, but the church is not a museum for saints. You know that you haven't got it all together. in the equipping center can equip me to better do what he called me to do. The way it's supposed to be working. As an architect does, he lays out the design for how the building is going to look when it's done. He who descended is also the one who ascended far above all the heavens, that he might feel all things. For the covering of sin. There's some legitimate concerns that we were addressing there in the not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together. Is the church the equipping center where we come to get equipped that we might learn how to pray empty prayers and sing senseless songs? But like a net for a fisher, I come in and I get mended so that I can pre-prepared to do the work of the ministry. They have no plan there's no plan for literally growing you up. To building people. Being equipped to do what it was designed to do. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And then as we looked at that idea, we pulled out three reasons that we have in the midst of it there in Hebrews chapter 10. The church here's for my skeptics that are standing outside the church and saying, Oh, the church is just a bunch of hypocrites. This is where we come in, and everybody know when you came in, you wasn't, you didn't have it all together. Better off. It says, there is one body and one spirit, just as you were called in one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. In other words, each one of us was giving spiritual gifts from God. Somebody should say thank you, Lord, for the gifts. And so the idea here is that God has given these gifted people, the pastors, the teachers, the the prophets, the evangelists, he's given them for the for the purpose of accomplishing. Who are taking care of people who are confined to the homes, etc. Everything wasn't fixed last week. Would you pray with me, please? This is the universal church. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III It'll cut you going in and coming out. Let me read it for you. He ascended, what does it mean, but that he first descended into the lower parts of the earth? No, it's where we come in messed up, but we ought to leave out better than we came in. And so the church as we come in messed up, mixed up, tore up from the floor up, we come into this equipping center under the plan of God to that the architect's plan might be fulfilled. He said, Don't worry if not, you can come tomorrow. I was I and I and it wasn't really me, it was just the word of God. I'm glad you asked that question. That blood that still works. So watch this. His blood, he went in and offered his blood one time and for all. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. But the question is, what is the work of the ministry? One. No, they legitimately they can't get out the bed. There are some people, legitimately, who work on Sunday. You ought to be mended a little bit more. Ephesians chapter 4. I'm going somewhere, y'all. Ephesians chapter 4, beginning at verse 7, God's word reads as follows. Y'all got that? And so we we gotta understand this. Father in heaven, we thank you for this day, for the grace that you've given already, and for your Holy Spirit's presence and power, even right now. Cause you live here. In other words, the reason why you have these gifts in the body of the church is so that they can be equipped. Now, this word edify comes from a Greek word, oikodome. He is our high priest. So literally on any given Sunday, we have people watching our broadcasts across the world and listening to our broadcasts across the world. Because when the body comes together, there are benefits to the body coming together. Therefore he says when he ascended on high, he led captivity captive and gave gifts to men. We said that we ought to have a sense of obligation to attend church. They may be through some physiological issue, some problem with their health, that they literally, legitimately There's one church. There in your text chapter 4. No, no, no. Lord have mercy. That's what we're supposed to look like. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. When we come to the church, and some of your texts may say for the perfecting of the body. If it's got to stay over the weekend, let it stay. The church is the place where you come to get fixed. Y'all still here with me? So everybody here who is born again, who is of the family of God, God endowed you supernaturally with spiritual gifts. It is the place where the saints come to be equipped. It's called the Great Commission. The Bible says that they came together. You shouldn't Lord have mercy. Pray, Heavenly Father, that you would speak and deal with those who are even struggling in their walk with you. Y'all still here with me? We're gonna need to keep it a little longer. I need to get back next week. Sterling, your car is ready. We have an obligation to want to come together and gather together to worship the living God together. Well, because there are some legitimate people who can't, through whatever process, can't make it to the assembly, but also we realize that this is an opportunity to broadcast the gospel to the world. Let me just read a couple other verses here. Take you all the way back to the beginning of Genesis. Parents, listen up because your children, by the time they hit about 13, 10 maybe, they might start asking this question since they have so many rights today. Let me see if I can explain this the way I feel it. The church is not the the place for us being equipped for any of those things. We have an obligation to the high priesthood of Jesus. Okay, I'm gonna dig in a little bit later in just a moment. Amen. And as the head of the church, when he ascended on high, the text lets us know that he gave gifts Lord have mercy. And so in the same way, I didn't tell him no, I want my car back right now. And there's one head of the church. And not only did he give gifts to the body individually, so to every You still got the loan of a car. And so, in understanding this, as we all come together, the body comes together as the church itself. The text says this is the equipping center, this is the perfecting center. He is the one who goes in before us. I pray that the preaching of the gospel, most importantly, Lord, that your name gets glory out of it all. Cause I said so. And I was like, okay. Are y'all still here? We supposed to act like him. I need you and you need me. This is the place, the benefit for us is that we get equipped, we get perfected here What am I being perfected to do? Who was just rolling over, clicking on the internet. Is it buffering or what's going on? So we understand that. He gave some to be apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors, teachers. That's a great question. Ephesians chapter 4, verses 4 through 6. Have y'all found it yet? Amen. He calls me back 10 minutes later and he says, Mr. They might be paralyzed and they can't make it to the house of God. You ought to be slightly perfected from when you came in the door. It was the Bible that was doing the convicting. Working like it's supposed to work We'll begin our reading at verse 7. You ought to have an attitude. I'm trying to help somebody. And watch this, but it's building the people in the sense of an architect building a building. , etc. The church is and is designed by God to be the equipping center for the saints. They were given as gifts for the equipping of the saints for the work of the ministry. He commissioned us, Jesus Christ commissioned us to do the work of the ministry, to make Christ known, to make disciples. Lord Jesus. And so you come in knowing you didn't have it all together, but when you leave, you ought to be a little bit And I'm I said, I'll, you know, what time you close. Amen. You got that group of people. You're good. I say legitimately Matter of fact, I don't even know if we had permission to ask that question. I had my car in the shop this past week and Give me what I stand in need of, Lord, so that I can be an effective vessel in the hearing of your people. I created you in my image. And so when we're when watch this, when the church is doing what it was called to do, So now, as we attempt to answer still this question, do we need the church? And there's one God who rules the church. Amen. It's not a place where we come and put on our But it's just cutting out that which is not like him. You just keep the loaner car that's already working. Are y'all still looking? That's what we're supposed to act like. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. And then in the process of broadcasting, we also realize that there are some people and But he not only gave gifts to men, but he gave gifts of men to the church. So the Lord, in the in the perfecting center, I said, okay, good. We need each other in this body called Christ in order that we might be effective at doing what God has called us to do. Okay? Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. That's what we got. We have an obligation to the blood of Jesus. I can't wait to get back next Sunday because I got more fixing that needs to be done. If you've got to come to church every Sunday until you get it right, you ought to keep coming back Let me just warn you here that the the word of God does convict And because of his high priesthood, it took away all of our sin They have jobs, they work, they they're on their jobs. There are some folk who are caregivers. Lord, help. org or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. In other words, the church ought to be a place where there is a planned strategy. Oikodome comes from the idea, I love this, it comes from the idea of a house builder or an architect. That's the one of the first benefits I want to lay out to you of coming to the church And then he says, and lo, I'm with you. So not only is the church beneficial, or one of the benefits you gain from being in the church, uh the equipping of the saints. To continue our journey, tune in next week for the second half of today's message. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Here's the problem that some churches run into: they have no plan to develop disciples. We got some people who are confined to their homes The text starts off here by letting us know, first of all, that Christ is the one Amen. Amen. I'm glad you asked that question. It wasn't me. Lord have mercy. Y'all got that? Still in verse number 12. m. And cause you to come to the house of God. And so while my car is in the shop, being perfected The intention of that message was not to demonize or to And so I needed to qualify that. But we're gonna give you a better answer today. But we ain't or 11 a. But to each one of us, grace was given according to the measure of the gift The parts of the body coming together. That's why you need the blood, because it always works. Amen. He told me what time to close, and I said, okay, I'll be there. He is the means by which we have access to God. And now, Pastor Sterling. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. The church is the place when I come in broken. m. Trying to get some answers to that question. And there's one God who's in the chur Y'all still here with me? They're supposed to be holy and they supposed to be righteous. I was just preaching what the Bible said And the text says he gave those gifts in the forms of uh pastors and Here yet we kinda messed up so we've come to the equipping center so that we can be All right, I didn't hear y'all say amen. The church is the place where we get perfected at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. So maybe the text It says, for the equipment of the saints to do the work of the ministry, here's a second benefit. So it's the equipping center. But thirdly, we found and discovered we have an obligation to one another in Jesus. Now he's bringing you their stories. That's our commission. First, we said we have an obligation to the blood of Jesus. Are y'all still here? Amen. And healing as it cuts. So parents pay attention. This is where things are getting perfected. Y'all still here? And watch this. The One Degree of Andy podcast. We have an obligation not only to the blood of Jesus, but we have an obligation Sterling, we thought that your car was ready There are some that even truck drivers Lord, we pray that in the preaching of this gospel you would lead those who are lost. That's what the church ought to be about. I wasn't trying to attack those who had legitimate reasons for not. So when your 10-year-old, 12-year-old, 13-year-old says Is the church the place where we get equipped to develop? So I'll We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Amen. And because when you leave out Amen. I'm Andy Christman. It never loses power. Y'all still here with me? The question is: equipped for what? So in other words, it's a planned approach. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Do we need the church? That is pastor teachers. Let me help you with that one. Praise the Lord. Lord, use me now. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. This morning I want to address. Y'all see that in your text? Amen. We are holy. Lord Jesus. Please join us. For a copy