Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence, under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now stay tuned for the conclusion of last week's message. We hung our harps upon the willows in the midst of it. They're those who carried us away captive axed of us a song. As a means of tormenting them, as a means of discrediting their God, whom they had trusted in and whom they had exalted as the God above all gods. Their enemies tormented them by saying, Sing to your God those songs that you used to sing. Sing about how great He is while you're now in our control. How our God has conquered you and your God. Sing a song for us. They're being tormented. They're being poked fun at. And as they are there wrestling with their feelings, as they're there wrestling with their emotions, as they're there wrestling with the hurt and the pain and the loss of all that they once had. They hang up their instruments. That's what it says. They they hung up their harps. They hung them on the willows and and the reeds and in the midst of The very people who had plundered us requested us to be happy. The very people who had made things bad said, sing us a song and be joyful. Let's see you be joyful. Matter of fact, um it's it's like kicking someone when they're down. Like oh Oh yeah, you down. Come on, sing, sing, come on. And be happy. Um, and the idea really behind this is to say to Israel, your God is not what you Think he is. Your God has failed you. And for some, can I be really intimate with you? You might feel God has failed you too. Because he didn't keep that loved one, because he didn't keep that job situation, because things are changing so rapidly and it seems out of control, and it seems like the enemy has control. But let me let you know he's not God's not God's not asleep. He's not he has not lost control. He is still very much in control. He very much is. And this Israel, after they remembered Zion and Wept, Verse number two, in essence, says they resigned their instruments and their will to worship. They resigned their instruments. They they uh I almost wanna say they they quit, but they didn't quite quit. They just they put their instruments away and basically said we ain't say Watch this. As I as I looked in this, because this this river worship, the the the psalmist says they they retired the instrument. uh on the uh of the of the sea and and the yip the river euphrates was known for having s multiple reeds and so reeds were everywhere these These willows were everywhere. And so they use the willows, or the reeds, if you will, to hang their harps on as a visible indicator that we are not going to sing. Okay? It was it was it was it the watch this I uh I thought I was thinking through this and I'm thinking now um why why don't why don't they put their instruments um on the ground or hide them in the willows. Stay here. And the reason is because They they they're not they're not trying to hide their their their their challenge to worship In other words, they want it to be openly and visibly known to their enemy that I resign, I quit. We're not Going to worship. We can't do it. We give up. We surrender. The pressure is too much. The victory is yours. You win. We quit. And we're not going to worship. So they hang their their instruments. Their harps, they hang on these reeves as they're being poked at and provoked to sing. They asked us a song. What song, Pastor, can we sing In a foreign land when things are not like they used to be. I mean our eyes are filled with tears as we As we sit by the River Euphrates and we we remember Zion, we weep and we weep. And now We have quit. We resign our instruments, the the the guitar, we hung up the guitar, we we hang up our harps, we we we lay the instruments aside because we won't be using these anymore. How how shall we how shall we sing? How should we rejoice? What what motivation would I have to to pick up that instrument. I'm I'm not gonna have any watch this. I I almost want to say that they have that the their hanging up of their instruments is is a is a indicator that there's no hope Of worshiping again. Stay here with me. Because if you've got an instrument, watch this: an instrument is very sensitive to the elements And if you've got an instrument, anybody who knows anything about instruments, you know you've got to protect the instrument from the elements lest you destroy the instrument. Now, if I take my instrument and I leave it out and hang it on the willows and I hang it on the trees and I leave it out in the elements, I am in essence saying I'll never need this again. Well, I don't care about losing this because there's no hope to worship. And so why should I hold on to my instrument and protect my instrument if I don't plan on ever worshiping again? And so they they've basically just given up everything. And I need to preach to somebody this morning because you might be in that place. Well you want to give up everything. You want to throw in the towel and and I know what you're feeling because the weight and the pressure is on us all. And the enemy is asking you how come on sing us a song, and we're asking ourselves, how shall I sing? How where am I gonna muster up the the the joy? When everything I had is gone, when when my husband has left me, my my wife has left me, my children are gone, this is gone, that's gone, things are not like they used to be. I'm burdened down with the pressure, everything has gone skyrocket high I can't even afford to fill up my tank with gas anymore. I'm in a foreign land. This is foreign. Four dollars and fifteen cents a gallon is foreign to me. I mean I don't know what y'all what y'all tank is like, but this thing is getting ridiculous. This is strange. And you want me to you want me to sing a song like I used to sing when things were going well? They not only resigned their instruments, they gave up their will to worship. They're not we're not we're not doing it. How shall we do it This this text, and I I I I I feel I want I want I want I'm I'm glad you feel the tension of the text because this text The psalm leads us painfully through a dark place in Israel's history It it mirrors, if I can say that, a dark place that some today might be meandering through. It's a dark place where the demons from hell are speaking to you. And you hear them clearer now than you might have ever heard them before. They're whispering in your ear such things that life doesn't matter. Things have gotten so bad that you might as well give up They're whispering in your ear, what is the value of your worship? Is your God really What you used to say he was? Is he really your all-in-all? And so you're you're hearing the whispers in your ear. You're hearing the defeat in your ear. You're hearing and you're witnessing and you're watching the world. Around you change, and you're you're watching the wickedness prevail or seem to be prevailing, and you're wondering to yourself, How shall I sing? In a foreign, strange land Can I just be honest with you? One of the things that's happening even in in church life right now is is trying to figure out How to dodge the new political bullets that the governments are shooting our way There's, you know, there's you know changes here and changes there, and at what point are we really going to have to fight for our freedom to worship? At what point will we will it be that we have to put our lives on the line to stand for the truth and not compromise for the chaos of our culture? It's coming, trust me. I see it. As clear as I'm looking at you, I see it coming. And so we are wrestling with this and I would encourage you not to do as Israel has done, not to resign your instruments nor your will to worship. But in fact, I want to take you continuously through this text because up until now, verse one, two, three. And even at four, because I think at four is where they really ask this question and they and they ask the question, how shall we sing the Lord's song in a foreign land? Um up until this point it's dark. It's hopeless. There's tension. And I feel the tension even here. It's like, dang, Pastor, this is this is depressing. And it is. This is depressing, but but this is a place where some people have moved to. This is the street that some of us are living on or pulling up on. Remember I told you the people you were looking at, they not okay. Everybody looks okay. They not okay And the text is at that place. It has led us to that place. And it's dark and it's dreary and it's and it's depressing until you get to verse 5. And there's hope. Praise the Lord, Pastor. He's about to kill us up in here. No, until you get to verse five. And in verse five, they remember to remember the God of their Jerusalem. Stay here with me. Verse 5 says, if I forget you, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget its gil. If I do not remember you, let my tongue cling to the roof of my mouth. If I do not exalt Jerusalem above my chief joy. Watch this. What literally they're saying here, and as they identify Jerusalem, The first time they remembered Zion, they remembered what they had lost. But by the time you get to verse 5, it might, it might interpretation of this this psalm. By the time they get to verse 5, they begin to remember Jerusalem. That is the place where they were, but they're not remembering just the place and what they lost. They're remembering the God of the Jerusalem. Watch this because see what messes us up if we focus on the thing and not the God who gave the thing. See, I can ruin everybody's worship if I take your stuff away If your worship is based on your stuff, you can't worship. Help me, God. But if your worship is based on the God who provides you, the stuff it doesn't matter if the stuff goes or comes or leaves or is burnt up whether it's normal or it's non-normal you can still worship And by the time they get to verse 5, the psalmist begins to articulate something about remembering. And he says, I if if I forget you, O Jerusalem, if I forget that Jerusalem, watch this, is the place Where my God lived. If I forget that Jerusalem is the place where God showed up, where God provided, where God gave us land, where God opened doors that were closed. Where God fought our victories, where God killed our enemies, where God gave us grace, where God preached us through us through the prophets. If I forget the God Who bless me with Jerusalem? Watch this. Then let my hands forget how to play. Now, the reason why this is so important is because muscle memory won't allow. Help me God, it won't allow the musician to forget how to play. Do I got any musicians over there? Your hands know how to play without even looking, don't they? See, I got I got a witness in the house. The musicians' hands know where to go without even looking. If he if they're a skilled musician Lord help me God. They don't have to look at every single key that they press or every single string that they hit. Their hands know how to worship God. Their hands know how There he says now, but if I forget you, God, if I forget what you've done, then let me forget, let muscle memory go away. Let my hands, and that's just what they're saying, let my hand wither away Because the only way that my hand is going to forget how to skillfully play is it's got to wither away or be cut off. And so the psalmist is now focusing on the God of his Jerusalem. So he says here in the text, he says, now He says, verse 5, he says, if I forget you, let my right hand, that's the strong hand, let it forget its skill. And the reality is it won't. Forget it skill, and so I'm not going to forget Jerusalem. I'm not going to forget the God who blessed me there. And he goes on, he says If if if if if I don't remember you, oh God, if I don't remember my Jerusalem, if I don't remember you, oh Jerusalem, let my tongue Cling to the roof of my mouth. My God. And let my tongue be seized to the palate of my of my mouth, such that I never utter another word. If I forget you, God, if I forget that it was you who brought us through 40 years of wandering And if I forget it was you, Lord, that uh pulled down the walls of Jericho, if I forget it was you, Lord, that marched us and our fathers into the land, if I forget the fact that I once Swas lost in sin. If I forget the fact that I was once poor, but you've made me rich. If I forget where you brought me from not the stuff I have but if I forget that you Lord have mercy are the God who blessed me with the stuff Then let not only my hands wither away and let my let me forget how to play, but let my mouth be seized, let my tongue be sealed to my mouth such that I can't even utter another word. Y'all still hear? If I forget the God of my Jerusalem, if I forget the God who blessed me, if I forget the God who's brought me so far. If I forget, it's God that brought me through from March 2020 all the way to November 2021 in the midst of the pandemic which the world Has never seen the likes of if I forget that it could have been me that was dead and stretched out, it could have been me that didn't survive COVID virus. If I forget that it was not by my excellence of of of patience and my excellence of obedience, but by your grace, God, if I forget it was you, Lord, who's brought me to this point Then you might as well close my mouth and make my tongue not even capable of worshiping you That's what he says. Here in the text, he says, uh and and and the reality is is it it it I can't forget I I I I I can't I can't forget. He says, if I do not remember, my tongue cling to my mouth. He says, if I do not exalt Jerusalem. Above my chief joy. Pray for me right here. If I mess up And let circumstances affect my song If I let stuff overshadow my joy God is no need for me having a tongue. There's no need for me having instruments or having a hand that remembers how to play. So you might as well take all of that from me. But Lord, I I can't forget what you've done for me. I I I can't I can't forget the time I spent with my loved one before you took him home. I can't forget the Thanksgivings and the Christmases that we had, and it was joyous. And it wasn't because we were rich. No, it was because of you. Lord, I can't forget The things that I was capable of doing because of you. I can't forget that you brought me through those challenging times. I can't forget Those experiences I've had, and they were because of you. I didn't have to have a a brother or sister or mother or father or auntie or uncle who was so great in uh relationships that I would even miss them. But God thank you. I'm trying to help somebody right here, but God thank you that I had them. Ah, Lord, help me God. And um so I remember now as As I begin to uh face the difficult challenge of my enemy who is provoking me to sing The songs of God in a sad place. I'm now thinking not about what it was, but I'm thinking about how it was. Lord Jesus. I'm thinking about how it was possible that we had houses that we didn't build and Vineyards that I didn't plant. I'm thinking now, God, if if if I can think about the God who made it possible, then I can rejoice in the God of my circumstance. And just in case, devil, you want to try to provoke me further, I stop out to let you know that I can worship my God In any land, because my God is omnipresent, He's everywhere at the same time. My God is here in dark days, and He's here in the light times He's here when I feel good and he's here when I don't feel good. Devil, I stop by to let you know you're not gonna cause me To hang up my harp. You're not gonna cause me to close up my mouth. You're not gonna cause me to stop giving glory to my God. Yes, now I figured it out. How can, how shall I sing about my God in a foreign land, I'll sing and I can do it when I think of the goodness of God When I think of all that he's brought me through, when I think of all that he's done to make it possible that I shall be called his child, when I think back on Calvary, Lord, help me, God Even when he died on that cross with me on his mind for that reason, if no other I can worship him in a foreign land Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministries of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Bucas Sterling III Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title and broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services. Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crean Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301. 627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Bucas Sterling III. And the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman of For Him has spent forty plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist. Artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the songs. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music. This is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.