Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. By Kettering Baptist Church. Welcome to the radio broadcast Ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned. At the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Judges chapter 13, beginning at verse 1. The word of the Lord reads as follows. The children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of the Philistines for forty years. Now, there was a certain man from Zora Of the family of Danites, whose name was Manoah, and his wife was barren and had no children. And the angel of the Lord appeared to the woman and said to her, Indeed Eat now, you are barren, and have borne no children, but you shall conceive and bear a son. Now therefore, please be careful not to drink Wine or similar drink, and do not eat anything unclean. For behold, you shall conceive and bear a son. And no raise the sh Shall come upon his head for the child shall be a Nazarite to God from the womb, and shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hands of the Philistines. Amen. In this book of Judges, we find the process of sin cycles for the nation of Israel. Israel um goes through what are called sin cycles. In the process of these sin cycles, Israel has probably seven of them in the process of the text. Now what happens with Israel is they get in trouble, they go again Against God, they defile God, and then God turns around and punishes them. They go into captivity or they go into some degree of punishment. And in the midst of their punishment They cry out to God for help and for deliverance. The Lord delivers them and brings them out of their situation into a situation of peace. And in that situation of peace, they stay there for a while. And then they get complacent in their state of peace, and guess what happens? They go against God once again. And then God brings judgment again. And then after judgment, they go into captivity. And after captivity and bondage, they cry out to God for help and they repent. And God comes and sends a deliverer or delivers them out of their situation and brings them back to peace again. This whole cycle that I'm laying out before you go On in the book of Judges seven or eight times, depending on how you count the cycles, but it's recorded seven or eight of the sin cycles in and amongst Israel Again, from peace to disobedience to bondage to crying out to deliverance and back to peace, eight times in a cycle. Where we are in chapter 13 in the book of Judges. As we examine the life of Samson this morning, we want to see and look at Samson's life and learn and glean some things from it. But we find ourselves at this the eighth time. in the book that is recorded of a cycle of sin in the nation of Israel. Chapter 13 picks up and says but behold you shall, you shall, you shall conceive and bear a son, and no razor shall, no razor shall come upon the head of this child, for he uh for the child shall be a Nazarite to God from the womb and he shall, he shall, not might, not supposed to, he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines. There's a recurrent word that keeps coming up in the text which helps me to understand that God ain't playing with what he's saying. Amen. Over and over again you hear the word shall shall shall shall shall Y'all still with me? In the process of this text, as we look at the The life and the beginnings of the life of Samson. What what God in the visitation is theophany, which is a visitation from God before the incarnate Christ is in this theophany That God God shows up in the form of the angel of the Lord. Not an angel of the Lord, but the angel of the Lord, and we know that to be Christ. He shows up to speak to Manoah's wife and to let Manoah's wife that to let her know that That she shall conceive. I know you haven't had children. I know you've been barren, but but I want you to know beyond a shadow of doubt, with the dogmatic authority of God, you shall have a child. In this text, and I want to talk to you from the subject matter this morning, it shall be. It shall be. I want y'all to help me preach this message this morning. It shall be. God said it's gonna happen, it's gonna happen. It shall be. It shall come to pass. Not because I force it, not because I make it happen, but because God said it's gonna happen. It shall be There ain't no questions about it. I don't care what you do. I don't care how you try to interfere. When God said it shall be, it shall be. I want to talk to you this morning because God has already said some things about you in your life and somebody told you it ain't gonna happen. But I want you to know that if God said it's gonna happen, it shall be. Here we go. He has a preordained future. That's the first thing in the text. As we look at the text, it says now um this certain man from Zora of the family of the Danites. whose name was Manoah and his wife was barren and had no children. That helps us understand first of all his historical background lets us know he's a Jew. He's he's Jewish. He's Jewish of his his his um Now but that's going to be helpful later on. And and the angel of the Lord appeared to the woman and said to the woman, Indeed now you are barren. And have born no children, but you shall conceive. You you shall conceive and bear a son. Now, what I want you what I want to throw out here in his pre ordination of his future first of all that the very conception of Samson was determined by God. Samson's conception was no accident, it wasn't by chance, it wasn't because mom and daddy decided to get together at this time, it was by God's divine preordain. status in life and his preordained plan that Samson was even conceived in life. Can I help somebody this morning? You wasn't no accident. And God said, it shall be. And when God says it shall be, it shall be. Not only was his conception preordained by God, but God says not only you're going to conceive, but you're going to bear a son. But watch this. Samson is is is born and his his pathway, his his life is preordained, his future is preordained by God. First of all his conception, second of all his his sex, the gender that he would be. And then the r the text Now therefore, um please be careful not to drink wine or similar drink, nor eat anything unclean. Behold, for you shall conceive and bear a son, and do and no razor rather shall come upon his head, for the child shall be a Nazarite to God. A Nazarite comes from the Hebrew word Nazar, which is to separate, and we get we gain this understanding of a Nazarite who is one who is separated unto Now, and throughout scripture you'll see Nazarites who separated themselves unto God. And in this case, we see a Nazarite whom God separated unto Himself. I like the fact that God uh interrupts our our life to divide some of us unto himself. I wish that we had more Nazaretic people that even for 30 days or a month we would separate ourselves unto God I'm afraid that we've separated ourselves unto a whole lot of other things, but but God has separated some unto himself. And I wish to God we had more folk that will separate themselves unto God. For in the separation unto God, this person was completely committed unto the servitude of the Lord. This child is going to be born, he's going to be a male, he's going to be born at This appointed time, and he's going to be a Nazarite. Now, here's another nugget for you. This is a crumb I'm gonna throw out for you. Um, notice that God says to the mother, be careful what you eat or drink, because what you take into your body is affecting the child. That's Just a nugget for you. When you smoke that cigarette, you're affecting the child. When you drink that drink, you're affecting the child. God says, be careful because this child that's in your womb that's you're going to conceive, there's going to be a son. I have separated him to myself. And I don't want you defiling what I've separated unto myself. He's going to be separated unto God. And the verse number five goes on to say, and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines. Philistines. He he's going to begin the deliverance of Israel out of the hands of the Philistines. Now the Israel is under the captivity under the strong arm of the Philistines For 40 years, but God has predetermined at this time I'm going to bring forth or birth into the world a child whose name is going to be Samson, and he's going to begin, he's not going to completely deliver you from Philist from the Philistines, but he's going to begin the process. God already set in order in the wheels of time before you even thought about who you were going to be, and your mom and daddy even thought about meeting each other, what your life would be. And he'll preordain some things in your life that they're going to be. It's just going to happen Happen. It shall be. Y'all still with me? The fact that Samson has this preordained life, that God has said he's going to be separated unto me from the womb doesn't mean that Samson was perfect. This is my second point. My second point is that Samson had some personal character flaws. Just because God set someone apart unto him. Himself, be it preacher, teacher, pastor, etc. , does not mean that that perfect person is perfect. There is no one in scripture except Jesus that God used to accomplish his will that was perfect In fact, if you examine the greatest people in Scripture, what you will find is all of them had character flaws. But even in the midst of their character flaws, God Still is able and will accomplish what he preordained to be accomplished in and through them. I'm trying to help you this morning because even though you've got some character Flaws, you ain't perfect, but God still has determined, predetermined, preordained what is going to be accomplished in and through your life. And even though you have flaws in your character, God can and will still use you. Sam Samson's got some some character flaws. First first of all, Samson, I'm I'm jumping over to chapter 14 now. Stay with me. I'm in chapter 14. Samson's got some character flaws. One of the first character flaws we see in Cap Samson is he's a man that when he sees something he wants, he's gotta have it. That's a problem. I'm gonna talk to y'all in just a minute, but watch this. Samson chapter 14, verse 1 says, Now Samson uh went down to Timnah and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines. Here you come Come raising up a character flaw. So he went up and told his father and his mother, saying, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines. Now, therefore, get her for me as a wife. He ain't even talked to her, don't know nothing about her. I just seen her. She looked good. He y'all know how it is when you see something just look so good, you don't know nothing about it, but you just gotta have it. Samson ain't the only one with this character flaw. You know how it is when you're in a store and you see them shoes and you know your credit card already maxed out. You know Bill Collector's already calling you, you already got trouble in your life, but you just gotta have it. Samson ain't the only one with this character flaw. But Samson said, I got to have her. I knew I was gonna hit y'all this morning. Bless the law. He's got a character flaw. And then then his father and his mother says to him. Is there no woman amongst the daughters of your brethren, amongst our people or my people, um that you must go to a wife from the uncircumcised Philistines And Samson said to his father, get her for me, for she pleases me well. Haven't talked to her, haven't spoken to her, don't know her name, don't know nothing about her. I gotta have her and I'm pleased and I gotta have a God. Uh Father, get her for me now. Don't that sound like some of y'all prayer? I gotta have her. But now here's the problem. Samson is a Jew. The Jews are under Philistine bondage and captivity, and Samson sees a Philistine woman that he wants He's got to have as a wife. And in essence, what his parents says, man, you need to get one of the sisters from amongst the tribe, from amongst Israel's tribe. You can't be going getting somebody of the Philistines because we're under bondage to them Them, that's gonna be trouble. But here's another here's another nugget, I ain't gonna deal with it much. I'm gonna throw it out to you. Here's another one. But his father and his mother did not know that it was of the Lord That he, that is the Lord, was seeking an occasion to move against the Philistines, for at that time, again, the Philistines had dominion over Israel. Here's another nugget for you. Parents don't always know who is best for you to marry. I ain't gonna deal with that. I'm just throwing it out. That's something y'all can eat on late. And if since parents don't know all the time, I think the best person to ask is the Lord because the Lord had it planned this way. Samson's mother and father did not know that this thing, this attraction, this character flaw of having to have what he said Saw God was using it to accomplish his purpose, and God said, I'm using this as an occasion that I'm gonna move against the Philistines. So Samson falls in love with a woman that he just sees, he ain't even talked to her, nothing, and he says he gotta have her. Character flaw. Character flaw. Whatever he saw, he had to have. Another character flaw. Samson is a disobey. He's disobedient. He's disobedient to his um his vows as a dis Nazarite. Samson, he he don't he he cut against the grain. He don't want to do what he's supposed to do. Now, according to the laws, Jewish law, as a Nazarite Right. There were three things he wasn't supposed to do. One, he wasn't supposed to drink wine, two, he wasn't supposed to cut his hair, and three, he wasn't supposed to tou Any three thing dead, and all three of these Samsung gon' violate. Watch this. Chapter 14, verse 5, we'll see what the first one. So Samson went down to Temnar with his father and his mother and came to the vineyards. Y'all know what the vineyards are? That's the liquor store. Amen. While he's hanging in the vineyards, verse number latter part of verse 5 says, And to his surprise, a young lion came roaring against him. Sometimes when you're in the wrong place, God will send a lion to run you out of there. Um as the the lion comes out against him, God allows the spirit to come upon Samson and Samson takes and tears the lion apart. Text goes on and says tear him apart just like he would have done a goat and he killed the the the lion and he didn't tell his mother and the father because a lot of times when we do things we know we ain't supposed to be doing we Amen. So he went down and and verse number eight, if you go on over chapter 14, verse 8. And some sometime later, this is after he he had already, you know, fallen in love and he went and talked to the woman, and she still pleased him after he He got a chance to meet her and talk to her. And verse number seven says, She she she pleased Samson well. But after some time, when he had returned to get her, he returned aside to see the carcass. He he went back into the vineyards again, but this time He's going in and he sees the carcass. That's the dead carcass of the lion. And what does he do? And he and behold a swarm of bees. And honey were in the carcass of the lion, and he took some of it in his hand, and he went along eating it. And when he came to his father and his mother, he gave them some also than they ate. But he did not tell them that he had taken it. And then here's another verse number 10. So he His father went down to the woman and they s they saw Samson and Samson gave a feast there to the young men. Now the feast is the equivalent of a bachelor party And at the bachelor party, it's a drinking party. And at the drinking party, Samson decides I'm gonna lay out a riddle. But see, Samson's got a problem because Samson's character flaw won't allow him to stay away from that which he's supposed to stay away from. First of all, he he's got a flaw in that he gotta have what he wants, what he sees he's gotta have. Second of all, he won't stay away and be obedient to his To his um Nazarite vows. Another character flock Samson's got a temple problem. When you get Samson mad, Samson starts killing folk. He don't just curse you, he kills you Let me let me see. Let me see. Another character flaw of Samson is that he couldn't accept challenges to his love from women. When Samson told a woman he loved her, and they said, No, you don't really love me, Samson. I'm gonna show you the text. Look, look at chapter 14, verse number 16. But he goes to this festival and he he lays out for this festival and he starts he, you know, he's there with his with the boys. Now these are not his boys, these are the boys of the Philistines that he's hanging out with having. his bachelor party with and he's there and he gives this riddle and he says in the riddle he says out of the eater came something to eat and out of the strong came something sweet. Now if y'all can solve the riddle in the seven days of the festival then what I'll do is I'll give you 30 pieces of linen and 30 changes of clothes. But if you can't come up with the answer to the riddle, then what you need to do, you need to give it to me. Then I need I'm going to receive that from y'all. And so the the Philistine guy said, no, you know, this ain't right because We can't figure out the riddle, and time was moving on. And so they went to his wife. Here's another lesson for you. They went to his wife to be who he was already betrothed to, and they said, You need to tell us, you need to get from him the answer to that riddle because blood is thicker than water. Verse 17 says, Now when she had wept on him for seven days while their feast lasted, it happened on the seventh day. He told her because she pressed him. So he told her the riddle, and guess what? She went right back and told her boys the riddle. And then they came back and said, We got the answer. They gave him the answer. And Sam said, If you had not been plowing with my heifer, causal or heifer, he's mad. He's mad, he goes down, he kills 30 folk takes their linen, takes their clothes, gives up what they ask for, and he's mad. Now this is now the seventh day of the festival, and according to the Jewish tradition. At the seventh day of the festival, now is the time that he's supposed to consummate the marriage, go into his wife, consummate the marriage. But Samson is mad, so he leaves And to avoid frustration, her father gives her now to the best man. Now that's messed up. He said, I thought you really hated her. And so Samson comes back with a goat and he's looking for his wife and says, Hey, well I gave her to your best mate. Samson got mad again. He said, now I really got a reason. Samson tied together third 300 foxes and And had them run through the fields, set them on fire, run through all the fields of the Philistines, and burnt up all the crops of the Philistines. Now you know a Jew setting Philistines' crops on fire, and they're under the bondage of the Philistines. You know that's a problem, right? That's a problem. And it was a problem. Guess what they did? They took Samson's wife and her father and they burnt her and him up too. But he got a character problem because watch this. He he goes back now later on, you're gonna find in chapter 16, he hooks up with this woman called Delilah. Another gentile. He sees it, gotta have her. She's beautiful, gotta have her. And and guess what she guess what happens? The Philistine says. We need to know what the source of his strength is because every time we try to get him that dude too strong. We need to find out what the issue is. You need to we're gonna give you 1100 pieces of silver to tell us what his strength is. You need to find out and we'll pay you to to destroy him. She pestered him daily with the words and she pressed him. Here it is again. She pressed him so that his soul was vexed to death. He couldn't handle that character flaws, but watch this. In the midst of all his character flaws, in the midst of all the mess that he was dealing with, he still, God still had pre- determined and preordained what his future would be. And in the midst of all of his character flaws, even though he couldn't handle these women pressing him, even though he had to have what he s Even though he he had this anger problem, God still uses all that to accomplish his will because God had already said, it shall be. Preordained future Personal character flaws, third point, and I'm gonna get out your way. Chapter 16, verse number 22. My third point is his parting. I want you to see his parting prison performance because even though he had all these problems, even though He couldn't handle the pressure of these women, even though this woman, watch this, this woman who he loved, whom he married, Delilah, she she she says she loved him. He loved her. And And she presses him to get that answer to his strength. And finally, finally, finally, Samson says to her, If you cut my hair, you'll take my strength. Basically. And you know what she does after she finds this is a good lesson to you. After she finds out where his strength lies, after she finds out how to take him down In her mind, she's thinking I'm getting 1,100 pieces of silver from the leadership. And she's thinking I'm going to betray him because guess what? I'm a Gentile. He's a Jew. It's again, blood is thicker than water. She's thinking in her mind, I'm going to the I'm going to turn him over. I'm going to betray him. But in his mind, this is my woman. I love her. She loves me. But after she finds out his weakness, what she does, and she sits down and she says, Baby, put your head right here in my lap. And the scripture says she lulled him to sleep. Listen to me. When the enemy finds out your weakness, he will lull you Call you to sleep. He'll rock you and get you very comfortable. And the barbers came and cut his hair. And he woke up. He didn't have his strength. He couldn't defend himself. And they gouged his eyes out. And they put them in prison. But I got good news for you. Just because the enemy has gouged your eyes out, just because the enemy has taken advantage of you. of your weakness it ain't over yet. It's not over yet. Watch his watch his parting prison performance because chapter Chapter 16, verse 22 says, However, even though all that had happened, they had locked him up, put him in bronze feathers, and and put him in prison and caused him to be a grinder in prison. However, the hair of his head began to grow again. after it had been shaven. Your hair will grow back. Even after the enemy has shaved you, ball Your strength will come back even after the enemy has knocked you down. Your joy will return. Even though he has stolen your joy. Your strength in God will come back. It's not over because God said. It shall be. You can take from me what you will, but you can't stop the plan of God in my life. You can knock me down, but I'm getting back up. You can cut my hair, but it's gonna grow back. coming back because God had already determined it shall be praise the Lord. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership Of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message, financial contribution. in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web. Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for One of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway. Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-574-3 Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of that. Excellent. I'm Lon Hee Chen of the Hoover Institution for Townhall. com. Andy Christman of 4Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. He's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage music. Pass the one degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to one degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.