Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Hope ministries. Here's Pastor Rick Warren. One day your heart will stop beating. That will be the end of your body. It's not gonna be the end of you This is not all there is. And why do we have hope? Because no matter how bad it stinks on earth in your life. It's just for a while. Ultimately, if you put your trust in Christ, you're going to spend trillions of years in eternity with no more sorrow, no more sickness, no more sin. I am going to live forever. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope, the audio broadcast ministry of Pastor Rick Warren. Today we continue with a series called Leaving a Lasting Legacy. In these teachings, Pastor Rick shares the six indispensable biblical principles. We need to pass on to the next generation in order to ensure their spiritual success. In just a few moments, we're going to tell you about a powerful tool that will help give new life to your prayer time and an amazing opportunity to come alongside this ministry in our efforts to see lives change through the gospel. You can find out more by going to pastorick. com or by texting the word daily to 99000 while you listen to the message That's pastorick. com with two R's in the middle, or just text the word daily to 99000. Right now. Here's Pastor Rick Warren with part two of a message called Leaving a Legacy of Hope. In what areas of your life have you said, I give up? I just can't change. Well, you can change. You can on your own, but you can with God's power in you. It breaks that grip of the gravity of sin in your life. Now you can't save yourself, but God can. Look at the next verse. The law of Moses is verse 3. The law of Moses, that's the Ten Commandments. The law of Moses could not save us because of our sinful nature. But God put into effect a different plan to save us. God destroyed the sin's control over us, that's the dominion, the domination, by giving us his son as a sacrifice for our sins. He says, when Jesus did that on the cross, he didn't just break the penalty of sin on free forgiven. He broke the power of sin. I'm set free. I now, if I'll trust him, have the power to make changes in my life that I never thought possible. And friends, I've seen this happen tens of thousands of times. I've seen marriages put back together when there was no they were already divorced and God changed their hearts. I've seen kids get off of drugs. I've seen failures become successes. I've seen very angry men become very loving men. I've seen people who lied and cheated their entire life become honest people of integrity. And on and on and on. Only Jesus Christ can Make changes like that. I'm forgiven, but I'm also set free. Look at this next verse. Those dominated by their sinful nature think about sinful things. That's like people who get who get hooked on pornography. That's all they can think about. They keep coming back to it. They're dominated by it. Those dominated by their sinful nature think about sinful things. But those controlled by the Holy Spirit Think about things that please God. If the Holy Spirit controls your mind, there is, read it with me, life and peace. Friends, I want life and peace in my life. I'm sure you do too. How do you get it? Let God's Spirit live through you. Do you know what controls you? Most people don't even know what it is. What controls you is what you think about most. If you think about money the most, you are controlled by money. If you think about sex the most, you are controlled by sex. If you think about how do I look to others, you are controlled by Other people. If you think about your past all the time, you are controlled by your past. Whatever you think about most is the controlling element in your life. And God says, I don't want anybody being in control of your life except me. Because when I set you free, then I really set you free. Mastered by Christ, I can master any circumstance. No condemnation, I'm forgiven. No domination, I'm set free. No termination, I'll live forever. That's the third reason we have hope. I'm gonna live forever. That is a life without termination. Death is not the end. There's more to the story. One day your heart will stop beating. That will be the end of your body. It's not gonna be the end of you. This is not all there is. And why do we have hope? Because no matter how bad it stinks on earth in your life. It's just for a while. Ultimately, if you put your trust in Christ, you're going to spend trillions of years in eternity with no more sorrow, no more sadness, no more sickness, no more suffering. And I can live a life with no termination. I am going to live forever. Now the Bible says this. Romans 8:11. The Spirit of God, who raised Jesus from the dead, lives in you. So, just as He, that's the Spirit, raised Christ from the dead, He will give life to your mortal body by this same spirit. Just as much as Jesus rose on Easter, resurrection day. One day God's going to resurrect you. When you die You put your trust in Christ, you're going to heaven. Not only that, later on this verse it says, you're gonna get a new body. I like that. When I get to heaven, I am going to be so hot. I mean is you know just you're just gonna go holy is that Rick Good night man he must have been on Trim Spa or something you know No termination, I'm gonna live forever. Regardless of the problems you go through, this is not all there is. Now, friends, I know the difference in this one. As a pastor, I have stood at the gravesides of hundreds of families. Families, and I know the difference. I've looked into the eyes of people with hope and those without. And those people who have no hope in Christ, who have no faith Who have no assurance of eternal life, when it comes to the funeral, that's the acid test of what they believe, and they fail. Because I have seen the terror in their eyes. You don't want to be there. When you say this is all I have, it's over. I will never see this person again. It's done. That's all there is to life. And I've seen that terror. And I've compared it to the hundreds and thousands of other people that I've seen at funerals of a believer who they know this is just Just a transition step. They're going into real life. The get ready stage is over. Now they're going to be with God for eternal eternity. And I'm going to be reunited with them one day, and I will be with my loved ones again. And there is hope. And it's a homecoming. It's not leaving home at death for a believer, it's going home. To a place with no problems. You're listening to Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. There's more great teaching coming up. And if you'd like to connect with Rick, just go to Pastor Rick. com and click on his social media links. While you're there, be sure to sign up for his free daily email devotional. And if you'd like to let Rick know how this broadcast has changed your life. You can email him at rick at pastorick. com. Do you feel like your prayer life is stuck in a rut? Kind of like you're praying the same thing over and over again? Maybe you've started to wonder if God is even hearing your prayers. Whether you felt like this in the past or you're feeling that way right now, Pastor Rick has a powerful way to re-energize your prayer life It's called the Daily Hope Prayer Journal. Many of us don't realize that journaling is a spiritual habit that will help your prayers stay fresh, effective, and consistent. This year, the Daily Hope Prayer Journal is themed after a mountain retreat. It has a soft, cork-like cover and is packed full of scriptures and beautiful artwork that will help you enjoy writing down your prayers Pastor Rick has asked us to send you a copy of this great resource as his way of saying thanks for your financial support. And please remember that all this month when you give, your gift will be matched up to $100,000. But only through midnight, December 31st. So please ask God how He would have you support this ministry financially. Go to pastorick. com right now to Get your copy of this great resource and to have your gift matched up to $100,000. That's pastorick. com. Or you can call $800 That's 800-600-5004. Thanks in advance for your support. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope, the audio broadcast ministry of Pastor Rick Warren. Once again, here's Rick. As a pastor, I have stood at the gravesides of hundreds of families. And I know the difference. I've looked into the eyes of people with hope and those without. And those people who have no hope in Christ. Who have no faith, who have no assurance of eternal life, when it comes to the funeral, that's the acid test of what they believe. And they feel Fail because I have seen the terror in their eyes. You don't want to be there. When you say, this is all I have, it's over. I will never see this person again. It's done That's all there is to life. And I've seen that terror. And I've compared it to the hundreds and thousands of other people that I've seen. At funerals of a believer who they know. This is just a transition step. They're going into real life. The get ready stage is over. Now they're going to be with God for eternal Eternity. And I'm going to be reunited with them one day. And I will be with my loved ones again. And there is hope. And it's a homecoming. It's not leaving home at death for a believer, it's going home to a place with no problems. If you don't have that hope, you have a reason to be hopeless in this world. A few brief years with a lot of problem and pain, and then you die, and that's it. That's not much to hope about. The fact is, in Jesus Christ, I live a life with no condemnation. I'm forgiven no matter what I do. A life of no domination. I'm set free. I don't have to stay the same. I can change. And I'm not the same man I was 30 years ago. I'm just not. And I'm glad for that. And I'm not the same man I'm gonna be 20 years from today because God is still changing me for the good. And for the better. And then I live a life with no termination. I'm going to live forever. This is what gives us hope. The fourth reason why I have hope, no matter how hopeless it seems, is I am able to live a life with no limitation, and that means I will share in God's glory. Not only am I going to live forever, but when I get to heaven, I'm going to have unlimited access to all of his resources. Unlimited access The Bible says that as a child of God, I have an inheritance that is coming to me, just like a human father gives a human inheritance. Now, if you were the son or the daughter of Bill Gates, you would probably stand to reason that you were going to receive a large hefty inheritance But you have a father who is wealthier than Bill Gates. Your heavenly father has prepared an inheritance for you as one of his children. And the Bible says this in Romans 8, verse 16. God's Spirit speaks to us deep in our hearts and tells us that we are God's children. And since we are his children, we will share his treasures. That means his inheritance. For everything God gives to his son, Christ. Is ours too. That is one of the most amazing verses in the entire Bible. Everything that God has given to his Son Jesus Christ, He said, He's giving to you also. That is limitless. No limitation. You're going to share in his glory. You will have in heaven you will have unlimited access. To the unlimited resources of God. Because God created you to be his child. He wants you to be his child. But you must choose to be his child by asking him To accept you in his family. Everybody's created by God, but not everybody is a child of God. You have to choose and say, Lord, I put my trust in you. I accept what you did for me, Jesus Christ on the cross. I believe in you and I want to love you and trust you. And when you do that, you become a child of God. And you're going to have an inheritance one day that is everything that's given to Jesus. Jesus is going to be given to you. That's amazing. Now, any parent is going to want to know that the child is responsible before they give the inheritance. And oftentimes parents test their children in small amounts before they are given a larger amount. The same is true with you spiritually and your Heavenly Father. This life is your test. That's why you're here on earth. This life is your test. And God is testing you to see what you do with littler amounts before He trusts you with more in eternity. He's testing and watching to see what do you do with that little bit of talent to see whether you're going to be responsible enough to get greater talents in heaven. He's trusting you to see how do you handle the little bit of wealth he's given you. How do you handle the little bit of relationships he's given you? How do you handle the little bit of opportunities that he's given you? If you're doing good with it Guess what? The Bible says you will be trusted with more in heaven, to whom much is given, much is required. And the Bible says if you're faithful in little things, you will be faithful in much. The question: what are you doing with what you've been given? Given. This is a test. This life is a test. And that test that God is testing you to see what He can trust you with in eternity right now. involves problems. Yeah, they're part of the test. How do you respond to problems? Do you take them to God or do you just try to solve them yourself? Pressures, how do you respond to pressure? Do you take it to God or do you just try to handle it yourself? Pain, how do you handle pain? Do you gripe and complain, or do you take it to God? Suffering and sorrow, yes, those are part of the test too. They're part of the test too. And there is real suffering in this world, folks. Now there are some religions that actually teach that suffering is an illusion. Buddhism believes it's all an illusion. No, it's not an illusion. It's real When a child gets run over by a car, that's real. When somebody gets cancer, that's real. When a woman gets raped, that's real. It's not just in her mind. It's not an illusion. There is evil in this world. Very real evil. Sometimes I make bad choices and it hurts others. Sometimes other people make bad choices, it hurts me. It is a very reality. It's not an illusion. And the Bible says we on this planet will suffer. In fact, look on the back. The outline says this: Romans 8. But if we are to share his glory in eternity, we must also share his suffering. Now, God did not exempt his own son, Jesus Christ, from suffering. Why would he exempt you? You're not going to ever have a problem-free life. This is a test. Yet what we suffer now is nothing compared to the glory he will give us later. That is no limitation. That I will share God's glory. So even though right now the Bible says creation groans The earth groans because it's been broken. We groan because of the pains in our life. God's Spirit groans for us. But we know that we have hope. Why? Because we know it won't last. Because we know the end of the story. And we know it we'll be rewarded in heaven. And this gives us hope. I know how it's going to end. I've read the last chapter of the book, and we win. Not only is it a life without limitation, it's a life without miscalculation, and that means this: I have a purpose Nothing happens by accident. There is no miscalculation. No miscalculation in my life. That means I make mistakes, but God doesn't I make mistakes all the time, but God doesn't. And God doesn't make mistakes, but he uses mistakes. Would you write that down? God uses my mistakes. Why? Because he already knows them before we even do them. He knows the mistakes you're going to make 20 years from now. And so he just fits them into the plan. God doesn't cause evil. The Bible says God can God do is there anything God can't do? Yes, God cannot do evil. God is incapable of evil. But there's evil in the world. And so we make choices, but God can use even that, even the bad choices, for good. There's no miscalculation. Notice what the Bible says. One of the most famous verses, Romans 8, verse 28. We know that in all things, in all things, God works for the good of those who love Him. Who've been called according to his purpose. Nothing comes into my life by accident. If you are a believer, everything in your life is father-filtered. Even when the devil tried to hurt Job, God said, this much and no further. It's not an accident. There is no miscalculation. Now, what does that mean if all things are working together for good? If I love God, it means this: there is no plan B in your life. You're still on plan A. You mean in spite of all of the bloopers and mistakes? Yes. In spite of that abuse? Yes. This is Pastor Rick's Daily Hope. Now, if you've missed any part of this broadcast, including portions we didn't have time for today simply go to pastorick. com to listen again, to find out more about this ministry, or to sign up for Rick's free daily email devotional. Rick's gonna be back in just a moment with a final word of encouragement, so please stay with us. Do you feel like your prayer life is stuck in a rut? Kind of like you're praying the same thing over and over again? Maybe you're starting to wonder if God is even hearing your prayers. Whether you felt that way in the past or you're feeling that way right now, Pastor Rick has a powerful way to re-energize your prayer life It's called the Daily Hope Prayer Journal. Many of us don't realize that journaling is a spiritual habit that will help your prayers stay fresh, effective, and consistent. This year, the Daily Hope Prayer Journal is themed after a mountain retreat. It has a soft cork-like cover and it's packed full of scriptures and beautiful artwork that will help you enjoy writing down your prayers Pastor Rick has asked us to send you a copy of this great resource as his way of saying thanks for your financial support. And remember that all this month when you give your gift, it will be matched up to $100,000. But only through midnight December 31st, so please ask God how He would have you support this ministry financially Here's Rick with a letter from one of our listeners. I want to take a minute and tell you how important your support is to Daily Hope. Your generosity, when you give to Daily Hope, you're helping us take the message of Jesus Christ literally all around the world in the many places where there aren't missionaries or churches. Uh these are called unreached tribes. Now I'm sure you're familiar with the refugee crisis around the world. Literally millions of people have been displaced from their homes, particularly in the Middle East and in North Africa, because of civil wars and violence. One of those places is South Sudan, where over 200,000 people are living in refugee camps. Now, when people are under tension and in transition, They are more open to the gospel than in any other time. These people who are living in refugee camps right now need the hope of Jesus Christ and the gospel. Now the Ajumani Radio Station is the only Christian station that broadcasts into South Sudan to these tribes that are living in refugee camps in terrible conditions. But this way families can listen uh to Christian teaching. Now, when you help Daily Hope Radio and Daily Hope Broadcast We're not only broadcasting across America, but in places like South Sudan, where the station airs our program three times a day. And we are told that many, many people are coming to Christ in this war zone as they listen to these Daily Hope broadcasts. So thanks. Thanks to you. Now let me just read you one testimony that we've uh received. Here's a note from a woman who's living in a refugee camp there in South Sudan. She said Uh my name is Joyce, and I'm from the central equatorial state in South Sudan. I lost all five of my children and my beloved husband. This is in the Civil War that was going on there, as well as our family possessions during the recent fighting in the capital of Juba. She said, I had planned to commit suicide. There's somebody who needs hope. When I listened to Rick Warren's broadcast, the one called When You Feel Like Giving Up, I got inspired and I dropped the idea of taking my life that very night. And I'll continue to pray, God, to bless this great preacher. And thank you for giving me hope Joyce, we're happy to do that and I want to say it's because of the listeners who are giving faithfully every month to Daily Hope. Do you realize that when you give to Daily Hope, you're helping reach people like Joyce? She was gonna commit suicide. In a refugee camp. Now, isn't God amazing how when you just give what you can give, God takes it and he multiplies it and we reach out to people that none of us could reach on our own. Here's what I want you to do. I want you to pray for Joyce, and today I want you to pray for all of the people who are in refugee camps and pray that we'll be able to continue to give away these solar-powered radios. will be able to continue to broadcast on these stations, taking the good news of Jesus Christ and hope to people who need it the most desperately. It's your sacrificial giving. It's your prayer support that makes this possible. So thank you for whatever you can do. And God bless you, my friend. If you'd like to let Rick know how this broadcast has blessed you, you can write him at rick at pastorick. com. That's rick at pastorick. com. Be sure to join us again next time as we look into God's Word for our Daily Hope. This program is sponsored by Daily Hope Ministries and your generous financial support. Folks, as we're now in the exciting month of December and the upcoming celebration of the birth of our Lord. I Andy Christman of 4Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your back. Stage Pass. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.