Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety and now Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord in Ephesians chapter five, beginning of verse one It reads as follows Therefore be imitators of God as dear children, and walk in love as Christ also has loved us and given himself for us as an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling aroma. Verse eighteen. And do not be drunk with wine in which is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit. Verse 22, wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, as also Christ is the head of the church, and he is the Savior of the body. Therefore, just as the church is subject to Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything Husbands, love your wives just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for her, that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of the water By the word that he might present her to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing but that she should be holy and without blemish. So husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself For no one ever hated his own flesh, but he nourishes it and he cherishes it, just as the Lord does the church. For we are members of his body and of his flesh and of his bones. For this reason a man shall leave his father and his mother. and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church. Nevertheless, let each one of you in particular so love his own wife as himself. And let the wife see that she respects her husband. Would you pray with me? Father, we love you. We honor you and bless you on this morning. We thank you for your amazing grace. You are an incredible God. And even now, Lord, I'm praying that you have prepared and are preparing the hearts of your people that they might hear your word as it comes forward. Father, we need you in this hour and in this moment that you might speak clearly to our hearts. That you might remove all the barriers that we've placed up, all the walls that we've built around our heart. We need you, God, more than anything. Lord, if there's anybody that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, it's my prayer on this morning that they would understand the gospel The gift that is available to them and come asking, what must I do to be saved? Father, draw those who have drifted in the fellowship. Renew the broken fellowship today. Father, and above and beyond everything else, as you edify this body, it's my prayer, God, that you glorify yourself, that your name gets all the glory and honor and praise. I need you, God, in this moment. That I might speak clearly, that my mind might be sharp, that my tongue might be clear, that everything that is done would please you. So Lord, have your way even now in the name of Jesus who is the Christ, I pray. Amen. And amen. Catherine, we've been on a journey uh preaching through a series of messages entitled Relationship Therapy And I think it's starting to work a little bit. We started our journey in Genesis chapter 1 and 2. We spoke from the subject matter foundational pillars. of relationships. We moved from there to Acts chapter 15 and dealt with the subject matter conflict resolution. And then in part three we were in Genesis chapter 25 and 27 and we spoke from the Subject matter family drama and parenting problems. Last week we were in 2 Samuel chapter 13 and Matthew chapter 6, and we spoke from the idea of trauma scars and forgiveness. I want to encourage us to trust God through this process of relationship therapy because I realize we've been dealing with some very delicate subjects. We've been dealing with some Some real real life things. It's not just you know, we're not just blowing smoke. We're trying to really get into some practical uh concerns that help us in our relationships because we're struggling so much in them. We're having so much challenge in our relationships, and so my prayer is that we can really just begin to let God move us from where we are to where we need to be. And trust me, it's a better place. And we can do much better in relationships. But as we continue our relationship therapy on today, we find ourselves here in Ephesians chapter 5, which Has a wealth of wisdom about relationships. In Ephesians chapter 5, you'll find that Paul talks about the relationships that we have with God, our individual relationships with God. He talks about the relationships between a husband and a wife. All of that in chapter 5. And then as you move into chapter 6, he talks about the relationship between parents and children. And even between bondservants and their masters. And he lays out for us a deep wealth of insight. about relationships. And so as we find ourselves here on today, I'm convinced that some of our problems in relationships comes from the fact that we have had poor disciples. People that were discipling us in relationships set bad examples. We've had bad mentors, if I can say it that way. Sometimes it looked like this. Papa was a rolling stone And everywhere he laid his hat was his home. And that that was your mentor in terms of relationships. And so you grew up believing that's what it's supposed to look like. Some of you maybe had a situation where mama always had a different boyfriend Amen, Jesus. And you grew up thinking the more the merrier. And so that was your model. That's how how you were discipled in this relationship. idea and so we began to take on and begin to take on these models these poor models of relationships From parents and from others that were around us. Perhaps you grew up in a household where they were arguing and fighting and fussing all the time and sometimes getting into physical co Fist of cups and throwdowns and all that, and that's what you saw. And then mom and daddy turned around and said, We love each other. And so somewhere in your mind, you begin the process. That's what love looks like. And so you go on and you duplicate what you saw. Amen, Jesus, and the walls. And so perhaps you didn't have that in your family. Perhaps nobody said nothing. Like boxers at the end of a ring or end of a round, they just went to their own corners and everybody was quiet. In fact, you didn't talk about none of the problems you had. The family didn't talk about none of the problems they had. There was a big elephant in the living room. Nobody talked about that. It was there all the time. Matter of fact, it was a white elephant. It was a big white elephant, and nobody talked about the big white elephant that was in the room. We just kept silent. But that's the model that you grew up with, and that's what you saw as it related to relationships and as it related to love. What I like about chapter five, it starts off saying this, therefore, be imitators of God, as dear children. Walk in love as Christ also has loved us and given himself as an offering and a sacrifice to us. I love this because what I want to turn us to is not the model and the discipling that you had from those poor examples and those poor models, but I want to turn you to a better disciple maker. To God. God knows He can disciple you well. He says, look, imitate me. Uh, do what I do. And so I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter, walk in love. Because he not only tells you here in verse 1 and 2 to to imitate me, but he says, walk in love as Christ also loved us. And has given himself For us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling aroma. Walk in love. Now, I'm going to begin to unravel this whole idea of walking in love, and I pray that when I get done, you'll really get it. But I want to start by saying we have to first of all understand that walking in love is absolutely essential to all of our relationships. All right, I know what you're thinking. Okay, I have some relationships that are not love. Yeah, you need love is the foundation of it all, okay? You need love to have good relationships. And so we've got to walk in love if we're going to have relationships, whether that's co-workers, whether that's friends, whether that's church members, whether that's neighbors, we have to walk in love in order for those relationships to be solid. Are y'all still here? So walk in love, and what God says to us is we ought to be imitators of Him As dear children, that whole idea there, the concept that he's trying to lay out to us, as with the with the innocence of a child, the trusting innocence of a child, God says, imitate me. Just like dear children and some of y'all don't know this until it embarrasses you, but children imitate you. You know, like when they're little and you're cussing And then they cuss back and you go, ah, that's so funny. And then when you're out at church and your children cuss, and then you lie and say, I don't know where they got that from. They just imitating what they've seen. Y'all understand what I'm saying? So he's saying, imitate in that same innocence that a child imitates. He says, Imitate me. Imitate God in that same way as dear children imitate God. Imitate me. And then he says to us, walk in love as Christ also has loved us. Walk in love. Walk in love like in the same way that Christ loved us by watch this by sacrificing himself for us That's what he calls us to do in our walk and as we walk in love in our relationships. Walk in love. As Christ has loved us and given himself, sacrificed himself, gave his life for us, offered himself on a cross for us, blessed, suffered, died for us. Walk in that kind of love. Sacrifice in that kind of way to demonstrate love to people. I need to say this: the sacrifice is not for the person. Y'all hearing what I'm saying? Don't walk in love and sacrifice for them. Don't be like, I'm sacrifice making all these sacrifices for you. No, no, no, no, no. This kind of love is a sacrifice as an offering to God. Let me read the text one more time. One more time, verse 2, chapter 5, verse 2 walk in love. As Christ also has loved us, and what did he do? Given himself for us as what? An offering and a sacrifice to who? To God. He didn't sacrifice to us, he sacrificed to God for us. Y'all still hear? And so when you sacrifice, and he sacrificed to God as an offering. So when you sacrifice, you're sacrificing as an offering to God. So when you love somebody, when you make sacrifices on on the behalf of Oh, okay, I'm doing this. Okay, I'm doing that. Okay, I I could do this, but I'm not gonna do that. I'm doing it as an offering to God. So view your sacrifice as an offering to God Not as an offering to the people. I'm not giving you something. I'm giving God something. Now, I know this is hard and it's gonna be hard, but I'm gonna show you in just a moment how you're gonna make your way through it So when we sacrifice, it's an offering to God. I'm making an offering to God. And some of us can stand to make a few more offerings. Amen, Jesus. Some of us are a little short on our offerings. You can stand to make a few more. But but they're offerings to God when you're sacrificing, when you're giving of yourself in love towards others. The second thing here in the text is we picked up in verse 18. I picked up in verse 18. I skipped a lot because there's a there's a lot I gotta dig into and I I don't want to keep you all day. But watch this. But I think this is critical because what what Paul is gonna help us understand here is that God is after us walking in a proper way and circumspect. But he gives us this Golden nugget in verse 18 he says, but do not be drunk with wine in which is dissipation, which is or recklessness or self-indulgence or wet wastefulness. Don't don't walk in that way But be filled, that is to be controlled with the Spirit. If we're going to walk in love, we have to be filled with the Spirit We have to be controlled by the Spirit. The only way you can walk in love constantly is to be constantly filled with the Holy Spirit. Now, some of you can probably understand what I'm getting ready to say. Loving some people is hard. Don't nudge nobody. Don't look down the aisle. Just straight ahead, straight ahead. And you need something other than your flesh and your commitments to love them because they make it hard. So I need the power of God to walk in love with these people. And the way God has equipped me and you so that we can walk in love with these people and imitate him. Is that he deposited his Holy Spirit in us? Watch this. And he didn't give you part of his Holy Spirit. He gave you all of his Holy Spirit. But we have to let all of the Holy Spirit fill us. Y'all still hear? You can't tell the Holy Spirit go to that closet over there until I need you. Because if I do that, I'm not going to be able to love everybody all the time Because some people are hard. Let me just talk to these people over here. Some people are hard to love. Am I right about it? I need the Holy Spirit. I've got to be filled with the Holy Spirit. How can I imitate God and the way he loves because God loves even when we're in our worst condition Do you realize when you was lying and cheating and whoremongering and doing everything that you was big and bad enough to do when you were walking away from God? When you had turned your back on the church when you were cussing the pastor when you were doing all the other things God was still loving you do you realize you know how hard that had to be You can't relate to yourself in your own situation. Let me take you. Think about Israel. Think about all the things that Israel did and how they turned their back on God and how God had Bless them and bless them and bless them and bless them. And then they turned around and they made a golden calf and start worshiping a golden calf and said, This calf is our God. If you were God, would you still love them? That's why we not imitating us, we imitating him. Because God still loved them even though they were in their worst condition, even though they were acting out. They were doing the most in the wrong way. He still loved them. And he still loves us. And guess what? He still favors us even when we're not living right. Now watch this. But I'm not encouraging you to take that grace for granted because judgment is coming. But if I'm going to love like he loves, I need power to be able to do that. The only power that I know that can make me love like he loves is his spirit. So Paul says, be filled with the Holy Spirit. Be fully controlled by the Holy Spirit. In order for us to do that because we still have a nature that is against God in us, I have to send my own nature to the closet And say you get out the way because the Holy Spirit's running this show. Then I can love, regardless of who they are. I can walk in love constantly, and I can love as Christ loved I can make those sacrifices like he does. I can love when people are talking about me to my face or behind my back or whatever. I can still love him. But it takes listen, listen to me. This takes Being filled with the Holy Spirit. Because there's some people, might be me, might be you, that are hard to love. Amen, Jesus. So we have to walk in love. Being indwelled by the Holy Spirit. Here's the third one. That covers everybody. Just so just in case y'all thought I was only talking to the married couples, I just I'd hit everybody's door. I'd have been up everybody's street. Doesn't matter whether you're single, married, divorced. Third time marriage, fifth time, it doesn't matter. I've been up your street already. Your widow, everybody, everybody got covered right there. And he said, love God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. And then he says, and the second is like unto the first. Love your neighbor. Like you love yourself. It is first critical for us to have a love relationship with God so that I can then thereby have a good and loving relationship with others. I can't pour out that kind of love unless I have been connected to him. That's why I need to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Y'all still here? So now that I've got a good relationship with God. I've loved him, now I've learned how to love others the way he loves me. Y'all still hear? Now here's the tricky part I'm not gonna stay here long. Here's the tricky part. Some of us have come into a relationship with God only for the ticket for salvation, but we really haven't got to know him So in other words, you got the ticket in your hand that says, I'm going to have and I accept that Jesus Christ is my personal savior, but I haven't really developed the relationship, so I really don't know him The way I need to know him so that I can love you the way he's calling me to love you, like I love him. Because my love for him is kind of just passive. And so then I'm gonna turn around and try to love you the same way. What can I get? What's in it for me? I'm gonna be like Tina Turner, what love got to do with it? Here's my last area I'm gonna cover and I'm and I'm out your way. We're gonna walk in love in relationships, walk in love, and dwell by the Holy Spirit, but finally walk in love in marriage. Marriages are going through and have been going through for years a large struggle, battle We've had bad interpretations of scripture. We've had people who modeled the bad interpretation of scripture, which caused their discipling of the people who followed them to be in bad context. And so They were married for 50 years, but it was 50 miserable years. That's why I say don't always just celebrate the years, because the years don't always tell the story And it's not my intention to be in your business, but if I am, it's really the Holy Spirit. I'm just some people are enduring marriage and not enjoying marriage. There's a difference. Amen. So listen to this. I'm going to try to straighten this out. So in the next verses here, 22 through 33, remember we've got to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Because I'm not going to do this either if I'm not filled with the Holy Spirit. If I'm full of myself, I'm not going to do this because I'm going to make all kinds of excuses why this doesn't work. But let me tell you something. You're not smarter than God. He established marriage and this is his his rules. Y'all still here? So listen. We're gonna walk in love in marriage, verse 22. Um see if I can get us in through this without too much pain. Wives Wives, wives, wives. Those who are married. These wives are people who are married, not girlfriends. This tax is not for girlfriends. It's not for boo, it's not for baby mamas. This is for wives. I just need to make that real real clear because a whole lot of folks are trying to execute what is not theirs to execute. You're trying to submit to somebody that you've never been called in scripture to submit to. Wives Have just a few verses. Now we're gonna go from verse 22 to 33. Wives have a few verses, just a few verses, in this whole layout that addresses them. And I am of the opinion, as I have done my theological work and study, that when God talks more about something, that thing is more important. Stay with me. Here's where God talks to the wife, verse 22, verse 23, verse 24. And a real small part of verse 33 at the very end, he says, see that she respects her husband. And I would contend that most everybody knows already what this says, whether you've been in church or not. The heathen knows verse 24. If I say hey, you know, I'll go out and ask a thousand people. What does the Bible say that the wife's role is in marriage 990 of the thousand who don't even go to church, don't know Jesus. They bowing down three times a day. They brought lighting candles. They don't they don't know nothing. They say the Bible says the woman's role is to submit. They know it. They know that small part of this text. But let me help you. But this passage talks to the husband in verse 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33. I felt I sound like an auctioneer, don't I? So it's a whole lot more That God talks to the husband about that in church and from pastoral perspectives for hundreds of years we have never addressed And therefore, people don't know what the husband's role is. You cannot assume the husband's role by understanding the wife's role. No, you need to know what did God say. This is why marriages are jacked up today. Wives, submit to your own husband. Does your Bible say that? Does it have the word own in there? I'm just checking. Here's another problem. We have misinterpreted the word submit. The translation of the word submit is not the same submit that we have in our context. The submit here is to voluntarily place yourself under the loving leadership of your husband, your husband, your own husband, and not your mama's husband your own husband and you're going to follow him as he follows Christ. And if he strays, you have a relationship with Christ, keep following Christ, not a fool. Are y'all still here? This is voluntary, husbands. You can't force submission. Submission is also not a position of weakness, it is a position of strength Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church. church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent forty plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing You, their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-built conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.