Where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III She's fasting. And so shame comes upon the woman in this particular period of time who has not borne a son specifically for her husband. And what I've been praying, I've been praying that I get a blessing that watch this is not only going to bless the kingdom of God, but it's also going to help you, Eli, because your sons are foul You got to get it in place so God can bring it through you. of Kettering Baptist Church, under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. From Philippians chapter 4, part two, prayer allows you to withstand the enemy's assault from Ephesians chapter 6, part three. If you will indeed look upon the afflictions of your maidservant, don't forget me, you remember me. mind. Yeah. So that I will not cause pain or do evil. Backstage Pass. Voices behind the song. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. That Hannah conceived and bore a son, and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked for him from the Lord. Kettering Baptist Church. And she was in bitterness of soul and prayed to the Lord and wept in anguish. uh out of fellowship that you would restore the broken fellowship if there's any God who are hurting that you would comfort them if any come to be edified, edified. This body. Strengthen me, God. The Bible says that she is grieved and she's fasting and she's vexed, if you will, because of her situation. the seat by the doorpost of the tabernacle of the Lord, and she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed to the Lord, and wept in anguish. And and I and I don't want people to see that I'm crying. is to go to shallow, go to the Messiah, go to the one who can answer your prayer. She doesn't water it down. So it wasn't so much that she just wanted a child, because she said, Give me the child and I'll give the child back to you. That's the sister wife. Now the Nazarite vow typically was only taken for thirty days. And I want my business to have multiple sites in the United States, but I also want my business to stretch across the world. She's in anguish. When you get into the operating room, they're gonna come a point in time when they're gonna tell you to raise your feet up and put them in the stirrups. And remember to reference the title or broadcast date. Because he prayed a pregnancy prayer. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. Petition prayer power from Matthew chapter seven. I know what you're thinking, but I need to say that this message is only intended for those who have the interest in conceiving in their womb what God alone can do. Deposit and bringing forth to full birth what God desires to birth through you. She's I got children, you don't have none. And so Hannah's pregnancy journey begins with her praying with pain and passion. The text says that after they got through eating and drinking, she got up and she went to prayer in Shiloh. If you need to crack, cry. Mine. If you haven't had children, specifically you haven't had a son, you don't allow that husband to promote his name, his family name for historical purposes. Give me a child, any child, she says, Give me a male child, because only a male child can serve you in the house of God. And watch this. Give me a child so I can give him back to you, so he can serve you all the days of his life. Vessel that you can use to bring glory to yourself. When we pray from our heart, we will always receive the answer to our prayer in the affirmative from God. Her lips are moving, but the prayer is coming from her heart. But my heart, if it's coming from God, my heart will tell me it can be done. She says, I poured my heart out before the Lord. And it takes time for this pregnancy to come to pass. of time because you've got to bear the child. So you kept going along like there ain't no pregnancy. To what God has put in you. You can't carry this around too long. In Genesis chapter 30, Rachel wanted a child. Because he'll make you pregnant when you don't think you can get pregnant. And I know you're thinking I'm only talking about physical pregnancy, but watch this. Sundays at 8 a. Now he's bringing you their stories. And no razor shall come upon his head. Sterility or infertility is not due to what we think. On this morning, I want to use this text from 1 Samuel to talk to you from the idea prayer can get you pregnant. Prayer with God. version of the story. She's in pain, she's grieving, and she's in anguish. She got up in the middle of her pain and her anguish, and when she was frustrated that God had not answered her prayer, that things are not going as she wished, she got up and she went to Shiloh. She went to the one who could do something about it. And she prayed and she wept. Is that we think that we got to be all sophisticated and popped and pious and propped up. The Messiah, the one who is to come, the Vulgate, which is the Latin version of the scripture that is translated, says, He who is to be sent. Get there in the prayer room of the tabernacle and say, Let me get myself together first. He said, come to me. She's there and she's praying, but she's praying in the passion and in the pain that she's dealing with. Hannah says, Lord, if you would deliver me from my afflictions. As I look a little deeper, it says, it says she say it, Lord, if you would give me a child, I'll give them back to you And so perhaps one will say, Well, there's her affliction. So her prayer is not for her own benefit, it's for the glory of God. If we could get more folk that would start praying for the glory of God instead of for their own selfish gain, we'd have a whole we'd have power pop popping off in the church That's a unselfish prayer, but it's a prayer with purpose. She doesn't say, God, give me a child that I can live my life out through posthumously. And as she prays that prayer, she says, Look, verse number twelve comes back and it says, It happened as she continued praying before the Lord that Eli watched her. Now Hannah spoke in her heart, only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard. Mind, it requires you to pray from your heart. So she praying from her heart. But when you're praying from your head and you're praying from your lips, the answer might not come. She's praying, talking to the Lord, pouring her heart out to God, crying before the Lord, laying it all out in the altar before God, and she's praying from her heart. That tells me he was intently listening. When you pray those kinds of prayers, people who are listening, they're going to think that you're drunk. See, prayer in the purpose of God doesn't sound like what people can accept. Yes, Lord, and I can still be praying at the age of 90 and finally have a baby if it's the will of God. But you're not praying from your head. Don't stop believing because people accuse you of being drunk. But finally you gotta pray with the process in mind. Some of the things you've been praying for, God is going to answer them in the process of time. But when you start having intimacy in prayer with God, then the blood can impact the wound. In the process of time, you got pregnant. Some of you are carrying around a child that's way past delivery time. So keep praying. So they realize we need to go to God. Here comes the Lord and lets them know you getting ready to have a baby. Indeed, and enlarge my territory. time. But her voice was not heard. Panaina is one of his wives. I'm not getting pregnant. And so we come to this particular story where here is a lady by the name of Hannah. Has to do with the way we approach God in our prayer life. Because he already knows what you're going through, so just let it out. Because they don't know the power of prayer. And listen to this, when you pray the will of God, God will never withhold his will from you. See, he in there accusing her when she's praying for help for him. Of being drunk. That Hannah conceived and bore a son, called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him from the Lord. See you prayed and you thought because you didn't see no results that I need to stop praying. For a child. She says, Give me a male child, I'll give them back to you. The scripture says, delight yourself in the Lord, and He'll give you the desires of your heart. Listen to me. To receive the seed. And if you're not in contact with God, there ain't no blood. The vision will die in the womb because you've carried it too long. That God came and answered her prayer and she brought forth Isaac. It will happen in the process of time if it's in the God's will. And remember me, and not forget your maidservant, but will give your maidservant a male child. And if you want anything from God, if you want to get pregnant, if I can say it this way, from God, you need to get intimate with God. I need you to understand something. Which means I want to be impregnated with what God has for me. Don't give up praying because it hasn't happened already. You in the 15th month and you haven't given birth yet. And she bore Joseph in the process of time. We've been preaching through a series of messages entitled Don't Underestimate the Power of Prayer. Verse number nine says, Hannah arose after they had finished eating and drinking in Shiloh, and now Eli the priest is sitting on the The second thing I think that is necessary as it relates to the subject matter of how prayer can get you pregnant is first of all you gotta pray in the pain and the passion that you have. Okay. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Father in heaven, I need you once again that you might empower this fleshly body to be able to accomplish your will. Intimate time in prayer with God. But God, above and beyond everything, I'm praying that you would glorify yourself and that your name would be exalted in this place. Welcome to a minute of ministry calling from Capitol Seminary and Graduate School in Greenbelt, Mid. And if I get pregnant, that's a miracle. And then you're worried about who looking. No razor comes by they can't cut the hair, they can't drink anything, no fruit of divine, all that kind of stuff. But we've got to be willing to connect and understand the power of this prayer. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. She's grieved about the whole matter. She's praying for the power of God to manifest itself. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. When Hannah comes to pray, when she gets into the house of God to pray, Hannah prays with the purpose of God in She's got all these children, and Hannah doesn't have any. Use me, Lord, according to your sovereign will and plan. She has sons and daughters, okay? And it wasn't until she reached the age of ninety years old when she was way past child bearing years. The birth control that we're using that keeps us from getting pregnant, as it relates to what I'm talking about, is the birth control of not spending passionate time Let's exchange yoke. What happens here, and and what we need to understand as it relates to prayer is God answers prayer that is for his purpose. All prayer does not happen and is not answered immediately. m. She gives it to God just like it is. I'm trying to help you. Because listen, God specializes in answering pregnancy prayers. You're praying from your heart. or 11 a. Then there's others of you as thinking, well, I'm sterile, I can't get pregnant, or I'm on birth control, and the birth control was 99. She doesn't pray from her lips because our lips have a tendency to say almost anything. Therefore Eli thought she was drunk. So then they start praying to God. What prayer are you praying? If you need to holler, holler. And some of you have not got in position yet. On Andy Christmas. Part of our pregnancy that is and can be affected by men and women and old and young You got to get in position to bring forth the child. I don't want people to know that I'm going through what I'm going through. Don't worry about who's looking. m. So Hannah arose after they had finished eating and drinking in Shiloh. My yoke is easy. Sometimes the very people you try to help are the ones that tell you it can't be. That's what he said. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And it happened as she continued praying before the Lord that Eli watched her mouth. Hannah is the other wife, but Panaina is having children. He was all up in her business. And then the Bible says, And the Lord answered his prayer and blessed him. And the understanding and indication here is that she kept on weeping. I've been in there in anguish and bitterness of soul, pouring myself out before God at our new edifice called the Legacy Center, located at 6909 That's her affliction. When you pray, God let this happen, my heart is telling me that I'm to marry this person. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. She hadn't had a child. She's going through. And and she's praying in the pain and she's praying in her passion and she gives it right out to the Lord. Now on the surface, and probably what is most evident, is that one of her afflictions is Panina, because Panina is harassing her. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. And so maybe that's her affliction, as some would say. You've got to bring the child a full term. He answered her prayer. What's this? But Hannah doesn't have any, okay? It's a prayer that has God's purpose in mind and not her own. You cannot pray God's purpose from your head. And I'm not talking about a frivolous heart. But here's the thing I want you to understand. Help me, Jesus. My burden is light. That's what she's dealing with. When she came up out of the temple, he says, How long are you gonna be drinking? The text says, so it came to pass in the process of time. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our Spirit-Fill Worship services. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. Whatever it takes, let the emotion out of you. So, God, give me a son so he can serve you and I can glorify you through my child. What's wrong with you? And then watch this, she doesn't just say, I'm gonna give them back to you, she said he's gonna be a Nazarite. But until you get in position, you can't bring birth to what he has. When you're praying from your heart, people, they're gonna think that you drunk too I'm not talking about literally having a physical baby right now. And so they'll think that you're drunk, because you're praying from your heart, not praying from your head. And last week we spoke from 1 Kings chapter 18. I'm going to suggest to you when you're praying, give it to God just like you feel it. Cause Eli's sons were wicked. Because you do know that in order to conceive, it requires intimacy. Hannah is not concerned about who's looking at her. But in order for you to give birth, you got to get in position She's dealing with the pain of it. The best place to go when you're going through what you're going through, when you're hurting and you're in pain and you're in anguish and you're grief What thing has God impregnated you with that you just need to get in position so that you can bring that thing to pass? She went to Jacob and told Jacob, Give me a child. And after she starts praying to God, the Bible says that the Lord opened up her womb. He was saying make me pregnant so that I can expand my territory. Well, don't you know God specializes in miracles? But she says, maid servant a male child. Because you didn't see nothing. You know what Elizabeth did? God answered the prayer of Jabaz, 1 Chronicles chapter 4. Praise the Lord. And that is part of what she's dealing with. Give me your heavy burden. For thirty days a person would consecrate and dedicate themselves to And so therefore, there's no birth. In Jesus' name I pray. They crossed all over the line. Here comes John the Baptist when she's old, in her old age. And so she approaches God just that way. So if you're not praying, you can't collide with the blood What's wrong with you? God give me a blessing so that I can bless you. In Luke chapter 13, Zachariah's praying. That's a great question. There'll be no life in the womb until the seed collides with the blood Part of our problem when we pray Hannah prayed when she was in Shiloh, but she didn't get pregnant until the process of time. I'm talking about a heart that's sewn into God where God has given you that desire. Verse number 20 says, So it came to pass in the process of time. My heart can cause me to pray at the age of 75 and say, Lord, I still want a baby. Some of the answers that you're waiting for is in the process of time Now there's danger in that. Then she made a vow and said, O Lord of hosts, if you will indeed look on the affliction of your maidservant But then there's also the affliction of her not being able to have children. Because you're going to pray stuff like, Lord, I want to own my own business. Because you do know getting pregnant takes a process until the womb is ready. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of And when she goes there to pray, she doesn't And then to top all that off, Panina is an agitating sister wife. Hannah approaches God in the sincerity of her emotion. Don't stop praying because folk think you're drunk. You know that kind of stuff. Part of the problem is that if you carry it too long, it'll self-abort. And Hannah is vexed. Therefore Eli thought she was drunk. She laughed. Let it go. So it came to pass in the process of time. Hannah prays from her heart, not from her lips, nor from her head. They were no help to him. Then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life. She's popping them out. But as I look a little deeper, there's something else I saw that she also is part of her affliction You've got to come to the point where the child is birth. She goes and she prays. Because God specializes in pregnancy prayer Then she doesn't just say, Lord But she makes a vow for her child for life. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. You've got a burden you're carrying when you get to the Lord. And guess who's looking? So that way what it tells me is she wants a child that she's gonna give away. She is one of two wives of Elkanah. You should have delivered a long time ago. But it is in the process of time that it comes. Ha ha ha. I want a blessing so he can bless you. I'm talking about I want to be pregnant with what the purpose of God is for my life. You thought, well, I ain't pregnant She doesn't mask it In this case, she hasn't borne any children. She doesn't pray from her head. I need you to get this about prayer And before you know it, you're pregnant with the possibility of what God wants to bring through you. Glorify yourself through the preaching of this gospel. She's agitating her, and so she's dealing with that. When you're hurting, go just like you are. But you've got to believe in the power of prayer. If it just because it didn't happen in your time, that means it won't happen. She didn't stop crying. Don't come to me and fix yourself up. And then he goes farther than that and says, She must be drunk. But people who are listening, they always assess whether it can happen or not The name Shiloh means the peaceful one. Amen. Many prayers are in the process of time. Our impossibilities of becoming pregnant have more to do with a lack of intimate and passionate. She says I mean that's my Yes, Lord. And Jacob said, Woman, I ain't God. That ain't never gonna happen. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. And folk who are listening to you, they'll look at you and say, you must be drunk because you ain't even finished high school. org or contact our church office at 301-574-3515 We have gone through four parts thus far. Notice what she doesn't pray. You gotta get in position to give birth In Genesis chapter 21, Sarah was praying. That you, God, would get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise If we're praying from our heart, you'll always get an answer from God. And so she's praying for a man child who can go in the house of God, who can help Eli serve God, but Eli's over here accusing Part of the danger in that is that the child will die in the womb. He became pregnant and he gave birth to larger territory, and he didn't cause pain, nor did he do evil. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Some of you are probably saying, Pastor, I know that sounds great. She says, I ain't drunk. The final thing I need you to understand about this praying and getting pregnant thing is you got to pray with pain and passion. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. But here's something really interesting that I like about this text. No razor will come upon his head. Eli sitting at the front of the temple looking inside, watching her, and the and the text says he watched her mouth, but he didn't hear nothing. The text says, She prayed in anguish, that is, severity of emotional pain. Eli, the priest. Because my head says ain't no way I can do it either. But when you pray, And now, Pastor Sterling. She didn't say, you know what, enough is enough. Amen. Amen. When you pray with God's purpose in She's And he says, put your hand upon me Jabaz said, Bless me, Lord org. Amen. You got to go get the loan. Now Eli the priest was sitting on the seat by the doorpost of the tabernacle of the Lord. Prayer will end the drought. And so she's she does that way. Zechariah's praying for a child, but in the process of time. So he's trying to get us ready to bring birth to what he's deposited in us. Now Hannah spoke in her heart, only her lips moved What came out came from her heart because the head has thoughts that are not of God. And he'll be dedicated and consecrated to you for all of his life. And the other people are listening to your prayer and they're saying, But don't you know they already got seven kids by six different women? There's a cultural affliction, if you will, that she's dealing with. I'm old, past my childbearing years. And he said, okay. Because he specializes in pregnancy prayers. Now he's bringing you their stories. But what I would suggest is that our That's right there in the text. Lord God, I pray that if there's any that don't know you, that they would come to know you. It should have took nine months. 99 I want a blessing so he can glorify you. And the power of prayer can get you pregnant, and you'll get pregnant with what God has for you. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Let it out. Part one: prayer brings joy, rejoicing, and peace. And when pick up the verse number eleven, it says, Then she made a vow to the Lord and said to the Lord, O Lord of hosts. That means she is making a vow for her unborn child. And and when they come to go to worship Help me, Lord. He's looking. When Elkana's not around. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. He's sitting at the door looking Let it out before Him I need you to know it's gonna be in the process. I'm Andy Christman. You got to go start the business. Listen to me. The Lord got a sense of humor. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Second, you've got to be praying with God's purpose in That's a great question. God, I want to be a vehicle. When you pray pregnancy prayer. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. You can pray all day, but I'm old now. Because culturally speaking And when you get pregnant, it's still a process. Yes, he does. If you love Christian music, this is your best. You got to go incorporate. You gotta pray in God's person. If there are any that are I want to be a