Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. From myfellow. com and use the promo code WAVA. The following program is sponsored by Kettering Baptist Church. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor Buchus Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message. in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. Good morning. I want to invite your attention to Psalm 84. The word of the Lord reads as follows. How lovely is your tabernacle, O Lord of hosts. My soul longs, yes, even faints For the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh cry out for the living God. Even the sparrow has found a home, and the swallow a nest for herself. Where she may lay her young. Even your altars, O Lord of hosts, my King and my God, blessed are those who dwell in your house. They will still be praising you. Blessed is the man whose strength is in you, whose heart is set on pilgrimage as they pass through the valley of Baca. They make it a spring. The rain also covers it with pools. They go forth from strength to strength. Each one appears before God in Zion. O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer. Give ear, O God of Jacob. O God, behold our shield and look upon the face of your anointed. For a day in your courts is better than a thousand. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of the wicked. For the Lord God is a son and a shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from those who walk uprightly. O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man who trusts in you. This morning, I'm gonna start a series of messages entitled Just to Be Close to Him. This this psalm can can be approached from two different perspectives. We can look at it from the literal perspective. In other words, we can look at it from a literal here's a person who just can't wait to get into the sanctuary. Um can't wait to get to the physical temple of God. Or what I would suggest a better approach is to look at it figuratively. From the perspective or the view of one who is desiring to get close and into the presence of God You see, as as I'm in this life, I realize I can't get to him like I want to get to him. I don't know if y'all understand what I'm trying to say. But as but as close as I can get to him, I want to be right there. That that's what I hear this this psalmist uh saying in the in the process of uh his presentation. I want to talk to you this morning from the subject matter Seeking Sanctuary with the Lord of Hosts. The first movement Of this psalmist writing declares his longings to dwell with the Lord of hosts. The psalmist says, How lovely is your tabernacle. He's not describing the physical attributes of the building. So a lot of times we go into a beautiful edifice and say, oh, this is just so so beautiful. This is just so magnificent. So lovely. The psalmist is saying how beautiful it is to be in the presence and the calming, peaceful uh surroundings of God. How beautiful that is, how great an experience it is, oh Lord of hosts. As he talks about his longings, he He shares from his longings. He longs with every fiber of his body to dwell with the Lord of hosts. This ain't just a Sunday morning. Worshiper. This is someone who has come to a place in their life and in life experience where they realize that the best place I can be Is close to God. This is a man who says, Look, every part of me, he talks about my soul, my flesh, my heart. Everything wants to get close to God. He says my my my soul longs verse number two yes even thanks for the courts of the Lord my My soul is is longing, it is feigning. Um, the idea of feigning is dying within me. My soul feels like it is dying to get into the presence of God. He says, My heart is crying out. I'm for the living God. My heart is crying out for something beyond the natural. I don't know about you, but I get tired of crying out and chasing after dead God. Gods that can't help me. Gods that can't deliver me. Gods that can't rescue me. You know the gods that we have are gods of materialism. Things that we put in position to take the very place of God. This psalmist says, I my my heart longs, my soul Longs my flesh cries out to the living God. I I can't have no God that can't help me. I've got beyond having stuff Satisfy me. I've got beyond trying to buy something to make me feel better. I've got beyond trying to eat ice cream late at night to make me feel better. I need a living God. Nothing else is gonna satisfy. He says here, my heart, my soul, and and watch this, even my flesh. But I but what I like about this is that the flesh is crying out for the living God. Can I can I say it this way? The only way you can get your flesh to participate Participate and to submit is that the heart and the soul have to be committed to go in that direction. The reason why we stumble so often And the reason why we falter in this flesh is because your flesh uh convinces either your heart or your soul to be on its side. But when your heart and your soul agree Then the flesh will submit and it'll follow in order. And there ain't no other way that you're gonna get your flesh to want to cry out for the living God. In verse number 3, he says, not only do I long for him with every fiber of my body, but I long for him with jealousy. He talks about the sparrow. Look at verse number three. He says, even the sparrow has Found a home. The sparrow, the bird of the air has found a home in your sanctuary. The swallow. There it is in verse number three. A nest for her young, a place of safety, a place of refuge. The sparrow and the swallow, the two unlikely characters. The two unlikely portions of creation. But here I am created in your image. But I long to be in your presence. God, I'm jealous because the sparrow got a chance. fly next to you. I'm jealous because the swallow has a place to nest and a place of safety and a place of refuge in your temple. God, I'm jealous. I'm I'm I'm longing to be with you. But watch this. The good news is if if God's got his eye on the sparrow, if he allowed the sparrow to get close to him I know there's hope for me. I I know that they that he's gonna look out for me. But even though he says I'm longing for the opportunity with jealousy to get close to me He longs uh with every fiber of his body, he longs with with jealousy. And and and look at verse number four, he longs with expectation. Verse number four says, Blessed are those who Dwell in your house, they will still be praising you. Blessed, happy are are those who dwell in your house, the priests, the Levites, those who who get to hang out in your house. temple close to the holies of holies. Those uh bl happy are they because they they get to praise you all the time. They they get to they get to feel your praise Presence all the time. Blessed or happy are those who who are in the place where who have gone on before us, who who are dwelling in the presence of God all the days of their life Happy are they because they are still praising you. But I haven't got there yet. I I haven't crossed over this threshold. I'm I'm still limited by this This earthbound flesh, but God, I can't wait. I'm longing for the time when I can get in your presence and be there with you. He says I like the way he says this. They will still be praising you. That means there's there's not an end to their praise. They're in your presence. They've got sanctuary with you. They've got your attention. They've got your mindset. They've got your presence all around them. And yet I long to have that God. And they, while they're there, because of the grace, because of the favor, because of what you've done, they are still praising you because you're there with them. Secondly, I see the pilgriming dependence and determination to dwell with the Lord of hosts. After the Psalmist has expressed this first beatitude in verse 4 of the blessedness of those who dwell in your house. He comes back in verse 5 with a second beatitude, and he says, Blessed is the man. Whose strength is in you, whose heart is set on pilgrimage. Blessed or happy is the man whose Strength for this journey is in you. Who's not relying on his own strength? Who's not trying to get through life on his own? Blessed or happy is the man whose whose heart is set or determined that I'm going to get into the presence of God. The one who's on this journey who doesn't not only not travel in his own strength, but he's determined that he's gonna get there. Now I I know you're gonna go on through some things in life and we all gonna go through various things in life, but watch this. Your mind is already determined. That come hell or high water. Whether the the levees break or the winds break Come, whatever happens, whether fire or rain, no matter what it is, I'm gonna get to the presence of God. I don't care whether you come with me or I got to go by myself. I'm determined in my mind, I'm gonna get to the presence of God. See, sometimes you got to have that kind of determination, and the psalmist says, Blessed, happy is the man who has that kind of determination, but not the determination on his own, but his determination is on the dependence of God. Stay with me here. Watch this. He says, verse number five, whose heart is set on the pilgrimage. Now watch this. You need to also realize that this is a journey and it is a pilgrimage. Now, now this is gonna this is gonna revolutionize somebody's life. This is gonna change your whole attitude. Because see, some of us think we're on vacation This ain't vacation. When you came into the body of Christ, when when you joined the Lord's team, you entered into a battle and We're on a journey, and it's not a vacation where you get to take everything with you. It's not a place where you can sit back, kick your feet up, and sip martinis. No, this is a pilgrimage. When you're on a pilgrimage, you only get to take basic stuff. And on this journey, all you get to take with you is faith, grace Patience and mercy. You got to be realizing that I'm not here to have everything go my way. It's not gonna always be convenient But while I'm on my pilgrimage, I'm depending on God. But I'm determined I'm gonna get there. He says here. Verse number number six, he says, as they pass through the valley of Baka. The valley of Baka is is understood as a valley of death. A valley of drought, uh a valley where things don't go well from day to day. Uh it's a valley of distress. And he says here in the text, Uh in verse number six as they pass through the valley of Baka, as they pass through the valley of death, as they pass through the valley of tears and Weeping as they pass through, watch this, they make it a spring for the one who is determined to get into the presence of God, for the one who is dependent on the Lord of hosts. When they go through dry valleys, bitterness in life, the text says they make the valley a place where springs come bursting forth. See see because I'm not depending on myself to dig a well. I'm depending on him to supply all my needs So even though I go through the valley of the shadow of death, I'm not worried about a thing because my dependence is on him and and something, watch this, something happens Inside of me that causes wells of water to spring up in me, even when I'm going through tearful valleys and dry places. When I've done all I can do because as springs burst forth from me, other people around me get to benefit from the springs. Y'all not hearing me. See, some of the things you're going through, it ain't for you, it's for somebody else. So that springs can burst forth and they can have something to drink in the middle of their trout. So that the word of God might come out of you. So that they can understand I can make it through this valley too. But watch this when I've done all I can do. I love this. The text says, because I'm depending on him, he causes rain to come and covers the whole valley with pools. When I've done all I can do to minister to you through your dry place, when I've extended myself as far as I can. God, by his grace, causes rain to fall. That, watch this, that resupplies the springs that's in my life. That causes not only the springs to be present but pools of water. I don't know how long your drought's been going on, but God's got away. Of causing the rain to fall even in the valley of dry places. If I was in my own strength, I'd die in that dry valley. I'd be dead in that valley. I'd never make it through. Well watch this. Here's another thing. I'm gonna point out to you in this text. It says, look at verse 6, it says, as they pass through. Y'all missed that, didn't you? It didn't say as they pass to the valley. It says as they pass through the valley. That's good news right there. Because no matter where you are, the text says I ain't staying in the valley. If I'm depending on God, if I made it up in my mind, I'm gonna get to the Lord of hosts, I'm going through this valley, I'm gonna get to the other side of the valley. You've got to understand you're not here to stay. You're not in that mess to stay. God's gonna take you through, but you gotta have a dependence and a determination that I'm getting to the presence of God. The psalmist says, as they pass through this valley, he makes springs to come, rains, and pools to cover it. He says they go from strength to strength. Now I like what what one commentator said. He says they go from battlement to battlement. Now I can relate to that. You probably can too. And in essence what he says is, as they come out of one thing Just as soon as you can wipe your brow, here comes something else. But I'm going through that. I'm going through that thing too. Wipe my brow. Here come another battle. But watch this. This is what I love about what the text says. As I am dependent and as I am determined to get into the presence of the Lord of hosts, I get stronger, not weaker. Now that don't happen if you're not dependent on the Lord. That does not happen if you're not determined to get into the presence of the Lord of hosts. Because if you're doing it on your own, you're going to get to a place where each battle makes you weaker and you feel defeated. And you feel like giving up and you feel like throwing in the towel. I quit. But when you depend on him, he'll give you strength. The psalmist goes on. He says, Not only do I have a longing to dwell with the Lord of hosts, and this pilgriming dependence and determination to dwell with him. He says here, as I'm going through, I'm going through, I'm getting stronger and stronger. I'm moving from battlement. to battlement on this pilgrim journey instead of getting weaker, I'm getting stronger. This psalmist closes that this particular portion of the the pilgriming and the determination to dwell with the Lord of hosts by saying finally each one each one obvious uh eventually appears before God in Zion Because of their determination, uh because of their dependence, each one of them will appear before God in Zion. So there is a promise there that as a result of my determination As a result of my dependence on this pilgrim's journey, I'm gonna get there. And each one who has that determination and each one who has that dependence will appear. Before the Lord of hosts. The last movement in this text that I see is the petitioning to dwell with the Lord of hosts. He says, Look, I'm longing to dwell with you, God. And I know in order for me to dwell with you, I've got to have a determination and a dependence. But then he goes into prayer and he begins to petition God that he might dwell. With him. Verse 8 he says, O Lord of hosts, hear my prayer. Listen to him. Listen to his plea. He says, Hear me, O God of Jacob. Listen, listen to me. Give ear, oh God. Look at my shield. Look upon the face of your anointed. God, don't turn your face from me, but look at me. This is a plea. This is a cry out in prayer. God Have mercy. No, I don't look the best. I know I'm not walking the best. I know I'm not the best that you have, but God look at me. I need your attention. And sometimes you got to know how to get God's attention. You gotta tell them, You look at me, God. And I hear the psalmist saying, Look, look at me, God. I'm down here doing battle, and my shield is not big enough, it's not strong enough, but I need your attention because I want to get in your presence. Why does he petition God in such a way? Verse 10, he says, because one day in your courts is better than a thousand. Look, he says, I'd rather be a doorkeeper. This is a passage we quote a lot of times, ushers quote a lot of times, I'd rather be a doorkeeper. But let me tell you what a doorkeeper he is. Uh the the the doorkeeper was a reference to uh the slaves, the the beggars that were on the outskirts. They couldn't come in, but they at least they could stand outside. What the psalmist in essence is saying is, Lord, if you just let me stand outside your temple. I don't have to, you don't have to let me in, even if you don't want to let me in. If I can get one day inside with you, that's better than a thousand. But God, if I can just stand on the outside. I just want to be close to you. Because what I'm dealing with down here, if I can just get close, I know I'm gonna be alright. Says Lord, I I just I just wanna Be close to you. I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of the wicked. And again, he goes on, he says, For the Lord will give grace and glory. And no good thing will he withhold from those who walk upright. I know a lot of us like to quote the first part of that. No, God won't withhold no good thing from you. Well there's some more condition, that's a conditional. Promise. You can't walk any kind of way and tell me what God won't withhold anything from me. But Lord, if I can get close to you, I know I'm gonna have to be upright. And I know because of my uprightness, you won't withhold any good thing from me. Then he closes his prayer and says, Oh Lord of hosts, third beatitude: blessed is the man who trusts in you You. Lord, happy is the man who, while he walks this journey, who while he's longing to be in your presence, Trust you enough to keep persevering even though it looks like he ain't gonna make it. God, I just gotta keep trusting This is where the rubber hits the road. Blessed is the one who trusts in the Lord. Because see, the problem with most of us is we want to take things into our own hands and we don't really trust Him. And the question that God keeps putting in front of his children from day to day is, do you trust me? While you're going through hell on your job, do you trust me? While the mortgage company is calling you saying we want our payment and you ain't got money in the bank, do you trust me Wow, you're struggling from day to day and your marriage is a mess and your children are a mess and everything's a mess. Do you trust me Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord. As we travel this journey, as we're on this pilgrimage into the presence of the Lord of hosts, I pray you have a longing like He had a longing with every fiber of your body. I pray that your pilgrimage is filled with dependence on him. You can't make it by yourself. Praise the Lord. You've been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us In Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together, and we invite you to join us for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 8 a. m. or 11 a. m. at our new edifice called the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-574-3515. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family. Minister in the Spirit of Excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, we One Degree of Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass: the One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy. Andy, wherever you get your podcasts