Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now Pastor Sterling. We're grateful on today to have another privileged opportunity to stand. to declare the word of God, to worship him, to glorify him. Thank you, praise team, for just leading us in worship. Walking us into the presence of the Lord this morning. I want to invite your attention this morning if you have your Bibles with you and you should Want to invite your attention to Ezekiel chapter 2, Ezekiel chapter 2. When you find it, let us know you're there by saying amen. Ezekiel chapter 2. We'll begin our reading at verse 1. The word of the Lord reads as follows: And he said to me, Son of man, stand on your feet, and I will speak to you. Then the Spirit entered me when he spoke to me and set me on my feet. And I heard him who spoke to me. And he said to me, Son of man, I am sending you to the children of Israel to a rebellious nation that has rebelled against me. They and their fathers have transgressed against me to this very day. For they are impotent and stubborn children. I am sending you to them. And you shall say to them, thus says the Lord God, as for them, whether they hear or whether they refuse. for they are a rebellious house, yet they will know that a prophet has been among them. And you, son of man, do not be afraid of them, nor be afraid of their words. Though briars and thorns are with you, and you dwell among scorpions. Do not be afraid of their words or dismayed by their looks, though they are a rebellious house. You shall speak my words to them, whether they hear or whether they refuse, that they are rebellious. Amen. Father, we honor you this morning and that are in need of your presence and your power that you might speak a word. Heavenly Father, that is Powerful and strong, relevant and true. A word eternal God that provides the direction of salvation The drawing of the lost sinner to yourself. Speak a word, Heavenly Father, that would cause someone who's drifting in their fellowship To renew broken fellowship, to come back to you and say, Lord, I return. Lord, I have transgressed. Lord, I want to be restored. Restore them today, God. Father, speak a word that would give wisdom and edification to those that are listening. I pray, God, that you would even through the power of your word today Uncover that which is covered and reveal that which needs to be revealed. Speak into the lives of your people, God, both here and those listening and will listen via live stream and through the various mediums. We are grateful, God, today, for the privilege of being able to preach your word. And it is my prayer, even now, God, that you would speak through these lips of clay Words of life, words of hope, words of edification. That when it's all said and done, your name would get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. For Lord, you alone are worthy of it all. It's in Jesus' name that I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen. And amen. And as we walk through this passage in Ezekiel, Ezekiel here just to give a little a bit of a backdrop to the text. The whole first half of this book of Ezekiel Uh, you need to understand God is focusing on his judgment upon Israel, Judah specifically. See, Judah has been rebellious and I'm gonna say um extremely rebellious In that first they watched their brothers in the north rebel against God, and God caused them to be destroyed, assimilated throughout the nations. And wrought out. And God sent warning after warning to Judah, the southern tribes, and said to them, If you don't repent, if you don't turn around, I'm going to bring judgment on you. But they had their own prophets amongst them who said, God's not gonna judge you, nothing's happening. See, look around you, everything seems to be okay, everything's fine. God's not gonna do anything, and so God continued to send prophets to them to letting them know judgment was coming. And they refused to repent, they refused to turn around, they kept doing what they wanted to do. And so God began to send judgment in the form of Babylon. And here in our text, they are right now in the midst of Being held captive and being drawn out from their own land by Babylon. They're in exile. They're captives to the Babylonian nation, the heathen nation that God has raised up. To bring judgment on them. But these are a stiff-necked and rebellious group of people. Who refuse at all angles to repent and turn away. They think that the judgment of God is just gonna pass by. And it'll be all right after a while. It's gonna be all right. Just keep on. God's not really good on nothing. This is just something we can explain away. Yet they will not repent, they will not turn their hearts back to God. And in the midst of this text, Ezekiel's calling is what we find ourselves reading through. And Ezekiel's calling is the longest and most detailed of any calling that we get an observation of in Scripture. In fact, Ezekiel's calling is identified and spoke through from chapters 1, 2, and 3. But in the midst of Ezekiel's calling, uh as God is speaking and talking, he's using the words of rebellion over and over and over and over again. In fact eight times In three chapters, while God is calling Ezekiel to this ministry or Simon of preaching his message to his people, God has to tell Ezekiel eight times. That the audience that I'm sending you to is a rebellious and a hard-headed and a stiff-necked people. Now, I'll say this, Ryan. The audience that God has called you to preach to. Not just you, Ryan, but every other preacher, every other one who will serve in this generation. Everyone who will serve, preach, and teach in this season, you need to understand that you have been called To preach to, to teach to, to minister to, to work among a hard-headed, stiff-necked, rebellious generation. Are y'all still here with me? I mean the reality is this is a difficult assignment. Uh it's an assignment uh to talk to folk who don't want to listen, to preach to people who don't want to hear your message Lord help us here. It's a difficult assignment preaching to stiff-necked, rebellious people who refuse to repent. Even though God is judging them, it's hard to preach to people, it's hard to tell people God is the way And God is calling you out of darkness. God is wanting better for you. Even, watch this, even in the middle of a pandemic, when God is saying to them, I'm in control, they still won't repent. They mad because they can't do what they they want to get back to their norm when God is shaking things up saying your norm is not sufficient for me. But they refuse to repent. But we still have this assignment, difficult as it may be, to preach to a people, to teach to a people, to minister to a people who are rebellious, who are hard-headed Who are stiff-necked and who refuse to repent. Do you know that throughout the year plus time of Pandemic, we're still in it. I know restrictions are being lifted and all that, but we're still in a pandemic. There has not yet been a universal call of repentance Hard headed, stiff-nacked, rebellious people. This is the generation that you've been called into to preach a gospel to. to serve, to minister to, to minister among. This is a message that God is sending And somewhere along the way, I'm just talking, I'm just talking. Somewhere along the way, we need to realize that God is not playing with man. All right, I know y'all didn't come to hear that kind of message, but I I need to tell you what it is anyway. Because if your eyes are too blind to see what God is doing, if you haven't figured it out yet, There are judgments that come upon the land. And watch this. And not always in the way you think it will come. And just because you can explain away something or because you can give some kind of scientific or Or sociological definition or description of it doesn't mean that it's not God's hand because God's hand is moving in everything that's working in our lives. I want to talk this morning from the subject matter, the divine but difficult assignment. The divine but difficult Assignment. Specifically, preaching this morning has a focus for me because I'm going to be licensing a young man into the preaching ministry. Ministry. But I need you to understand something about assignments from God. First of all, assignments from God are divine assignments. That means they come from God Himself. They are unquestionably God's Expectation and calling on you to do, to perform. But preaching specifically is a divine assignment It requires a divine call. Preaching is not something you can be called by somebody else to do. I'm gonna get there. Um, you can't call yourself to it. And somebody else can't say, you know what, I think this is what you ought to be doing. No, no And let me tell you, and as I dig deeper into this, you're gonna find out why this needs to be a divine call. And I can tell you after 36 years of ministry that if it had not been divine, I would have left. If it had not been the hand of God who called me in it, I would have abandoned it because there's no there's no earthly pleasure in doing What God has divinely assigned you to do. Who wants to be assigned to give up their life? To preach to people who are who are rebellious and stiff-necked and don't want to hear what you have to say. That's not an easy assignment. And and I know y'all saying, wait a minute, Pastor, you calling us rebellious and stiffening. I'm not calling, I'm just talking about the text. I was talking about the text. This is what Ezekiel has to do And so it's a difficult assignment. And in chapter one, Ezekiel has a miraculous A majestic encounter with God in the midst of a whirlwind. And if you read through chapter one, what you'll find out about this experience that uh Ezekiel has uh is that he is traveling along in route Lord help us here in route with the other captives to captivity he's He's along with them. Watch this. And this is how God does. In the middle of you doing what you were minding your business doing, God has a way of showing up and majestically letting you know it's me who has to have a conversation with you. So he has this divine encounter with God. Just like Isaiah, just like Jeremiah, uh Ezekiel has the privilege to have, first of all, this divine and Spectacular and miraculous encounter with God before he hears the message and the assignment that's being given to him. I'm just gonna say this. I think that's important because When you're in the middle of doing a difficult divine assignment, you need to have some affirmation that it was God who sent me out here Lord help me here. When people are trying to take your life, when people are trying to talk about you behind your back, when people are trying to steal your wife away from you, when people are trying to ruin your kids You need to know that God sent you on this assignment because Lord help us here. If if God didn't send you, you get in the flesh quickly So I think sometimes it's just good to know that beyond a shadow of a doubt, God has a called you to this thing. So in Ezekiel's case, and in Jeremiah's case, and in Isaiah's case, they have these These encounters with God that are miraculous in nature, these these supernatural, um uh splendid uh m uh visions of God that that that verify and validate for them for the remainders of their ministry that I know it was God who sent me. Kind of like the Apostle Paul when Paul falls off of His donkey en route. And then he has this miraculous encounter with God. And throughout Paul's ministry, he knows it was God who calls him. When people have stoned him, when they left him for dead, when he When he was shipwrecked and all the other experience he goes through, he knows that I'm on this assignment, divine as it is, and difficult as it is, I know that it was God who sent me. Y'all still here with me So now if if your your ministry is not preaching, then you can still apply the same principle. It's a divine assignment. If you're on divine assignment from God, trust me, you want to know that God sent you on it. And so he this divine but difficult assignment requires some things. And first and foremost, as we look at the text, um it says it says in verse number one, he said to me, This is after he has this encounter With God, the appearance, the visions of God in his splendor. Verse 2 picks up and he says, He said to me, Son of man, stand on your feet, and I will speak to you. The first requirement of dealing with and handling this divine but difficult assignment is to stand up on your feet and hear God's word. This divine and difficult assignment, you need to stand on your feet and hear God's word God's word. Son of man, stand up. Watch this. The requirement here is not watch this. The requirement Here, when he tells him to stand up, listen, I'm I'm reading under, I'm gonna take you underneath the surface. The requirement here is not for him to stand up, the requirement here is for him to have the will to stand up Stay here with me because when you are standing face to face with God, when you are standing in the Shekana presence of God, you cannot stand Your flesh automatically bows to the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. You have no ability to stand up while you're standing in the presence of God God, and that's why the Bible lets us know that at the name of Jesus, every knee is going to bow and every tongue is going to confess because flesh will surrender to the power and the magnificence of God. So it sounds almost Contrary that God would say to Ezekiel, Ezekiel, stand up. But really, what he's literally asking Ezekiel is: Ezekiel, you've got to have a will to stand up before me and hear my word. Can I talk to somebody this morning? I need you to understand something about preachers. Every preacher is not willing to stand before God. Every preacher, every person wearing that title, every person wearing that collar, every person standing in the pulpit, every person pastoring churches has not necessarily had a willingness To stand and hear from God. A whole lot of folk rhyme, they just want to say something. They just feel like I want to say something. I got something to say. They think it's glorious standing up here preaching to people that don't want to hear you Falling asleep on you checking their text messages, being on Instagram and and and Facebook while you preaching. Will you labor and and labored and gave up your Saturday and your Wednesday and your Friday and you you you've been sweating and praying and crying and you get up to stand and they got the nerve to be on their phone playing playing video games while you preach it. I'm just talking to somebody this morning. It's just me and you and the house. Everybody Lord help me here everybody who preaches doesn't want to stand before God to get the word from God. So a lot of people that preach but haven't heard anything from God But the requirement here for this divine and difficult assignment is: you've got to have a willingness to stand on your feet and hear from God. The Lord says, You stand on your feet, and I will speak to you. But if you're not willing to stand on your feet, I'm not going to speak. Watch this. If you're not willing, Lord help me here to surrender to what's necessary to stand before me to get this word, I'm not speaking. So watch this. So the Bible says, verse 2, then the Spirit entered me. And he spoke to me and set me on my feet. God or mercy. And I heard him who spoke to me Listen, when it was clear that Ezekiel had a will to hear from God The Holy Spirit came into him. This is unusual for the Old Testament, from our Old Testament scholars. The Holy Spirit typically comes on folk, but in this occasion, he comes in him He says the Holy Spirit entered me and the Holy Spirit lifted me up because I couldn't lift myself. Lord help me here. The Holy Spirit listen, listen. When you when you let God help me um when when you are when you are willing to let God talk to you, when you are willing to let the Holy Spirit come into you, when you are willing to stand The Holy Spirit will give you the strength and the power to stand before God. Ryan, I need to help you here because I know you're starting out in this thing, but you need to have a willingness to let the Holy Spirit have his way in you. When Ezekiel surrendered, then the Bible says the Holy Spirit came and strengthened him and stood him up physically. And it wasn't until he stood up before God that he said, watch this two things. God began to speak, and I began to hear. Lord have mercy If we had more preachers who would wait on the power of God. to speak we'd have more sermons that were worth hearing. And the transformative word of God would be moving through the land instead of entertaining Messages that tickle the ears and the fancies of people. I'm preaching way better than the people are saying amen. Trust me, when you give your will to want to hear what God God says, the Spirit of God will strengthen you. And why do I need strength? I need strength because everything around me is tugging at me to say something else. I need the strength to stand because one, I'm in the presence of a holy God, and two, because my flesh really don't want to stay there. I want to hurry up and get away from here. Because as long as I stand in the holy presence of God, I realize all the more how naked I am and how wretched I am and how unworthy I am but I've got to have the Spirit of God stand me up and hold me there till I can hear from God until I hear that God is done speaking Then I know I've got a message to take to God's people. So he says, stand up and you will hear. He says, and I heard him who spoke Spoke to me. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web Please visit our website at kettering ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlboro, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as senior pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get. At your podcasts.