Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety, and now Pastor Sterling. Acts chapter fifteen, verse one, the word of the Lord reads as follows and certain men came down from Judea and taught The brethren, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. Therefore, when Paul and Barnabas had uh no small dissension and dispute with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas and certain others of them should go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and the elders about the question. And so being sent on their way by the church, they passed through Phoenicia and Samaria, describing the conversations of the Gentiles, and they caused great joy to all the brethren. And when they had come to Jerusalem, they were uh received by the church and the apostles and the elders, and they reported all the things that God had done with them. But some of the sect of the Pharisees who believed rose up, saying, It is necessary to circumcise them and to command them to keep the law of Moses. Now the apostles and the elders came together and they considered this matter. And when there and when there had been uh much dispute, Peter arose up and said to them, Men and brethren, you know that a good while ago God chose among us that by mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe. And so God knows the heart. Acknowledged them and by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as He did to us, and made no distinction between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith. Now, therefore, why do you test God by putting a yoke on the neck of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear? But we believed That through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ we shall be saved in the same manner as they. Let me give you a couple more verses just to chew on as well. Verse 36, I'm still in chapter 15 of Acts Verse 36, then after some days, Paul said to Barnabas, Let us now go back and visit our brethren in every city where we have preached the word of the Lord. Now Barnabas determined to take with him John, uh uh called Mark, but Paul insisted that they should Should not take with them the one who had departed from them in Pamphlia, and had not gone with them to the work. So then the contention became so sharp That they parted from one another. And so Barnabas took Mark, and he sailed to Cyprus, but Paul chose Silas, and he departed, being commended by the brethren to the grace of God. And he went through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches. Amen. Pray with me, please. Father, we bless you on this morning. Thank you for the word of God. Thank you for the power of your Holy Spirit We pray even now, Lord, that you would begin to minister to our hearts, minister to our spirits. Prepare us, God, this morning, that the word might hit us where we are and might transform our lives to what we need to be in you. If there's anyone that doesn't know you, Lord, today Open up their understanding, their heart, that they need you. Save them by your amazing grace. I pray, eternal God, that the word as it goes forward Would accomplish all that you accomplished it to set forth to do. I need you, Lord, as I stand to declare your word today. Bless me, use me To fulfill your purpose. I surrender all unto you and look forward with great expectation of what you're going to do. In the name of Jesus who is the Christ, I pray and I thank you. Amen and amen. Praise the name of the Lord. When God addressed Adam about his sin in the garden, Adam started conflict with Eve by blaming her. God said, Adam, what have you done? He said, that wasn't me, it was that woman you gave me. And and she took she took she she she took that to heart and then that now they got some issue. And before that, you know, they had a good relationship with the with the animals as well. When God turned to Eve and said, What did you do? She blamed the serpent. Serpent was a I thought we were friends. Conflict. It's inevitable. When the children of Adam and Eve, Cain and Abel, were giving their offerings to the Lord, and the Lord begins to chastise Cain. Conflict rises between Cain and Abel. Cain kills Abel. Not because of any direct issue between him and his brother, but really it was because of him and God. Cain had a problem with God, and so he kills his brother. Conflict. Conflict is inevitable When we talk about conflict, we define it, if you will, as serious disagreement. That is opposing views that come together and clash. Conflict. I want to talk today from the subject matter in this second part, our, and I'll say it this way, our therapy session for this morning will be called conflict resolution. In chapter 15, verse 1, the word of the Lord says, And certain men came down from Judea and taught the brethren, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. Therefore, when Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and dispute with them, that lets you know something has already broken out. There's now conflict because of what these men that have come into Antioch and made this grandulous statement. While the Apostle Paul and Barnabas are preaching to the Gentiles, they say to the Gentiles, you can't be saved unless you get circumcised. And Paul and Barnabas don't agree. And so conflict arises between these men of Judea and Barnabas and Paul as they're trying to preach the gospel to the Gentiles. conflict. But in this first movement of conflict, the resolution that is seen here is the resolution by conversation. And I think that one of the things that might help us in Resolving some conflict is conversation, talking, listening, understanding, feedback A lot of our conflict can be resolved by simply having conversations. The silent treatment Does not resolve conflict. I ain't talking to you no more. Get out of my face. Nope, nope, nope, nope. Cutting people off Does not resolve conflict. Because you and your mother, you and your father, you and your friend had an issue 20 years ago and you haven't spoken to them since. Has not resolved the conflict. In fact, can I help you? This is a health tip. The venom that you're holding on to By not having the conversation and bringing resolution to it is killing you. I heard it said this way, you you you're drinking the poison and hoping that the other person die. Conversation. Having a conversation about the issue is simple. It helped resolve a lot of conflict that we have. In fact, it'll even avoid conflict if we could just have some good conversations. Conversation doesn't mean talking. There's a difference between talking, listening, and hearing. Because a lot of times when we have conflict, we're talking. We're not talking nice, but we're talking. And we screaming and we hollering and we shouting and we cussing and all that. And they're shouting and cussing and fussing back. That's not the kind of conversation I'm talking about. Because usually if we're honest with ourselves in those types of interactions We're not really listening. We're adamant about getting our point across. And I don't care what your point is because you're wrong and I'm right. Simple conversations. Help a lot. Talk to each other. Listen to each other. And respect the fact that other people have the privilege of having an opinion different from yours. In the conversation, pray. Invite God into it. That might come some of the words you use. It's hard to cuss and pray at the same time. Lord, help me to be calm, to listen, and to respond in an intelligent Respectable, born-again way. Pray and wait for your turn. Pray and then respond in your turn and have the interaction of conversation. That this is the first resolution. Resolution by conversation. It's simple, it's easy Next one. And let me say this about conversations. Some conversations are very hard to have. They're tough. But we have to have them. Okay? You gotta have them. If we're gonna get to resolution. If we're gonna if we're gonna have if we're gonna resolve the conflict, we gotta have conversation In this in this text, what happens after uh Paul and Barnabas have begin to have this dissension and and dispute, which is the conversation. They descend, they they go the they have an opposite view of what these men have shared from Judea. That's the dissension. And then they have a dispute, they have a conversation about it. There's there's a back and forth with it. But then what happens, they verse two the second part of verse two says after this dissention dispute with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas and certain others of them should go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and the elders about this question. This is the second how do I say conflict resolutions or method that I think that is helpful for us So after you have resolution by conversation, the second one is resolution by mediation. Sometimes as we go through the conversation, we can't come to agreement and we need mediation. Okay? We need somebody to help us to get to the resolution. That's honest, that's true. But sometimes we just can't come to a conclusion together. We need mediation. We need somebody to help us get to resolution. And there's nothing wrong with that. And so they've come to the conclusion, guess what? Our dissension and our dispute Our conversation's not going anywhere because you're still saying that these Gentiles need to be circumcised, and we're saying God He didn't make that kind of distinction. In other words, What Jesus did when he came and and died on the cross and rose from the dead, he died for everybody, proving watch this, that the law that we were trying to keep could not be kept and so therefore he has fulfilled the law in his flesh and so salvation is now of him that's the opinion of Paul and Barnabas but these others are saying no you still got to be a Jew if you're gonna come into the kingdom And you gotta keep all the Jewish custom and all the Jewish laws. So they can't come to an agreement. So they say, you know what? We need to take this matter. To mediation, so we're gonna take it to the council of Jerusalem, where the elders are, where the apostles are, and let them hear our case and let's resolve it. Listen, sometimes we just need help, mediation. Counselor, a therapist, uh uh, an impartial listener, somebody who has wisdom. When I talk about wisdom, I'm talking about someone who applies the word of God properly in their life. Can I say this also? This is not a hit on therapists, but everybody who says they're a Christian therapist is not applying Christianity to their own life. But sometimes we just need some help. And so we need to call upon a pastor, a counselor, a therapist, somebody who can help mediate the issues that we have and impartially And bring us to resolution. Sometimes you just need that. When they came to Jerusalem for mediation, I want you to see some things that go on here. In verse 4, they came to Jerusalem for this mediation session, and they they came and they shared their points. Uh Barnabas and Paul, they shared all the things that were going on with them. Uh there as they were going about ministering to the Gentiles in verse 5, the Pharisees, you know, after Paul and Barnabas shared their part. Then window. Pharisees jump in and then they they share their view. The Pharisees come in and say, No, we we believe that they definitely definitely need to become Jews first. And then uh after the Pharisees have shared their part What happens in the text you'll see that they keep going back and forth. Verse six, they keep going back and forth, and so this dissension, this discussion Um starts to kind of you know get heated up a little bit. But they go back and forth and they dispute, they're sharing their various views back and forth. Then by the time you get to verse 7, Peter speaks up and he speaks his mind on the subject matter. Everybody's getting an opportunity and everybody's listen in the mediation with the council. They they're using a council of leaders to help come to a conclusion, but each person is getting their time to communicate their perspective and their view and so and they're respecting each other. And if you look Further on in the text you'll see, I think verse eleven or somewhere around there, uh verse twelve, uh then when the multitude they the multitude kept silent while they w and and they listened to Barnas, Bis, and Paul. As they declared. And so each one was quiet while the other was declaring their point. And they kept going back and forth with this. They listened and they were silent. Verse 12, I think, says they listened and they were silent. Um verse thirteen says they were silent. Uh after they had heard, they became silent. And James gets up now and he gives his answer to things. And so they go back and forth with this, and then they finally come to the conclusion of the matter. And the conclusion of the matter is that God never intended this dissension. God never intended that you have to be circumcised in order to become saved. And so, watch this. So after they've done all this. They've come to the resolution, but the resolution is then communicated and agreed upon by all parties. Now watch this. When when you agree to a resolution, it means you can't contend it anymore. Go to mediation. She did this, he did that, they did this, they did that. I don't like that, I don't like that, and you know go through all that Mediation. Come to a conclusion. Everybody's you good? Yep, I'm good. You good? Yep, I'm good. You are now agreeing that we are now on the same page and in unity with each other. at that point. So therefore you don't get to bring this back up later after we already resolved it. After it's already settled. Now, hold on a minute, because I'm not going to let you all the way off the hook. Because sometimes we have violated people. And we have hurt people, and the fact that we agree that we've resolved our contention doesn't mean you've resolved my hurt. So don't think that everything's going to just go back to normal because we agreed on that issue. Are y'all still here? Because some people feel like they can hurt you, and two days from now you ought to be alright Wait a minute. You just slap me, cut me up, hurt my feelings, talked about my mama and all that, and you just think I'm just gonna come back and everything will be wonderful tomorrow? No I don't trust you now. So we go through mediation and I find out well you were going through a bad time. I was going through a bad time. So our contention was based on our bad time and all that. So I agree it was based on our bad time, but I don't agree that I'm gonna trust you That's not the same thing. Now trust is a whole nother issue. That's not this subject for today. That's another session. That's another therapy session. Bring all your friends and enemies on that day So we've got resolution by conversation. We've got resolution by mediation. Thirdly, we have resolution by separation and reconciliation. When we got over to verse 36, verse 36, let me give you a little bit backdrop on it. So Paul and Silas, they've been around, they've been doing their thing. And it's sometime later now and Paul is, you know, celebrating his victory that uh we want our case at mediation and and and they've been gone out and witnessed all these different places and people have come to Christ and the Gentiles are coming to the Lord and the ministry is strong and everything is going wonderful in the mission field. And so Paul um turns to Barnabas and says, hey, hey man You know what would be a great idea, this is my version of the story. He says, Hey, we ought to go back now and visit all the people that and all the places where we had shared the gospel And let's go see how they're doing. Let's check on them. And so Barnabas is like, oh man, good. That's good, man. That's a good idea, good strategy. I'm with you. Let's take Mark Let me back up and tell you what happened with Mark. So the last time when we was on, uh if you go all the way back, and this story is actually in Acts chapter 13. In Acts chapter 13, the Holy Spirit has separated Barnabas and Paul out of the others and sent them to do missions to the Gentiles and sent Mark John Mark as their assistant. So they go out and they're doing ministry and and people are coming to the Lord and all that. So they have this issue where they come out and they're they're trying to Witness to this this guy who is a pro-counselor, he's a high-ranking official. And so he he wants to hear the gospel and there's a a son of the devil. uh who doesn't want the gospel to get to him. And so what he does is he he confronts um Paul and Barnabas as if he was big, bad, and full of it. And he didn't know who he was messing with. This is my version of the story. He didn't know who he was messing with. So Paul said, who you think you are, dude? Like, and so Paul stands up to him. And in fact, calls him out as a son of the devil, a wicked, contrary person, and says, matter of fact, you're gonna be silent and you're gonna lose your ability to speak. And guess what? Boom! Just like that it happened. John Mark saw this. And this is my version of the story. John said, I ain't signed up for all this miracle working, miraculous heavenly demon fighting stuff. I'm gone. So he checks out, he leaves them on the mission field. So now when Barnabas says, Yeah, let's go on this return trip and take Mark, Paul is like, that mama is not going with us. I don't want no deserters on the field because when we need some help, he checked out on us. He ain't going. And Barnabas, son of comforter, you know, he's he's consulting. Come on, come on, Paul. We children of God. We cut out the same claw, shaped in his image and in his likeness and all that. Come on, man. Everybody make a mistake sometime. Paul said, You kidding me Dude. No. So they go back and forth. And the Bible says they got into their conversation. It became a sharp heated Almost coming to blows type of differences that they were going through. So the resolution was You go your way, I'm going my way. They separated. Now some would say that's not good. That's not good. They should have been able to work that out. Let me say this. Sometimes and in certain situations, separation is the best resolution. Amen Now, let me let me also I need to I need to frame all this because some people think I'm only talking to married people and stuff like that and I'm only talking to like couples. No, I'm talking to all of us because all of us are in relationships All of us are in relationships with people on our job, we're in relationships with people in the church, we're in relationships with people in our groups and clubs. We got all kinds of relationships. So this is not These issues are not just marital and you know boyfriend, girlfriend, and stuff. Sometimes in relationships is especially when it's heated and it's on fire. Sometimes the best thing to do is put some space between you and the person before the enemy uses your flesh to take you farther than you planned on going. Um I heard a story just this past week, maybe you guys heard it as well, where these friends I guess got into it and one shot the other, killed them. The guy was a minister. And I'm thinking, how do you get to that point? Wouldn't it have been better if they just separated? Cool off, period. Step away from it. Let it cool off. Because sometimes what you'll find out is the venom and the anger that you had in the moment wasn't really worth it. And the other thing is sometimes you get to that place of venom because you weren't listening either. And we had differences of opinion because we didn't take the time to listen to each other and respect that we all have the opportunity to have differences of view. You know just probably as well as I do. Sometimes we just need to agree to disagree. And watch this. And so that's the that's the separation part. But but it doesn't end with separation because a whole lot of people say, yes. Pastor said we won't separate. No, I said separation and reconciliation. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301-627 Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family Minister in the Spirit of Excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. Andy Chrisman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.