Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. The word of the Lord from Acts chapter 16 and verse 25 reads as follows. But at midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. Suddenly there was a great earthquake so that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were opened And everyone's chains were loosed. Would you pray with me, Father in heaven? We need you on today. That you, God, might speak a clear word into our present-day circumstance. That you might lift a heart that's heavy, that you might save a soul that's lost. God, that you might redeem someone who's drifted away. But God, above and beyond everything else. That your name might get the glory. Spirit of the Lord, I stand here as a vessel waiting to be used. By the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. So I surrender to you today, God. Give my body strength and ability to do what you have planned for Me to do. Use me, Lord, in an extraordinary way that they would hear you clearly through these lips of clay. Father, in the name of Jesus, allow my mind clarity of thought, my lips clarity of speech. That you can get glory and honor and praise that each spirit and each person who's listening and who has opportunity to listen God will have their everlasting and eternal lives change because they've sat to listen at your feet. So here we are now, God, waiting for you. That you might have thine own way in this time. Open up the scripture to our understanding and the word to our life. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. And amen. In this text on this morning, we find the Apostle Paul and Silas Who have been faithful to God in their service of preaching the gospel. They've been faithful in life as it relates to living for God. And yet, still they find themselves in an awkward position of midnight in prison. Midnight represents, if y'all would allow me on this morning, midnight represents the middle point of darkness. In some essences, midnight is the deepest and the darkest part of the night. It is the center of doom and gloom. It is the point, perhaps for some that feels like there's no return. It's a scary place of despair where things have reached their worst place. Midnight. It's where toothaches get worse. Help me, somebody. It's where back pain rifles up midnight. Midnight is when gout gets unbearable. Midnight is when it seems uh you're far away from hell and your situation is hopeless And you don't know if morning is ever gonna come. Midnight. Lord help me, Jesus. Uh it is A desperate place to be, or hopelessness sets in, and vast uncertainty enraptures your mind. As the gloom and doom of midnight began to circle around your uh the circumference of your mind and your thoughts you can't seem To see that there's any way out midnight. I'm talking about midnight. Midnight is uh uh uh a very uh horrific place to be. I want to suggest uh if I can on this morning that it's midnight in America. Help me, Jesus. Uh I want to suggest that it's midnight in the world that we live in. I want to suggest on this morning and lift out of the secret places of your heart and the secret places of your mind that you haven't told anybody else about that it's midnight at your house. Lord help me, Jesus. And as a result, you find yourself, and we find ourselves in a place that is uncomfortable. Lord have mercy where things have grown worse. Uh businesses are shutting down Uh people are losing their jobs by the thousands and the stock market is crashing, the COVID cases are rising, the government actions are uncertain. We don't know what What's going to happen next? It's midnight, yeah. Unemployment is rising. Social unrest is stirring up. Lord help me. Political chaos is all over, and financial stability is crumbling away. And if you haven't heard it anywhere else, I will be the first to let you know that we are watching And witnessing the crumbling of our society. It's midnight. Oh yeah. There's no need me painting a pretty picture of that which is not. I just gonna tell it like I like it. Uh it's midnight, yeah. Uh some of you in your marriages and in your families, these five months of Pandemic have exposed to you a midnight situation, Lord Jesus. For some, you're dealing with children and The reality of having to homeschool and the reality of having to work a job and the reality of having to pay bills and not being sure where the money's coming from. Yeah, it's midnight Lord help me Jesus. And uh in the middle of all of this, Paul and Silas have find themselves, though they were faithful In prison at midnight. Listen, they've been arrested, they've been convicted. They've been beaten with rods and thrown into the inner prison, but at midnight. That's what the text says here in verse 25. And it it it grabbed me Verse 25, those first three words, because it indicated that there was a shift in the story. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter, but at midnight Stay here with me, because I believe that there are, or rather is, such a thing as Uh oh, and if I can say it this way, s some of our scenarios that we live through and go through are and at midnight situations. In other words, you wake up in the middle of the night and you roll over and go back to sleep. That's a and at midnight situation. Because things play themselves out the way they would ordinarily expect it to play out. There are, if I can say, a multitude of and at midnight circumstances that we're living through and walking through right now. But this text is not an and at midnight situation. This is a but at midnight Scenario. And there are in this text three unusual things that cause this to be a butt at midnight situation. If I'm going to help somebody on today, I want to help you by helping you understand that when you get to midnight, The execution of the butt at midnight actions can change the way the rest of the night might play out. Help me God. In other words, how you handle the midnight, if you handle it as an and at midnight situation. It'll end up one way, but on the other hand, if you handle it as a butt at midnight situation, it'll turn out a whole nother way. Y'all still here with me? First and foremost, in the text, and I just want to walk you right through, it's just uh as simple and plain. It says, but at midnight Paul and Silas were praying. Can I can I start right there? But At midnight, Paul and Silas were praying. I want to begin by sharing with you one of the unusual scenarios or things that happened in this text. Is that but they were praying. Oh have mercy. At a time when most would be sleep Frustrated, crying, overwhelmed, crouched in despair Pacing the floor with worry, numb in disbelief. Paul and Silas are praying. Help me, Lord. You gotta see this. You gotta see this. These two men have been faithful to God. They've come across a young lady. Who was demon-possessed, and they they did their best to just tell her to leave us alone, but she kept following them along And following them along, and they turned to her, cast the demon out of her, and as they were preaching the gospel, because their master, the master of the young lady, found that he was gonna now lose money. Because she was no longer deeming possessed. He brought charges against them. They took them through a kangaroo court. Lord help me, Jesus. And they've been locked up in prison. And In essence, put in the inner co inner part of the court, put in prison, and if I can say this way, and the key thrown away, but at midnight. They are praying. At midnight they are praying in the deepest hours of our despair and hopelessness, the most powerful thing that we can do is pray I know some folk will say, well, can you just pray for me? No, it ain't just pray for me. Prayer is the most powerful weapon that we as children of God have in any and every situation that we face In our deepest despair, in our most miserable scenario, prayer is what we need because prayer connects us to the power of God at midnight. Prayer is passionate. There's a difference between midnight prayer and Sunday morning 11 o'clock prayer. Midnight prayer is a prayer of passion. It is a prayer that is full of faith. It is a prayer that acknowledges in and of itself that There is no way out, but I trust God will bring me out. Lord have mercy. See at midnight when you ain't got no friends to call, when you can't get in touch with the pastor, when 1-800 won't work. Midnight prayer is when you turn to the one who's up all night long. Have mercy, Jesus Midnight prayer is when you start talking to the one who created everything. Midnight prayer is when you start trusting God and saying of Him, God, if you don't do it It can't be done. Midnight prayer is different. It's a different kind of prayer. It has a level of passion to it and an expectation to it that you might not get at a Sunday morning worship prayer type of situation. Uh you know, because let's be for real for real. Uh sometimes and oftentimes Sunday morning prayer is just for show. It's just it's just filling the the the line on the program We really ain't really trying to ask nothing of God. We just try and tell God we we filling out the program, Lord. We talking to the Lord. We going through the motions, but midnight prayer ain't going through no motions. Midnight prayer is when I need you. Oh yeah, if you you need to be here right now, Jesus. It's a different kind of prayer. And so they are in uh this troubling situation. They've been accused of troubling the city. They uh they've been they've cast out the demon, they've preaching the gospel, and Uh they've been arrested, they've been convicted, they've been beaten with rods, they've been locked in this inner prison, they've been left there as the perhaps for dead, but midnight comes along, midnight, at but at midnight. The text says they were praying, they were talking to God, they were having a conversation with an invisible God in the inner part of the prison whenever Lord helped me. Jesus, when when when things was getting worse, when things were in despair, when they didn't see any other way, they began to have a conversation called prayer With God, and they were talking to God, and maybe you're in the situation like this. Maybe you've been abused, maybe you have been mistreated, maybe you've been locked out, locked down Maybe the money is gone and the bills are due. Maybe they've called you and said we're coming to repossess your car or foreclose on your home Maybe the walls are closing in and you don't know how you're gonna get out of this, but it's midnight. The question is, are you praying? At midnight, because at midnight, one of the key components of changing this nighttime experience in the text Is but they were praying. Y'all still here with me? I want to encourage us on today to not blow past this issue of prayer because we have so callously dealt with prayer. Prayer is powerful. Prayer is an acknowledgement that I can't do it. Prayer is an acknowledgement that You can do it. Prayer is a cry for help. Prayer is a conversation with the Creator. Prayer is a means by which I can obtain what's necessary to overcome the impossible. Lord, have mercy. Prayer is the way of Getting in touch with the throne room of God and petitioning God for what I have need of. Prayer is my means by which I can sit silently before the Lord and hear from him what exactly it is I need to do. Prayer, prayer, prayer. Is what they did in the text. But they were praying. That's the first movement. The second movement is like unto the first. It says, but at midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God. But it was midnight, but they were praying, but they were singing. And they were singing hymn. Hymns to God. Singing, this is highly unusual because singing is something that we do when we are joyful. And so the singing here is in great contrast to the situation they find themselves in. Not many people upon finding out that they're getting ready to be sentenced to life in prison are singing. Help me, God. Not many of you are uh singing when the doctor says you have stage four cancer and there's nothing else we can do. I'm trying to talk to us. Midnight comes along, and when midnight comes along, and it is at its worst, and things are crumbling all around Paul and Silas, they've been praying. And talking to God, and now the text says, but they were singing hymns to God And and as I said, um it doesn't make sense because singing happens when you're excited, when there's joy, when well uh midnight is is not the time for for singing And watch this. These two men, these two faithful men of God, this apostle and his Partner. They have had their dignity stripped away. They've had their hopes dashed by a system of justice that had no justice for them. They, oh Lord, help me here. They have had their freedoms stripped away from them and taken away, and they are found in the text singing to God at midnight. Hmm. Lord Jesus, help me, God. First they are praying and petitioning God. Now they are singing and praising God at midnight. Why are they singing, Pastor? Why are they singing hymns to the Lord? I'm glad you asked that question. Because they're singing hymns to the Lord. Watch this. Because it is the it is the way to let the enemy know. That you may have taken my freedom, you may have taken my dignity away, you may have even taken my house away. Through re uh through foreclosure, my car away, through repossession, my loved one away, through COVID-19, but in all of what you have taken from me In all of what you've stripped away. I may have lost my clothes, I may have lost my money, I may have lost all these things, but there's one thing singing hymns lets the devil know, and that is you can't take my joy. Whoa Jesus you you you you can't touch that Ah Lord have mercy Here they are at midnight. Here they are at the worst point in life. Here they are at the lowest of low, and they are singing with joy to the Lord because the devil can't have your joy. I'm trying to help somebody right about here. I don't know what midnight situation that you might find yourself in, but I declare one of the remedies of your midnight scenario is to pray and the second one is to sing hymns to the Lord. Help me, God. Help me here, Jesus. Here they are at midnight. And They're singing joy. They're singing with joy to the Lord. And they're reminding the enemy: You can't touch me, you can't take my joy away. It's midnight, but I'm going to sing my hymns. Why am I going to sing my hymns? I'm gonna sing my hymns because it reminds me I have history with God. That the billows may roll and the breakers may dash. I shall not sway because he holds me fast. So dark the day, the clouds in the sky. I know it's alright because Jesus is nigh my soul Lord help me, Jesus, is anchored in the Lord. See, I got that you got to remind yourself, oh, that you've got some history. with God. It it you got the you got to sing and raise up those hymns that remind you that can't nobody do you like Jesus. Can't nobody Do you like the Lord? Can't nobody do you like Jesus because he's my friend. You you've got the You've got to raise up those hymns and remind yourself at midnight that uh uh like a ship that's tossed and driven, oh help me God, uh, driven on an angry sea Uh, when the storms of life are raging and the fury falls on me, I wonder what I have done that makes this race so hard to run. Then I say to my soul, take courage. Because the Lord will make a way somehow. I wish I had somebody that understood at midnight. You've got to remind yourself That the Lord will make a way somehow. I know it looks dark. I know it looks dim. I know it looks helpless. I know it looks like it's all over. But I want to tell you today, the Lord will make a way. Somehow you gotta remind yourself that he is in control and so they're singing these hymns to remind themselves, to encourage themselves that they've got history with God and that God is in full control of the whole situation. They're singing. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. For a copy of this sermon on CD or to hear this message again on the web Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org and remember to reference the title or broadcast date. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org or contact our church office at 301 six two seven nine five zero zero please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get. At your podcasts