Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling I want to invite you this morning to Joshua chapter four, beginning at verse number one. The word of the Lord reads as follows, and it came to pass when all the people had completely crossed over the Jordan. That the Lord spoke to Joshua, saying, Take for yourselves twelve men from the people, one from every tribe, and command them saying, Take for yourselves twelve stones from here. out of the midst of the Jordan from the place where the priest's feet stood firm. And you shall carry them over with you and leave them in the lodging place where you lodge to night Then Joshua called the twelve men whom he had appointed from the children of Israel, one man from every tribe, and Joshua said to them, Cross over before the ark of the Lord. your God into the midst of the Jordan, and each of you take up a stone on his shoulder according to the number of tribes of the children of Israel. That this may be a sign among you when your children ask in the time to come, saying, What do these stones mean to you? And then you shall answer them that the waters of the Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord when it crossed over the Jordan. And the waters of the Jordan were cut off, and these stones shall be a memorial to the children of Israel forever. Chapter five, beginning at verse one, says, And so it was when all the kings of the Amorites who were on the west side of the Jordan, and all the kings of the Canaanites who were beside the sea heard that the Lord had dried up the water of the Jordan from before the children of Israel until We had crossed over that their heart melted and there was no spirit in them any longer for the cause of Israel or the children of Israel. At that time the Lord said to Joshua, Make flint knives for yourselves And circumcised the sons of Israel again a second time. So Joshua made flint knives for himself, and circumcised the sons of Israel at the heel of foreskins And it came to pass when Joshua was by the Jericho that he lifted up his eyes and he looked, and behold a man stood opposite him with his sword drawn in his hand And Joshua went to him and said to him, Are you for us or our adversaries? And so he said, No, but as commander of the army of the Lord I have now come, and Joshua fell on his face to the earth and worshipped, and said to him, What does my Lord say to his servant? Then the commander of the Lord's army said to Joshua, Take your sandals off your feet, for the place where you stand is holy. And he did so. Would you pray with me, please? Father in heaven, we bless you today. We thank you for another privilege we have to stand here and declare your word. Lord, I pray that the power of your word would encourage a response in each person who hears it. I pray, God, that if there's anyone that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, that today would be the day that they surrender and say, yes, God, I want to be your child. And I pray, God, that if any have come in the doors, Lord, with burdens and and loads, and have desire to unload those burdens On today, let that take place, let that transpire. Let healing take place in the midst of our time on today. Let deliverance and Let freedom be experienced amongst your people. God, we bless you. We thank you in advance. God, as I stand here as a vessel to be used by you, use me, God, as an instrument in your hand. Strengthen my mortal body that I might be able to say what you once said that I might be able to clearly articulate your word. So Father, control my thoughts and my tongue that your word might go forward as a very oracle of God. And even you Lord would be Pleased with what takes place in this place. Father, I yield to you. Have your way even now because I believe you have a plan for us all. It's in the name of Jesus I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. And the people of God said together, Amen. On this morning, I want to continue our series that we began on last Sunday entitled Strange Plans. Just beginning to look at some of the strange plans that the Lord has given and does give. Last Sunday we actually spoke from Joshua chapter 3 and we talked from the subject matter, crossing flood waters Today I want to continue this series. So the plans of God, as strange as they are, allows Israel to move from this place of wilderness to a place of promise. And they've moved into now the promised land. And the next set of plans involves the use of stones to prepare them for the battle that is ahead of them. I want to help you to understand this morning that there are some stones that God wants you to use to prepare you for the battle that is yet ahead. The battle that is ahead is more difficult than you can imagine and is in fact if you use these stones that are utilized in the text as preparation, it will assure you that you'll be in position to acquire all that God has ordained for you to have and to conquer and to achieve and to possess. Because for the children of Israel, God had already told them that I'm giving you this land, but you need to follow my instructions. And if you follow my instructions, I'll make sure that everything that I have for you you will have. So on this morning, I want to encourage you through this subject matter in the second part of this series of messages from the subject stones for victory. The stones that are to be used here are what I will call stones of remembrance. For the Lord told Joshua to tell the people, take One man from every tribe go back into the Jordan where you've just crossed. And and I want you to take stones and each man from each tribe, grab a stone, pick it up, put it on his shoulder, and come on across This Jordan and when you get to the place where you're going to camp, I want you to set those stones in the place where you're going to camp on the other side of the Jordan. These stones that he's asking of them to utilize are stones for the purpose of remembrance. I don't know about you, but I'm thinking to myself, we're we've just crossed the Jordan and and Jericho is ahead, and Jericho is a mighty fortress. It's a place where we ought to be getting ourselves ready so that we can handle this mighty army of Jericho. But God, in the middle of all of that that's on our mind and all that we're thinking about and worrying about ahead of us, God is is instructing the children of Israel, my plan is to go get some stones. Now one of the things I'm learning about the strange plans of God are In order, and they're in small segments that we can comprehend. They're broken down into, if I can say, small pieces So that each piece builds on the next. Because if God had laid out the whole strange plan in front of them, they probably would be still wandering in the wilderness. If God had given you the whole plan for your life to get you to where you are right now, you probably would have never left wherever you were at the beginning. He had to give us bite-sized pieces. But every one of his plans seemed to be odd. They seemed to be just a little bit awkward. But nevertheless, they all are working together for the accomplishment of a goal that God has before us. Verse three, he says And command them saying, Take for yourselves twelve stones from here, out of the midst of the Jordan, from the place where the priest's feet stood firm. And you shall carry them with you. Leave them in the lodging place where you lodge tonight. Joshua called everybody together and said, This is the plan. Here's what God has given and laid out as the plan. And he he says, Now take something with you. You and I have crossed some Jordan rivers, but we didn't always take something with us from that Jordan. As a matter of fact, sometimes we don't even want nothing from that Jordan. But no, the Lord says, what I need you to do is as you're passing through this Jordan experience, pick up something. What he instructs them to pick up are these stones, these large boulders, these these rocks. And so what I would suggest for us, we need to pick up something. The the stones are inanimate objects. That cannot speak for themselves. And that's why I love the idea that he says, take stones and not people. See some of us go through some Jordan River experiences and we want to take people with us to the other side. God didn't say go back and get no people. People will mess up your promised land experience. No, you go back and get some inanimate objects. Go get an old bloody t-shirt from when you was in the fight when you was in the middle of the Jordan. Go get some documents that signify I made it through this Jordan Bring it with you to the other side and and set it up on the promised land side. What in the world do I want to do that for? I'm glad you asked. This is right here in Texas. He says, verse 6, that they may be a sign among you. When your children ask in the time to come, saying, What do these stones mean to you? These stones, they're reminders for your children who will come after you, who need to know how you got to where you are. See, some of your children don't know you've been through some struggles. And we try to shield them and we try to protect them Them because we think it's gonna hurt them, but I'm trying to help you to understand if you carry the stone across, it serves as a sign to them that I didn't get here on my own No, I went through some hell to get where I am. I didn't just pop out of high school and walk into this six-bedroom house with a three-car garage. No And so these serve as indicators and markers for your children when they come up behind you. But watch this: it also serves as a reminder and as a marker for you. Because the text says when your children ask, the question your children are asked, what do these stones mean to you? These stones ought to say to you that God will do what he said he's going to do. It ought to remind us that there's nothing impossible with our God. I need to know this for future victories. So when I get across the Jordan and I walk up on Jericho, who has impenetrable walls, it's proof to you that God is for you. And secondly, when we picked picked up in chapter five, uh first of all, when the Canaanites and all the Its on the other side heard that God had moved on behalf of Israel and and caused the river, the Jordan River, to open up and they walked across on dry land. They lost their heart. They lost their spirit. They their heart melted, as the scripture says, within them. And so they're scared. That's another way of saying they're scared. And at that time, then the Lord says to Joshua, make flint knives for yourself. And circumcise the sons of Israel. So the first stone was stones of remembrance. The second stone is stones of removal. Flint is a stone. God says. Joshua take f the stone, shape it into a knife, use that flint stone. Now, just for historical reasons, up till now, those who were born in the wilderness are those who cross over. Only Joshua and Caleb remained of all the others that were in the rip wilderness. And so they had not been circumcised as of yet And so the circumcision represented a covenant relationship. It was the Abrahamic covenant with God. And so the circumcision was part of that Abrahamic covenant. It was It was the the a commitment between Israel and God. Of course, Israel being separated unto God and then indicated their separation unto God, but also their committed loyalties And so he says to them, Take these flint knives, cut off the foreskins of the men of Israel a second time, I believe the scripture says, not that The people that were already circumcised were getting circumcised again, but no, those who have never been circumcised in the same way that Moses circumcised the men. In the beginning, I want you, Joshua, to do it to this new generation. I want you to circumcise them with this stone. This stone is representative of a stone of removal. The text says Take this and cut off the foreskins that you may roll away the reproach of Egypt that's on you. Israel had been in Egypt and Egypt had vexed them, had put the weight and the burden of slavery on them, the weight and the burden. of of misery on them. They have been burdened down. They have been weakened. They have been stressed out from Egypt. And they had also taken on some of the adopted uh attitudes and mentalities of Egypt and so this circumcision this rolling away is representative of removing the weight and the burden and the pressure that was on these children and And to remove from them that they might be separated from Egypt and all of its wickedness and all of its false gods, but you might be separated. Covenantally, as I have with Abraham, so with Isaac and Jacob, and so I want to reconnect this covenant relationship with you. And so uh Joshua circumcised the men again All of us need the second stone for victory because we have been in some situations of bondage We've been in some slaveries. We've been in some manipulations and under some controls of some folk that did not mean us well. been in bondage to people who have heaped their weight of wickedness on us. And we're carrying around some weight that's not ours We've got some past situations that we haven't gotten over yet. And even though the person who did it to us has been dead and gone for 20 years. Still on us. And even though we've been walking around this wilderness for all this time, we haven't separated ourselves from what that school teacher told us when we were five years old. And we're still believing what that What that person heaped on us and it has messed us up even to this very point. And God is saying it's time for you. To take the flint stone, cut that old stuff off and let it roll away. It's been holding on to you too long here. And can I say this? There's a lot of folk that are in that place even this morning. Oh yeah, you made it through and you you went through college and and all that and you got your degrees and you went and got a good job and and you making the money and all that stuff looks good and it feels good but you still in bondage You're still a slave to something that happened to you, or somebody who did something to you, or some circumstance of bondage or or wickedness that was heaped on you, as it was with the Israelite. And the Lord says, it's time to cut it away. Look at chapter 5, verse 9. It says, The Lord said to Joshua, this day I have rolled away. Joshua goes through, he circumcises all the men. And this is also strange that you have just crossed the Jordan River and you are standing about a couple of miles away from Jericho, who has this great strong army, and you're gonna take this time to cut up the men. That's a strange plan. God, why don't we get circumcised on the other side of the joint and let that joint heal up on that side? Then you open it up. Then we would have been okay. We would have marched on over, we'd have been ready to fight just in case somebody something popped off on the other side We be ready, but God says no, that's not how I want to do it. I need you to physically leave the wilderness to get you Over to the promised land so that you can set up some stones of remembrance. And once you've done that, then I can roll away the reproach of Egypt off of you on this side. That's the plan of God. And so if they don't let me make it personal. I've got to roll away the past. If I don't roll away the reproach, it'll Keep me from enjoying the joy of blessing that God is bringing my way. The last stone, and I'm out of your way, is the stone of reverence. In Joshua chapter 5, at the end of that particular passage, after all of the circumcision and everything is taking place, and the men are healing up. It came to pass that Joshua went to check out Jericho. He lifted up his eyes and he looked, and behold, a man stood opposite him with his sword drawn in his hand. And Joshua went to him and said, Are you for us or are you for our adversaries? Because if you're on Israel's side, you ain't got no business being here. Because you should be back at camp. You have you gotta follow instructions. But if you're on the enemy side, I got something for you. But I need to know whose side are you on? Are you on my side? Are you on Israel's side? Or are you on the opposite side? What Joshua did not know Is that he had just walked up on the third stone for victory? The Lord speaks to Joshua and says, Joshua, I'm not Coming to join you on your side with your plans, nor have I come to join your adversaries and their plans. No, I have come to execute the plan of God Almighty. I've come to lead an invisible, innumerable army that belongs to God. Because in essence, what the angel of the Lord was saying to Joshua is, Joshua, this battle ain't yours. Joshua, I'm coming to win the battle. I'm coming with my own army to take care of everything that's yet ahead of you. The Lord doesn't need to join you in your plan, and He's not working against you with your enemy on their plan. No, the Lord comes to deliver you from the mess that you've been in so that the victory can be yours. What does Joshua do? Joshua falls down on his face. He begins to reverence and to worship God. He asks this stone, stone, what should your servant do? What do you have to say to me? What do you want to tell me? And the stone says, take your shoes off, Joshua. For the very ground that you're standing on is holy ground And I know this is kind of hard for us to comprehend, but this this angel of the Lord is the pre-incarnate Christ. It is God manifested in angelic form. And Joshua rose up on him and Joshua wants to know, what do you have to say to me? And the Lord cuts to the chase. He says, take your shoes off. Joshua, because this stone is on the ground that you're on, this stone has made the very ground holy. So Joshua, take your shoes off. And you imagine for a moment that you've come up on this angel and you don't you don't you don't understand what's going on, and all of a sudden you realize this is God. And I know what you're saying, you say, Pastor, well, why'd you say it's the third stone? I'm glad you asked. Because this angel of the Lord that Joshua has run into, this commander of the Lord's army that Joshua has run into, he says of himself, I am That one who is spoken of in Psalm 18 as the rock and fortress and deliverer. I am the rock of ages. I'm the stone that the builders rejected. I'm the chief cornerstone of Joshua. I'm the stone you can stand on. Joshua, you can can depend on me. I am the I am. I am the one who was before there was a was. I am the one who will be when all all the will-be's will be over. I'm the stone, I'm the rock of Jebro. I'm the God that does not change. I am the immutable one. I'm the stone that you could depend on, Joshua. And so I'm that stone. I'm the one that controls the judgment. Can't nobody else judge you but me. I'm the one that sits on the throne in glory. I'm the one that's making intercession for you. I'm praying about your situation right now. I'm the stone. Who has all knowledge? I'm the one you can always find. You don't have to look for me. I'm always There. I'm a stone when you get lonely. I'm a stone you can hold on to. I'm a stone that won't let you fall. I'm the third stone In your arsenal, for I'm the stone in whom there is victory, because there's victory in Jesus. And so you need this third stone. This stone Took on all your sin. Let his creation whip him and beat him. They ripped the flesh off of his body I'm the stone that they nailed up to a cross, whom they put the thorn in my head. I'm the stone, the living stone that gave up my own life So that this stone could go to the grave. I'm the healing God. I'm the delivering God. I'm the stone that got upon the Ferris day with all power in my hand. I'm the stone that ascended up to glory and I'm the stone that's coming back real soon. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry. of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he said Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.