Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. where we minister in the spirit of excellence under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buchus Sterling the Third Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Ephesians. Uh Ephesians chapter two and chapter three. Ephesians chapter two, uh I'll begin here, verse number one. It says, And he and you he made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sin. sins. Let me skip down a little bit. Verse 4. But God who is rich in mercy because of his great love with which he loved us. Even when we were dead in trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace, you have been saved Verse 10. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk In them. Verse 19. Now, therefore, you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints. And members of the household of God, having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone, in whom the whole building being fitted together grows into a holy temple in the Lord. in whom you also are being built together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit Chapter 3, verse 1, picks up and says, For this reason I, Paul, prisoner of Christ Jesus, for you Gentiles, if indeed You have heard of the dispensation of grace of God, which is given to me, how that revelation he made known to me the mystery, as I have briefly written already, verse six, that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. Of which I became a minister according to the gift of grace of God given to me by the effective working of his power. Now let me skip over to verse fourteen. This is the meat of where we want to be. For this reason, I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, from whom the whole body in heaven and earth is named. That he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might through his spirit In the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the with And the length and the depth and the height, to know the love of Christ, which passes knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. Now to him who is able to do exceedingly, abundantly above all that you ask or think, according to the power that works in us. To him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus to all generations forever and ever. Amen. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we love you. We praise you. We thank you for your your spirit. We know that we have sat in your presence and been here. Uh, worshiping you and raising hands and giving glory to your name. And we're thankful for your presence, Lord, being here on this morning for all of the opportunities we've had to glorify you and to worship you. Thank you, God But now, Lord, as I stand to declare your word, I pray that your spirit would show up in an extraordinary way. God, that if there's anybody who doesn't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, that today would be the day They would give their heart and their life to you. Father, that any that have drifted in fellowship might be drawn back by the power of your Holy Spirit unto a relationship that is sweet, that is strong. That is nurtured day by day. Father, draw men, women, boys, and girls to yourself. You said, if I be lifted up from the earth, I'll draw. And so, God, on this morning, we're calling on you to draw Draw the unsaved, draw the drifter, God, that fellowship might be renewed and restored. Father, it's my prayer on this morning in the power of God that you would, Lord, speak a word in the midst of our preaching time. That if someone came in discouraged, they would leave encouraged. God, I pray that you would edify this body, but above and beyond all other things that transpire in this place. It is my fervent prayer, God, that you would get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. So here I stand As a vessel, Lord God, in your hand. Use me, God, strengthen me. Allow me clarity of thought and speech that I might be used for your honor and your glory on today. God, and when it's all said and done, I will give you all the glory. That is due unto your name. For you alone are worthy of it all. In Jesus' name. Amen and amen. Praise the Lord. As we delve into our text on this morning, the Apostle Paul, who is the apostle to the Gentiles, he writes this letter, epistle, if you will, from prison. This is the first of his prison epistles. He is in prison in Rome while he's writing to the saints who are in Ephesus and the faithful in Christ Jesus And as he writes this letter to them, uh he writes with varying uh portions, if you will, of emphasis that he has. And as we break the letter or the book apart, what we'll find is that he addresses the believers standing in grace. In other words, the place we stand in Christ Jesus. The fact that we are children of God and rescued from hell and destruction is because of God's grace. And so he lays that out, and you heard even some of it as I was reading earlier, the disposition that we're in is as of grace, and so we are saved by grace. We're standing by grace. We are in position by grace. And even as a church, it is by the grace of God, not the excellence of men, because there has been plenty of less than excellence in The 54 years. And yet God, through his amazing grace, has continued to strengthen us and to bless us and to sustain us. And so the book itself uh talks about the believers standing in grace, the believers walk. And service. He would lay out for us in this letter of Ephesians how the believer ought to walk and how the believer ought to serve. And then thirdly, the believer's warfare. He reminds us that we're not wrestling against flesh and blood. We're not fighting each other. But rather we're wrestling against spiritual wickedness in high places. Lord help us here. And if you don't get that part of ministry, you miss the big old part of ministry. Sometimes I think folk get caught up in fighting each other. And not realizing it ain't your brother, it ain't your sister. It's the spirit of the enemy that's doing the warfare that we really are in warfare with. And we can't win this warfare with carnal weapons. Amen. I know you want to pick up a bat and hit somebody. Amen But you can't win this they can't win this warfare with that. This is a spiritual warfare. We can win on our knees. Amen, somebody. And we can win in the power of the Holy Spirit. that has saved us and sanctified us, set us apart for a work of God. In this first segment, if you will, of the uh believers standing here's where we find ourselves in the text uh of ephesians where uh after a uh highly uh uh powerful uh movement of the Holy Spirit uh to do a work on our behalf to make us alive to God. First of all, we were dead In trespasses and sin, we had no spiritual connection to God, but the Holy Spirit is the agent of God That made us alive. If you got the old King James Version, it'll say He quickens you. He made you alive. You were you were dead. But it was it was the Holy Spirit that resuscitated us. Amen. Gave us CPR and resuscitated us that we are now alive to God. And not only did He give us and extend grace in us in that matter and made us alive uh to God. But yet it is it is he who set us aside. Amen. He set us aside for the work that God has. Now let me help you understand God doesn't need us for the work. He he chooses to use us, amen, in the work. But God can do it all by himself. Amen, somebody. If he can stand on nothing and step out of nowhere and speak everything into existence, don't you dare get it twisted to think that God needs you. And I know he don't need me, but he chose to use us. Amen. By grace we be being used. By the favor of God. And so we watched and witnessed that as Paul lays that out in the earlier verses, that we've been set aside for this great work by the Holy Spirit. And He's brought us near Who were once far, and and specifically again Paul being the apostle to the Gentiles, speaking to the Gentile, to let the Gentile know we were once distant from God If you read through the Old Testament, you don't hear a whole lot of conversation about God wanting to have interaction with the Gentile. Everything is focused on the Jewish nation. Amen. But yet here, by the time we get to this new dispensation, Christ has been crucified, buried, raised again, ascended to glory, sitting on the right hand of God Paul the apostle to the Gentile wants you to know you were once far off. You were separated by a wall, but God Through the power of the Holy Ghost has broken down the middle ground. Lord help me, Jesus. And caused us to be able to be Able to come into the presence of God and be adopted into the family of God, not to become Jews, but to become a new generation. Amen. Somebody that we are now all brothers and sisters in a body called Christ. I wish we had some more Bible readers in the house this morning because that ought to get you. That ought to get you excited and enthusiastic because if you understood and knew that Hey, I don't have no rights to be in the family of God. I got no privileges to be in the family of God. But God, by his grace, said, I'm going to invite you in anyway. Amen. And though I was once separated and on the outside, he says, Look, I'm gonna break down all the walls of separation. So now there's no longer Jew and Gentile, there's no longer bond and free. But I'm bringing you all together collectively as a body. of believers. Amen. And so the the Holy Spirit has worked that work and done that ministry and performed that on our behalf and he's brought us near unto him. And as as unbelievers and unbelieving Gentiles, we've we've been able to come into this family and and watch this and become joint heirs. Lord have mercy. Y'all miss y'all shouting point right there. Everybody sitting around waiting to hit the lottery. You already hit the lottery. Amen. When you became a joint heir with Christ Amen. Do you not understand? Do you not realize that our father owns everything? Amen. And when I became an heir of the kingdom of God, I became an heir of everything my father owns. Amen somebody. I know that's not your kind of preaching, but I think if you get theologically sound, you'd understand you've got you've got a reason to shout every morning. Amen. Whenever you say our Father, and you realize that's your Father, and you're an heir of the Father, oh man, that's shouting points right there. So He's made us to be joint heirs with Christ Jesus. And so we've been brought to this place. We've been adopted into this family. We've been blessed in this favor and in this grace of God. And all of it not because of our excellence, not because we did anything right, but because he loved us so much. Amen. And he brought us into this family as joint heirs. And he he turns, Paul, after laying all that out for us, he turns then to say uh to us and and to those from his imprisonment and his position of imprisonment and which it's always phenomenal to me that Paul has such care for the the the gentile and such care for the people of God, though he himself is enduring such a horrific scenario. He's in prison, but he writes to say to the believer, if you're reading this letter The Holy Spirit continues to work. Are y'all still here with me? So, in other words, even though the Holy Spirit has done all that, he's adopted you into the family. He's baptized you into this body of believers. He's uh broken down middle ground and done all that. That's not the end. He's still at work. So I want to talk to us on this morning for just a season from the subject matter. The spirit is still working. I know that you probably like myself as we watch around us and we see all of the chaos And the confusion and the crime that's happening, the conflicts that are going on all around us And it's showing up everywhere. It seems like everywhere you look, there's chaos and confusion and crime and conflict. This is everywhere And with the the look of the church of the United States, I'll say specifically, the church in the United States, if you look at what's happening in the church of the United States Uh the churches are closing at rapid numbers. Matter of fact, I was having a conversation just this past week uh with a friend of mine's, and he was telling me how they were just the churches were just turning keys in. And there's buildings being left empty in the United States as people are walking away from Christ. Amen. Amen. And if you look at that and you realize that things are changing, and not only Are they closing but they're declining? Uh the United States is not a growing Christian nation. It's a declining Christian nation. But here's the good news, God didn't uh give the United States any priority on Christianity Help me somebody. While it's declining here, there are other places in the world where it's exploding. Where people are excited to hear that Jesus died for me. And that he's coming again to save me and rescue me and take me home to glory. So there's still the gospel hadn't stopped, and the power of God and the manifestation of God hadn't stopped because it's dragging here in the United States. Just my opinion, I think we didn't got too high on ourselves. Amen. So we got to the place where we don't think we need God no more Matter of fact, we got more appointments on our schedules for other stuff that concern us than we have on our schedule that are I'm sorry, let me leave y'all. I'm gonna leave y'all alone and just leave that alone. Just As we watch what's happening around us, the declines of the churches and the people who have become lethargic and lazy. Self-lovers, self-consumed, self-isolated. Our world is seems like it's being flipped upside down. And if we were to examine all of these characteristics, we would probably come to some pre uh predetermined uh End or predetermined analysis that perhaps the Holy Spirit has packed up his bags and he's done doing what he was gonna do His ministry of restraining evil in the world, he must have quit his job. Just like everybody else, he he decided he wanted to work from home too. We might come to some conclusion like that, but I I want to help us understand as Paul lays out in this text that the Holy Spirit is still working. Lord help me Jesus. Ah. As Paul lays this out in the text, he says, not only is the Holy Spirit still working, but he says, I'm also praying for you. And the Holy Spirit is still working so that you may be empowered to do the work of God. It's right here in the text. I'm going to walk you through. In verse number 14, chapter 3, verse 14, he says, For this reason I bow my knees to the Father, our Lord, uh Jesus Christ, from whom the whole body in heaven and earth is named, that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened. With might through his spirit in the inner man, the Holy Spirit is working that he might empower us. to be strong to accomplish what still needs to be accomplished. Catherine, we've we've been doing the ministry, we've been working uh in this vineyard and and as a as a branch of Zion. We've been doing it for fifty four years, but the work ain't finished yet. And as we are working in the vineyard, the God understands, He realizes that I I needed to leave my Holy Spirit here on the earth So that the body of Christ could be empowered to do the work of the ministry because we can't do the work of the ministry without the empowerment of the Holy Spirit. Are y'all here with me? And so he's left his Holy Spirit here, and the Holy Spirit is still working to empower us to build a kingdom for God. And in order to do so, as the text lays out here in verse 16, he says that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory. To be strengthened. Listen to that. The richness of the glory of God is not just money. The richness of the glory of God is to strengthen us with the dynamite power of God to accomplish the ministry of God, to build a kingdom for God. Lord, help me, Jesus. And so he says, Look, I'm praying also along with the purpose of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is still working so that you can be empowered, so so that you can have strength, so that you can be stronger. And if I can say it this way, you don't need Jim's strength, you need him strength. This strength he's talking about is not the strength that you would gain by bench pressing or Or cardio. No, no. He we don't need that kind of strength because the assignment that's in front of us of building the kingdom of God is going to require some spiritual strength, not physical strength. And so um it's not gonna come by you becoming physically strong. No, we need him strength, we need some spirit of God strength to be able to accomplish spirit of God building. Lord help me, Jesus. We we can't do it without him. And so the Holy Spirit is working. I need to say that. It's at work in order to empower you to do The ministry that needs to be done. I got all kinds of thoughts running through my mind. I hear maybe it's you thinking out loud and I can hear you. Because I hear some people saying, well, Pastor, I'm so glad that we have people doing this and people doing that. But but but I can't do that. Let me help you with this one I'm standing up here Sunday after Sunday and I can't do it either. Lord help me, God. I'm I I don't preach out of a natural ability to preach. This ain't natural for me. This is the Holy Spirit. That has empowered me to stand here and to declare his word in front of you. So so if if you if you if you're worried about not being able to do it, that's exactly where he wants you to be. Make Give testimony and give give credence to the idea. And the reality of it is I can't do it, but I know a God. Who will empower you to do what he wants done. And you know why God does it that way? So that you can't take any credit for what gets accomplished People that know how we are, we naturally we see people do things like, oh, Pastor, you great, you're doing wonderful, and and the mother, what an awesome message. And I'm thinking that wasn't even me. That was God. And I'm keenly aware of that. And when I tell people, I've been doing this for 38 years, I've been preaching for 38 years. And every time I get up to preach, I am nervous. Because I have no idea what the Holy Spirit's gonna do, but I'm trusting him. Because what I do is not because of me, it's because he's empowered me To preach his word. I'm trying to help somebody here. I know you've written off this ministry and this thing and that thing, but the Holy Spirit is still working to empower us so that we can build a kingdom for God. Y'all still here with me? He's empowering us. He's empowering us to build a kingdom for us, for himself, and he knows you need his strength to do it. And Paul says the Holy Spirit is still working to empower you, to strengthen you by the riches of his glory, to strengthen you with might. Through his spirit in the inner man, that the inner man might obtain the strength that he needs Because in order for us to keep building this kingdom, in order for us to keep doing the work that we're doing, in order for Ketterin to keep going on doing ministry and being successful and impacting its It's it's Jerusalem, it's Judea, it's Samaria and the uttermost parts of the world. It's going to take inner strength. It's going to take strength beyond what we can muster up Ourselves is going to take a lot of inner strength, and so the Holy Spirit is as work, it's still working to give us the inner strength that we need, even as a church, to keep on building God's kingdom Now, just in case you you've removed and excused yourself from that whole church idea, if you are a child of God, the Holy Spirit is working in you to accomplish the building of God's kingdom. And he's he's strengthening your inner man because watch this. What God knows is that the journey that's ahead of us is a tough journey. And it's a journey that you can't finish by yourself. It's a journey that's going to require inner man strength. Inner man strength that says, I know it looks this way. But I'm still going that way. I know it looks like it's not going to happen, but I'm believing God that it's going to happen. And in your inner strength, you don't give up. You don't throw in the towel. But listen, along this 54-year journey, there's been a whole lot of people who have thrown the towel in. They've given up. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church. Under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center. Located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-950. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. He says Down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations, you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcast.