Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message Proverbs chapter eleven, beginning at verse one, God's word reads as follows dishonored scales are an abomination to the Lord. But a just weight is his delight. When pride comes, then comes shame. But with the humble is wisdom. The integrity of the upright will guide them But the perversity of the unfaithful will destroy them. Riches do not profit in the day of wrath But righteousness delivers from death. The righteousness of the blameless will direct his way aright, but the wicked will fall by his own wickedness. If you skip down to verse 24, the word reads, There is one who scatters, yet increases more. And there is one who withholds more than is right, but it leads to poverty. The generous soul will be made rich, and he who waters will also be watered himself. The people will curse him who withholds grain, but blessings will be on the head of him who sells it. Lord help us. Verse 27: He who earnestly seeks good finds favor, but trouble will come to him who seeks evil. He who trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous will flourish like foliage. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we bless you for the word of God. We thank you for the challenge in front of us that you, Lord, might speak to our hearts in an extraordinary way. I pray this morning that you will remove every distraction That you would clear my head, my mind, from all of the concerns and all the worries and all the issues of this week, and even those of this morning, that my mind might be clear. To articulate your word and your message to your people. Father, remove the barriers that may be upon our heart, that might hinder us from hearing from you, that we might truly be able to pursue righteous living. I pray this morning, Lord, that the power of your Holy Spirit will move in such a way that if there's anybody who does not have a personal, intimate relationship with you. That today would be the day that they would surrender their heart to you. I pray for those who are drifting in fellowship who've walked away who perhaps have been angry or disgruntled or perhaps they were mistreated and they've walked away from you, God, I pray that today would be the day that they'd be reconciled to you. By the power of your Holy Spirit, God accomplish what you do best. Let your will be done. Let your way be accomplished in all that we do and all that we say in this place. I need you, Lord. I need your strength. I need your power that That my mouth might make the words right, that they might penetrate the hearts of your people, that they might go beyond the barriers and the walls and the obstacles. that they placed in front of them to keep them from hearing from you. Lord, I need you in the strength of my mortal body to be able to accomplish your will. So use me, Lord And when it is all said and done, we will give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. For you alone are worthy of it all. In Jesus' name. Amen. And amen. Praise the Lord. Catherine, we've been on a journey from the beginning of the year preaching through a series of messages entitled Pursuing Righteous Living. Pursuing righteous living. We started our journey in uh Romans chapter ten, I believe it was, and we spoke there from the beginning uh of this series of messages that we are to begin By becoming righteous, we cannot pursue righteous living until we first become righteous. Romans chapter ten. We move from there in part two of the series. Once we become righteous, we Talk there in Ephesians chapter four from the idea of walking brand new. How do I walk brand new in this new righteousness that I have? And we understand there that it is a requirement and expectation an obligation of us to take off the old man and put on the new man that we might walk brand new. In Romans chapter 7, we talked about the struggle From within, or the struggle that is within. And we understand that even though we are righteous and born again, and we've got this brand new spirit of God living in us, we still have an old man that we gotta wrestle with There's still a desire in the flesh to do that which is not pleasing to God. We live with it every day. We struggle with it every day. And so we walked you through that to help us to understand in the pursuit of righteous living, there is a struggle. Going on within. The last time we were together, we were in Matthew chapter 6 and Psalm 84, and there we spoke from the idea of winning the warfare of worry. For in the process of pursuing righteous living, guess what happens? Life happens, worries come up, troubles come, trials come. But if we're going to overcome that, if we are the righteousness of God, we ought to be able to trust God and we win the warfare by turning it over to Him. I want to talk here this morning on this idea. Of lessons on righteous giving for righteous living. Lessons, because that's what Proverbs is going to give us. It's going to give us lessons on righteous giving for righteous living. If I'm going to live righteously, if I'm going to pursue righteous living, I also need to get this righteous giving in order. Can I say it this way? I think I think there's there's a lot of good things we can do, but if I'm stealing from God who gives me everything. Doesn't that kind of negate all my good deeds? If you come to my house and you cut my grass, cut my bushes, do all that. And then you steal my lawnmower. That kind of negates the good that you did. I mean you shouldn't be expecting me to pat you on the back and say, oh my, wonderful job, if you done stole my lawnmower. And the gas. So I'm just trying to make this real plain. So the stewardship of that which is holy unto God is so important to get that part right. If I'm going to live righteously, I have to be a good steward. Y'all good? Here's how he lays it out. The first movement that I want to look at is the foundation of righteous giving. The foundation of righteous giving is in the first five verses here of Proverbs chapter 11. He starts off by saying this, and this is a very powerful, powerful statement. Dishonest scales Are an abomination to the Lord. That sink in. Dishonest scales are an abomination to the Lord. He this is this is all foundational. This is of righteous giving. He starts with that because and it's so heavy, I'm trying to see how to break it up for you. But dishonest scales, the mishandling, the The deceitful handling, the trickery, the sleight of hand, uh and to help you understand this whole idea of scales is the way in which you would weigh out and measure worth of things and and so it would be the value of the price and so what Typically what happened was those that were doing the weighing, they would weigh it out to see if the financial amount balanced out. But but what God says here is when you're not handling the finances in a balanced way and you're cheating and you're tricking and you're mishandling that he says it is an abomination To God. That's pretty heavy. The the word abomination means a detestable act in the presence of God. This is pretty it's pretty heavy. But it's foundational to understanding these lessons that he's giving here on righteous giving. I need to understand if I'm going to exercise righteous giving, I need to understand that to be dishonest in my handling and my stewardship of my finances is a detestable and an abomination to the Lord. But again, compare and contrast, just weight is his delight. God delights when I handle his financials properly. When I handle the stewardship properly, when the weights are proper, when I when I'm not cheating people, when I'm not tricking people. Now I know what you're thinking. You thinking I'm just dealing with and the whole issue is just with your gifts to the church because we already know there's some issues there. But this is how we deal with each other too. Because sometimes we cheat other people. Amen. Somebody comes to do work for you and you know the job is worth $10,000. And then they give you a discount of 5,000 and you say, can you take two? Come on. I mean, is not the servant worthy of the hire? They gotta eat two Y'all catching this? So he says, look, this honest weight is an abomination to God, but just weights are the delight of God Being fair and giving what is right, giving what is pleasing to God, giving what is designated, which is honorable to God, that gives God great pleasure. So I can please God in my giving if I handle my finances right. Getting kinda quiet. I know it was right after Christmas. I know it's Savvy, savvy. So watch this. So in the management of our finances, we have to do that well. There's a warning that comes here as it relates to the warning of the management of our finances is in verse number two. It says, But when pride comes Then comes shame. So when we get prideful in this whole thing, then that's going to bring on shame. But with the humble is wisdom. So in our humility, Because this this is the thing that that really messes us up with money, is money brings on pride. And partly because money gives you status. Or perceived status. You ever rode by an apartment complex and you saw Mercedes S f 550s outside? Bentley's park in the apartment complex $75,000 Trucks, SUVs parked in an apartment complex. Y'all ever seen that? And you wonder who is paying that kind of money for a car to sit in that parking lot? Oh maybe I maybe I'm the only one that thinks like that. I'm thinking if I have a eighty thousand dollar car, I'm not parking it in the parking lot of an apartment complex. I mean I'm not gonna I'm not I might come visit you there but it I'm not It's not gonna stay I'm not gonna live here. Maybe I'm the only one. If I can afford that kind of money, a matter of fact, I probably would rather live in an eighty thousand dollar car than I'm sorry So my point there was the appearance, pride. They might not be able to even gonna afford the $80,000 car, but this it's the appearance. That I got it going on. And so sometimes when we have money, the first thing we want to do is appear like we have money. I'm now preaching. And sometimes when we don't even have money, we want to appear like we have money. And then we want to spiritualize it. And then we talk about, well, God says speak those things that are not as though they are. He says speak them. He ain't say charge them. Are y'all still here with me? I mean, you nah, let me pride is a problem here in verse 2. It says, so when pride comes, then comes shame, because Pride caused you to overextend yourself, and then when you're in debt and they're putting you out of the apartment with your $80,000 car parked in the parking lot, then you're shame. But with humility, there's wisdom. Be humble. With what God entrusts with you. Humility says, I realize this is not mine anyway. This is the Lord's. And with humility, there's wisdom. Here's how he helps us here. He says, look, he says, verse number three, the integrity of the upright will guide them. For those who are righteous in their giving, righteous in their living, your righteous integrity will guide you. In the way that you handle and manage the resources, the things that you have to steward, righteousness will lead you, it'll give you guidance, it'll give you that wisdom of humility, the integrity. of the upright. The righteous have an integrity that is in line with God. And when my integrity is in line with God, I'll be led to manage and handle my resources properly. Y'all still hear But our perversity and our wickedness will do just the opposite. But perversity of the wicked, the unfaithful, it'll destroy them. So either I'm going to be guided by My righteous integrity, or I'm going to be destroyed by my perversity and my unfaithfulness of managing and handling my resources. Verse 4 says, Riches. Do not profit in the day of wrath. And the end when we have to give account for everything we've done The wealth that you've accomplished and the things you've accumulated, they won't help you. Because when you stand before the Lord, he's not going to say, how much money do you have in your bank account? How many suits do you have? How many shoes? How many cars? He not gonna actually nothing about none of that. He don't care that you got the finest weave in town. He don't care. None of that stuff matters. In the end, when we stand before the Lord, our riches, our wealth have no benefit to us. But rather, verse 4 says, ultimately, what it does, it'll bring us death. But the righteousness delivers us from death. So I have a choice. I could either acquire the riches or I acquire the righteousness. So what do I want? Riches are going to take me to death, but righteousness will deliver me from death. Because in the end, when I stand before God, if I've been declared righteous by the blood of the Lamb, I'll be delivered from the death that is to come But if I stand before God with all my riches and I spent my life trying to acquire riches and I didn't get righteousness, I wasted my life away. Because listen, our riches can't pay for salvation I heard there's a card now that you can get for a million dollars to get citizenship in the United States. I think that they just gave the rapper one. A million dollars and a gold card will not get you in heaven. You can't pay your way in. I don't care how much money you have, I don't care how many apartments you own, I don't care how many stores, I don't care how many businesses, I don't care if you are AI yourself. It will not get you into heaven. I need us to let that sink in because listen, a lot of our life is spent chasing what will not profit us. That's why this year's theme, the pursuit of righteous living, is so important. Because if I spend my life chasing wealth And chasing riches and chasing status, and I stand before God, and He says, You are recondemed and cast into the lake of fire. What good was my life The very thing that I was a steward over, my breath from day to day. He still watched this. I'm just a steward over this life. I've got to give accountable for how I lived it And if I get to the end and I spend it all chasing after riches, and I'm cast into the lake of fire because I don't have righteousness, I've wasted my life. And can I just be honest? Some of us we need to examine our life What are we investing in? What are we spending our energy on? What is the weight that we're chasing? Are we chasing the righteousness of God? Or are we chasing the riches of the world? Because the riches of the world is just gonna bring you death, more problems, more trouble. And then when you think you're rich, you're gonna see somebody richer and you're gonna want that Righteousness is what we ought to pursue. These are foundations. And there's lessons on righteous giving for righteous living. These are just the foundations of righteous giving. that he lays out. I think he does an excellent job in those first four or five verses helping us to see that. For the righteousness of the blameless will direct his way aright, but the wicked will fall by his own wickedness. That's why righteousness is so important to us. Living righteously, pursuing righteous living. It's going to sustain us, it's going to hold us. He says here in verse, I'm going to move you over to verse 24. Because after looking at this foundation of righteous living, The next movement is the fruit of righteous giving. So we have the foundation of righteous giving. Now there's the fruit of righteous giving. In verse 24 through 26 picks this up. It says now, first of all, he says There is one who scatters yet increases more, and there is one who withholds more than is right, but it leads to poverty. And so, again, the compare and the contrast. There's one who scatters in that way, in other words, he gives liberally. He has an open hand, he's sharing, he has no problem paying his tithes and offering. Y'all do know those are two different things. Y'all do know that, right? Y'all been in the restaurant, right? And the waitress, they they leave you a bill first. And then at the end of the bill, they ask for the tip or the gratuity. Well, the tip or the gratuity is the offering. The tithe is the bill I hope you've never been to a restaurant and you only paid the tip and walked out. Because you have probably have a criminal record because they will arrest you. That's called stealing. Now if they'll arrest you from stealing from a restaurant, what what is this That's happening when you're stealing from God. I ain't got time for that one. Y'all uh let that one settle. One scatters, he gives liberally, and yet, though he gives more, he gains more. He increases more. It's given back to him according to the scripture. When he gives, is given unto you. How? Press down Shaken together and run it over. God is a God of his word. Give unto the Lord, He'll give it back to you. Press down, shaken together, running over. You've got an open hand to give, God gives you more. You got a closed hand. Nothing leaving out, but ain't nothing coming in either. Y'all still here? God is not looking for reservoirs. He's looking for funnels. He's looking for places he can move resources through. Not Moving resources too. Some of us as God move resources our way, we just gathering it and gathering and gathering it, and ain't nobody benefiting from it but you and your bank account God is not looking for that. He's looking for people. He's looking for servants. He's looking for stewards that he can move resources through. And when he moves resources through you, listen to this. There's enough residue in the funnel left over. So you can have way more than enough for yourself. And watch this. And the more you move it through, the more God moves it to you. My God. Old song says the more you give The more he gives to you, just keep on giving because it's really true that you can't beat God's giving no matter how you try But if you keep moving it, it'll keep coming. Y'all still hear? People who are generous never go broke. Think about that. But there is a comparison and a contrast here. He says there is one who scatters yet increases more Here's the contrast. And there's one who withholds more than is right, but it leads to poverty. There's one who is stingy. There's one who's a tight wad. There's one who robs God of his tithes and his offering. He thinks he can tip God and it's okay. There's one who Thinks he can get ahead by cheating other people. So he withholds what is right. But what does the text say? But it leads to his own poverty. There's a um I don't know if it's a proverb or an idea that For the farmer who eats all the corn that he grows, he's full for that season, but the next season he's poor, because he has no seed to sow. I'll use that to help us understand if you eat all of the corn, you'll never have anything for the next season. But if you sow the corn according to the word of God and be liberal with what you sow, next season you'll have way more. Help me, Jesus, than enough to feed you, your family, your neighborhood, and the community. But we haven't gotten this concept because we think a bird in a hand is better than one in the bush Those are kind of ideologies that we've adopted. So we said, I'm holding on my money. Things getting tight. Well, the economy of the world does not impact the economy of the kingdom of God. Y'all still hear? Just because the Fed lowered the rate or didn't lower the rate has nothing to do with what God can do. Help me, Jesus. Just because the government is cutting jobs doesn't mean God got cutting anything. Help me, Jesus. Just because things are getting tight and things are getting expensive and you're paying more for everything doesn't mean that God won't give you more to pay for the more Because I am a living witness that if you trust in God, He'll take care of all of your needs. He declares in the word, I'll take care of all of your needs. I'm not going to do it according to the economy of this world, but I'll do it according to my Riches in glory. And his riches in glory never ever run low. This is the righteous the fruit of righteous giving is giving liberally, giving uh divinely as God says here, now watch this. He says, so there's one that scatters yet is increases more, and then there's the other who's cheap and stingy and cheating people, and he it's going to lead to poverty. Verse 25 says, the generous soul The generous soul, you already know if that's you or not, will be made rich. Hmm. And he who waters will also be watered himself Here's what I want to talk about as it relates to this. First of all, the degenerous soul is the one who has been hands, who's willing to share and give. I'm gonna add a caveat to this. The generous soul also needs to be generous with wisdom. Okay? Some of y'all are so generous. I just need to I need to tell you this. I just feel obligated to tell you There's some hustlers out here. And they're banking on you being generous. And so what they're doing, while you're working hard earning yours, they sitting back waiting for it. I just need to tell y'all, everybody who has a handout is not surely a knee. For the Bible says the man that doesn't work doesn't eat Praise the Lord! You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in kingdom building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. At the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at three zero one six two seven nine five zero zero. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. Sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-built conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your