Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Kettering Baptist Church is partnering with Larry Rosenthal of Making Money Sense to provide a two-part financial class on Wednesday, March 25th and April 1st At 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. There is no cost to attend. To register and for more information, please visit our website, Kettering Ministries. org. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Matthew chapter two. We'll begin our reading at verse one. The word of the Lord reads as follows Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and have come to worship him. When Herod, the king, heard this, he was troubled and all Jerusalem with him, and when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born, so they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea Just as it is written by the prophet. But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are not the least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come a ruler Who will shepherd my people, Israel? And then Herod, when he had uh secretly called the wise men, determined from them what time the star appeared And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully for the young child, and when you have found him, bring back word to me, that I may come and worship him also. And when they had heard the king they departed, and behold, the star which they had seen in the east went before them until they came and stood over where the young child was. And when they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. And when they had Come into the house they saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and fell down and worshipped him. And then, being divinely warned in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed for their own country another way. Now, when they had dep departed, behold, an angel of the Lord Verse sixteen. Then Herod, when he saw that he was deceived by the wise men, was exceedingly angry, and he sent forth putting the From the wise men. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we bless you and we thank you for the Word of God. We pray, eternal God, that you might open up this scripture to our understanding as well as to our application. Father, we want to hear from you on today. We need a word in this last and evil day. God, we need a word from you. Father, maybe there's someone. under the sound of my voice that doesn't know you as savior of their life. They don't have a personal, intimate relationship with you. They're still on their way to hell and they need deliverance today. I pray for deliverance today, God. I pray for that one who's drifted in their fellowship. They established the relationship but walked away. God, I pray you draw them back to you today that they might renew the broken fellowship. Spirit of the Lord, I pray in the preaching of this gospel That you might edify this body, that you might glorify yourself. In all that is said, God, we want you to get the glory and the honor and the praise. For you alone are worthy of it. And we bless you in advance. So I stand now, God, in need of you, that you might use this vessel of clay to speak clearly. Clarity of thought, clarity of speech. Use me, Lord, in your hand and as a vessel and instrument to accomplish your will in this place. It's in the mighty name of Jesus who is the Christ, I pray and I thank you in advance. Because I believe by faith you'll do it. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter, Satan's desire to destroy the seed. I do need to remind you and I that we are in a spiritual warfare. Ephesians 6 lets us know that our warfare is not against flesh and blood, it's not against the people you see. And who you can touch. It's a spiritual battle that we're in. It's against spiritual wickedness in heavenly places. So we're in this spiritual battle, and for many of you, you have gifts and talents and and you've got supernatural abilities that God has gifted you with and God has given you but the enemy wants to destroy them to keep you from sowing them in the kingdom So if the enemy's desire is to destroy the seed, why does he want to destroy it? I'm glad you asked. He says here in the text, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem and Judea in the days of Herod the king, the whole wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he? Who has been born king of the Jews? Let me start there. I believe he wants to destroy the seed. That is Christ and the seed that is in you because of the divine plan that you possess. You know You ought to know. You need to know, child of God, that as a child of God God has a divine plan for you. I need you to know that as a child of God, He didn't just save you and say, Oh, yeah, I'm so glad you're part of my family. No, He saved you. And he gifted you, and he has plans for you to use you as a seed in his kingdom I know the world has beaten you up, beaten you down. Folk have told you you were nothing. They were told you you were worthless. They've said all kinds of man of things about you. You doubt yourself. You don't measure up measure up to the images that you see on the internet and the things that everybody's posting online. You ain't been to Tahiti like somebody else is pretending like they going. You ain't done all that And you looking at an envying what they doing, but I need you to understand that the plan God has for you is bigger than a vacation. It's bigger than laying around the pool with a bikini on and having a snatched up body. It's bigger than that. God's plan for you is a divine plan. And it's a divine plan that you possess that the enemy wants to destroy. Because if if God can get us operating in our divine plan, we will be a force to be reckoned with. The divine plan of Jesus is that he's gonna be king of the Jews. Now, right away There's already a king. His name is Herod. Herod has a problem. Herod's thinking, wait a minute, how he gonna be the king if I'm the king? This dude is being born in my territory And I'm the king here in Jerusalem, but but there's a prophecy that says there's this one being born king of the Jews. Let me let me read it. But you, Bethlehem, and the land of Judea are not the least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come a ruler. Who will shepherd my people Israel? So the divine plan of Jesus includes he's going to be king of the Jews and he's going to be a ruler. So he's he's not just a king that's sitting on the throne looking pretty. And somebody else behind the scenes is puppeting and ruling things. No, he's going to be a ruler. Herod said, wait, no, wait, I'm the ruler. I'm the king. I'm the one here. I can't have this. I can't have the people being Turned away from my leadership and my rulership by some upcoming Jew. I can't have that. And so He begins to to have a plan now. I need to destroy this the seed that has now come into the world. That they've been prophesying about that's going to be king of the Jews. We can't have here. This king of the Jews must be destroyed. And so as I was walking my way through this, I was thinking, you know The enemy, he knows that this seed was coming. Because all the way four thousand years prior, in the garden When man had sinned, God said to the serpent, the seed of the woman is going to crush your head But you're gonna bruise his heel. Over 350 prophecies of messianic nature said this king is coming. So Satan knew he was coming. And now that he's here, he's prepared to destroy him. And because guess what? He's born of flesh. So he can be killed. When he was in heaven, spirit, ruling king. He couldn't touch that. But now you made the mistake of putting him in flesh. Oh, I can get to him now. And so he he he begins to put this plan together. So then I start thinking, okay, what about us? How does he know? About our seed. How does he know what to come after in you and me? But as I was wrestling with that idea. It came to me that the seed we possess is the seed of Christ too. It's the same seed of God that's in us that was in Christ, the man. The seed of Christ has as a divine purpose to die on a cross to save us. Which means my divine plan, being born into this world as a sinner, is to be saved from sin. That's part of the divine plan God has for me. Y'all do know that, right? Jesus died to save us. His plan is that we might be saved, that we might be filled with his Holy Spirit. That we might be used as vessels in his kingdom, that we might be seed that are sown around the world, that might multiply and duplicate the image of God. So that alone is sufficient enough for Satan who got kicked out of the garden Because it wasn't enough for him to be a reflector of the glory of God. He wanted to be the glory of God. But then there's some intricacies about our gifts, our abilities that Satan. Knows to come after. I think the first thing is he knows we've got this divine potential. Okay? Because our divine potential is attached to Christ's divine work. So what Christ did for us attaches our divine purpose is attached to him. I'm already kind of a duplication of Christ of sorts. And so the enemy says, well, I can't have these duplications of Christ running around. So I'm after them too. Here's the second thing. It's still in verse 2. For we have seen his star in the east. So Satan's desire to destroy the seed is because of the divine plan that you possess, but it's also because of the divine presence that you possess. We have seen his star. Well, if you got a starfall in you, that's a pretty divine presence. With Jesus We have this star, his brilliance was so bright that all the way from the east they saw the glow of his glory in the form of a star. And that star drew them. From the east to pack up their bags, load up some presents, gold, frankincense, and myrrh, and to travel all the way. To Jerusalem to find him. When the angels came and announced his birth, there was a brightness of light When he was baptized by John the Baptist, there was the glory of the Holy Spirit that lighted on him. At the Mount of Transfiguration, when Peter, James, and John were with him, and he was talking to Moses and Elijah, there was a brightness about him. It wasn't until he took on our sin on the cross. That the sun refused to shine. All until then, there was a brightness about him, there was a glow about him, there was an essence about him, there was an aura about him that he was allowing to shine. And everywhere he went, they knew there was something different about him. I need you to understand that you might not have a literal star following you But you should have got the presence and the glory of God in you. There's a glow and an aura and a brightness and a presence of God that you carry with you. But because the enemy wants to destroy it, he has convinced you to hide it. Some of you got some gifts. I already know. You don't have to tell me. Some of you have some gifts that you don't want nobody to know you have. There's some stuff you can do, some things that operate and work in you that you don't understand them. But you know it's from God. And you kind of learn that as you begin to let them out, it draws some kind of attention that you don't want. And so what we do is we dim it. We dumb it down, we dim it down, or we shut it off What are you talking about, Pastor? So so we dumb it down. So okay, we preach, we teach, we we you know we do the little things, thing, whatever, but we're not really giving it everything. We're not letting all of it out because we kind of have this fear that if I let all of this glory out of me. I'm going to be identified as one who's anointed from God, and I'll become a target of the enemy. And so I'm not going to let that happen So I'm gonna do a little bit so I can say, God, I did do something. I was obedient. Partial obedience is disobedience. So when you're just letting a little bit out, but you're not using all that you have That God gave you and died on the cross to make sure you could have, then you're dumbing it down, you're dimming it down, you're putting the light under a bushel. He didn't give you that That presence, that light to hide it under a bushel. No, he gave it to you so that the world could see the glory of God in you. But the enemy's desire is to destroy that Divine presence that you have illuminating from you. But the enemy wants to dim that light. He wants to destroy you because of that divine presence in you. Why does God put that glow in you? He puts it in you so you can look like Him. So you can reflect His glory. And I need to say this too: it's not you Is the glory of God in you? I think what happens is sometimes when we operate in that gift, we lose sight of where That glow is coming from. So we think it's us. And so then we start taking the glory that belongs to God. That's another trick of the devil. He wants you to try to ascribe to yourself the glory that belongs to God. And here's something I need you to know: God will not share his glory. Amen. And so he puts this glory in us, and it's him. And so we have to give God the glory. We have to say, that's not me, that's God. And we have to be reminded every now and then, that's not me, that's God. And if God took his spirit out of you, you wouldn't look nothing like that. So he's coming after that presence of God that's in us. And he he's going to attempt to destroy it in us by connecting us to people who will help us hide it. Distractions drawing you the way to this, drawing you away to that. A lot of good jobs require you not to be able to make Bible study or Sunday service. I'm trying to tell you, Satan knows how to get you. And he's after destroying that presence of God that's in you I think Satan's desire to destroy the seed is because of the divine plan that you possess, because of the divine presence that you possess, but thirdly, because of the divine preeminence that you possess. It's also in verse number two. And we have come to worship him. The wise man said, we've come all this distance To fall down before this child and give glory and honor and presence to him because he Is preeminent above any other God because he is higher than you, King Herod. We didn't come to bring you gold and silver and frankincense, Herod. No, we came to bring the child. He is the superior above the superior. And so, because he is the superior above the superior. Satan says, no, wait. This is my kingdom. This is my place. There's no one more superior than me, and and and I'm not gonna have this presence of God coming in Being over and superior, and watch this, and adored and worshiped above me. So there's a worship issue here. And I need to tell you this. Anytime that Satan doesn't get the worship. He has a problem with you. Let me tell you why I know this. I know this because in Heaven before he was Satan when he was Lucifer, son of the morning, the brightest of the stars, the highest in rank, the one who had the glow, but that wasn't enough. It was the worship of the other angels that were giving worship To God, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty that messed his mind up that said, I can't take it I want that glory for myself. I want that worship for myself. And because of the worship being given to God, he has a problem. So guess what? No different here in the text. When the wise men come all the way from the east, and the spirit of Satan is in Herod, and he says, Look. They've come all this way to worship him, not you. Herod says, Oh, hold on, wait a minute. I got a problem. Once he found out they had tricked him because they didn't go back, because God had warned the wise men and warned Joseph and Mary to leave, get out of town. The text in verse sixteen said, When Harold saw that he was deceived by the wise men, he was exceedingly angry And he sent forth to put to death all the male children who were in Bethlehem and in all its districts from two years old and under According to the time which he had determined from the wise men. So here it is. So Satan's desire was to destroy the seed. He couldn't get Jesus. At two years old, but if you follow through the life of Christ, there's time after time after time that he keeps trying to get them. It wasn't until Jesus said, okay, Satan, you want to destroy the seed? I'm here. Judas comes, betrays him, so he thinks. But it's all the plan of God. It's all been prophesied already. He's just walking in what God already knew would happen They take Jesus, they mock him, they scourge him, they whip him, they beat him, they mutilate him, they nail him to a cross so that they can destroy him. But listen to the scripture. Jesus says, nobody can take my life, but I lay it down when I get ready. And so here's the problem. When you destroy the seed, if you kill the man, you gotta bury the body. Y'all didn't catch it. When you bury the body which is the seed, you put the seed back in the ground. When you put the seed in the ground cover it with dirt, three days later it's getting up He didn't know that when he crucified the Savior, he was just setting himself up. And so here comes the seed coming up out the ground on the third day and is rising up. To glory. 2,000 years now removed. There's more seeds. There's more blessings. There's more opportunities. There's more you. There's more me. There's more fruit for the kingdom of God. Don't hide the seed. Don't cover the seed. Don't block the seed. Let the seed shine, my brothers and my sisters. Let God use you in the power that He's given you. Let the presence of God shine through you. Don't be ashamed. Let the divine presence, divine purpose, the divine plans of God manifest themselves. Because listen, God saved you and me As seeds to be sown into this kingdom for what? So that we can show forth the glory of God. So we can make Christ known to the unbeliever. So we can preach the good news, the gospel, that yes, Jesus was born into the world. But he lived a sinless life. He died. Oh yeah, he died. And he was buried in a tomb. But he got up on the third day With all power in his hand. And he rose from the earth and he sat down on the right hand of God. And even right now, he's making intercession for you and me that we won't allow the enemy to destroy our seed, but rather we will keep sowing seeds. That we will keep sowing because again, we reap what we sow. But we have to be obedient to the plan of God. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web Please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services. Services Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website. Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling the Third and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman of 4Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist. Personally, now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this This is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.