And they're dealing with difficulties in their time, and he writes to encourage them to stand strong, to be courageous, to be steadfast, to endure. Sometimes we look back in the Bible and say, oh, that's old time stuff, but the reality is it's nothing new under the sun. Are y'all hearing what I'm saying? If I probably ask for a show of hands, don't raise your hand. But that's the strategy of the enemy. Or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. And then you jump up and you holler and you scream and you cuss and say, Yeah, I got you. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. uh also high on the list. So by the grace of God, I was blessed. Degree of Andy Podcast. That's what Peter is saying here to these Jewish Christians. Voices behind the song. They might encourage someone who's discouraged, that it might lift someone who's down, that it might save someone who's lost, might reclaim someone who's drifting. Spirit of the Lord, I pray that you have your way in this time as we lend our ears and our hearts to you. Background because the way they look and even down to the faith that we have. Did you know that um Nigeria right now is um responsible for 70 to 90 percent of targeted Christian deaths? Uh these Hebrew Christians, he's already talked to them about the persecution that they're going through. As he calls the and encouraged the Hebrew Christians together and says, look, you need to be of one mind. I love this. If we can face uh speak of it that way, this there's one enemy against the church of God. That's what compassion is. I know we live in a different day and time, but look uh you think about the olden days when when everybody was struggling. You can be looking really, really good on the outside, but on the inside, you're tore up and broken and hurting and stressed and under pressure. We've got to come together. No, no, no, we got to keep being the blesser. And you must say, Well, Pastor, they don't deserve to be blessed. You got BCE in you. at the Legacy Center located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayers. Eternal God, thank you for the opportunity to stand and declare your word. in its entirety and now Pastor Sterling. Give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. that's going on around us. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter out of this text, the opportunity to inherit a blessing. In the same way we may look at other countries and think, oh my God, you know, this is going on in other countries. And sometimes we don't even realize we're blessed till we get to the other side. you know, one thing or another, whether it's for the color of your skin or the people you marry or the whatever's going on in your life, all kinds of things going on. And as we look at this text on this morning and think about this opportunity that we have to inherit a blessing, what Peter says here, in order for us to get to the blessing To be of one mind, he says, he gives us four components that are essential to being of one mind as he calls the church together. And so have compassion on others, understanding that they may be going through the same or similar things that you're going through. Like you might be struggling. But if we come together and have the same mind, have compassion on each other, and realize I'm struggling, you're struggling, we're all struggling. That we'll be in our multi-million dollar homes and we're starving to death. Have compassion on each other and help each other through this struggle that we're going through. We just kind of assume that everybody else should be okay. Somebody who loves like Christ loves. The intertwining of one another and loving each other. You gotta have brotherly love for one another. Because guess what? That we've almost disconnected from each other, even though we've got this idea that we really are connected with each other through these internets and all this other stuff, but we're not really connected And so when people are going through, people can be going through and they can still be posting up pictures with smiles on their face. I think we can pick up on some of those things. Sometimes people need to be lifted up. I know this is hard, and I know you don't want to hear this, but when they go low, you go high. And so we need to be the blesser. Good to those who hate you and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. Are y'all still here with me? You are a child of the living God, washed in the precious blood of the Lamb. And so you just keep blessing them when they keep coming at you. We've got to be a body that is unified and has a plan and a strategy to move forward in order to handle the attacks of the enemy. The Lord repays a lot better than we can. Fans for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. church family minister in the spirit of excellence. You their stories. Finally, all of you be of one mind, having compassion for one another, love as brothers, be tender-hearted. Be courteous, not returning evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, blessings, knowing that you were call to this, that you may inherit a blessing. But we need you that we might be the light. We just um I mean just like everything like even down to the littlest thing. And it just seems like everything is out of sync and you we've got innocent people, you know, under attack because of the color of their skin, because of their back to come together, to bind themselves together, to be encouraged in unity that they might make it through this difficult time. Oftentimes as I read through the scripture, I see it's almost reading like the modern day paper. And some blessings that we get come by prayer. In order for us to make it through this thing, he says, first of all, we have to be of one mind. Finally, all of you be of one mind. It's not going to be a one-man battle. And this, it dawned on me even as I was even meditating on this this morning, how important it is for the body of Christ to come together in times like today. From the outside. Love as brothers. There are so many people that are just in need of love. Because we are devoid of love. And then they don't even understand what love is. But that person doesn't know because we're not doing it in the body of Christ. And we need that in our culture. I almost want to say I feel like our society has become desensitized to each other. And I, you know, I've said it before, sometimes we in Christianity we have become good with looking good even though we're doing bad. But but watch this, but the load is not to be carried alone. Be courteous, be be polite, be humble, be helpful to each other. And this is part of us as a body. If we all have one mind and we demonstrate this this common uh bond together, we can move the we can move the needle forward, if I can say it that way. But rather, blessing. And so, because of him, if he's done it for me when I was a mess, even when you coming at me wrong, I'm still gonna bless you. And bless them. We cannot let the enemy tear us apart. And our God is a blesser. I know this is hard, but Matthew chapter 5, verse 44 says, but this I say to you, love your enemies. God has a plan to bless you if you continue to be the blesser. Because you know that they're gonna try to push you to the edge. It's a trap. But don't fall for it. Facebook and YouTube. sharpness to my words that they might be in line with your word. And amen. They're literally targeting Christians in Nigeria to kill them. Recognize that there's something perhaps I can do to help your pain. Amen. I'll say economically stable. That they're not having a good day. Every Sunday I sit by you and you're always a joyous and joyful person, but today you kind of closed. I think being tender-hearted is that sensitivity that we need, and the sensitivity that we need in helping each other dealing with these heavy loads that we may be carrying. Amen. Don't let them get you over the edge. Every day you got people. For he who would love life and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit. So that Christ's name will be glorified, so that Christ will be modeled in the life that they live as they go through this persecution for being children of the living God. What I love about the Bible is that though it was written in past time, it's a living word that's relevant to today's time. Be of one mind. In the situations that we're facing in our country, in the situation we're facing in our world, how important it is for the body of Christ to have the same mindset. He says to him, recognize that they're recognize each other's pain. Unify and then come together with a strategy how you might defeat this enemy, how you might get to the to the other side and ultimately get to the blessing that's there. When they act scandalize your name, keep blessing. Keep on blessing them. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Amen. Verse 8, have compassion for one another, love as brothers, be tender-hearted, be courteous. But as we look in this text, what I see here in the latter part is that what Peter says is that we're called to this, that we might inherit a blessing. That's how you come together and survive the struggle. You bless them. You still bless them. They acting a fool, you keep blessing them. So when you stop reacting, it's not fun anymore. Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Listen to what I'm saying. I'm Andy Christman. Be the blesser. So we don't have to be in the big house starving, or I don't have to be outside with all this food that's going to waste. We got make some good mask and some good hair and some good stuff. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. The person near you or person you interact with or the person you live with might be going through something, and if we're not even sensitive to each other. Have compassion on one another. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. I know before Christ you you still got some of that. It's not only seeing that you're in misery and understanding you're in misery, but what can I do? I know you you want you want to get them back. But when Peter writes this letter here to the Hebrew Christians, they're in the midst of persecution as well. If we come together and have the same mind, if we come together and we have the same understanding that we have the same enemy, then we'll be able to develop a strategy to fight this enemy. We've got to have compassion on each other. This happened. He says, thirdly, be tender-hearted, be sensitive to the needs and concerns of people around you. As we approach this uh text of 1 Peter chapter 3, verse uh 8, I think it is safe to say that we are living in some strange and different times today. Be the blesser. And and all of this that's going on in our world around us and and so much chaos, so much confusion, and sometimes we have been caught up in our own little thing and not realizing this this swirl of mess. Whereas if we would understand only have compassion on each other, we'd be able to come together and say, look, I got a room you can stay in and you got food that I can eat And so he says, have compassion on one another in the body of Christ. This phileo love is what he's calling us to. He wants to divide us and conquer us. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. And watch this. There's some people you already know them. If we're going to endure, if we're going to survive the persecution that's coming on us, listen to this: it's not going to happen by you sheltering in place and doing it on your own. But if I ask for a show of hands today, of those who just feel that need to be loved today, there probably be more hands that will rise up in this sanctuary than would surprise you. Every day the enemy's coming at you, trying to move you from a godly character No, we as the body of Christ have to come together and have the same mind. That love that that says, I'm here for you, I got you, I got your back. I know this is hard. I didn't deserve to be saved. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. Maybe that's the trial they're dealing with. Be the blesser. Maybe the day is that day when everything fell apart, the bottom fell out for them. And we got to keep blessing. Now, let me just throw you th bring you up to where we are here in the text. We are so driven by getting stuff and chasing things and trying to be this and trying to be that. So we gotta keep keep blessing. Somebody, no strings attached, love. Be sensitive to the fact that you might come into contact with a brother or sister on one day and maybe today is that day for them. Help me understand. Don't let them push you out of your godly character. When they treat you bad, keep blessing. As you bless them, the scripture tells us, you like, it's like pouring hot coals on their head. He says, don't return evil for evil. Some blessings come through enduring difficult times, going through the hell of it, going through the worst of it, and coming out on the other side. Watch this. Don't return evil for evil or reviling for reviling. We have to keep being the blesser. Amen. You be the blesser. Their name is popping up in your mind while I'm talking. And guess what? So help me, God. I know this is hard, Lord Jesus. Some things we pray for and we get blessed. So he says to us: in order to get to this place for the opportunity to inherit the blessing, we not only have to be of one mind, but he says we have to be the blesser. You we've got to be the blesser. When you see them coming, you know. So, Spirit of the Lord, I pray that you'd have your way in this time, that you would glorify yourself. It is in Jesus' name I pray with expectation of your coming. And so they accept anything and everything as love. We've got to love one another. Understanding that you're not the only one going through. That's why I believe that Peter says we have to be of one mind And we can be there for our brother or our sister as they're going through the difficult times. And because we're economically stable, and because there's been a progression in the in our our our status. I'm trying to help you understand that we as a body are being suppressed and divided through the struggles that we're going through. That's the strategy of the enemy. The word of the Lord from First Peter chapter three verse eight reads as follows. Not any witnesses in the house And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. He's come through this chapter three, and he's talked to the husbands and the wives, and he's dealt with them. That's all they wanted. You got hands, you got feet. Take that action that you could do. I'll say that it might help us to be sensitive to each other. I pray even now, God, that you would give strength to my body, clarity to my thoughts. But we become so individualized. Praise the Lord. It's kinda like when you were a child when you know your your parents probably told you as a child, you know when people talk about you, says, don't buy into it. Let the Lord take care of it. And so people are starving for love. When they come and poke you, it's like then they come and they let me see I'm gonna get them again while they they used to be a Christian. Yeah, I feel like I'm preaching by myself here. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. God, that I might say what you say, and that the word that goes forward today might bring about change in the life of the hearer. And then there are there's several other countries as well that are targeting Christians to kill Christians. He says, Love as brothers They've been already pushed down and pushed down and pushed down. But what Peter is really calling us to is while you're under the oppression, come together. You didn't deserve to be saved, but he saved you, didn't he? And he says, look, there's these things that you need to do. Because guess what? To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. There's things going on in this country. When they rob you, keep blessing. You already know there's some people you know them, you know them, you know them. That's a great question. And one of the things I think that our culture, our society is just starving for is love. No, don't get them back. We're all facing the same enemy, so we need to have compassion on one another. He says, you need to love one another. You can buy everything to make you look good. You are God's child. We've got to be tender-hearted to one another. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil. But if I'm living in this thing and say, look, I gotta be me, I gotta survive by myself, we're not gonna survive You be the one that's issued out blessings when they're talking about you behind your back. Keep blessing. It's almost speaking the same language as the things that are going on today. Even when it's looking bad, even when it's on social media, we even in whatever it is, even when it's coming from the White House, we got to keep being the blesser. I know you want to get them back because they got you. My blessing. Remember who you are. That's all they wanted. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. See what you can do to help somebody else I'm just here to support you, kind of love. I know you got all that. I was telling somebody the other day I opened up a box of Cheerios and the Cheerios even got smaller. Where Peter has already done, he's already addressed This is hard. Matter of fact, I see your faces. Amen. I don't mean love like you know Valentine's Day love, you know, with hearts and candies and all that. Tear us apart. Andy Christman afore him has spent forty plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. When we're going through this adversity, we've got to be the ones that are blessing. But they're dying inside. And then he says in verse 9, he says, not re not returning evil for evil or reviling for revile. In the same way that they were being persecuted then, we're being persecuted now. Maybe maybe you had milk and next door didn't have sugar. We're all in this together. I'm not where I am because of me. How can I help? Keep blessing. I know you want to. For real, honest, and faith-built conversations you won't hear anywhere else. We need you, God. Be ready to be the blesser, knowing that it leads to the opportunity to inherit the blessing of God. Don't let situations, circumstances, and people move you to a place that you're acting out of godly character. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Be of one mind. You're not the only one having a hard time paying your electric bill. I know this is difficult now, you know, because everybody wants to be the up on the top, on the top, on the top. This is hard. You got the moves, you got the swings, you got the you got the hook, you got everything. It's not worth it. Keep blessing them. And this persecution all around us, whether it's for And so what they do is they go seek love in the wrong ways, in the wrong places, and the wrong spaces. That brotherly love. Bless those who curse you. Other people are going through. And then fourthly, he says: be courteous. When they come at you wrong, keep blessing. But we look good. Maybe they just need somebody to lift them up They're trying to move you. Y'all hear what I'm saying? And we're going to make it through these difficult times. This is hard. You be the blesser. May you making a face right now How can I lift you up a little bit? We become so sophisticated. When you be sensitive to that, be sensitive to the fact that every day I see you, you're always smiling, but today you're not. He wants you to walk contrary to the God that you serve. Remember whose you are. First of all, he says, you need to have compassion on one another The enemy is always persecuting, always looking for opportunity to attack the kingdom of God. We've got to be sensitive to the shifts of behavior in each other. We've become so eye-oriented. And for some of you, you're watching this stuff from the outside, and you're going, What's wrong with you? It doesn't matter what they do to you in the persecution that they bring, keep on blessing them. When they come in, oh Lord, here they come, here they come. Don't do it. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Good suits and dresses and ties and all that. You be the blesser I know you bad. Some blessings come by grace. We're all being persecuted. Vengeance is mine, the Lord says, I will repay. We're living in a day and time that things are getting darker. When they curse you, I mean, you know, there's great makeup out there. But if we're sensitive to each other, sensitive to the changes. Don't fall into the trap. Our culture and society is loaded and filled with people. Do But when they can't do that to you, then it's no more fun. org. You're not where you are because of you. I know you got Amen. Guess what? And then he turns back around. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church. Would you pray with me this morning? You would exalt your name in the midst of all that takes place. Now he's bringing you their stories. They're dealing with the persecution of their faith because of the fact that they are Christians. We all have ways in which we can Or you had eggs or something, but everybody kind of shared so that everybody had enough. When they spitefully use you. But if we struggle together, it'll make us stronger. If we're going to go through this persecution, Peter says Let him turn away from evil and do good. Yeah, that's old stuff, Pastor. We were facing the same enemy. Let me get them, let me get them, let me get 'em The One Degree of Andy podcast. Are y'all still still here? It's a trap, guys. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. Amen. Recognize other people's pain Esteem others greater than yourself. He says, Now look now look, everybody I mean just somebody who cares. Sometimes we become That's a great question. I'm like what what is going on? Everything is about me. You can go to the barber, he can hook you up You I mean it's like you got a your defense shield comes up and you're ready Somalia, North Korea, Yemen, Sudan, Libya Somebody there's other people that are struggling. I know you can take the earrings off. We've left behind and we've lost Okay? And you know they're talking about you behind your back. It's because of Christ. I'm Andy Christman. I don't know about that. Because when you stop buying into it, it's no more fun for them. Me, me, me, me, me. So he says to us, look, be of one mind. And can I tell you this Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. You take the fun out of their game. And God, I will lift you up high. That is not love. I know you can do all of that We we passed that now, Pastor. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Like we can't depend on anything. But guess what org. m. Let him seek peace and pursue it. Pray for them. We thank you in advance. Now he's bringing