Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety and now Pastor Sterling. First Corinthians chapter fifteen. Beginning of verse thirty five, the word of the Lord reads like this. But someone will say, How are the dead raised up? And with what body do they come? Foolish one. What you sow is not made alive unless it dies. And what you sow, you do not sow that body that shall be. But mere grain, perhaps wheat or some other grain. But God gives it a body as He pleases, and to each seed its own body. All flesh is not the same flesh, but there is one kind of flesh of men, another flesh of animals, another flesh of fish, and another of birds. And there are also celestial bodies and terrestrial bodies, but the glory of the celestial is one and the glory of the terrestrial is another. There is one glory of the sun and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars, for one star differs from another star in glory. So also is the resurrection of the dead. The body is sown in corruption, and it is raised in incorruption. It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body and there is a spiritual body. And so it is written: the first man, Adam, became a living being The last Adam became a life-giving spirit. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, thank you. For the word of God. Thank you for the experience of worship. Thank you for your resurrection. And thank you for this privileged opportunity we have to open up your scripture. Spirit of the Lord, it is my prayer on this day that you would use me as an instrument in your hand to accomplish your will. Give me the strength I need to speak clearly what thus saith the Lord. Father, I pray for understanding For those who are listening, I pray that you would edify this body. I pray, God, that you would draw lost men, women, boys, and girls to you For Lord, all of this is about you. And it's my prayer on today, God, that you will get all the glory and all the honor and all the praise as a result of all the things that transpire. You are a great God. And so, Lord, here I stand as a frail and weak vessel in need of you. So, God, strengthen me and allow me the clarity of thought and speech. That I might speak the very oracle of God, and that the power of your word might transform our lives as never before. It's in Jesus' name I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Amen. First Corinthians is probably or could be best known as the resurrection chapter of the Bible. In the Letter the Apostle Paul has been challenged about the resurrection because there are some that don't believe in a resurrection. There are others that's wondering how is this resurrection thing gonna happen? We heard about resurrection, how's this supposed to happen? We heard Jesus die, got up from the grave, all that. How is that supposed to happen? And so they they have all these questions. So Paul is writing And he does a very a very good job, a very thorough job of expounding upon in the chapter fifteen of Corinthians, this first letter of Corinthians To explain to us and to his audience all about the resurrection. He starts off by dealing with the facts and the evidences of the resurrection of Christ Himself. He moves on as he goes through the chapter and he deals with the importance of Christ's resurrection. Why was the resurrection even important at all? Then he goes from there to talk about the moral values of resurrection and the body of resurrection and finally the mystery. of resurrection. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter, the nature of the resurrected body. There's some things that the Apostle Paul does, very simple things that are building blocks. So I gotta preach through these simple building block pieces, and then we'll get to the meat of it all. So he's building his case about the resurrection, and he says, some will say, How are the dead raised up, and with what body do they come? So he's got this question in front of him that he's dealing with, but The second part, I mean, what what body do they come in? I mean, literally, the simple answer to how are they raised is that God is going to raise them. Y'all still here? But but but but this whole idea about with what body do they come is what he really delves into and he He starts off by saying, first of all, that there's the he deals with the different body song. The different body song. Some somebody's gonna say what What body are they gonna come with? It's a different body, so different body. But he says in this text that in verse 36, he says Fool foolish one, what you sow is not made alive unless it dies. Help me, God So first and foremost, if we're going to get to a resurrection, if a body is going to be resurrected, it first has to die. Amen. We love Resurrection Sunday. And we've turned Resurrection Sunday into all kind of other stuff. Easter bunnies and all kinds of stuff. Now it ain't eggs no more because eggs are too expensive. It's marshmallows. Stuff. I saw it last night. Some they helicopter flew and dropped marshmallows. I said, no, who want marshmallows they done dropped on the ground? When the kids are running behind the helicopter picking up m dirty marshmallows. Anyway. Side note, my brain is shifting. But we've turning in all kinds of things, is my point. But watch this: the joy of resurrection is empty without the pain of crucifixion. Christ had to die for us to celebrate resurrection. And the body that he died with is not the one he rose with. Go help me, Jesus. It's a different, it's a different body that is sown, but it must die first. And for you and I, if we're ever going to experience resurrection, we too must die. You've got to die to yourself and you've got to die to sin. We've got to watch this. We we've got to make up in our mind that my heart is no longer Passionate about sinning more than it is about being with Christ. Lord, help me, Jesus. It's the process we call repentance. Repentance is the turning of your heart. Away from sin and to God. I've got to die to sin and be made alive unto God. Lord help me, Jesus. But death is necessary before I can be resurrected. See a lot of people want to be resurrected and they want to live a resurrected life, but they don't want to die. They want to live this resurrected, holy, sanctified life, running around waving your hands, shouting in church and doing all that, but they live like hell You can't live resurrected life or experience resurrected life until you first die. Y'all still here with me And so he says, okay, uh this has to be death first. And then he comes back in verse 37 and he says, and what you sow, you do not sow that body That shall be but listen to this mere grain, perhaps wheat or some other grain So, and that's what he says is that this is a different body. He says the body that is expected in resurrection is not the body that you're going to sow, but the body that is sown, watch this, it's mere. It's meager. like grain or wheat or some other insignificant. That that's important too. If if I can Walk on that just a moment. The body that that is sown into the ground is insignificant. It's mere. It's like grain. And if you've ever been into a field where a grain field or a wheat field, the the wheat, um, one stalk will have all these multiple grains on the stalk. And he says, but the life is like that is sown into the ground is just meager like one grain of wheat. I'm trying to help us. So in other words, the life I have That's gonna be sown into the ground. The life that I have the body that I have that's gonna be sown into the ground is meager compared to what it's gonna be. Y'all still here? See, here's the problem with a lot of folks. They think that this life that I have right now is everything. They think the life that I'm living, and I'm oh, I'm big balling, I'm I'm big time, I got this, I got that. Look, let me show you off on my page what I'm doing, what how I'm living. Well, this life right here is meager And the body that you have, as handsome as it is, as beautiful as it is, is meager compared to what's coming My God. This is foundational stuff. So he says, look, different bodies soon, but then he comes back and he says to us in verse 38, he says, look, but God Gives the body as he pleases, and to each seed its own body. It's a meager, but the the body that is given is given by God. And God is the one who decides the body. Now, we might not like our body, but God decided. It was God who decided the body that you have. Now, don't blame God for destroying the body that you have, but that's that was on you. Abusing it and all that, that was on you. No, but he chose the body. God gave the body. That's what he says. But it's a different body that's being sown. Then he comes back and he says there's different kinds of flesh. This is just foundational stuff. There's not nothing heavy, nothing too deep here. He says there's all kinds of flesh, and all flesh is not the same Verse 39. All flesh is not the same. There are there is one kind of flesh of men, another flesh of animals, another of fish, another of birds. All these are earthly fleshes that he is dealing with. So the flesh that you have from fish and the flesh that you have from chicken, different flesh. Matter of fact, some of us like the flesh from chicken. And others like the flesh from fish. Can I get a witness in the house? That's the birds and the fish. And then some of you say, well, that birds and fish, that's not on my list. I'm in the animal list. I like beef. I like s steaks and stuff. It's on their list too. Different flesh. But in all of the earthly fleshes, they're all different and they They're not the same flesh. This is fundamental stuff. He's just he's building a case. He's building a case. He says, All the flesh is different. Then he comes back and he starts to deal with something that's a little bit heavier, duty, and he says, There's celestial bodies. There's ex-files bodies. Anybody old enough to remember that? There's some bodies that are assigned to the celestial beings, the the heavenly beings, the the angels, the the seraphim, the cherubim. them there's the celestial beings the spiritual wickedness in high place they've got bodies too and then there are terrestrial bodies Earthly bodies. So he says there's some heavenly and uh bodies, but there's some earthly bodies, celestial and terrestrial. But they're different. These bodies are all different bodies, in other words, different flesh. Different different flesh. And regardless of the type of flesh, celestial or terrestrial, fish, bird Animal, whatever it is, human, God decided what the body would be. It was God's choice. That a fish will get the body that he gets, and the flesh that he has, and the bird that will get his, and the celestial will get theirs, and the terrestrial will get theirs. God decided because he laid all that out. But Paul says, look, but they're different This this easy stuff. Foundational. Let me keep building. He's building a case. So we've got different different body sown. We've got different kinds of flesh. Then he comes back and he says there are different kinds of glory. Look at that. Verse verse 40. Second part. He says, but the glory of the celestial, one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another The glory that comes from the celestial being is different from the glory that comes from the terrestrial being. Well help me, Jesus. The glory that an angel has, when angels showed up, the Bible always declares that there was some bright, brilliant light that illuminated from the celestial. That was the glory of the celestial. When when they went into the tomb to to see where Jesus was and to see if he was still there There were angels there, and the Bible says they were bright and brilliant. Lights that were illuminating the glory of the angels were illuminating, and and the people had to hide them their eyes from the glory of the angelic being. Well, that glory is different from the terrestrial glory. We've got a different kind of glory. Help me, God. When I met my wife I saw some glory. I saw terrestrial glory that was close to celestial glory. It was close. I mean, she was, you know how you meet people and you go, oh my God, that's my angel. You think, oh, she's so beautiful, he's so handsome. You think you think they're angelic, but they're different. She's got her terrestrial glory, but it's not the same as the celestial glory, and so do you Each one of us has our own terrestrial glory, but it's not the same as the celestial glory. Y'all still here? This is this basic, just foundation. I'm just building the case that these differences that we have, these differences, celestial and terrestrial, different glories. But but nonetheless they still have glory. He goes on, he keeps building this case. He says, look, there's there's this terrestrial glory, there's this celestial glory, this radiance that comes from the celestial being, there's there's this radiance that comes from the terrestrial be And I'm Have to be jealous of the angelic being because he got his glory. I got my own. Y'all still hear it? Verse 41 says, There's one glory of the sun and another glory of the moon. There's a glory from the stars, and and every star has his own glory. We look up in the stars and we can even tell what which one is the North Star, because the North Star has a greater glory. But all these stars, as many as they are, they all have their own glory. They have their own radiance. Y'all still here? Different. They all different. And he's building this case. And he says, look, he says, You got the stars? And then he comes back and he says, so also is the resurrection Now, get ready to dig in a little bit. He says we have the differences of the body sown, we have the different kinds of flesh, and we have the different kinds of glory But what he really digs in on as he builds his case and comes to the the climax of his case is the differences in the resurrected body. And he picks up here in In uh 42, and he says, so also is the resurrected body. It's different. It has his own glory. The body sown Is sown in corruption. This resurrected body that's coming is not the same as the one that was sown But watch this. But the body that was sown was sown in corruption. The Greek word that's used there in our translation would be the liability to decay. It was sown in corruption. Corruption is, it's it's literally saying that this body that we have. Which is going to be sown into the ground has a liability. It is definitely shown off has a contract on it that to decay. And I know that you think that you just becoming your best you, but I need to tell you something. From the day you cracked open the womb, you started to decay Lord help me Jesus. We're decaying every day. The reason why we get up in the morning, the reason why you should get up in the morning and take a bath. The reason why we spray cologne and perfume and put soap and wash our cells is because we're trying to cover the smell of the decay. Yeah. I mean I know you think no no no that ain't me pastor I ain't got no s I don't have that. Well I challenge you on something tomorrow when you get up Or matter of fact, you had a bath this morning or showers this morning. Get in the tub tonight. Don't put no soap in the tub. Wash yourself. And when you get ready to get out the tub, pay attention to the ring that's around the tub. The ring that's around the tub is your body decaying. It's the skin and the dirt that that's going back to the dirt and back to the earth from whence it came. Every day we're decaying. Some of you have become more aware of your decay than others. Help me, Lord. Eyes are not what they used to be. Decaying. We need some reading spectacles. When you get up out of the bed, you cracking like Snap, crackle, pop, you wonder what's going on, all the bones are popping and cracking and sound like the tin man with no oil Lord help us here. We decaying. I'm trying to help you. We we've got a contract on us to decay. We're we're sown in corruption. We we we're we're decaying all the time, teeth falling out. He bought you some new ones. I was trying to figure out how to say that the best way, but your hair is gone. Your body is aching when you ain't done nothing. That's decay. And every day we're decaying. Bit by bit. Moment by moment. Because there's a liability on this flesh that we have that is going to decay. As much as we try to preserve it, you can take all the pills you want. It's still decaying One a day, two a day, all that. Centrum silver, fifty plus, seventy-five minus, all that. Take all that stuff. Decay Are y'all hearing what I'm saying? The body is sown in corruption, sown as perishable But is raised up incorruptible. That's change right there. That ought to make you excited about resurrection. Lord help me. It's raised up. The resurrected body is raised up imperishable. It's raised up eternal. It's raised up void of decay. And sickness and ageability. Do you realize the resurrected body doesn't age? My God, my God. Verse 43, he said, is shown in dishonor. is sown in dishonor, the Greek word amidia, which means the loss of rights or the dishonor of being unclean. I love it. Because watch this. The dead body to the Jew was unclean to them. They couldn't touch it. They weren't to touch it. And when they touched the dead body, they became unclean So the the song body, as Paul is laying this out even for a Jewish audience to understand, the song body is dishonorable. There's nothing honorable about that body. That body is dead. And it's a dishonor to touch it. It would cause you to be unclean. It would cause you to lose your rights as a citizen to freely move about As a Jewish person, that's how it's it's sown, but it's raised in glory, glorious, radiant, honorable, with high regard. But it was sown incorruptible, sown. In dishonor, raised in glory with his own glory. It's sown in weakness, he says, verse 43. Um, it's sown in weakness, which is frailty, uh, with limited strength, and all of us have limited strength. In this body. We want to worship longer, but we we don't have enough strength. And for that reason, some of us don't even come in when worship time is because we know we're gonna get tired. So we come late because we figure they'll be done worshiping by then. Oh no, I'm sorry, my bad bottom thoughts. This body is sown in weakness, it has limited strength. And watch this. As Paul would even have in mind the resurrection of Christ, his body was sown. After having been broken by the whips of the Roman soldiers. Broken, beaten, nailed to a cross. Spear pierced in the side, a weak body, a frail body, a body that they had to help get up the hill Because of the whipping that he endured. A weak body, but it was sown weak. Lord have mercy. Sown in weakness, sown in frailty, but it was raised with power. When he got up on the third day, he didn't get up weak. No, he got up with all the power in his hand. I'm trying to help us here because in our death, those who are the believers will be raised with a new body. That has power. And it has power like the power of the Lord. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance For uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church. church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent forty plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing You their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-built conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.