Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Buca Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety and now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to Psalm ninety-five. Beginning at verse one reads as follows Oh, come let us sing to the Lord. Let us shout joyfully to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving. Let us shout joyfully to him with psalms. For the Lord is the great God and the great king above all gods. In his hands are the deep places of the earth, the heights of the hills are his also. The sea is his, and he made it. And his hands formed the dry land. Oh, come let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. Would you pray with me this evening? Father, thank you for the opportunity we have to stand to declare your word. Even now, God, speak through this vessel of clay that Someone's heart might be encouraged. Someone who's lost might be drawn closer to you to surrender their life to you. I pray for that one God tonight that's drifting in fellowship Perhaps going through trials and tribulations of life and feeling as though you may have abandoned them. God, tonight, remind them that you're still there, you still care, and draw them closer to you. Spirit of the Lord, just use this time that we might be edified and that you might be glorified. I bless you in advance. And I surrender myself to you in the mighty name of Jesus Christ, I pray. And I thank you for what you're about to do. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This psalm ninety-five from the primitive times of Christianity has been Known as the vinaite, which is the second person plural imperative for the verb, Latin verb that is vinayr, it is to come. This psalm has been the one that has been used through the auspices of time, if you will, to call the Christian body the children of God to come together to worship God with thanksgiving. Here we are, and we've called you all together that we might come together to worship the Lord Jesus Christ, to give glory to his name. to to adore him. But I think it's good when we can call the people, the children of God, those who love God, and they can come together and worship God together. I don't have a problem worshiping God by myself. I'll do it all the time. I don't have a problem with that. But man, it's so good when we can get together with other believers, like believers. Amen. And we can worship the Lord together. And I know we've gotten into a virtual time and everybody wants to do things virtually, but it ain't nothing like getting together with the saints of God to worship the living God. There is there is power if if you will in the vanight. I want to talk to you just for a little bit from the subject matter, the vanight, V-E-N-I-T-E, a call to worship. In light of the fact that we are a family and that we uh have all been benefactors of the same God, and you say, Well, Pastor, how do you know that I'm a benefactor of the same God? Because you're still living. You have benefited from my God. And since we are family and we're benefiting from his blessings and his favor Our God in this psalm begins to call us together to worship. And as I begin this these verses here, these first two verses, oh come let us Sing to the Lord. Let us shout joyfully to the rock of our salvation. Let us calm before His presence with thanksgiving. The first movement of this text is a call to corporate worship. If I had a lot of time, I would deal with the issue of corporate worship because we have in our comfortabilities began to abandon the significance of corporate worship. Amen somebody. We've excused every Sunday worship with the other believers. We've forsaken the assembling of ourselves together with unbelievers, and we've inserted the the bedside baptist virtual attendance we Lord help me Jesus but but but but but this psalm calls us to worship the Lord our God with thanksgiving In the six verses that I've read, three times in these six verses that the psalmist calls us or gives us this call to come. Three times in six verses, and then six times in the three verses, he he calls us or he gives this this statement of let us, he's he's talking to us, it's it's us, it's us, it's us Over and over again. Look look there in the text. Verse verse 1, let us, verse 1 be, let us, verse 2, let us, verse 2 be, let us, verse Verse uh 6, let us. Verse 6 be let us. He continues to call us together. Us, us, us, us. This is not an individual call to worship. This is a corporate call to worship. The psalmist knows the power of corporate worship. And in this the night, if you will, he calls us together to corporate worship. This call, this command is for us to come together to worship the Lord our God because there is power in the corporate worship. Are y'all still here? So he says to us, let us let us sing to the Lord. Singing is uh a poetic expression of love to somebody you love. For those of you who can't even sing, you'll sing to the one you love. There's some of you that probably remember back in the day you was you were singing along with Al Green. You were singing along, amen. Uh, with Teddy Pendergrass, you were singing along, you couldn't even sing But because you were in love, you dared to try to sing anyway. But and in essence, because we have a love for God, help me, Jesus, we are to come together and sing unto the Lord. Now, I'll say this, and I've said it before, every voice in the choir is not a lead singer. But every voice ought to be singing. Because everything that has breath ought to be praising the Lord. It ought to cause you to realize that God loves you and you love Him back, and you ought to want to sing unto the Lord. He calls us to sing unto the Lord, to shout joyfully to the rock of our salvation. Can I open that up just a little bit for you? The idea here in this text is that we ought to have within us a shout to the Lord, not just a song for the Lord, but a shout unto the Lord. And he says, unto the rock of our salvation. The idea of salvation is a deliverer. He has delivered us. The word salvation means to be delivered. He is our deliverer. He is the rock that delivered us. To Israel he was a deliverer in the wilderness when they were thirsty and they needed water. He was the rock of deliverance. To David he was a smooth stone in his in his satchel when he went up against Goliath that he might kill the giant. He was that that rock to David, but to us, he's our rock in a weary land. He's our rock of ages, the cleft for me, where I can hide myself in him. Help me, Lord, when I'm in trouble. I can go to the rock and hide in the rock. I can go to the rock and find shelter in the rock. I can stand on the rock and not be moved because he's my rock. He's my deliverer. And as a result of my my my deliverer and him being uh my rock and my salvation, I ought to have a shout for him. And so it's good to be able to call on one who's always there. He's a rock, he's rock solid. He he doesn't change, he doesn't move, he's always there, always available, always ready to deliver us from whatever situation we may. might find ourselves going through. He's a rock. He's the rock of our salvation. He says we ought to sing and shout unto the rock. Shout joyfully to the rock of our salvation. He's been that rock for us in the midst of layoffs. He's been that rock for us in the midst of sicknesses and disease and cancer in the body and strokes from the body and all kinds of other things, heart attacks. He's been the rock When we didn't have money in the bank, he was the rock that made sure the bills got paid. He was a rock when we needed him. He was a rock in all of the various circumstances and situations we've been through. He's been a rock, and as a result, he says we ought to shout joyfully to the rock of our salvation. He goes on in verse 2. He says, Let us come before his presence. Let's come together in his presence with thanksgiving. And I know this seems simple, but I do need to point it out. The idea of him calling us to come together. Let us come before his presence. It gives a simple but profound statement to us that we need to move from where we are. To come into his presence collectively, corporately, in other words, this might be a text to use for those who are just comfortably staying home. This is a call to move from your comfort zone to put some clothes on to wash your face and and come to the house of the Lord With other believers to come together to worship him with thanksgiving. Pastor, what do I have to be thankful for? Now if I need if I need to be the one to tell you there's something going on. I mean the fact that you have a computer, a laptop, a TV, a smartphone, a smart TV to turn on and and to be able to tune in. And don't get me wrong, I'm not not bashing all my online people because everybody's not online because they can't make it. Now some people could have made it, they just stayed home. But let me say this, we've got a lot to be thankful for. And because this this call to worship is calling us to come together to be thankful to God for all he has done. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving. We ought to enter his go in into his courts with thanksgiving, enter his presence with praise. We ought to come in. with excitement and enthusiasm and exuberation for what God has done. Every time you make it to another Sunday, you ought to be able to say, Lord, thank you. You shouldn't have to wait for the praise team to get tuned up or the organ to get fired up or the guitar. None of that. No, you ought to come in with the praise on your lips. And a song in your heart and joy and celebration and thanksgiving. You ought to be in a position where you know what? I just can't wait to get to the house of God so that I can give God the thanks with the other believers. So we can corporately come together and thank the Lord. This is a call. This is a call to worship. As I move in the text, there is not just a call to corporate worship, but there's a cause of corporate worship. Pastor, why should we do this? I'm glad you asked that question. In this text, it says there's a cause for corporate worship. And watch this. And the cause is not dictated by the call. In other words, you ought to not just come and have a worship for God because somebody called you to come. What he says here in verse number three, he says, For the Lord is the great God. And the great king above all gods. If he's your Lord, and he's your God, and he is The God and king over every other God and every other thing, that's motivation to come with thanksgiving in your heart. I want you to think about this just for a moment. What made you so special that that he would have to want to have a relationship with you? But God, who is the greatest God, not not some demi-god, not some fake God that you gotta hang up and put up and prop up, but no, the God who is the greatest creator and king over everything has a relationship with you or with me that's motivation right there you don't have to call me to worship No, I already got worship in my heart. I already got thanks given in my heart that he chose to allow me to be part of this family Lord help me, Jesus. He goes on, he says, not only is he the God and the king over everything, but in verse number four, he says, In his hands are the deep places of the earth, and the heights of the hills are also his. He's the owner and the keeper. Of all creation. The God that we serve, the God that has invited us in to be family and has adopted us as children of his own, who given who has given us his name. He he owns everything. And watch this, and he he's the owner and the keeper. He owns it all. He owns the mountain He owns the deepest depths of the sea, and he owns the highest heights of the mountains, and he's the keeper of them. Now watch this. What that helps me to understand, and because what the what the psalmist is doing is he's showing us the extremes of watch this, not just the ownership of God. But the keepership of God. Lord, help me, Jesus. Did you realize that on any given day and any given moment, God is keeping everything around us? Did you realize that the very air that you're breathing he's keeping? Did you realize that the floor that you walk on, he's keeping the the the gravity that that we Depend on being the same every day. He's keeping that. He is the one who's keeping everything from the highest to the lowest, from the inside, from the outside, from the right to the left. He's keeping it all together because in him all things exist and consist. You're wondering why you didn't lose your mind this year? He's the one that's been keeping you together. You wonder why you didn't go ballistic a postal on somebody? It's because God is a keeper He's the one that's been keeping you. He's the one who created us, but he's also the one who's keeping us. He's the owner. He owns and he keeps Everything from the highest to the lowest. Let me keep on moving. Verse 5 says he's the creator and the shaper of all creation. So he's not only the God and the king over all creation, the owner and the keeper of all creation, but also he's the creator and the shaper of all creation. Verse 5 says, the sea is he is. For he made it. And his hands formed the dry land. Anybody that will worship any other God, any other God that you will worship, he made that one He made the wood that you carved your God out of. He made the stars and hung them in the sky that you are worshiping day by day, the the atmospheric formations in the sky, the moon and the sun. He made those. Those are his creations Matter of fact, if you happen to be one of those that are worshiping something that's in the depth of the sea, guess what? He made the sea too. And if you happen to have made a person your guide, guess what? He's the one that scooped down after making the dirt, and he formed the dirt, and he blew breath into the dirt. So he's the maker of that too. There's no God higher than our God. It's motivation for me. Help me, Jesus. It's it's the cause of my corpor corporate worship because my God is the God over everything. He made it all, he owns it all, he's keeping it all and he's keeping me. And he's keeping you. This ought to be motivation for us as we come to the house of the Lord to corporately worship. If you think about nothing other than who God is. I know that we like to worship Higher and harder when God has given or done, but our worship really ought to be higher and holier just because of who he is. If God wasn't who he was, you wouldn't have what you got to worship. If he wasn't an omnipotent God If he wasn't an omniscient God, if he wasn't a miracle-working God, you wouldn't be able to worship the things that you're worshiping besides him And so if we remove the existence and the the who he is out of our worship, you got nothing to worship. That's why our worship of him alone ought to be higher than any other thing He is the God that's above every God. So I've talked about the corporate call, the call to corporate worship, the cause of corporate worship, and finally is the correct posture For corporate worship. Because sometimes we come to worship as if God owes us something. Sometimes we come to worship with our arms crossed and waiting on the choir to do something for us. Sometime we come to worship and we expect the preacher to preach us happy. As if somehow God works for us. No, no, no. But the but the proper context here in verse 6 says, Oh, come let us Worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. Now, here's how I want to throw this out for you. There are three main verbs in verse 6. Every one of those verbs, the same to you and I, our position of worship is a position of lowliness. He says to us in verse number six: Oh, come let us, that's all of us. Come, let us worship. The word worship here is the word prostrate, to lay yourself prostrate before God, to lay down in the presence of God. That's the first get low Then secondly he comes back and he says, he says, and bow down. That's getting low. You gotta bow down before God. And thirdly, he says to us Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. He wants us to prostrate ourselves before God because there's none of me but all of Him. Can you imagine just for a moment that if God came and stood right in front of the sanctuary, what position you would take? I know you're thinking, well, yeah, maybe I'll be able to sit back and check him out and look him over. No, but let me tell you something. Because of the holiness of God, your physical body cannot stand up in front of him. You're going to fall down. If you don't believe me, read the scripture. Every time the presence of the Lord showed up, folks fell down because they couldn't stand in his presence. So y'all still here You're gonna fall down, you're gonna lay prostrate before God. Why? Because he's so holy and you're not. Now, watch this. He said he goes on. He says, Now, not only does does he want us to to to to fall out prostrate before him, he says Bow down. That is to accept our position as being lower than God. I'm not the one to be worshipped. And I'm not the one that's deserving of a show or some adoration. No, to God belongs all the glory. And so I've got to put myself in position. I've got to bow down. I've got to express and accept my lowly position. Finally, he says, let us kneel before his presence. To kneel is to actually position yourself, take the position of submission. When you kneel, even in kingdoms, what everybody had to do when they come before the king, they had to either bow down or kneel. They got to put themselves in a lower position, acknowledging that they are less than him. The psalmist here is trying to help us in the same vein to say, look, when we come to worship God, remember who's God. I need you to understand who He is. Not just to you, but who he is. When I acknowledge who he is, I need to also respond to who I know he is in the form of my worship. Once I acknowledge who he is, I can also begin to process what he's been to me. And when I begin to process what he's been to me and who he is, I have to humble myself and say, you know what? I was not deserving of all that he did. If I feel like I'm equal with God, then I can come in and say, okay, it's it's Sunday, it's worship time. Okay, I ain't feeling it. Worship of God is not about you feeling it. The worship of God is about who He is. The worship of God is about ascribing to Him How much he's worth to you. If he's worth a crossed arm than a twisted face, Then that's the kind of worship you're gonna give. But if you really understand who he is and what he's done. And listen to this. And what it means for you and I to even have a relationship with him, it ought to cause some excitement and enthusiasm to bubble up inside of us. And make us want to shout cheerfully and joyfully to the Lord, to give praise to him, to give honor to him to be excited about him, to worship him, and to not be concerned about the people that are sitting next to us because I Can't let you hinder my praise. I've got to give him what he is to me. I've got to acknowledge to him who he is to me. I can't let you try to tell it for me. I got to tell it for myself. Because can't nobody do me like Jesus? Listen, I know what he's done for me. I know where he's brought me from. I know who he is in my life. And I know I don't dare sit with my arms crossed and my eyes twisted and think that somehow he owes me something. No By grace, I've been saved. By grace, I've been delivered. By grace, he set me free. There's nothing about me That's deserving of a relationship with him. But because I have it, I'm going to praise him. I'm going to worship him I'm gonna lift my hands in the sanctuary. I'm gonna shout joyfully to the rock of my salvation. I'm gonna praise him in the morning. I'm gonna praise him In the noonday. I'ma praise him when I don't feel like it. I'ma praise him when I feel like it. I'ma praise him. when I'm sick. I'm gonna praise him when I don't understand. I'm gonna praise him because he's always worthy of my praise. A call to worship. The saints of old would always put out this call. It's time. Come Let's worship God. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III Where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance. For uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. At the Legacy Center, located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org Or contact our church office at three zero one six two seven nine five zero zero. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy. Sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your