Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message In its entirety. And now, Pastor Sterling. Alright. Romans chapter seven, beginning at verse 14. The word of the Lord reads as follows, for we know that the law is spiritual. But I am carnal, sold under sin. For what I am doing I do not understand. For what I will to do, that I do not practice. But what I hate, that I do If then I do what I will not to do, I agree with the law that it is good. But now It is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells in me. For I know that in me, that is in my flesh, nothing good dwells. For to will is present with me, but how to perform what is good I do not find. For the good that I will to do I do not do, but the evil I will not to do that I practice. Now, if I do what I will not to do, it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells in me. I find then an a law that evil is present with me, the one who wills to do good. For I delight in the law of God according to the inward man, but I see another law in my members warring against the law in my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin, which is in my members. O wretched man that I am Who will deliver me from this body of death? I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then With my mind I myself serve the law of God, but with my flesh the law of sin. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we thank you for the word. We thank you for your challenge that's in front of us as we continue to pursue righteous living. I pray, eternal God, that the Spirit of the Lord will be present on this morning to speak into every heart, to challenge each and every person that's under the sound of my voice If there's any that don't know you as Lord and Savior of their life, it is my prayer, God, on today that they would come to know you, that they would surrender their heart, their life over to you and allow your precious blood to wash away all of their sin. I pray, eternal God, for those who are drifting in their fellowship. Perhaps it's been a while since they've been in worship. Perhaps it's been a while since they've been in fellowship with you and I Pray God that today will be the day that they would draw closer to you, that they would say, I'm coming back to a good relationship with Christ and reconcile the differences that are between you. I pray God for this body who's listening that they will be edified, that they would grow in wisdom and grace and knowledge of you and how to better serve you and to how to better represent you in this world in which we live. God, most importantly, I pray that all that transpires in the preaching of this gospel, that your name would be glorified. And I stand in need of you today, God, that you would give me strength. Give me wisdom. Give me clarity of thought, clarity of speech, that I might be able to articulate this message in a way that transforms and changes lives forever. Have your way, eternal God, as we bless you in advance, expecting that you will do what we've asked of you. It's in Jesus' precious and wonderful name that I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. And all together said Amen. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter, the struggle within. You feel like in one moment I'm born again, I'm saved, I'm loving Jesus, and the next moment there's like a whole nother person takes over. Amen, Jesus. And don't let nobody provoke you. My God. Hannibal Lecter just jumps out, takes hope of the body It's like body snatchers or something happens and you feel like, man, who am I? Is it me or are there two people living inside of me? I mean, I had no intention of doing that. I had no intention of running that person off the road. I was just going along minding my own business, singing my hymns and praising Jesus. And all of a sudden, that old man jumped in and took over. I know it's not just me. Because we all have this internal struggle. We're all struggling it within. And so as we try to unravel that on this morning Talking about this internal struggle because if I'm thinking I'm going to pursue righteous living and I'm going to live out righteously without understanding that I've got a struggle going on inside of me, I'm fooling myself. I'm fooling myself that I am representing Christ well if I don't understand the struggle within. I'm fooling myself if I'm just putting on a facade on Sunday morning between 10 and 12 or 11 and 1. And the rest of the week I'm living like the other person. I've got two personalities. I am I'm bipolar or something. And people are wondering what is going on with you. I saw you on Sunday and you were praising God, running around the church, waving your hands and everything, and now cussing people out and You ready to fight, take it off your earrings and Amen, Jesus. Even the children are wondering, is that my mother? I thought you were singing in the choir and ushering or something on Sunday. Yeah, it's uh it's a struggle So what Paul identifies for us here is first of all, let's look at the dilemma. It picks up in verse 14, and it says that for we know that the law is spiritual. But I am carnal, sold under sin. Paul says, first of all, this dilemma that we have is that we have this law that comes from God, who is spirit. The law speaks to the spiritual perfection of the man. And the law, in order to fulfill it, it's impossible for me to fulfill it in my flesh. And it's impossible for me to fulfill this spiritual law in my flesh because I'm carnal, I'm fleshly, I'm sarcos. Greek word. I'm sarkonos. I'm fleshly. And so it it's impossible for me in this sarcos, this sarkonos, is impossible for me in this broken fallen flesh that is laden with sin that is as he says uh sold under sin in bondage to sin It's impossible for me to live out that spiritual and perfect law. And so we have a dilemma. If I'm going to try to live righteously, if I'm going to try to live according to the justification I have in eternity, there's a dilemma I have because I'm fleshly, but the law that's before me is spiritual. So how do we reconcile the two? Paul says this flesh is it's sold under sin. I like the terminology here. It's in bondage to sin. Did you realize that your flesh still likes sin? Amen. Y'all can go ahead and be excited about it. Your flesh loves sin I mean, I'm sure there's one or two people that are here that have every now and then said, Lord, if you could just turn your head for a moment. I just want to send one one little thing God, I don't want you to see this. But the appetite for sin my flesh has is like my mouth is watering because If I could just get and do, and I know y'all holy and spiritual, and I know y'all want don't want to testify right now, but I know it happens because sin is fun. That that doesn't sound like a preacher would say, would it? But it is. That's why it gets us in trouble. Boy y'all acting holy. Yeah, the flesh still has an appetite for sin. It wants to sin. The flesh does not want to do what God says do. It is sold under sin. It is contaminated by sin. And we're going to have to live with it for the rest of our earthly life. And so that's why there's a struggle inside of us. Because the flesh that is sold under sin That is in bondage to sin, that still wants to sin, that is uh is acclimated to sin, that is driven for sin, that enjoys sin, is still part of what we got to deal with. Every day. Every day. Let me give you an example. You can you can be on Facebook, Instagram, TikTok Reading the newspaper, and you can read for like hours on end. You could be flipping from video to video to video, watching and watching and watching. And then when it's time to read the Bible, what happens? The flesh says, I'm tired Amen somebody. You to remember all the stats from your football team. You know who's on every team. You know how many touchdowns they got. You know who needs to win what game to make it to the playoffs. You already done bet on everything. You got all that memorized in your head and when I say memorize John chapter 14 verse 23 and 24 you say what the flesh does not want to do what the God says do. Oh no it's moving in the opposite direction Yeah, I know I got some witnesses in the house. Paul says while I'm carnal and and this law is spiritual, I'm in a dilemma because while My sin is under, my my flesh is under sin, he says, verse 15, for what I what I'm doing, I don't, I don't even know I don't understand what's happening. I don't understand. For what I will to do, that I do not practice. But what I hate That's what I end up doing. I'm spiritual. I'm born again. I've been washed in the blood of the Lamb. I've been justified before God. I've been declared righteous before God, but in the practice of it, in the sanctification of daily living, I gotta deal with this flesh that does not want to act right. As a matter of fact, I like the way he says, I don't even know what I'm doing. I don't understand what's happening. I will to do good. My born-again spirit is talking and saying, do right. But in practice, I don't practice it. And what I what my born-again spirit says you should hate, that my flesh is in love with. So here I am, I'm in a struggle So what I'm what I'm doing, I don't understand. What I will to do, and he keeps going. What I want to do, my mind says we going this way. But my flesh says we going that way. And so we're we're in a a battle between these two natures that are inside of us. He comes back in verse 16 because he's wrestling with the the validity of the law. Sh in other words, sh should we throw this law out because the law the law is this constraining and all these other things? But he comes back and says, no, wait a minute. I've come to the conclusion if If then what I do, if then I do what I will not to do, then I agree that the law is good. Why is the law good? If what you say is true. Because what the law does, it shows me what's right, but it's exposing my flesh as incapable of doing what's right. So without the law, I would not even know that my flesh was leading me wrong. Y'all still here with me So the law is exposing the wrong that I do. And when I don't do it, it shows me, it's evidence to me that the law is good for me. To expose to me my flesh. Because if I think my flesh is good enough to satisfy God, the law proves to me it's not. So the law is good. He says he comes to that conclusion But I'm still in this dilemma because I will to do good. I want to do what's right, but I don't do it. And I'm I'm wrestling with it. And it's a struggle. But now it is no longer I who do it, he says. As we move through this dilemma that this wrestle between the the mind, the wheel The discovery picks up in verse 17, and in the verse 17 he says I discovered something. Even though I'm born again, even though I'm righteous, even though I'm a child of God, I'm holy, I'm sanctified, I'm you know, running for my life and all that good stuff. Guess what? I discovered something. Verse 17 says But now it's no longer I who do it. Sin that dwells in me. There's a discovery. Even though I've been born again, forgiven of all my sin, guess what? Sin still dwells in me. Hmm, sin still dwells in me. I'm righteous. I'm born again. I'm holy unto God. I've got a guaranteed eternal life. But in this flesh, sin Still dwells in me. Can I help somebody right about here? We need to acknowledge, we need to accept the fact that sin still dwells in me Amen. Matter of fact, we need to accept the fact not only that it still dwells in me, it dwells in other people around me. Amen. Even born-again people, amen, still have sin dwelling in their flesh. The reason why I say that is this to help us stop judging folks. Amen, somebody. Because we are, come on, come on, Christians. We are really fast to pounce on somebody who does something wrong. And especially if they say they're Christians. They say they was a Christian. And for my unbelievers, you famous for it too. I thought you was a Christian. Yes, I need you to understand. We discovered something. Even though we're Christian, sin still dwells in this flesh. Amen. So we can stop beating each other down for doing stuff wrong because guess what? Sin still dwells in our flesh. Amen. It's not a license for you to go sin It's an awareness that sin is still present. Ah, I'm preaching way better than y'all saying, Amen. In other words, I don't want you going running out putting sin on your calendar because you say, oh, sin still lives in my flesh. I couldn't help it. No, no, no, no. It's an acknowledgement and an awareness that I've got a wrestling match to deal with when I desire to live right before God. I have to understand who I'm fighting. I'm fighting this sin still living in my flesh. It's a discovery that he makes. It's an uncovering, if you will, that st sin still lives here in my flesh. He goes on, he says in verse 18, For I know that in me, that is in my flesh. Nothing good dwells. You could probably put that as another discovery. Ain't nothing good in this flesh. Nothing good dwelling in this flesh. But sin. Sin is in there Nothing good. Paul says, I know it. Nothing good dwells in this flesh. For to will is present, but how to perform it, what is good I do not find. Paul says, because I've been born again, watch this. I was born again unto God. In other words, spiritually We were dead. We had no connection to God. But when I became born again, when I gave my life to Jesus, when I surrendered to him, and I invite him into my heart. To save me, to rescue me, to pay for my sin. Watch this. He quickened me, he made me alive unto him. When I became made alive unto God, I developed a consciousness of sin In other words, I realized that there was a difference between sin and righteousness. And so now in my mind, I will to do righteous. Now I have a will to do righteous. But when I send the message down to my flesh to do it, there's no program in my flesh to do it. The flesh says that does not compute Your mind says, Let's pray, and we're gonna pray for an hour. And the flesh says, You kidding me? We're gonna eat. It's just no program, there's no acceptability in the flesh for righteousness. And so Paul says, I'm wrestling with that because in my mind, in the born-again part of me, in my spirit that's now alive to God, I want to live for God But my flesh can't find out how to do it. So watch this. Especially when you first get saved, you have to begin training your flesh how to behave. Help me, Jesus. You gotta train your flesh how to walk a new way. Amen. And in some cases, I almost want to say you need to tie your flesh down And restrict your flesh. You need to go cold turkey on some things. You need to put some things away. And you need to tell your flesh, you're not going to have your way. Amen, Jesus Because your flesh wants to do what it wants to do. We're fighting all the time. Our mind, our will is saying, live righteous, but our flesh is saying, satisfy me. I'm an addict. I can't live without it. I need it. So Paul says, look, I've discovered something about me. I've discovered that sin still dwells in me. Look at verse 19 and on. He says, he says, for For the good that I will to do, I do not do. But the evil I will not to do that I practice. My God, he says now if I do what I will not to do, it's no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells in me. Again, it's sin dwelling in me, that's in my flesh. He said, then I find another law that evil is present with me. It's not just sin that's with me, evil is with me Evil, this is right here in the text. It's a new new discovery. Evil is with me. Satan still wants. Me. He still wants to to destroy me. He still wants to defy me. He still wants to disgrace me. He knows he can't have me. I belong to God. But he can destroy my testimony if he can let my flesh do what he wants to do. Are y'all still here? This is where we we really have to be careful, Christians, child of God. We've got to be careful of allowing the enemy to have dominion over our flesh. Because he will disgrace the God who gave his life for us by our behavior, by our actions We will act out if we let him have his way because evil is present, and evil is waiting for the opportunity for you to say yes. Go for it But let me tell you something. Because you've been born again, you have the Spirit of God. And the Spirit of God has dominion over the Spirit of the flesh. The Spirit of God has control. But you've got to exercise that control. And you've got to tell your flesh, we are not going to disgrace the God who gave his life for me. We are not going to act a fool out here, up and here, up and here. That's not happening. No, I have to glorify God. I got to give God glory for what He's done. I'm not gonna act like that. And so the discovery here is sin still dwells in me. Evil is present in me, it's there in my flesh. Me the one who who wills to live righteously. Look at verse 22. He says, For I delight in the law of God In other words, I'm excited about living for God in God's law and in his righteousness and his righteousness and his right way, according to my inward man. That inward man, that spiritual man, wants to do the right thing. But I see another law. In my members. I said my flesh, I said my body, warring against the law of my mind and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin, which is in my members. There's another discovery here that there's a war going on between the spirit and the flesh. My mind and my body are at war with one another. And if I think my mind and my body are friends, I need to realize and recognize they're not. The flesh is warring against the body. And can I say this? The flesh is very cunning. It is as deceptive as the devil himself, because he he eases you into stuff slowly, easy The flesh has the ability, watch this, to figure out how to manipulate you. You know, let me let me say this Y'all know I'm the pastor, so I do a lot of counseling. I'm not talking about anybody in general, but I do a lot of counseling and then sometimes I'm dealing with people in counseling and people who have had um affairs. And so um when I'm talking to people that have affairs, I've heard this a lot of times. It just happened. Nope. It doesn't just happen. So the the flesh gradually warms you up to it. Warms you up, warms you up, warms you up, warms you up. First you just talking. Then you laughing. Then you touching. Then you hugging. Then you sharing secrets. Then y'all meeting somewhere. Then it's all the way. Amen, Jesus. Amen somebody. But it was gradual. Gradual. And then you all the way there. So it never just happens. Amen. It didn't have just happened. Your flesh is convincing you step by step, little by little, that it's okay. That is safe and is not. The flesh is very cunning. It's deceptive. Other issues, drugs, take a little hit, it won't hurt you. Now y'all smoking weed and can't stop. You gotta get high to come to church. Come on. Didn't start off that way. It was just a little toke, right? Little something, something for my eyes, my glaucoma. Now you can't see, can't drive, and don't know where you are. I'm telling you the flesh is cunning. It's cunning. It's slowly moving you away from God all the time And we have to be aware that we're at war with our flesh. The spirit and the flesh are at war with one another, and we have to learn to allow the stuff the flesh to be in submission to the spirit. Are y'all still here? We want to walk upright. If we're gonna do this thing right, if we're gonna pursue righteous living, we have to understand I'm at war with my flesh. And it's the spirit against the flesh, but we've got to learn to allow the spirit to have dominion over the flesh. Now, one more thing I'm going to say to you, and I think this might be helpful. Because I've learned this about about the spirit and the flesh, the war that they have. I've I've learned this that whichever one you give the most attention and energy and strength to is the one that will always win. Okay? Praise the Lord somebody. Let me tell you about these two natures that you're fighting every day. The one that you're feeding is the one that's gonna be stronger. If you're feeding the spirit, man, if you're praying, if you're fasting, if you're reading your word, if you're fellowshipping with God and worshiping God, you're gonna have a stronger spirit. Spirit Man and the Spirit Man will have control. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance For uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church. church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman of 4Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing You, their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.