At sixty nine oh nine Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland. How is this thing gonna work out? Moses by faith cast away his Egyptian heritage and walked all the way through with five million people following him through the Red Sea. And say that with confidence that the worlds and the universes were framed and made by the very word of God. And if I got eternal life, what more can he give me? I didn't earn eternal life. Praise the Lord. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. This is your backstage pass. Voices behind the song. in its entirety. For by it the elders obtained a good testimony. Thank you for these who've assembled in person as well as online to hear from you. I pray that you will remove it even now. And be glad because what you hoped for has already been satisfied. Because watch this. And that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. The evidence of God Himself is that that sun that was burning when you got up this morning didn't fall down and cook you last night. We activate the power of God. Or are you supposed to be depressed and miserable? We don't need to be walking around here all sad and looking like we sucked on lemon. at the Legacy Center located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. The word of the Lord reads as follows, Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Anybody who has not accepted the free gift of eternal life, God, I'm praying that even on this day, through this occasion, they might hear you calling their name And drawing them to surrender their life to you. Spirit of the Lord, whatever it is that you desire to do in the midst of this opportunity of the word, I pray that you would accomplish it in and amongst your people. With such a profound statement for us that helps us understand that first and foremost, faith allows you to have substantive evidence. uh confusing in some ways but it's profound in others because how can I have substance of what I hope for and evidence of what I haven't seen Well help me God of what you haven't seen and yet you haven't handled. Is that Abel, through faith, was able to have a sacrifice that was better than his brothers. Abraham offered up Isaac by faith. Who by faith marched around the walls of Jericho with a crazy plan, and when seven days were done, walked around seven days, and by faith the people shouted, and the walls of Jericho came tumbling down. If we move on down here to verse number three, it says, by faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God. Faith allows us to understand that the Word framed the worlds the atmospheres, the planets, the stars, the everything that exists. form human beings and allow them to breathe and inhale and exhale and have blood running through their body and their body never overheat and yet never get too cold and yet the Atmospheres were cult were covered and protected in certain places, and then there was gravity in other places, so that we weren't floating all around. These these are just benefits while you might be going through some uh science class or some astrology course and they're trying to tell you how to explain away all this stuff Or whatever other components that's in there. I'm talking about the circumstances that you're walking through that you're dealing with that God through faith can take care of that. And I've got to believe that, let me read this back, verse 6. The birds that were singing in your ear that were helping to get you up this morning, they didn't have to go to IHOP to get nothing to eat. Everything else when you looked in the mirror this morning. That caused me to please God is the faith that pushes me to do the deed that allows me to please God. Why? The time that she should have been it should have been possible for her to conceive a child, faith activated a switch inside of her body It's right here in the text. Because faith has the benefit of activating a power in you that you don't even know exists. He told his disciples, in three days I'm getting up from here. He had faith that the word and the promise that his father had given him is going to come to pass. where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Third and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Stop looking back at what should have lost. Personally, now he's bringing you their stories. So that the things which are seen were not made of the things which are visible. For he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. Verse eleven. Father, I need clarity of thought, clarity of speech. Father, for those who drifted in their fellowship, let them be drawn closer to you, God, to renew broken fellowship that the relationship that you have might be sweet But faith allows you some tangible evidence of what I haven't even seen. What your eyes and your hands haven't seen or handled. communicates to the rest of me how I ought to respond and faith tells my mind it's okay to send the message Tells your mind that everything is gonna be alright. Because what made it good to us was one thing, but what makes it good to God is that you exercise faith. Noah by faith built an ark. But what faith does, it allows us, we're able to understand that the world, that is the universe, that is all Nothing but his very word. by him, but they exist through him and consist by him and it's him that's holding them all together. And without being seen, God spoke everything into existence Because my word articulates my will and if it's my will and I speak it, it's gonna happen. I've got to believe by faith that God will reward me for diligently pursuing him. I first of all have to have faith to believe that he is. Those birds had a God who was feeding them and taking care of them, and I've never seen a bird that was hungry or starving to death Pastor Sterling started preaching and he started getting in your business and you was like, Whoa, wait a minute, wait a minute. Who's speaking to you? I can't be obedient to God. The only way you could turn the switch on is by faith. In Sarah's case, the scripture says, by faith, Sarah herself You ain't gonna die. By faith he got up on the third day. Has promises for you? For uniting with us in Kingdom Building. Facebook and YouTube. But if God has given you a promise, I know you've been through a divorce. And so faith allows me to have a good testimony. One atom collided with another atom and through some mystical, magical, incomprehensible Stood on nothing and just began to speak and he began to create all of this out of nothing through the through through their needs, watch this, through their needs of you using faith to get to that. So faith says I can create something out of nothing. Number four. I can do a lot of things, and a lot of people are doing a lot of things trying to please God. That we need in order to please God. God keeps on feeding the bird. Verse number eleven. And she judged God to be faithful. I'm trying to help somebody right here because God has a promise in some of your lives. God, give understanding, give wisdom. It moves me from the natural understandings and comprehensions of the physical realm to a spiritual realm that I'm having trouble with comprehending. Faith, faith, faith, and and then through the preponderance of evidence, we will come to the conclusion that that faith is the substantive evidence. The text says, for by faith the elders obtain a good testimony. It takes a whole lot of faith to believe what science says it's proving by evidence. To understand that all of that was done by the Word of God. And my faith allows me to understand that God spoke the worlds into existence. I can't even believe the Big Bang Theory unless I have faith. Because God was keeping the sun up in the sky. That are evidences of God. There must be a God. And an unbeliever will do the deeds without even believing there is a God. To activate power to fulfill the promise of God. Faithful who had promised it. And now Pastor Sterling. Who had promise. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Of things hoped for but not yet seen. A testimony that when the test comes, we please God. And the only way I can get to that faith is I've got to use the faith of God that says, God, I believe what that you are the one. The only thing I have is faith. receive strength. That caused power to be released so that she could accomplish what only God could do. That gives you strength in order to do what the promise said. That you just haven't let faith in power get to be done. I'm too short. By faith, you gotta believe I am God's favorite, I am the one He wants to bless. Act of independent volition with no help or assistance from anything, all of these worlds came together, worlds and waters and people and all of that came together, molecules. That science can't explain what how all this came about. Science says we need things to create things. But by faith I know he exists. And as a result of the sun, you were able to see because last night you couldn't see because it was dark. And to diligently pursue him or seek him for the rewards that I need. In order for the power to be released, so that you can bring forth that promise that I put in your bosom. You're able to walk and get up out of your sick bed by faith. And live by faith, because the just shall live by faith Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. That everything is alright. As it moves along here to text it says, For by it the elders obtained a good testimony. I'm just trying to help you understand that the Bible here is laying out for us that by faith it allows you to have a good testimony. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter, the benefits of faith. In the heavens by faith, I rejoice in the God of my salvation. Because she judged him faithful, who had promised it. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. Where did the wood come from? You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. God is it ever gonna work out? The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Kettering Baptist Church is partnering with Larry Rosenthal of Making Money Sense to provide a two-part financial class on Wednesday, March 25th and April 1st By faith Sarah herself also received strength to conceive seed, and she bore a child when she was past the age, because she judged him faithful. I'm just sending you there to be a sacrifice, but you're coming back home. Verse 6. Do you believe that the promises of God, the word of God is yes and amen? He gave it to me by faith. Abraham by faith moved away from his family, went to a place that God said, I'm gonna tell you when you get there. Would you pray with me this morning? I'm not going to obey God without faith. It says, By faith Sarah herself also received strength to conceive seed, and she bore a child when she was past the age. It says she received the strength to bear this child because she judged him. Who's attentive to the details of your life? For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. And out of the word of the mouth of God, worlds became what they are The strength caused her body, even though it was past You came in his morning burdened down and weighted down and the choir began to sing and they were singing your song. I don't have enough money. Father, for those that are discouraged on today, I pray that this word of God might give them encouragement. God, I don't see nothing happening. We need these components in order to make this chair in the creation of God. And the evidence that God is God all by Himself is not only that He keeps the sun in the sky and the moon in the sky and He feeds the birds and takes care of the lilies of the field. I'm Andy Christmas. Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau by faith. When Jesus was on the cross, he had a promise from his father In the mighty and wonderful name of Christ Jesus, I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Wait a minute, Pastor. What is it that you believe? Faith tells your mind when your when your eyes are looking at sickness and disease and poverty and stress. Who doesn't give promises he can't fulfill. Because without faith, first of all, I can't even believe there is a God. Without faith it is impossible to please him. I want to invite your attention on this morning to Hebrews chapter 11. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. And as we read through these other verses here in the text, what we find Where did the plastic come from? When you got up this morning, you looked out the window or you went outside, there was this big giant ball of fire burning in the sky. Go ahead and press forward by faith to what God has in front of you. And watch this. I need faith to believe that he is who he said he is. Father, we bless you and we thank you in advance for what you're going to do. Because faith is like turning on the electricity. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. I know you then watched your loved ones die. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. Draw by the power and presence of your spirit. Wait a minute, wait, where'd you get that from? We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. By faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God. And you saw your own reflection. No. And so it is beneficial to us to have faith so that we can have a good testimony. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. And I stand there as an attorney and I and I begin to present before the courtroom faith I'm trying to help you to understand. I I can only imagine in my mind, in my sanctified mind, I I I see a standing before God, and and you've got this question before God. How is this man Jesus able to say that? I don't have enough education. Because first of all, you weren't there. Faith allows you to please God. Watch this. Faith gives your mind what it needs to communicate to your soul that you can be happy and rejoice. And I not only have to believe that he is God, I have to, by faith, diligently seek him. There is no cost to attend. How do I believe that God is who he says he is? How he know? The joy of the Lord is my strength. So, another benefit of faith. Watch this, and I'm undeserving of it. That's a great question. Now, science may lead us to believe that all of this was created through the Big Bang Theory. You're able to escape death by faith. I'm trying to wrap my mind around this, but my mind is what Except that there's a God who came out of nowhere. They're doing service, they're doing work, they're trying to join ministries, and they're trying to please God with their actions and things, but it's faith. And so before I can be be watch, before I can be a benefactor of his reward, I gotta believe that he is. Faith helps us I'm not just talking about a chair. For he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. The evidence this morning that there's God is that Because I don't want you just running around talking about, oh, I'm gonna do this by faith, because a whole lot of people run around by faith claiming cars, houses, and God never promised you that. This whole phrase is Science says this chair is made of metal, wood, plastic. There's a whole lot of evidences of his existence. Do you realize that there is power that we have that is unactivated without faith? Jacob blessed Joseph and his sons. And so faith allows us I stand here, God, in a desire to be the very oracle of God that you might speak through this vessel of clay. You have said it in your mind, I'm too old. By faith, Jesus went to the cross, shed his blood, died, was buried in a tomb Because without any of those that I spoke into existence, you don't have a chair. Do you believe God I am the one. So what you're trying to do is you're trying to explain to me how this happened without faith, but I need faith to believe what you're saying I've got a home not made with hands. Sarah had a promise from God By faith you activate that power. You have disqualified the promises of God by your intellect. And the only something that I need is my word. How'd the choir know I needed that this morning? If he didn't believe his father, he would have never got up. I know it's a sad time. Now, God, I yield myself as a vessel and instrument in your hand to accomplish your will on this day. That was evidence that there is a God. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message If God has given you a promise, He's a God you can trust. Faith allows your soul to enjoy right now Enoch had the testimony that he pleased God. You're able to get through some things that you didn't even think that you could get through by faith To register and for more information, please visit our website, Kettering Ministries. The good testimony here in the text is the good testimony as it relates to God. Do you believe that you're supposed to walk around with your head held high But I can't have a good testimony if I don't execute faith. And we are to believe that all of that happened randomly You have to now activate faith Yeah, I went through it, but I've been through it. But it's sufficient enough to prove your case. He's able to say it by faith in his father. In this text, as we open it up, it begins. And not only do they exist Faith allows me to stand flat-footed and He can work that out. But before I can believe in the reward part, because we like the rewards, Lord, I pray that if there's anybody that doesn't know you and the pardon of their sin So I've got to have faith in order to do that. I'm talking about your life. He's my joy. But listen to me, by faith you're gonna smile again because weeping might endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. And then there was Joshua Sarah by faith conceived when she was way past childbearing age. But to you and I, faith allows us to understand So I gotta have faith that somehow you got the evidence from somewhere. For he who comes to God must believe that he is. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist. Faith allows me to please God. Joseph by faith prophesied Because an unbeliever can do the deeds, but the unbeliever does the deeds without the faith in God. We'll begin our reading at verse 1. Now, a testimony is typically to bear witness of the events that have occurred. Faith says, without seeing Thank you for your word, God. Because God is a spirit. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. You're able to pray and watch them recover by faith. org. The people of God said together, Amen. Y'all still hear? You're never going to see that promise fulfilled until faith is activating it. That guess what? So faith benefits Now, let me help you walk through some things that you saw this morning. And Father, if there's anybody or anything that's hindering us from hearing from you today. And sometimes our faith is working against us because we're putting faith in things that are keeping us down. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling North There is a God. Now he's bringing you their stories. He's my peace. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. I'm gonna activate the power of God I realize now all this stuff could not be happening randomly. The One Degree of Andy podcast. I don't need all those components. And I'm flesh, and so I can't see Him. I'm on the other side of it. Without faith, I can't please God. Faith allows me to believe that there is a God. It's not my deeds Are y'all still here? I'm trying to move you from intellect to faith. By faith, we receive eternal life. I'm Andy Christman. Eternal Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. I just speak the components into existence. org. Faith In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. God That's a great question. m. org. By faith. It's called the sun. If you love Christian music, this We thank you in advance But if you miss