Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message Ephesians chapter four, beginning at verse seventeen, God's word reads as follows This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord That you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk in the futility of their mind, having their understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God. because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart, who being past feeling have given themselves over to lewdness. to work all uncleanness with greediness, but you have not so learned Christ. If indeed you have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus that you put off concerning the former conduct of the old man which grows corrupt according to the deceitful lust And be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that you put on the new man which was created according to God in true righteousness and holiness. Therefore, putting away lying Let each one speak truth with his neighbor, for we are members of one another. Be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your wrath, nor give place to the devil. Let him who stole steal no longer, but rather let him labor working with his hands what is good, that he may have something to give to him who has need. Let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth, but what is good for necessary edification, that it may impart grace to the hearers. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and evil speaking Be put away from you with all malice, and be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ forgave you. Amen. That's the Saul Hill Decline. Pray with us. Father, we love you. We honor you. We thank you for another great and glorious day. Thank you for the opportunity to preach your word. I pray God that even in this moment and this hour that you would hear allow us to be uh hearers of the word and doers of the word. And I pray, God, in the preaching of this gospel, that it would It would transcend from eternity past to eternity present that we might find ourselves walking in the text. That we might find ourselves hearing from you fresh, new. That the word God might penetrate all the things and barriers that we may have put up to not hear from you and not be able to impart change. But Lord, I pray through the preaching of this gospel today that someone who may not know you May come to know you in a personal way. Someone may come back to that relationship they once had with you, that they might renew the broken fellowship. The Father, somebody may be edified, and that the body of Christ might grow in grace and in wisdom and understanding of you. Lord, we stand in need of you. And in this very moment I stand in need of you. To be used by you as a vessel in your hand to accomplish your will, I surrender all to you, God. Have your own way in this preaching moment. Give me what I stand in need of, the clarity of thought, speech, and physical ability to deliver your word in a way that pleases you. In Jesus' name. Amen. I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter, Walking Brand New. Because once you have Become righteous. The next step is to walk brand new. We don't want you to be brand, we don't want you to be righteous and still walking the way you used to walk. So we want you to walk with a new swag. Amen. We want you to represent, Amen, the uh the designer who has designed the garments you wearing. Well Paul says if we're going to walk brand new, the first thing we need to do is reject the look of the unrighteous. It's here in the text, look at verse seventeen. It says, This I say therefore in testifying the Lord that you should no longer walk As the rest of the Gentiles walked in the futility of their mind and having their understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God because of their ignorance. That is in them, and because of the blindness of their hearts. You should no longer walk like the Gentiles. Now that you're saved, you shouldn't be walking and you shouldn't be looking and acting like the unbelievers, the unsaved. Because they walk in the futility of their mind. They walk believing that whatever they come up with is gonna help them or be better or do better, but it doesn't. The end of the futility of their mind is emptiness and bitterness and pain and sadness. And they're walking in that and they're chasing after After this this dream and they're chasing it and they never can be satisfied. If I could just give me a moment, in the futility of your mind, you think if I If I get a certain salary, I'm gonna be happy. And that's the futility of the mind because you get that salary and you still ain't happy. In the futility of your mind, you think if I get married, I'm gonna be fulfilled. And you get married and you still not fulfilled. And the futility of your mind, you say, Well, you know, if I if I live in a certain house, if I wear certain clothes, if I if I have a certain certain car, I'm gonna be somebody and I'll feel fulfilled. But The futility of your mind is telling you that these fleshly, earthly, temporary things is going to bring you satisfaction to a soul that's empty, dead, and longing for Christ. That's what the futility of the mind would would do. And so Paul says that we we shouldn't be walking like that no more That that's that's not that shouldn't be our attitude, that shouldn't be our look. In the futility of our mind, because in the futility of the mind, listen, he says, they have their understanding darkened The text says. They can't understand what it takes to be satisfied, so they chase all these things to try to be satisfied. He goes on to say, he says, not only has their understanding darkened, but they've been alienated from the life of God. When you have no spiritual life, all you have is fleshly stuff. When there's nothing spiritual, everything is fleshly, and you put all the value on fleshly stuff. And Paul says that's not the walk. That's we need to reject that look. We need to walk away from that Yeah, no, that's not that's not the lifestyle that we ought to reflect. We shouldn't reflect the lifestyle of ignorance of God We shouldn't reflect a lifestyle of being alienated from God where we don't we're not even close to God. We don't even have a life in God. No, that's not the look of the righteous. That's not the walk that we ought to have. That's not the way we ought to project. If we want to if you want to walk brand new, you need to reject that look. I mean when somebody wants to dress you up in that time, nah, that's not my style. When someone wants to put on you the old man and they want you to live like you used to live. And they want you to swag like you used to swag. You need to reject those clothes and say, no, that unfit my new righteous lifestyle. And what I'm talking about, I'm not talking about your natural clothes. I'm talking about the man, the new man that ultimately you need to be putting on. So watch this. So we need to reject that old man His old style, who was ignorant to God, who had no life in God, and stopped trying to live like the old man. And can I help somebody right here? I know I'm uh just stuff keep dropping. Um Don't worry about people because people's opinions did not make you righteous. It was the blood of Jesus who sacrificed his life and gave his life to make you righteous. So your your mentality ought to be: I need to please him. And not you. And so we got to reject that old man's look. That's the first step. We're gonna walk brand new. We're gonna walk brand new. We gotta reject the look of the unrighteous. That shouldn't be what we're we're living toward. Look at verse 18, 19. They've got the understanding dark and they're alienated from God because they have an ignorance because of the blindness of their hearts. Watch this. Who being past feeling. They can no longer, they can't feel the condemnation of sin no more. It doesn't bother them to do certain things. Because they have no spiritual righteousness. And so because they had their past feeling, they've given themselves over to continuously doing unrighteous things. Let me see what the text is. Let me make sure I got this right. Verse 19. Being past filling, they've given themselves over to lewdness, to work uncleanness with greediness. I'm just reading the text. But I'm trying to help us understand that ought not to look like us. That's the mentality we need to reject as children of God. If we're going to walk brand new, if we're going to pursue righteous living, we've got to reject. The look of the unrighteous. So it ought not be in us to have this greediness and lewdness. This uncontrollable uncleanness, unrighteous living, and unrighteous attitudes and unrighteous behavior. If you look like and act like the unsaved world, something's wrong. Y'all stay here? And in fact, if I'm pursuing righteous living, I need to be rejecting unrighteous looks. Let me move you on to the second one Secondly, Paul says you need to remember the lessons to the righteous. Let me pick up in verse number 20. He says, but you have not so learned Christ. So you didn't learn Christ that way to live the old way. No, that's not how you learn Christ. In fact, if indeed you have heard Him and have been taught by Him as the truth is in Jesus Then he comes and tells you what to do. Put off concerning the former conduct, the old man. Take them old clothes off. It continues to grow corrupt according to deceitful lusts. Deceitful lusts. Lusts that don't satisfy. Lusts that are lying to you. Lord help me God. There's a whole lot of people that spend a lot of their life and get to the end of life and realize all the stuff they were chasing was a lie. They didn't abandon their family, they didn't abandon their children, they ain't had time for nobody else, and they got to the end of the road and found out man I wasted my whole life trying to get this job, trying to be somebody, trying to get a title, trying to get a degree, trying to whatever, whatever, whatever, only to get to To the end and realize It did not satisfy. Empty, vain, deceitful lust that cause you to re cause you to chase after, chase after, chase after. Can I throw this in because it's right after Christmas? Because one of these deceitful lust is this lust we have to keep getting more of what we already have too much of. Amen, Jesus. Y'all don't know what I'm talking about It's like the you know like you got that box of clothes that all the stuff you got for Christmas and the ones that you bought for yourself. I'm not preaching nobody but myself Because I buy my own stuff before Christmas. Like just before Christmas is like it seems like all the good stuff comes out just before Christmas. And I don't depend on other people because I can't trust that they gonna get what I really want. So I just buy my own stuff I'm just being honest. And then after I get all this stuff, I'm like, where am I put it? I'm not the only one, Emma. You got all this stuff in here. Okay, now you either gotta clean out some old stuff or you gotta find a new hiding place or a new a new storage place to put all this stuff. It's deceitful See for lust. We're lusting, lusting, lusting after more and more and more, and we think it's gonna bring something. And all it brings is a bill come January 30th. Y'all gonna find out. Y'all don't know what I'm talking about. Who charged $5,000? That was you. Deceitful lust. Y'all laugh about that one on the 30th when that bill comes Don't be fighting each other. Just laugh about it, okay? Just laugh. Say Pastor talked about this. Let's take this stuff back. He says, look, we gotta remember the lessons of the righteous. We gotta take off that old man and all his ways. It's just can growing corrupt day by day, more deceitful day by day. But he says something also here. He says When you what you learn was to take off the old man, but he says he says in verse twenty-two, put off concerning the former conduct of the old man which grows more corrupt according to deceitful lust And be renewed in the spirit of your mind. You were taught when you came into Christ that you needed to renew your mind. Philippians 2. 5 says, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. That's what we were encouraged to do. We've got to have a transformed mind. perfect and acceptable will of God. That's what we were taught. We were taught to have a renewed mind because the mind is the battlefield of your actions Help me, Lord Jesus. There's a warfare going on in your mind to control your heart and to control your actions. Help me, Lord. And so that's where the battlefield is. And if you don't renew your mind, if you don't have a transformed mind, you're gonna keep walking the old way, even though you might be righteous. You will have been declared righteous. You have the imputed righteousness of Christ. But if you don't renew your mind, you'll still live and in the old clothes. You'll still be wearing the old man around. You'll still be reminding people 30 years, 40 years after you got saved, you'll still be reminding people. I still got this old man in here. You know, you still wearing him. You ain't never took him off. Some people like to talk about their BC days before Christ. No, you still live in like the same old way. But he says, no, we we need to remember what the scripture has taught us, what we've learned from Christ. What do we learn from his word? What do we learn from his actions? It's a renewal of the mind. It's a renewing of the mind. We've got to renew our mind. And the mind of our spirit. And watch this. And that you put on the new man. Which was created according to God in true righteousness and holiness. So here it is. Paul says, you need to change clothes. Take off the old man Put him aside. Pack him up. Send him the goodwill. Give him the salvation army. Take him back to the grave or somewhere. Get rid of him and put on the new clothes. Put on the new man that is in the image of Christ and after the likeness of Christ, who has the righteousness of Christ and is holy. Put him on and live according to that. So watch so we gotta remember these lessons of the Lord. Because this new man was created according to God in true righteousness. And so if I'm going to walk brand new, I've got to put on a new man Pastor, when you say put on the new man, what do you mean? Well first of all, again, I gotta renew my mind. How do I renew my mind? Well Again, I said the mind is the battlefield, right? And what is it that triggers our mind to move certain ways? I'm glad you asked. If we get into this this thing called the B-I-B-L-E Yeah, that's the book for me. If we get into if we get into that in the word of God and begin reading the word of God, I know it's brand new 2020. 2026, I'm gonna read the Bible more. Okay. I'm gonna matter of fact, I'm gonna read the whole Bible in 2026. If that's your goal, read the whole Bible, but let the Bible read you. Y'all missed that. Oh yeah, it's good to read the whole Bible and put a check mark. Oh, I read the whole Bible, but what good is it if you read the whole Bible and didn't let the Bible read you? You didn't look into the Bible as a mirror that would show you your reflection. It's like a man getting up looking at himself in the mirror and acting like he didn't see that there were crust in his eyes, that his hair needed to be fixed, that his teeth hadn't been brushed. Come on here When we read the Word of God, it's like looking into a mirror. The mirror is showing us how filthy we are, how far we are from looking like Christ. It's the mirror that tells us you need some adjustment. And it helps me adjust my thinking about who I am. Lord help me, God. I'm not special just because I dress up. I'm not special just because I got a certain car or live in a certain community. There's a lot of wicked people in big communities and driving fancy cars. And I ain't gonna, I'm not just saying that they got a lot of them everywhere. They driving busted hoopies hoopies too. But I got to renew my mind by getting into the Word of God and letting the Word of God shape me and change me and help me to see the error of my ways. Because while I'm wearing the old man, I can't see the error of my ways. I am not convicted by sin. I don't care that I hurt somebody's feelings. No, in the old man, that's my nature And it's a nature against God, but the new man that's created after Christ allows me to start to think like Christ, act like Christ, respond like Christ Y'all still here with me? To walk brand new, like I'm in Christ. And that's what Paul is trying to help us to understand here. We've got this challenge in front of us To walk brand new, but we've got to we've got to first of all reject the old walk of the look of the unrighteous, and we've got to we've got to remember the lessons to the righteous. That we've learned from the Lord. And finally, and I'm out of your way, we've got to respect the link of the righteous. When you say link, what are you talking about, Pastor? We're linked together. Look at verse 25. Therefore, put away lying and let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor. Why? For we are members of one another. We're linked together. By the Holy Spirit. Let me see if I can help us here. When you got saved You got saved by the same Holy Spirit that saved me. And when I got saved, it's the same Holy Spirit that saved somebody who got saved yesterday. And last week and tomorrow. Same Holy Spirit. Because watch this: it is the Holy Spirit of God who baptizes us. The word baptize means to immerse or put into. Baptismo, it means to put into. It is the Holy Spirit that put us into one body And that one body is called Christ. Y'all still here? So we together are one body in Christ Jesus. We're one body in Christ Jesus. We're all linked together. Whether we're white, black, Asian, Hispanic, green, yellow, purple, no matter what color you are Don't matter what size of the tracks you come from, whether you're rich, whether you're poor, whether you're Greek, whether you're Hebrew, whether you're Russian, doesn't We're all one body in Christ Jesus. All one. All one. We've been baptized. We've been put together in one body by the Holy Spirit. We're connected together. By the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity, who also is Christ. Y'all still here? So we're all connected as one body in Christ. And so what Paul says, which was a hard hammer hit, it's almost like taking a bat hitting somebody in the stomach. He says, stop lying to each other. Because you're linked together. So if I lie to you and you're in the body, who am I lying to? I'm lying to myself, but I'm lying Through the connection, the link, I'm not respecting the link that we have. We in the same body. I'm lying through the Holy Spirit And I'm lying to you, and I'm lying to me, right? Because I'm disrespecting the fact that we're one body. Y'all still here? Now, he's gonna give us a list of things. That should help us think through this. Paul says, He says, Let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members of one another. So don't lie, speak the truth. Be honest with one another. Speak the truth. Watch this. Be angry and do not sin. This isn't telling you to be angry, it's saying since you go it's gonna happen, you will become angry. When you're angry, don't sin. Being angry is not the sin. That's just a natural flow of emotion. Emotion will happen. But it's what you do when you're angry that creates and causes the sin. That's why he says, be angry, but don't sin. And listen to this. Don't let the sun go down on your wrath. Don't hold on to it Don't hold on to your anger. Don't hold on to your anger. Don't hold on to it all day, all night. Don't let the sun go up and down, up and down. Don't hold on to your anger Praise the Lord! You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. Or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church. church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent forty plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing You, their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-built conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.