Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucha Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message in its entirety. Kettering Baptist Church is partnering with Larry Rosenthal of Making Money Sense to provide a two-part financial class on Wednesday, March 25th and April 1st At 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, there is no cost to attend. To register and for more information, please visit our website, Kettering Ministries. org. And now Pastor Sterling. I want to invite your attention to First Kings chapter 19. We'll begin our reading at verse 1. The word of the Lord reads as follows. And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, also how he had executed all the prophets with the edge of the sword. Then Jezebel sent a message to Elijah, saying, So let the gods do to me and more also, if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by to morrow about this time. And when he saw that, he arose and ran for his life, and went to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and he left his servant there But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a broom tree, and he prayed that he might die, and said, It is enough. Now, Lord, take my life, for I am no better than my father's. Then as he lay and slept under the broom tree, suddenly an angel touched him and said to him, Arise and eat Then he looked and thereby his head was a cake baked on coals and a jar of water And so he ate and he drank and he lay down again. And the angel of the Lord came back a second time and touched him and said, Arise and eat, because the journey is too far for you So he arose and he ate and he drank and he went and in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights as far as Horeb, the mountain of God. And there he went into a cave, and he spent the night in that place. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him and said to him, What are you doing here, Elijah? Father, I need you on this day that you might allow the power of your presence to manifest itself through the preaching of the gospel. Lord, I want to be used as your vessel to accomplish your will that if there's anybody that is not in a personal intimate relationship with you that the gospel might draw them to say yes I surrender to you, Jesus. I'm praying, God, that you would use me as a vessel in your hand to accomplish your will, that if there's any, Lord God, who are drifting in their fellowship, that today, God, they might hear your word. And be drawn back into alignment with you and fellowship with you. Father, speak a word that this body might be edified and encouraged on this day, that we might know that you are still God. You're still sitting on the throne, and there's nothing too hard for you. Father, I pray that you would remove any barriers that might be present, any spiritual Entities or wickedness or principalities that might be hindering us from hearing your word. God, pull down the walls that we've built up. To keep us from being penetrated by the truth of your word. Holy Spirit, move in this place and unleash your power for healing, for deliverance, for victory in the lives of your people. It's in the mighty name of Jesus who is the Christ I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. Have your own way now, God. In Jesus' name. Amen. This text tells the story of the prophet Elijah who had prayed three and a half years ago. And at that time of prayer, he said, Stop the rain. And in fact, he told the king Ahab, it's not going to rain again until I say so. I just want you to kind of understand the power that this guy is dealing with. He not only stopped the rain, but he's been battling with Ahab and Jezebel and the prophets of Baal. He had just challenged the prophets of Baal to prove who was really God. Was Baal God or was God God? after putting the oxen and all the sacrifices upon the altar, he let them dance around and shout and scream and cut themselves, and then after having a Holy Ghost funny time with them, he called down fire from heaven. And the fire came down from heaven and not only consumed every ox that was on the altar and every bit of the offering, but it also consumed the rocks and the dirt and the dust and everything that was around the altar Everything was consumed by the fire that fell from God. Then Elijah took the sword and he commenced to kill 400 plus prophets of Baal. By himself. It was on that day that he turned back around and he said to King Ahab as he prayed to God, God, okay, let it rain. And he told Ahab, it's getting ready to rain. You might want to get on your horse and your chariot and go on back before the rain comes. Because once the rain comes, it's going to be so muddy and so messy you won't be able to get back to where you're going to King Ahab took off with his horses and chariots. Elijah girded his loins, in other words, he lifted up his robe and took off running. Elijah outran the horses and the chariot. And he beat Ahab to Jezreel. And now he's at this place where he gets there to Jezreel and and Ahab, he goes and tell his wife, you know what Elijah did? He killed all the prophets of Baal. And so she got mad and told sent a message to Elijah. Elijah, if I don't have your life by tomorrow this time, then let my gods do to me what you did to those prophets. Elijah takes off and runs for his life. But Elijah gets to a place where he declares loudly, I'm tired of fighting With Baal and tired of pulling down altars of Baal and tired of dealing with Ahab and Jezebel. I'm tired of waiting on God. I'm tired. Of going through all these processes and and nothing seems to be changing, and I still have to fight. Elijah just says, look, I've had enough. Enough is enough Just want to take a few moments and talk to us on today from the subject matter when you are tired of the fight. But here in this text If we look at Elijah's situation, it tells us that when you're tired of the fight, one of the first things you have a tendency to do is run. Verse 3, when he saw that he arose and ran for his life. After all the fighting that he had done, every battle that comes his way, he wins. But yet he still gets tired. And after fighting all these years, even with all this supernatural ability that he has, when he gets this message, this threat From Jezebel, something clicks. He's not afraid of Jezebel. He just killed all her prophets. Sometimes it's that last straw. I just can't take no more. I'm tired of the fight. That's where Elijah is. And so he ran. Tired of being in the midst of the fight. Tired of his life being defined by fighting. I'm talking to somebody right here. Your whole life struggle one fight after another after another after another. You came to church this morning to get away from some fights. We just say, I've had enough. I'm out of here. And we run for our life. Elijah ran 100 miles from Jezreel, where he got the threat, from Jezebel to Beersheba is a hundred miles. He finally gets away. I'm running, he's running, running, running. He said the text says he's running for his life And sometimes after we finally run and get as far as we can away from the fight, what we want to get away from is we want to get away from people We want to get away from church sometimes, God sometimes, because we sometimes attribute the struggle to God. And so we want to get as great a distance from the situation as we possibly can. And we run. And we run for our life, the life that we want to have without struggle. Free from the pain, free from carrying everybody else's weight. I'm tired But he runs for his life, and he's running to get away from all of that. But listen to me, I want you to hear this. The enemy wants you to run. Because if I can get you to run away from where you're supposed to be. I'm keeping you out of the will of God. The latter part of verse 3 says And he left his servant there, but he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness. The second thing we do when we're tired of the fight, we isolate Says to his servant, the person who's supposed to be helping him, you stay here. And he goes another day's journey, which is about another 25 more miles, into the wilderness. He's literally trying to get away from everybody. So Elijah runs and he isolates. He begins to isolate himself. And he and we do the same thing. We don't want to hear from people. We uh we start isolating ourselves from people. We isolate from our parents, we isolate from our children, we isolate from our siblings, we isolate from our friends, we isolate from the people that are supposed to be there to help us. Because guess what? I don't want your advice. I don't want you to encourage me to go back into the fight. Because you're gonna be like coming to me with that spiritual stuff. You well, you know the Lord I don't want to hear about the Lord. The Lord could have fixed this and He didn't. So I'm tired. And I don't want to hear. I don't want your scripture memory verse. Leave me alone. I'm tired. I just want to get away from everybody and everything. I'm done. That's what Elijah says. He's tired. He's worn out. And he's a mighty man, prophet of God Who's been walking in the power of God, watching God do amazing and incredible and impossible things. If someone in his position with that kind of anointing on his life could get tired. Who do we think we are? You think you ain't gonna get tired just because you're a Christian? We get tired too. You think just because I'm the pastor and I gotta preach every day, you think I don't get tired? I get tired too We gotta be careful in that tiredness of the fight what we do. The enemy wants you to get away from the house of God. The family. He wants to isolate you from the people who care about you and the people who are there to help you. And so the enemy likes this. So if I can get you isolated, I can mess you up. I can destroy you if I isolate you. Because if I isolate you, you've got nobody to bounce anything off of If I isolate you, you got nobody to pray for you. He wants you to believe you can do this by yourself. And you can't. That's why God gave you help. That's why God put people around you. But he wants you to isolate yourself. So Elijah isolates himself and he he just ran out into the wilderness. Watch this to save his life. I want you to see something. I want you to see the mentality that's working on the backside. Because on the front side, he's running for his his life, but in his actions, he's doing everything to kill himself. People die in the wilderness by themselves. People die in the wilderness of sin running from God. People die when they are apart from God. Verse 4, he says, He prayed that he might die. Wait a minute, Elijah. I thought you were running for your life. Now you're asking God to take your life. Does this make sense to you? If I'm running for my life, why do I run 125 miles away from where I was And now ask God to take my life. It's because what the enemy is doing to you when you're tired is he's causing you to do what seems logical to you, but is ultimately leading to your destruction. The perspective of Elijah is way off. Listen, listen to what he says. He says, It's enough now, Lord, take my life, for I am no better than my father's. What do you talk about Elijah? My father's trying to get rid of Baal. Didn't happen. I've been working trying to get rid of Baal I killed all the prophets. I called down fire from heaven. I've done all this stuff. I stopped the rain. I proved to Ahab that you are God. But guess what? I'm still fighting. I'm still fighting this fight with God and Baal. Why Because it's not your fight, Elijah. This battle's not yours. God has just blessed you to be in the middle of it. I know that sounds funny, doesn't it? Well, God, unbless me. No, no, no. I'm blessing you to be in the midst of it because while you're in the midst of it, I'm growing you up to look like me. You can't be victorious unless you go through the battle. You can't learn to trust me until you got nobody else You can't understand my full power and my full plan until you walk through the valley of the shadow of death. Then you can say I'll fear no evil. I'm blessing you to grow in the wisdom of God and the strength of God. You've got to go through some stuff. If you never get tired, you'll never need my strength. We ought to get to the place and say, Lord, I thank you that I'm exhausted. I thank you, God, that I can't take no more. I thank you, God, that you've moved me to this place where I'm ready to give up because now I'm turning it all over to you. Listen to me, when you get to that place where you can't take no more, you gotta turn that over to God. Ain't nothing else you can do. But watch this. But while you're going through it, as much and how and as spiritual as you are, you You you've been dabbling in it, you've been meddling in it, you've been trying to do your own thing, you've been carrying stuff on your own shoulder, you've been stressing out, you've been worrying about this and worrying about that, troubling everybody. You've been going through that, and then and then it gets to the point where you Can't take it no more. That's when God does his best work. When you say I can't do it no more, then God says, okay, I got you I got you baby. I'm I'm gonna carry you right here. I'm I'm gonna take care of this. Let just let me have it. Turn it over to me. Verse five picks up he says, And then as he lay s and he slept under the broom tree, there suddenly was an angel that touched him and said to him, Arise and eat. He looked up above his head and there was a cake baked there, coals on the fire, and then he's got a jar of water and all that and he's looking good to go. So when you're tired of the fight, one you run for your life. Two you isolate, which is not good Three, you get touched and strengthened by God. Elijah is at his last wit, his end, he's run all this way, he lays down under a broom tree. In verse 4, he's praying, he's giving up, all that stuff is happening, and God sends an angel. To touch him. What I appreciate about God is that He lets you get your rest. He knows you need it And then he sends this angel to the Lord, and the angel of the Lord touches him. Now don't overestimate touch. Touch is powerful. Touch awakens. you Elijah is sleep and the touch of the angel awakens him but the touch also transfers power to him This angel touches Elijah in his brokenness, in his weakness, in his depression, in his tiredness, and it empowers him with the power of God. Spiritually, he gets the spiritual empowerment, but then physically he gives him bread and water. So he gets up, he eats the bread, he drinks the water. Now, if anybody's been really, really tired, after you wake up You eat, you drink, what's gonna happen? Exactly what happened in the text. He went right back to sleep. Itis kicked right in, boom He's physically tired. So he's being restored, refreshed. He gets the water and the and the cake and he eats that. And then and then verse 7: the angel of the Lord came back a second time, touched him And said to him, Arise and eat, because the journey is too great for you. I need you to know that we're not finished yet And as tired as you are, God will touch you and strengthen you. So you can make it. You're gonna make it You're going to make it. The devil is a liar. He's the one telling you you can't make it. But God is going to give you what you need. You are going to make it I I need to talk into your life. Stop stop stop pr pretending like you sanctimonious. You need to hear this. You are going to make this, which means How you get to the next leg of the journey is going to be of necessity that you rely on God It's too great for you, but it's not too great for God. It's too great for you, Elijah. He arose, he ate, he drank, and he went in the strength Of that food, that bread that God had given him, which is the bread of life, 40 days And 40 nights he goes in that strength. My mind is taking me to Jesus after his baptism. He's in the wilderness for 40 days, and 40 nights, and the Bible says, and he was tempted But I need to take y'all somewhere else because this wilderness that Elijah is in is the same wilderness that Israel is in for 40 years. And for 40 years, God fed Israel with the bread of life. I'm trying to help somebody right about here. If God can sustain five million people in the middle of the wilderness, don't you think He can handle taking care of the world? Bread for you? Don't you think he can give you strength to make it through this next leg of the journey? Here's the problem with all this, and all the strength That he has, Elijah takes off and he goes another 200 miles, 40 days, 40 nights. He travels, he's running, still running. And and so he gets to this mountain. It's 200 miles away. He goes from Beersheba to Mount Horeb. Mount Horeb is another name for Mount Sinai. Mount Sinai is the place where Moses met God on the mountain. Elijah runs there to that mountain of God. And what does he do? Does he go up on the mountain and start, you know, raising his hands and saying, Thank you, Jesus, and praying and all that? No. Even after all of this You know where he goes? In a cave. This is the text. So he arose, he ate, and he drank, and he went in the strength of that forty days and forty nights as far as Mount Horeb. The mountain of God, and there he went into a cave. What do depressed people do? They want dark places, don't they? He's still trying to get away from people. He's in a cave, and he spent the night in the place, in that place, and behold, the word of the Lord came to him. The word is also the bread. So he had forty days worth of bread Now the bread comes in the form of the word. And notice something here in the text. It says the word of the Lord came to him and he. The word is described as he. In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. He Showed up in the wilderness in a cave where Elijah was running, where Elijah was isolating, and he touched Elijah. God will use the word to touch you in your tiredness, to wake you up in your tiredness, to strengthen You in your tiredness to let you know you can outrun God. I'm still with you, I'm still beside you. And the word came to Elijah in the cave and said to Elijah What are you doing here? Elijah, this ain't where I told you to go. This is not where you're supposed to be. Elijah, I've strengthened you. I've fed you. I've encouraged you. And you're still running. What are you doing here? Here's my question to you. What are you doing here? Why are you standing in a cave? In the cleft of a cave? Why are you sleeping through everything? Why why are you here? Where you want to run for your life, why are you ready to give up? Why are you not trusting the God who has proven to you over and over and over and over again, I do not lose. I do not fail. I have unending power. So why are you here? It's a powerful question. It's a provocative question. For Elijah, because Elijah, you've now run another 200 miles, and you're still in a cave Hiding. And Elijah, you were supposed to be going to anoint somebody, but you you done took a whole nother course. And you're way off track. But the patience of God, the grace of God. Gives him the opportunity and gives you the opportunity to answer the question. Why are you here? No, think about it though. When we're tired, we're vulnerable to do things to try to satisfy and pacify ourselves, which we know are wrong. That's a trick of the devil. Why are you here? Stay in the fight. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed. by today's message. Financial contributions in support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance. For uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web, please visit our website at Kettering Ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our spirit-filled worship services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center located at 6909 Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website Facebook and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries. org. or contact our church office at 301-627-9500. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling the Third and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman of 4Him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist. Personally, now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with the voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this This is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy Podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.