Andy Christman, a four-him, has spent 40 plus years in Christian music, and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. I'm Andy Christman. In his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a boy. Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts. Welcome to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church, where we minister in the spirit of excellence. Under the leadership of our anointed senior pastor, Bucas Sterling III. Please stay tuned at the end of this broadcast for information on how to obtain a copy of today's message The word of the Lord from Matthew chapter six and verse thirty-three reads as follows but seek first the kingdom of God. And his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. Pray with me. Father, we honor you on this morning for your word. For your worship, for the presence and power of your Holy Spirit. Even now, God, as we stand to declare your word, we stand in need of you. That your presence might manifest itself through the preaching of the gospel, to the tearing down of strongholds, to the redeeming of the loss, to the reclaiming of the drifter. Father, let your will and your way be accomplished in this place in an extraordinary way. A way in which only you can get the glory and the honor and the praise. But Father, as I stand, stand up in me. Give me strength and give me ability to clearly articulate your word Allow me, God, to be a vessel in your hands who accomplish your will in an excellent way. And we will forever give your name all the glory and all the honor and all the praise. For it is in Jesus' name that I pray with thanksgiving and expectation. And all the people of God said together, Amen. Amen. Praise the name of the Lord. Well Catherine, we have been on a journey of preaching through a series of messages entitled Pursuing Righteous Living, which is going to be our theme for 2026, Pursuing Righteous living. We began our journey in Romans chapter 10. We share with you that in order to pursue righteous living, you gotta begin by becoming righteous. And the only way we can become righteous is by placing our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. We have to repent of sin, place our faith in him. And invite him as Savior and Lord of our life. You have to have that first if you're going to pursue the righteous living. Secondly, as we were in part two, we were in Ephesians chapter 4. And you said once you've accepted Christ as your personal Savior, you've been declared righteous before Him in eternity. You want to walk brand new? We share with you how to walk brand new. We got to put away the old man and put on the new man. Amen Amen. Praise the Lord. And last week when we were together, we looked at Romans chapter 7, and we spoke there from the subject matter, the struggle within. There indeed is a struggle within, and we looked at the dilemma that we have to deal with, and the discovery, and also ultimately deliverance. Who's going to deliver me from this body of death? And we know that our deliverance comes through the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. We're going to deal with this struggle as long as we have this flesh because this flesh wants to do what it wants to do. But we now have the Spirit of God living in us that gives us the ability, amen, to serve God, to pursue God, and to live righteously for God. Are y'all still here with me? Amen. I want to start off today by saying we are living today in a very, very, very different time than we were about a year ago. Amen somebody. Things have changed drastically. Things have have uh shaken us up and uh Confused us and angered us and frustrated us and people are going through a whole lot of different uh issues and concerns uh that they wasn't even concerned with a year ago But yet here we are. And we can't blame it on one person. We got to understand that God is still in control. Amen, somebody. And so we wanna we wanna kinda dig into this because what I realize is that in these uncertain times that we have, we have uh people that are concerned about their careers, their jobs, their livelihoods, the the risks that are involved with them. There's uncertainty and seem like every w which way we turn. I was talking to somebody yesterday and they were telling me about some electric bills that they had gotten that was over a thousand dollars and for one month. And I was like, oh my God, you talk about some unexpected news. That's unexpected news right there And I mean we have just so many things that are going on in terms of just uncertainty with the changing winds of government and artificial intelligence and the economy and wondering if we can pay our bills and can we pay the mortgage and can I afford health insurance and and And am I going to get sick? And if I get sick, do I go to the hospital? If I go to the hospital, can I afford the medicine that they give me? And on and on and on and on and on the story goes. I don't know if I'm the only one that's tuning in and knowing what's happening, but these are things that are hitting us day by day. Amen. Praise the Lord. And so as we are going through this difficult enough times, it seems like our government has just gone off the rails in terms of what's legal and what's insane insane. I don't know about you, I'm just reading the ties. Amen. It just seems like they've gone off the rails. I mean I mean trying to figure out is uh what where are we living? I mean sometimes I gotta wake up and check up, check myself out. Am I still in America or where am I Amen. We got all kinds of things going on, and all of these things that are going on are creating stresses on us. They're creating anxiety on us. The counselors need counselors. Because they're overwhelmed with the number of people who are finding themselves with mental health challenges and mental health concerns and stressing out The hospitals are overflowed and overrunning with people who are dealing with heart attacks and strokes and stress and anxiety. It's just a permeating uh predicament of our culture today that we really weren't in about a year ago. And so what I realized is that we're not always handling those things well and we're trying to figure out what exactly do we do. Well, in this particular passage, this passage That Jesus is speaking in is literally what I would call a culminating resolution statement to help us to understand how to win the battle over worry. Y'all still here? I want to talk to you on this morning from the subject matter winning the warfare of worry. Winning the warfare over worry is if I can say it this way, it's a benefit of pursuing righteous living. You'll catch up in just a little bit. It's a benefit. It's a benefit. Because as I have probably been preaching about righteous living, and I'm sure that there's one, maybe two people along the way that have said, you know, well, Pastor, what's what's the sense Well wow why why why should I be trying to live all holy and trying to, you know, live for Christ and live all good and all that and everybody else is doing their own thing? And I mean I'm sure the enemy has whispered in your ear from time to time, even if it wasn't this week or last week or since I've been preaching this series of messages, where you were trying to do right, the enemy whispered in your ear, ain't nobody else trying to live like that. Why are you trying so hard? Anybody? And sometimes it causes you to let down your guard and you say, well, you know, I'm doing a little better than the next person. So I'm not doing so bad. Amen. That's a trick of the devil. But what the Lord says to us here, and through a series of conversations that he is having here in this particular passage in Matthew chapter Chapter 6, he culminates his argument with this statement: seek first the kingdom of God and its righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. Let me walk you through this winning the warfare of worry. It begins by seek first the kingdom of God. Now, to win the warfare of worry, your highest priority has to be seeking the kingdom of God. Y'all still here? That needs to be my highest priority. Not seeking more money, not seeking a better job, not seeking the right news station to listen to, not seeking clothes or or food or any of these other things. My highest priority if I'm going to win. In the warfare of worry has to be seeking the kingdom of God. Now, when I talk about seeking This idea of seeking is to look for it and to pursue it and to chase after it, or or if I can say search for it as if you were searching for a three-carat diamond that just dropped out of your pocket and fell on the floor somewhere. Now imagine that. You got this priceless diamond that you had and it has fallen somewhere or you've lost your wallet in the house or somewhere in the car, and there is a different level of seeking if the wallet has money in it or if the wallet is empty. Amen somebody. And the seeking that we're talking about is a full wallet with all the money in it. And so our pursuit, our seeking Seeking of the kingdom of God needs to be seeking in a sense that we're serious about it, we're committed to it, and it has taken priority over every other thing Seeking the kingdom of God. Now, here's the problem. Pastor, what does it mean to seek the kingdom of God? What is the kingdom of God Because as we read this, it says seek first the kingdom of God. And if 95% of you don't know what the kingdom of God is, then I'm just I'm just preaching in the air. Jesus himself is just talking in the air. If people don't know what the kingdom of God is And so I need to unpack that if I will. The kingdom of God, if I if you go back just a free a few chapters into chapter 3, verse 1, I believe it is, in chapter 3, verse 1, John the Baptist is on the scene. And he has one sermon, and he preaches the same sermon every day. He's in the wilderness, and people are going out to the wilderness to hear John the Baptist preach this one sermon. And his sermon is this, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Every day. That's his sermon. Repent. For the kingdom of heaven is at hand. What do we mean by the kingdom of heaven? Watch this. After John the Baptist gets locked up, Jesus takes up the mantry and he begins to preach the same message Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. So, Pastor, what is the kingdom of heaven? What is John the Baptist talking about What is Jesus talking about? The kingdom of heaven, this kingdom of God. What am I seeking? When they talk about the kingdom of heaven is at hand, they're talking about watch this. First of all, the presence of God When John the Baptist was preaching and declaring to the people of Jerusalem out in the wilderness, he was declaring to them that God has brought his presence to be amongst us. God has stepped out of glory, wrapped himself up in mortal flesh after taking off his royal diadem He has brought heaven into the realm of the earth, and he is here incarnate, God in flesh Amongst us. And John is declaring to all who will listen and all who will hear to fall on your face, turn away from your sin, because God's presence is here And he begins to declare that over and over again. And not only does John declare it, Jesus declares it. Jesus wants them to know: I'm here. The kingdom of heaven is here. The presence of God is here. But watch this: it's not just the presence of God. It's the rule and the reign and the authority of God is here. This one thing to be in the presence of God, but not under the rule and the reign of God. There are some days, it doesn't happen every Sunday, there are some days where the worship is so heavy in the sanctuary, where the cloud of the glory of God shows up in an extraordinary way. Now watch this. Everybody sitting under that cloud, but everybody under that cloud is not under his authority. Everybody under that cloud is not, watch this, under the reign of God. And so even though you can watch this, you can be in the presence of God but not surrender or submit to the reign and the authority of God. But what John the Baptist is talking about is that the authority of God The reign of God, the rule of God, and the presence of God is present. And so, what Jesus says to us here: if you're going to win the warfare over worry, you've got to get into And get under the presence and the power and the authority and the reign and the rule of God. Got to find his face. You've got to find his space. You've got to move out of the carnal into the spiritual. You've got to get in the realm where God dwells, and you've got to seek that realm, watch this, as a refuge. For your soul. Help me, Jesus. When I'm under the authority of God and under the reign of God and under the power of God and in the presence of God, there's nothing for me to worry about. For the Lord is my shepherd. I ain't got nothing to worry about. I have nothing to want. But when I I've got to, and so what Jesus says, look, the first priority, the highest priority is that we seek The kingdom of God, the presence of God, his power, his reign. I've got to seek getting in and under his authority. That means I've got to submit and come on in under. Lord help me, Jesus. One of the major issues that people have is that watch this. They seek the presence of God, but they don't want the submission to God. Lord help me God. In other words, I want to be saved, but I don't want to be sanctified. I want the ticket to heaven. But I don't want the submission to live like I'm going. I want to claim his name, but I don't want to act like I'm his child. Lord Jesus help me. I I want all the benefits, but I don't want the labor that goes along with it. I don't want the sacrifice. I don't want the submission. I don't want all of that. I just want what I can get out of it for me Lord help me, Jesus. And so, watch this. So when I reject the kingdom of God, I reject the peace of God. Because in and under his reign and his rule, there's peace. Y'all still here with me? And so he says, first of all, you've got to seek first As the highest priority, the kingdom of God. But here's something else. Look at your text, and it says, but seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness. Okay? Now, I'm going to say this and I'm going to have to explain it. So, my first point here is that you seek first the kingdom of God. Here's my second point. You seek first the righteousness of God. And I hear you already. Wait a minute, Pastor. If you have a first, anything after that has to be second, except when you have a conjunction. Y'all remember Electric Company? Conjunction Junction, what's your function? Hooking up clauses. Amen. Y'all remember that? So these are hooked up. Seeking the kingdom of God and seeking the righteousness of God are inseparable. They're coupled together So I have to not only seek the kingdom of God, if, watch this, if I'm going to win the warfare of worry, I have to seek both Watch this. I can seek one or the other, but if I want to win this warfare over worry, if I want to stop staying up at night, watching CNN Crying in my pillow, smoking cigarettes of all kinds. If I want to stop buying wine and all the other spirits. That I'm trying to use to calm me down, to eliminate my stress, to stop my worry. I have to seek not only the kingdom of God But I also have to couple my my highest priority of pursuit also is to seek the righteousness of God. Y'all see that? So seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. I need the righteousness of God and I need the kingdom of God. I need to be seeking both. I've got to be seeking to be righteous before God and the righteousness of God and I've got to be seeking the kingdom of God together. Those have to be my highest priority. If I've only seeking the kingdom, watch this, but not his righteousness. I am woefully unprepared to deal with worry. Let me say that another way. If I only want To be in the presence of God, but I don't want to live righteously before God, then I'm not prepared to deal with worry. In other words, what I'm doing is I'm saying to God I'll take the righteous part. I'm glad you died on the cross for me. But you know, this living every day in this world, I'll take care of that myself So now that means you have to worry about how to take care of yourself. Y'all still here? But if I seek his kingdom and his righteousness together. as my highest priority. Those are the things I must have. Then I have something to defeat this worry issue. You see, because Seeking his righteousness is the equivalent of pursuing righteous living. In other words, our theme for this year, pursuing righteous living, is all about seeking the righteousness of God. It's all about trying to live like I belong to the king. It's all about, how do I say this, adjusting my attitude and my presentation so that I look like an ambassador of another place. Amen. We're from another place. We're just here. Amen. Help me, God. We're just here on loan to make known the gospel of Jesus Christ. To let this dark, dying, and dismal world know that we have a king. And his name is Jesus. And he gave his life so that we could spend our eternity with him No help meet God. And so I'm an ambassador. You're an ambassador. You don't even watch this. You don't need a license to be an ambassador, but you do need his righteousness. Woo! I'm preaching way better than y'all saying amen. I know I gave you a new job. You didn't even know you were an ambassador. You didn't think so highly of yourself. You need to walk around letting people know, hey, I'm an ambassador. I have ambassador privileges. And that's why I don't worry. Because I'm seeking first his kingdom and I'm seeking first his righteousness. And as I seek his righteousness, it means I surrender to his word, I surrender to his will. I surrender to the salvation that he has provided for me, and I'm surrendering to the watch this the righteous standards of God. So that I model the righteousness of God in the world that we live. And as I model the righteous, watch this, the righteous relationship. The righteous presentation of God, and that's as my light begins to shine into the darkness, and it allows people to see what Christ looks like. So Christ, people get to see Christ in you, people get to see Christ in me If we're living righteously. But we have to seek first the righteousness of God. We gotta seek with seeking his kingdom and his rule and his reign, we also have to seek his righteousness. Y'all still here with me? Got one more and I'm out of your way. So what it seems like to me is Jesus is saying here in the text, look, Jesus says, look, I'll take care of my part, you take care of your part. You seek first, you put as your highest priority, seeking the kingdom of God and seeking the righteousness of God. That's your part. And if you do your part, I'll do my part Well what's this part? All the other things. Is it right there in the text? I'll take care of all the other things. They'll be added to you. I love this. So here's my final movement of the text because I'm out of your way So we're going to seek first the kingdom of God, seek first the righteousness of God, and see firsthand all the other things added to you by God. Can we pause for just a moment? And start thinking about all the other things that the Lord has added to you. Just for a moment. Just pause right where you are and start thinking about the things the Lord has added to you. Not things you added, but the things he's added to you. Now, in the context of this passage, because I know you are expecting a contextual preaching sermon. Amen, Jesus. So let me hit you with the context. What are all these things? I'm glad you asked. If you look back at verse number 25, he says, Therefore I say to you, do not worry about here's here's the things. Your life What you will eat, what you will drink, nor about your body. What you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? So guess what? The Lord says you take care of your part. I'll take care of all these things. What's the first thing you need? Life. I'll take care of your life. I'll take care of your eternal destiny. I'll take care, watch this, of bringing you out of spiritual death. And I'll bring you into spiritual life. Not only that, watch this. You don't even have to worry about losing your spiritual life because I'm the keeper of your spiritual life. Help me, Jesus. Let me just throw this out here because some people are still confused about salvation and they they think that well if I act up and if I cut up I might lose it. Well, let me remind you of something. You didn't do anything to gain it Matter of fact, let me say it this way: when you obtain salvation, you were already jacked up from the floor up. So your new activity, your new sin is not going to erase the finished work of Jesus Christ. As a matter of fact, Jesus Christ says it this way in John chapter 10. He says, All those that the Father have given to me, they're in my hand, and nobody can pluck you out. Amen, Jesus. You can't I know you good pluckers, but you can't even pluck your own self out. Because watch this, he goes on to say, I've taken and I've put my hand in my father's hand. And nobody can get you out of my hand. I have sealed you until the day of redemption. Lord help me God. He lets us know he that has the Son has what? Life. He that does not have the Son does not have life. He goes on to say, These things, I'm I'm in first John chapter 5. These things I've written unto you that you may know that you have Eternal life. How long does eternal last? Forever? Till you act up again? Till you sin? Till you go decide you want to be a Muslim? Till you decide you want to be Jehovah's Witness? No, eternal is forever. Amen, Jesus. I'm keeping you. I'll take care of your life. All you need to do is seek and I'll take care of it. I'll secure your life. And guess what? I know you probably sitting here now trying to think about what I'm gonna eat. Pastor's getting kind of late. He said, don't worry about what you're gonna eat. Don't worry about what you're gonna wear. Don't worry about all these things. Why? Because your heavenly father knows you need them. He already knows you need these things. Praise the Lord. You have been listening to the radio broadcast ministry of Kettering Baptist Church under the leadership of Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III. where we minister in the spirit of excellence. We pray that you have been richly blessed by today's message. Financial contributions and support of this ministry are welcome. We thank you in advance for uniting with us in Kingdom Building. To hear this message again on the web please visit our website at kettering ministries. org. We hope that you have enjoyed our journey together. And we invite you to join us in person for one of our Spirit-Filled Worship Services, Sundays at 10 a. m. at the Legacy Center, located at 6909. Crane Highway, Upper Marlborough, Maryland, or virtually via our website, Facebook, and YouTube. For additional information, go to our website at Kettering Ministries dot org. Or contact our church office at three zero one six two seven nine five zero zero. Please join us again as Senior Pastor Buchus Sterling III and the Kettering Baptist Church family minister in the spirit of excellence. Andy Christman afore him has spent 40 plus years in Christian music and chances are he knows your favorite artist personally. Now he's bringing you their stories. On Andy Christman, in his new podcast, One Degree of Andy, he sits down with a Voices behind the song. For real, honest, and faith-filled conversations you won't hear anywhere else. That's a great question. If you love Christian music, this is your backstage pass. The One Degree of Andy podcast. Listen now to One Degree of Andy wherever you get your podcasts.