Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to Hebrews chapter one? Hebrews chapter one So I wonder what attribute of God you would say is most comforting to you when you are suffering Is it his goodness, his love, his faithfulness , his immutability, his mercy? Let me give you Spurgeon's answer. He says there is no attribute more comforting to his children than that of God's sovereignty. Under the most adverse circumstances, in the most severe trials, they believe that sovereignty has ordained their afflictions, that sovereignty overrules them. and that sovereignty will sanctify them all. There is nothing for which the children ought to be more earnestly contend for than than the doctrine of their master over all creation, the kingship of God over all the works of his own hands, the throne of God and his right to sit upon that throne. For it is God upon the throne whom we trust. This morning we come to a passage That declares that Jesus is the sovereign Son of God. These words were written to suffering people Who were terrified of the persecution that had already come and would grow worse in the days ahead. And so the unknown pastor who writes the book of Hebrews seeks to both comfort and challenge these believers with the sovereignty of Christ. Perhaps you're used to thinking of God as sovereign as referring only to God the Father, but not God the Son. But here in other passages of Scripture, we find that Jesus is indeed the King of kings and Lord of Lords. We don't use the term sovereign very often in our conversations today And perhaps you're unfamiliar with that term. The term sovereign is simply a word that means king, monarch, ruler It has embedded within that word the English word rain, not as in R-A-I-N, but R-A-I-G-N. A king reigns, and the Bible teaches that Christ reigns. Now, for most people in human history, They had been ruled by a monarch that had essentially absolute authority This was true of these Jewish believers who were most likely living in Rome under the reign of Nero. We know that Christians In that first century were pressured to say with every other citizen, Caesar is Lord. But Christians resisted that. Instead, they said, Jesus is Lord. And that cost many of them their freedom and some of them their lives. This morning we come to a passage of Scripture in Hebrews chapter 1 that emphatically declares that Jesus reigns over all. Perhaps the key verse for this is verse 8. Look with me at this verse. But under the sun he saith, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever a scepter of righteousness. Is the scepter of thy kingdom. Let me remind you that in the first two chapters of Hebrews, the author is arguing that Jesus is better than angels. We know that in the first century in Judaism the role of angels was embellished beyond the revelation found in Scripture. They invented names for angels that are not found in Scripture, names like Raphael and Uriel and Panuel, who were said to have remained in the presence of the Lord. They said that there were 200 angels that were in charge of all the stars of heaven. They said that one angel was given the responsibility of keeping track of the calendar. And then there were individual angels that had charge of various aspects of nature, like there was an angel in charge of rain, an angel in charge of frost, an angel in charge of snow, an angel in charge of thunder and lightning. The common idea was that angels were behind everything. Some even said that every blade of grass had an angel. And so it's not surprising that there were early Jews who believed that angels Were superior to Christ the Messiah. We know that from some of the writings of that time period, there were those who felt that Michael the archangel would be over the Messiah. And because this was such a problem, the author of Hebrews begins his written sermon by attacking this issue head on. And he marshals together a series of Old Testament quotations to demonstrate that this thinking is utterly false because Christ is better than the angels. Now last week we considered the first two reasons in this passage why Christ is superior to angels. The first one was Because the son has a unique relationship with his father. Look with me at verses four and five, being made so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance. obtained a more excellent name than they. For unto which of the angels said he, at any time thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee, and again I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me The second reason that the son is superior is because he receives worship from angels. Look with me at verse 6. And again, when he bringeth in the first begotten into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him. Now this morning, as we continue through this passage, I want us to find three additional reasons why the sovereign son is superior to angels. So how is he superior? Well, first of all, he's superior because the sovereign son is the maker and master of angels. Look with me at verses 7 through 9. And of the angels he saith, who maketh his angels spirits and his ministers a flame of fire? But unto the sun he saith , Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. Scepter of righteousness is the scepter of thy kingdom. Thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity. Therefore, God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness. Above thy fellows. Now perhaps you recall that last week I told you that in verses four through fourteen we find seven Old Testament quotations. And in verse 7, we have a quotation from Psalm 104 and verse 4. This is the fourth of seventh quotations. Psalm 104 is a great hymn of worship. That extols God's control over the natural world. Now it's important for you to understand that the author of Hebrews is not suggesting that wind and flames are actually angels. However, wind and flames are both appropriate symbols for angels because they are both mysterious and ephemeral. The Bible does not teach animism. Animism is the belief, the religious belief of most animations ancient cultures that have not been touched by the modern world at all. And that is, they believe that there are spirit beings behind everything. They believe that everything has a spirit in it. The table has a spirit. The flowers have a spirit. This pulpit has a spirit, they would say. That's the way they interpret. That's the framework by which they understand how things function in the natural world. The Bible does not teach that. But the Bible does teach that there are spirit beings, and angels are one of those spirit beings. We have here in Psalm 104 one of the most beautiful descriptions of God as creator and sustainer. In the opening verses of Hebrews, we read that the Son of God is the creator and sustainer of the universe. Verse 2 says, by whom also he made the worlds. And in verse three we read that the Son upholds all things by the word of his power. And so we should not be surprised to discover in verse seven that it's the Son who is worshipped by angels and also has made angels. It says he maketh his angels spirits and his ministers a flame of fire. The scriptures are clear that it's Christ that made the angels. Colossians 1:16 says, For by him that is Christ were all things created that are in heaven, that are on earth. visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. And angels are mentioned in that list. When it speaks of principalities and powers and things that are invisible, it is speaking of the spirit realm. It is including angels. So the Bible is clear. that the Son is sovereign over angels. Now what verse 7 is emphasizing Is that the Son is the master of angels? That is, that they do his bidding. He sends them out to do his work. Now look with me at verse 8. Verse 8 begins with the word, but because the author is making a contrast. Although angels are amazing creatures , they are servants by nature. But by contrast, the Son is by nature a ruling sovereign. Now perhaps you would object and say that Jesus is presented in Scripture as the suffering servant. Indeed he is, we read of that. All throughout the Old Testament, you think especially of Isaiah 53 Philippians chapter two tells us they took on him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men, and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death even the death of the cross. But that is not the essential status of the Son of God, because that passage goes on to say Wherefore God hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name, that in the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. So the Son is sovereign. The angels are servants who do his bidding. Now verses eight and nine are quotations of Psalm forty-five, verses six and seven. Psalm 45 is a royal psalm penned in honor of the Davidic king. But here we discover in Hebrews that the one that it speaks of is the ultimate Davidic king, that is Jesus himself. Notice what it says here. This is a very important text But unto the sun, he saith, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever a scepter of righteousness, is the scepter of thy kingdom. We have here in verse 8 one of the strongest possible assertions of the deity of Christ in the Bible Because the Father is saying to his son, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. And I would submit to you that God the Father's opinion should be our viewpoint as well. Now notice that two things are said about this king's reign. First of all, it will last forever. His throne is forever and ever. And secondly, it is a righteous reign. It speaks of a scepter of righteousness. Kings in the ancient world Were often corrupt because they had great unchecked power. And you've heard the statement: absolute power corrupts absolutely And so there were no restraints, no one saying, I don't think you should do that. You know, you're going to lose your office. They said, I'm king. I can do whatever I want. And what the people longed for was a king that would reign in righteousness, who would do the right thing. And that is true of our King. He will reign in righteousness. Verse 9 goes on to further explain the Son's righteous rule. Thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity. Therefore, God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. In this passage, we read also of the son 's humanity. This king loves righteousness, and he hates iniquity. Some Bible scholars see in these descriptions a reference to the obedience and sinlessness of the Son of God that are often mentioned in the book of Hebrews. Therefore, God the Father has anointed his son with the oil of gladness. When a person was anointed with oil, whether it be a prophet, a priest, or a king, It was a day of celebration. It was a day of gladness. But this was the ultimate anointing. Because this is the anointed one. That's what the term Messiah and Christ mean. The anointed one. He is the ultimate fullest expression of all the prophets and priests and kings that have come before him throughout the history of Israel. And in his anointing, he sat down at the right hand of his father. You see, the sovereign son is superior to angels, because he is their maker and master. But there is another reason that he is superior. It is because the sovereign Son is the eternal and immutable creator of the universe. Look with me now at verses 10 through 12. And thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of thy hands. They shall perish, but thou remainest. They all shall wax old as doth a garment, and as a vesture shalt thou fold them up, and they shall be changed But thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail. Now this quotation is an extended quotation from Psalm 102. Verses 25 through 27. Psalm 102 is a prayer of the afflicted. It's the psalm of a man overwhelmed with the brevity and frailty of life. And towards the end of the psalm, the writer contrasts the brevity and fragility of humanity's experience on earth with the eternality and immutability of human Now something very fascinating and significant here. Psalm 102 is very clearly, if you read the Psalm, speaking of Yahweh. Or Jehovah. It has the capital L -O -R-D, which is the translator's signal that the Hebrew word behind that English word Lord is the sacred name of God, the covenant-keeping name of God, the name that people refrain from pronouncing because it was so sacred and so holy. But what we find here is the Yahweh of that psalm is interpreted as Jesus by the author of Hebrews. Now I wonder if that bothers you. It should not. Because the Bible actually does this often. In fact I just throw this in for free. If you ever have Jehovah's Witnesses come to your door and they knock on your door and you know they're all about Jehovah, they're all about Yahweh, we'll show them From this passage, going back to Psalm 102, that the Jehovah of the Old Testament is Jesus. And that is clearly brought out here. Let me show you two other references. In Isaiah chapter 45 and verse 23, Yahweh says that unto me every knee shall bow and every tongue shall swear. Does that sound familiar to you? It should because I just quoted that from Philippians chapter 2, and that's a reference to Jesus Christ. Isaiah chapter 8 and verse 13 says Sanctify the Lord, and the word therefore Lord is Yahweh of hosts himself, and let him be your fear. And in first Peter chapter three and verse fifteen, this verse is quoted in reference to Christ. And there are many other examples. You see how ridiculous it is to say that the Bible never says that Jesus is God. Now look with me again at verse 10. Verse 10 is once again reminding us that the Son is the creator of the universe. This is something that is emphasized in this chapter. We've seen it in verse 2. We've seen it in verse 7, and now we have it again in verse 10. The Lord in the beginning has laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of thy hands, and the Lord there is the Lord Jesus Christ. Now in verse 11, the focus shifts. Look at this. Let me read verses 11 and 12. They shall perish. When he says they, he means all of creation. They shall perish, but thou remainest. They all shall wax old as the garment, and as the vesture shalt thou fold them up, and they shall be changed, but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail. In verses eleven and twelve, we have seven statements of contrast that are made between the impermanence of creation. Compared to the eternal nature of the Son of God. It says, they shall perish. But thou shalt shalt remainest. They all shall wax old as a garment and as a vesture thou shalt fold them. They shall be changed. But thou art the same, thy years shall not fail. This is poetic imagery that expresses a profound truth. All of creation will age and decay. But God remains unchanged. Do you ever remember getting a special gift? Or maybe a car years and years ago, and maybe you splurge and you got a new car and it looked Perfect and it had that new car smell. There was not a scratch or ding anywhere on that car And what does it look like now? Unless you keep it in your garage and drive it about three times a year. and are very, very careful how you keep, and it probably has bangs and scratches and perhaps unpleasant odors inside the car. Because that's the way things are in creation. They wear out. They fall apart. That's the experience not only of what we see, but the experience of our own bodies as well, right? They fall apart. Notice the imagery that is used here. The created universe is compared to an old garment that is falling apart. Let me ask you, do you possess some worn-out piece of clothing that you refuse to part with because of sentimental value? I'm gonna tell them myself I have several of those. They're very, very comfortable. They look horrible. They've got holes in them. And they've been around for decades. But I have fond memories attached to those things. Now some of you identify with that, some of you do not. But that's a picture of the world. It's falling apart It's kind of compared to a garment that is filled with holes and is threadbare. The psalmist says that the universe will be like this at the end of time. Now look with me at chapter 12 and verse 8. And as a vesture, thou shalt fold them up. The vesture is like a cloak or a robe, which was the main garment that a portion person would wear in the ancient world. Perhaps some of you have started changing your wardrobes for the season. You're putting away your summer clothes and bringing out your fall and winter clothing. This is kind of a similar analogy to when you're finished with a garment and you're putting it away. The idea here is that you would roll up that cloak and just put it away. We have this imagery is taken from the Old Testament. This is a picture of what God the Sovereign Son will someday do with the material universe, not in a literal sense, but in a figurative sense. It'll be like a garment that's all worn out and he's just going to roll it up and put it away. Now we know from other scriptures that he's going to create a new heaven, a new earth, but that's not what this passage addressed. But let's not forget The God that's in view in this passage is the sovereign son. The sovereign son not only started everything, But he finishes it all as well. You see, he's so much better than the angels because he is the eternal and immutable creator of the universe. But there's another reason why the sovereign son is superior to angels. And that is because the sovereign son reigns and directs angels to minister. To believers, look with me at verses 13 and 14, the last two verses of this chapter. But to which of the angels said he at any time Sit on my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. Are they not all ministering spirits? Sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation. In verse 13 we find the seventh And final Old Testament quotation in this string of citations. Notice how this question is framed as a rhetorical question. But to which of the angels said he at any time? If this sounds familiar, it's because we find the same frame of reference in verse 5. Notice what it says: For unto which of the angels said he, at any time? These two rhetorical questions are like bookends that mark the beginning and the end of the section of argumentation and biblical quotation. Now verse 13 should sound familiar to you because we've already considered this verse when I preach through Verse 3. Because at the end of verse 3, it talks about that our Savior sat down on the right hand of the majesty on high. And once again, the pastor that's writing this letter of Hebrews is quoting Psalm 110. And verse 1. Psalm 110, verse 1 says, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. It may surprise you to know that that verse is the most quoted verse from the Old Testament that's quoted in the New Testament. I think that before we came to the series, if I'd given you a quiz on that, I'm not sure how many of you would get the right answer. Because we probably have read that verse many times in the Old Testament, and it didn't seem like anything really special. It didn't really hit us as incredibly significant or important, but in fact, it is. It's deeply important doctrinally. It was probably originally written of King Solomon. But the language that God gave to that writer went beyond his extravagant description of him to the ultimate king, the ultimate Davidic King, the Lord Jesus Christ. The author of Hebrews keeps coming back to this verse. He quotes it four other times in the book of Hebrews. This text was not some imaginative assertion by the early church. In other words, they didn't just pull it out of context and make it apply to Christ when it really didn't. How do I know that? Because Jesus Himself on two occasions quotes Psalm 110 and verse 1 as applying to himself. Let me show you this. Turn with me, please, to the second gospel, Mark chapter 2. Excuse me, Mark chapter 12. Mark chapter 12. We're going to look at these two passages in Mark and then come back to Hebrews. Mark chapter 12, verses 35. Through thirty seven. Mark twelve thirty-five It says that Jesus answered and said, while he taught in the temple, How say the scribes That Christ or the Messiah is the Son of David. For David himself said, by the Holy Ghost, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand. Till I make thine enemies thy footstool. David therefore himself calleth him Lord, whence is he then his son? And then we read Mark's commentary, and the common people heard him gladly. And I think that what that means is that the people were smiling at the way he had stymied the religious leaders through this question. Because they couldn't answer it, or more likely they didn't want to answer it. Because the answer is this refers to the Messiah. He is the Lord. And they could not bring themselves, of course, to say that. Now turn ahead with me two chapters, to Mark chapter 14. Mark chapter 14, and I'd like to begin reading at verse 60. This is during our Lord's trials before his crucifixion. Mark 14, verse 60. And the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, saying, Answerest thou nothing? What is it which these witnesses against thee? But he held his peace and answered nothing Again the high priest asked him and said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus said, I am And ye shall see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven Then the high priest rent his clothes and said, What need we any further witnesses? Ye have heard the blasphemy. What think ye? And they all condemned him to be guilty of death. The Lord Jesus here is referring to Psalm 110, and it was his assertion and his quotation of that passage. That was the nail in the coffin, if you will, that led to his crucifixion, his condemnation of death. And so the apostles found great significance in this verse. And as I've mentioned to you before, that there's some Bible scholars who think that this verse, Psalm 110 and verse 1, is actually the text. For the sermon, which is the book of Hebrews. And that may very well be true. And so it's not surprising that the author of Hebrews, who is marshaling his arguments Who is laying out his quotations from the Old Testament saves his most powerful verse for last in this chain of quotations. And notice how he says that. But to which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. That's a very powerful rhetorical device because it forces you to answer instinctively in your mind, no one, there was no angel that he said that to This of course reveals the sovereignty, the superiority of the Son of God. But the Father did exalt his sovereign son. He placed him at his own right hand, the hand of power and dominion. And part of the Son's dominion is his sovereignty over angels. Now we come to verse 14. And once again, here the author uses a rhetorical question to make his point. He says of these angels, are they not all ministering spirits? Sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation. His point is that all angels are ministering spirits. That is their purpose. Their purpose is to serve. You see, the author is making the point categorically that even the most exalted angels Like Michael the archangel is a servant under the authority of the Son of God. But to whom do these angels minister to? He says to minister to them who shall be heirs of salvation. Who are the heirs of salvation? They are all those who are truly born again. So this verse is teaching that angels minister on behalf of the Son of God. To us who are believers. This is an astounding fact. One theological debate that people have had, and I've had people ask me before. And the reason they asked the question is because the scripture sometimes can be confusing. So let me explain to you how I and other theologians have brought this out and resolved this. So, in the status of beings, are angels higher than people, or are people higher than angels? You see, we have on one side we have Psalm 8 that talks about our Lord's incarnation, about him being made a little lower than the angels. But then here we read in this passage that angels are here to serve us And I think the best way of answering that question is in creation, in the creation order, angels are stronger. More powerful, have abilities that you and I do not have. But because of the incarnation of Christ, and because of our standing in Him We have a higher status now than they do. That is why in 1 Corinthians chapter 6 it says that someday we will judge angels because we are in Christ. And he is the sovereign Son of God. Now, the idea of angels ministering to the people of God should not sound novel or strange to us. Because we read about it often in Scripture. Let me just pause here for a second because I know this opens up the whole question and debate of whether or not every person or every Christian has a guardian angel. Let me just say the Bible is not clear on that. It's possible I might get to heaven and find out that I had a guardian angel and that I wore him out. I don't know. But there isn't like clear, explicit, definitive teaching in Scripture about that, although it's a very popular thing that people believe. But we do know that angels minister to the people of God. Let me give you some examples. Do you remember when Elisha Spoke to his fearful servant when they were surrounded by the armies of Syria. And Elisha the prophet in 2 Kings chapter 6 and verse 16 says, Fear not, there are more with us than with them. And then Elisha prayed, Lord, open his eyes. And when God opened his eyes, it says that the mountains was full of horses and chariots, which was the angelic army of God. We know that the Bible says clearly that the Lord used angels to shut the mouths of the lions and protect Daniel when he was cast into the lion's den. And this is, there are many other Old Testament examples that could be forgiven. But this is not just an Old Testament phenomenon in Acts Chapters 5 and 12, we read of angels opening prison doors and delivering God's people. And we also find statements about the protective ministry of angels throughout Scripture. For instance, in Psalm 34 and verse 7, it says, The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him. and delivereth them. Psalm ninety-one, verses eleven and twelve says, For he shall give his angels charge over thee to keep thee and all thy ways. They shall bear thee up. Lest thou dash thy foot against the stone. These verses, of course, were misapplied by Satan in the temptation of Christ, but they are true nonetheless. The clear teaching of Scripture, both by example and statement, is that angels protect and deliver the people of God. But I have a confession to make to you. I don't know about you, but I never think about angels I don't know that I've ever thought for a moment that when something happened to me that I said, I bet it was an angel that did that. I don't think I've ever had that thought before. But the scriptures tell us there are. And I think that there's a sense in which It might be good for us to have that response because ultimately it's not the angels, but the sovereign son who is working through them. As I was researching this message, I was surprised to discover that many missionaries, even in the 20th century, Have given testimony to God's miraculous deliverance by angels. If you were here two weeks ago, I spoke about how God protected John Payton and his family. When they were in an island in the Pacific Ocean, and they were surrounded by murderous cannibals, and they were protected by an angelic host. There's a very credible account of angels protecting a school for missionary children in Africa in 1956. Forty-four warriors were coming to murder the women and children at the Rift Valley Academy, but they were stopped by what they described as huge men with blindingly white garments and flaming swords. And there are similar accounts like these that have taken place in China and South America. How do we interpret these accounts? I think we must let Scripture interpret our experiences. And the Bible tells us. That our sovereign Savior has authority over all the heavenly hosts to protect and deliver his people. I'd like to make some final applications as we conclude this morning. My first application is this. When you are suffering , You must remember that your Savior is sovereign. Hebrews was written to suffering people. When people suffer, they naturally begin to ask questions. What is God doing? Why is God doing this? Does God truly care for me? Does God answer prayer? Does God really have a purpose in this extended affliction that I'm dealing with? What is God doing in the life of my spouse or in the life of my children? This is not the way I thought things would turn out. Suffering always elicits deep spiritual questions But the Bible is clear that God does not forget his people, and that God is powerful to deliver them. Scriptures give us everything that we need to face the suffering of life What suffering believers need to hear and meditate on more than anything else is that Christ reigns, that He is in control. That he is bringing everything ultimately to accomplish his purpose. And that his purpose is good. He has a good purpose for his people. That the affliction and suffering and disappointments and discouragements that we face in this life Are given from the hand of benevolent and loving and sovereign Savior. And we must remember this when we suffer You see, our sovereign has all authority and dominion He is revealed in this book of Hebrews as being compassionate and merciful and faithful And therefore we can depend on him. And we can rest in him even when life is hard. Number two, when you are discouraged by the events of this world , You must remember that Christ will defeat all his foes. Many Christians are discouraged today. Not just because of their own personal problems, but because of what they see in the world. There is the reversal of values that we have witnessed in our nation. What is good is declared by so many of our public officials to be evil. And what is evil is affirmed as good. There is the growing weakness and worldliness in the church today. Sad reality is that many churches have been closed forever by COVID. There are fewer men going into the ministry, and there are many more men who are retiring every day than there are men to replace them. The gospel, unfortunately, is rarely preached in purity and in power. Because so many preachers have recognized that to be popular, they must give people what they want to hear. And what they want to hear is the Bible's all about them. The Bible's the ultimate self-help book. To help them get ahead, minimize their problems, their difficulties, and to have the best life possible on this earth And if you preach that message, it will resonate with people, especially lost people. But that is not the message of the Bible. The message of the Bible is not to try and create your heaven on this earth. We have many countries today that are making it more and more difficult for missionaries to come and evangelize. So these things that I've mentioned are very discouraging. How should we interpret these distressing developments? I think we should be concerned about it. We should pray earnestly, but we must not be discouraged. We should not think that this is the end of the story. That somehow we had a good run. But things are all over now. The world is over. Christianity is fading. Secularism, atheism, Islamism, and all of these things are dominating the world. At least we had a good run. No, that is a response of unbelief. Look at what it says in verse 13: what the father said to his beloved son, sit on my right hand until I make thy enemies. thy footstool. All the enemies of Christ will be defeated in the end. There are too many Christians that are walking around, hanging their heads, with their arms drooping down to the ground, and thinking that everything's over, that all is lost, that the world is a horrible place. We need to respond in faith to this truth. Christ will reign. Isaac Watts had it correct when he said, Jesus will reign where e'er the sun does his successive journeys run, his kingdom spread from shore to shore, to moons shall wax and wane no more. The Bible tells us again and again that our side wins, that Christ wins, that he and his people will reign forever. That should be the ballast, the stability that gives us joy even in the midst of very discouraging circumstances that are accomplishing, that are happening in this world. We must allow God's truth to inform our minds and to give us strength. and peace and joy rather than allowing the distressing news of the day to weigh us down and take us down. By the way, it might be better if you didn't watch the news for 24 hours a day. Have you figured out yet that people are more likely to watch really bad negative news that says the world ends tomorrow? Than something more mundane. And so those who produce news programs are incentivized To make things really bad and really dire, and this is the worst thing that's ever happened in the history of the world. It's not. Study history sometimes, a lot of bad things have happened. But Christ is still on the throne. It's all a matter of what you allow your mind to meditate on and what you come to believe. Meditate on God's truth. Not on man's discouraging message. The third thing I want to bring up by way of application is that Christ is worthy of our trust because he never changes. Hebrews informs us that the Lord of Psalm 102 is the sovereign Son who, unlike all of creation, never changes. This morning we sang together that beautiful hymn, Abide with Me, and I chose that hymn. Because it has this line in it, change and decay in all around thy sea, O thou who changest not, abide with me The older you get, the more perspective you have on life, and the more you become aware that everything changes. And most people find that very disturbing. But that thought should drive you to the one thing in the universe that never changes. And that is God. Hebrews 1:12 says, They shall be changed, but thou art the same. People change. Our friends change. We change. The world changes. But Christ never changes. At the conclusion of this book of Hebrews in chapter 13 and verse 8, this writer will come back to this theme and he will say, Jesus Christ, the same yesterday and today and forever. What is the significance of that truth? Well, you can count on God. You can trust in Jesus because he will never change his mind. He will never change his promises. He will never change his character because he is always the same. Theologians call this the immutability of God And this revelation of the character of God is intended to instill confidence and trust in the hearts of God's people. Have you come to realize yet in your Christian experience that all of your spiritual problems are rooted in the sin of unbelief? The reason why people abandon God is because they believe there's something better than Him. The reason why people quit On God is because they believed a lie. They responded in unbelief to what God's word has revealed. All of your spiritual maladies can be traced back to unbelief, but there's some truth, some revelation in the Word of God and in the character of God that you refuse to believe. And instead you've believed the lies of Satan. So I would say to you this morning: stop looking at your wicked hearts Stop looking at this fallen world. Instead, look to the sovereign Savior who never changes and is worthy of your full reliance and devotion. He's always the same. He never changes. You can trust in him. Let's close in prayer. Father. I pray that you would help us to respond in faith to what we have heard this morning. That we would truly believe in the depths of our being that you are sovereign, that your Son reigns in majesty. That he will never change. And therefore, we can rest in him, we can trust in him. We can have peace and joy in him. Because he is our one constant in a universe of change. He is our rock, our fortress, our high tower. And in him we take refuge. Help us, Father. To be different from those who are lost in this world. Help us not to go around with a listless um response because we don't really believe you're in control. We don't really believe that you will vanquish all of your enemies. Help us, Father. To be a people who respond in faith and exhibit that with joy and hope And peace in our hearts and lives. Father, use this word to bring stability to your fearful children this morning Give us confidence, Father, as your sons and daughters to follow our sovereign Savior, first of all. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.