If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to the book of Philippians? This will probably be the last time you hear me say that for quite a while. We are, if not forever, we are here at the final verses of this book. I hope that you've enjoyed our study. I want to say how much I appreciate the study that some of you have put into this book along with our time here. I've heard from numbers of people who have told me that they have been memorizing this book as we've been going through. I know a number of our young people have and other adults in our church and I think that's a wonderful thing. This is a great portion of God's word. uh to hide in your heart. And this morning we come to the final few verses. One of the most influential theologians who ever lived was it was a German professor named Friedrich Schleiermacher. That may be a new name to you, but if you've ever picked up Any tome of theology written the last few hundred years, I feel certain you will encounter his name Because he had a great impact on the study of theology. He was one of those rare individuals with an encyclopedic mind he was able to master large amounts of information with relative ease and articulate his positions. He was born into a pastor's home, but as a young man he abandoned the foundational tenets of the Christian faith. And although he had a very rational mind, he was responding to the age of reason and the rationalism around him. And so he sought to place a great emphasis on emotions and personal experience, the subjective elements of religion. He would become the most influential theologian of his generation. But he was personally confused and uncertain about God's truth. Once he was seated on a park bench , And a police officer mistook him for a vagrant. And the officer said unto him, Who are you, sir? And Schleiermacher replied, I wish I knew. The longer I follow Christ, the more I am convinced that one of our greatest needs as Christians is a fuller assurance of who we are in Christ. The message of the New Testament, which is an outgrowth of the gospel, is not so much do this As it is, become who you are. Remember who you are in Christ and live accordingly. So many of our problems stem from the fact that we are ignorant of our true identity. I heard many years ago about a mix-up that occurred in relation to some testing. I believe it may have been like a college entrance exam, like the SATs or some such thing. And it was some students in high school, and they had taken these tests, and those who had tabulated the results inadvertently switched about a dozen students' results so that Those who had the highest results on that test that were truly exceptional students actually got the test results of those who did very poorly on the test. And conversely, those who did very, very poorly on the test got the results of the individuals who had exceptional scores. And it was a mistake. It was an accident. And it was not discovered until many months later. But what is amazing is that The individuals who discovered this in the high school found out that those who were actually very poor students who didn't have great IQs but got these wonderful results that in those intervening months their grades started to go considerably higher. And those who were very exceptionally bright and got these poor results, their grades started going down Because both of them believed something that wasn't true about themselves. I want you to know that the scriptures are not presenting to us a psychological trick. This is reality. But the point I'm making is the way you think about yourself and what you truly believe about yourself and who you are. has a great, makes a great difference on how you behave and who you are becoming. This is one reason why some people seem to be on a on on a path in their life where it's completely self-destructive and they make one bad choice after another. In many cases, those people feel that they are worthless. They have been told that they are worthless. And they have come to believe that, and so they continue to make choices which reflect what they really believe. Now, eleven months ago we began our study of this marvelous book, and we come now to the concluding verses. Now verses 10 through 20 I mentioned to you are kind of like a postscript where Paul is thanking this beloved assembly for their generous gift to him. And he concludes that with this benediction, this doxology in verse 20. Now unto God and our Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. And you might think that that's the end of the book. But Paul still has something more to say, something on a personal note. And so in verses 21 and following, he adds a postscript to the postscript. Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren which are with me greet you. All the saints salute you. Chiefly they that are of Caesar's household. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Now it's very likely that Paul wrote verses 21 through 23 with his own hands. We know from other epistles and so forth and things that we see at the end of his letters that Paul generally dictated his letters and one member of his team would write it down. It is thought that perhaps Paul could not write very well because his hands had been mangled and tortured and abused so often. that it was difficult for him to really hold a writing implement and write carefully. And so he generally didn't do it. But we know that sometimes when these final words He would write it himself with his own hand, perhaps in a script that was very distinct, but obviously reflected his own suffering and pain, and then he would sign it. And Paul would do this because there were people in the ancient world who were trying to pass off letters as if they were actually by Paul when he had nothing to do with them. And I suspect that the early church treasured these possessions when they had his own handwriting and his own signature there. What a wonderful treasure for them to hold. Now it would be very easy for us to view these verses as some sort of formality and just pass them off as inconsequential. But I am fully convinced that all Scripture is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. And I believe as Paul greets the believers at Philippi, he is also reminding them of some very significant truths about their identity in Christ. And so this is what I want to be our focus as we examine this greeting this morning. I want us to understand that every believer must remember his or her true identity in Christ. It is very important that you understand who you are. Because when you grasp who you really are, then you will grow to become that person by God's grace. Would you notice with me, first of all, that every believer is a saint in Christ. He says in verse 21, salute every saint. In verse 22, he says, all the saints. Salute you. And I want you to notice we have the word all and the word every in connection with these terms. Paul here is not just speaking about the spiritual leaders. He's not talking about pastors or apostles or just elders or deacons. He's talking about every truly born-again believer is a saint. It's important for us to grasp this and to understand this. Now, we don't generally call one another saints, do we? We would be perfectly biblical to do so, but we tend not to do that because this term has been tainted and uh used in such a way that we think of it as someone who is like the absolute elites, someone who is like the cream of the cream of the spiritual crop. And some of this of course comes from the fact that uh uh and and and many uh church circles they will speak of the writers of the gospels as saints so-and-so. And indeed they were saints so-and-so, but it wasn't just them, it's all of us. And of course the Roman Catholic Church also has their own list of saints, and a person has to go through quite a process. where people have to testify that individuals pray to them and they answer their prayers and perform miracles, etc. etc. All of that is completely contrary The way the term saint is used in your New Testament. Not just here, but in many other places, the Bible teaches that every born-again believer is a saint. Now it's interesting that he is very careful to address everyone, but he doesn't name anyone. Why is that? Well, some scholars think that we know there were divisions in Philippi, and perhaps Paul Did something that sometimes I do and what every pastor does, and that is we're very reluctant to mention people's names and to thank them for what reason? You might leave someone else. who also was involved in that activity and deserves recognition. And so Paul here does not want to come across as if he's favoring a certain group or certain individuals in the church. So he doesn't name any of them. Now he does in some of his other epistles, where perhaps there wasn't so much division. But here he just greets everyone as a saint. Now this is a biblical description of the believer. In fact, if you look, the very first verse of this book says Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus. And if you would like, you could join me in the book of 1 Corinthians. I want you to notice this as well, 1 Corinthians chapter 1, and there are many other epistles where Paul begins this way. He says this church that had their share of problems at Corinth , 1 Corinthians 1 verse 2, under the church of God which is at Corinth to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus. called to be saints with all that are in every place called upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours. Now I want you to notice You probably have in your Bible the words to be are in italics. Because Paul is not saying that someday these people will be saints. It's saying that they are saints. Now that may not that does not indicate that they're everything they should be, but they are right now in the eyes of God as saints. Now what does this term mean? The word saint is simply a form of the Greek word for holy, okay? A saint is a holy one, a holy person. Now, we probably don't feel comfortable carrying that title around either. Hi, I'm a holy person. Just wanted to let you know that That sounds a little pretentious. But again, what we need to remember is that this is our true identity because we are in Christ. A little bit later in that same chapter I just read from in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 in verse 30, Paul writes, But of him are ye in Christ Jesus. who of God is made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. And the word sanctification is from the same word for saint. It means that he we have his holiness. We have been imputed with the perfect righteousness or holiness of Christ. And therefore, we are, in the eyes of God, every true believer is a saint. And that is very important for us to understand. You might say, well, Pastor, to be honest with you, I don't feel very much like a saint, and often I don't act or talk or respond like a saint. And I think all of us would feel that we're not worthy of that title. But the scriptures say that we are saints. That is what we are becoming. And we need to recognize who we are and live accordingly. Now some of you might say, well does this mean a Christian can live however we want, because the Bible says that we're saints We're holy in Christ. We've been imputed with his perfect righteousness. So it really doesn't matter what we do because that's who we are in the eyes of God. That is simply not true. Because Christians, real Christians, want to be holy. They want to be pure. They want to be more like Christ. Let me show you this. In the book of 1 John, turn with me please to 1 John chapter 3. Right towards the very end of your New Testament, 1 John chapter 3. I'm going to begin reading at verse 1. Wonderful words here. Behold, what manner of love The Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Now look with me at verse 2. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, referring to Christ, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath this hope of In him purifieth himself even as he is pure. Every believer who is looking for the return of Christ is in the process, the scripture tells us here, of purifying himself so that he will become more like Christ. Every true born-again believer desires to live up to our true identity. We want to be more like saints. We want to become more like Christ. We want to grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. This is a very important thing. One of the great dangers in any gathering of believers, in any community of the faithful, is Let people come in, perhaps through family connections or in other ways, and who want to belong and they assent and they agree and they nod their head to certain essential truths, but they've never truly been born again. This has always been a problem. This has always been the case. It was from the very early church until today. And so it's very important that we understand whether or not we are truly a child of God. And one of the litmus tests And if you know the first book of 1 John, you know that John has a series of tests in there whereby we can know if we're truly a child of God. And one of the tests, one that I just read here in chapter 3, is that a true born-again believer wants to be more like Christ. So when a person comes to me and this has happened so many times and they are distressed because of their continual failings and their sin in their life and they're vexed by it. and they're troubled by it and they feel guilty about it. You know what? That's a sign of spiritual life. And so often what the irony is they think, I must not be saved because I have failed God this way and I've done this. But the fact that they're grieved by it, and they're upset by it, and they want so much and they long to be holy, those are all signs of spiritual life. What I'm concerned about are people who live in sin , who live in the world, who have absolutely no desire to be more holy or to be like Christ, their sin does not bother them at all. They are very comfortable with their sin. They're very comfortable with where they are in their Christian life and they have no desire to go any further. They have no desire to be like Christ. And when I stand up here and I preach about a longing and a thirst to be more like Christ and be more conform to his image, It does not connect with them at all. Because they're great. Well, they are. Very satisfied. And they will say, well, you know, you don't want to get fanatical about religious things. You don't want to be too intense about it. This is one of the litmus tests. Do you have any desire to be more holy than you are? Is there any inkling in your heart that says, I want to go further, I want to be more like Christ? I want that sin out of my life. If only I wouldn't fall in this way repeatedly. If only I could remove that besetting sin. Is there any expression in your heart like that at all? Or does your sin Not bother you in the least. Now I say this this morning not to make anybody doubt their salvation. But the Bible does tell us to examine ourselves whether or not we are in the faith. It does say, make your calling and election sure. Don't assume that because you're with the crowd that you're good. What's in your heart? Is there anything that when we sing a hymn like, oh, to be like thee, that your heart says, Yes, that's my prayer? If only I was more like Christ. Or does that sound just like a quaint aspiration that does not reflect your heart at all? Every true believer is a saint and desires to be more of a saint. And secondly, would you notice with me that every believer is part of the family of God? What is very clear in this passage is the bond that these early believers had in Christ. He says in verse 21, salute every saint in Christ. Every, everyone there at Philippi Paul says, I'm thinking of you. I I care for you. I love you And then he says, the brethren which are with me greet you, those people that were part of his team that were with him there at Rome, he says, we all greet you. And then he goes on to talk about the saints there in Rome who probably had never met anybody there at Philippi. It was hundreds of miles away. But they still had a bond in Christ And he refers to these believers you'll notice as brethren. And this, of course, is the kind of language that you often find in Scripture. This is not something that Paul invented. This is something that is basic New Testament teaching. I want you to turn with me, if you would, to the first book in your New Testament, the book of Matthew, Matthew chapter 12. I want to dip into something here in the life of our Lord Jesus Christ. Matthew chapter 12 and verse 46. Says of Jesus, while he yet talked to the people, behold his mother And his brethren stood without, desiring to speak to him. It's referring here to Mary, and we know that he had at least four brothers. And they wanted to talk to him. But he answered and said unto him that told him, Who is my mother? And who are my brethren? And he stretched forth his hands towards his disciples and said, Behold, my mother and my brethren, for whosoever shall do the will of my father which is in heaven, the same as my brother and sister and mother Now he was not being rude to his family members, but he took this moment to teach them that what truly made someone a part of the family of God is not what they were born into. But it was that they were a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. And a significant reference in regards to this in the New Testament is found in 1 Timothy chapter 5. If you would be able to find it quickly, I encourage you to do that. 1 Timothy chapter 5, verses 1 and 2. Paul here says, speaking of how we should relate to one another in the church, says, rebuke not an elder. But entreat him as a father and the younger men as brethren, the elder women as mothers, the younger as sisters with all purity. This is how we should relate to one another in the church. The older men we should give them respect and honor like we would our fathers, the older women as we would our mothers. The young woman as our sisters, our peers as our brothers. We interact with one another as if we are part of a family because we are part of a family. We're part of the family of God. And that's a wonderful thing. We could spend the rest of our morning talking about the implications of that. I want to just mention two things. First of all, I want to suggest to you that this means that every member of the family is important. Every member of the family is important. I hope it's that way in your own physical family, right? I've never had parents come to me and say, you know, we went uh a few weeks ago on vacation, we went to an amusement park, and we're back. And uh we we lost a few of our kids there, but that's all right. We still have a few left over. No, every child, if you're a parent, every child is important to you. And if everything is going great in the lives of all of your children, but one of them Is in dire situation, you know what your heart is grieved because every single one is precious to you and important to you. and significant, and so it is in the family of God. There is no one in the family of God who is unimportant. And it should be the same way in the church. Our importance, our love for one another is not based on how much money they make or what talents they possess or what leadership skills they have developed. But they're valuable and they're important and significant simply because they're a part of the family of God. And that's all that matters. Now, another implication of this is that we should love everyone in the family of God. Did you know that? The Word of God teaches very clearly and very plainly that every true child of God should be someone that you love, like a family member. Jesus said, and you know this verse the night before his crucifixion, by this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if you have love one for another. You know, I have heard preachers almost apologize that that verse is in the Bible. It's interesting. Sometimes people, I think Would like to rewrite a few verses because it makes them feel a little more comfortable. Have you ever felt that way? Why did Paul have to put it that way? It's not the way I would have said it. That just opens up a can of worms. But Jesus didn't say, by this shall all men know that you're my disciples because of your rigid orthodoxy. Because you just have your beliefs very clearly and succinctly laid out, and that there's no looseness there. It's just real tight. logical and well-defined, and that's what makes a person a Christian. And please do not take from this that I'm saying that theology is unimportant or what you believe is insignificant. That's obviously not the case. But he didn't say by this shall all men know that you're my disciples, by your conservative politics, or by your church activity, or by your traditional values. He didn't say anything like that. He said, by this shall all men know that you're my disciples, by your love one for another. He's saying that In the early church, it should be that when people, and in the even today, that when people see that, oh, those Christians, look, look how close they are with one another. Look at the bonds they have. Look at the love that is obviously there. You can tell they're Christians. Look how they love to be in one another's company. And how they care for one another. That should be our distinguishing birthmark. And yet, so often we never even think about that. What does it mean to love your brother and sister in Christ? Well, a good place to look is in what are sometimes called the one-another commands in Scripture. This is fleshing out what it means to love your brother and sister in Christ. Let me go through these. This isn't all of them. This is just a few of them. This is just some highlights. The scriptures say that we are to live peaceably with one another. It says that we are to respect one another. You know, you can respect someone even though you don't agree with everything they do or believe. But we can respect one another. We should accept one another. Again, it's not contingent that that person does everything exactly the way you do. We are to greet one another. There is to be a genuine, heartfelt joy when we encounter another believer in Christ. We are to be considerate of one another. That is, we are to put their needs ahead of our own. We are to care for one another. We are to be patient with one another. We are to submit to one another. Where we put their needs ahead of our own. We are to comfort one another. We are to pray for one another. We are to fellowship with one another. And all these can be subsumed under this one command: we are to love one another. Being part of a family, you see, involves responsibilities. It involves cultivating this relationship. By nature of our new birth, we have brothers and sisters, but that relationship needs to be cultivated and needs to be developed. Again, we have to become who we are. And the scriptures bring out so many different ways in which this is done. We are to bear one another's burdens. Paul writes, and so fulfill the law of Christ. Do you know what it is to bear someone else's burden? It means that when they are weeping and going through a difficult time, so are you. And you are there with them. You are helping to carry that crushing load that is weighing on their heart. It means that when you see them in need, this is brought out in 1 John especially in the book of James. You see your brother destitute, he says, and Needing daily food, you don't say to them, be ye warmed and filled. I'll be praying for you. I hope things turn out alright. No, they're family. And you do whatever you need to do for family, don't you? That's the kind of love that God has called us to. Every believer is a saint. Every believer is part of the family of God. And would you look with me back at Philippians? Every believer is to be a witness. How do I get this? All the saints salute you, chiefly they that are in Caesar's Household. Paul here is sending greetings from the believers at Rome to the Christians in Philippi. Now what is unusual about this greeting is that Paul specifically mentions That the saints in Caesar's household are sending their greetings. That would have been amazing and exciting to those people in Philippi when they heard that read to them for the first time. You mean there are Christians in Caesar's household? You may recall that Paul makes reference to this in the opening chapter. In fact, I want to invite you to turn with me to Philippians 1, verses 12 and 13. Where he says, But I would you should understand, brethren, that the things which happen unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel, so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace and in all other places. Now I think that Paul here is making reference to the fact That there were some that were part of the Praetorian Guard who had come to faith in Christ. These were 9,000 elite troops. These were hand-picked men. Who were to protect and be the first line of defense and the last line of defense of the emperor. Really, they were the most important Roman soldiers in this vast empire. And they also were responsible for guarding prisoners in capital cases, prisoners who had appealed to Caesar. And that was the case with Paul himself. And so they had four hour ships and they were chained to Paul. And what do you think Paul did for those four hours when they were chained to him? He witnessed to them. He told them his testimony. He told them about that Damascus Road experience and of the amazing things that Christ had done in his life. And some of these men came to faith in Christ. And this verse in chapter 1 seems to end the Kate that it was like a chained reaction. That is, that some of these soldiers who came to faith in Christ told other soldiers as well, who were also saved. And it was spreading. Now what is amazing and what is astounding and undoubtedly why he makes reference to this is because these guys, many of them worked in The Emperor's Palace. Do you know who the Emperor was at the time when Paul wrote this? It was a man named Nero, who was a very evil, wicked man, a man who burned Christians to death. A man who assigned them to the Colosseum where they would battle against wild animals. He was a crazy, wicked, evil man, and he hated Christians. And yet there were Christians working there in the palace. I mean you talk about being in the belly of the beast. These Christians were there. In this vast empire, the very center of it was the palace. And there they were in this very significant place, followers of Jesus Christ. I was trying to think of like a parallel for this. Could it be like if somehow a missionary was imprisoned by a group from ISIS awaiting a time when he would be beheaded and he witnesses some of his Muslim captors Some of them who also guarded the leaders in that terrorist organization and they came to faith in Christ. It would be kind of like that. It would be astounding and amazing. And what I think this points to is this larger truth, and that is that God in His providence puts Christians in all kinds of places. We are not to be together in one little Christian commune, like an island from the world. No, he scatters us like salt. and in many places that are dangerous and perhaps even corrupt. I wonder if you've ever thought about yourself in that way. Some of you work in very difficult locations. In places that are very secular, very anti -God, perhaps even very atheistic. And you know that the core values of that place are really contrary to some very true things that you hold to Now you should be wise as a serpent and harmless as a dove, but God has put you in a very dark place so that even there your light can shine. God has an appointed post for all of his people. You might be here this morning and you may say, well, I'm a housewife or I'm recently retired or whatever. I don't have a place of work. but you still live somewhere. You live in a community somewhere. You interact with people. God has placed you there for a reason. You are to be a light. You are to be a witness. It may be a very difficult place. It may be the people that you work with or the people in your neighborhood that there are many people who are very lost and very far from God. But God has placed you there that you might be a light, that you might be a salt, that you might be a witness. God has called us to permeate society and to touch those around us. We need to be involved in people's lives. We need to talk to our neighbors. We need to find out where they are in their lives and what they're struggling with and the crisis that they have that's pressing down on them right now that might indeed lead to them seeking answers and seeking the Lord's. We need to be a light. We need to recognize that God has a place of witness for every believer. And finally, I want you to notice in this final verse of this book that every believer needs the grace of God. He says, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Yes, this is a benediction, but it also reminds us that we all need the grace of God. Now every believer has been saved by grace. And sometimes we think of grace as only involving our salvation. But the fact of the matter is the Bible also teaches that we're not only saved by grace, but we must live the Christian life by grace. Grace for the Christian is the enabling that God gives us to do God's will for our lives. And the Bible brings this out in many different ways. It teaches that we need God's grace in order to live godly lives. I've been talking to you this morning about being a saint and being holy, and you may say, say that just That just seems so impossible to me. Well, that's why you need God's grace. It says in Titus chapter 2 and verse 14. Excuse me, verse 11, for the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. It is the grace of God that saves us, and it's the grace of God that enables us to be more holy. The fact is that we need God's grace. in order to effectively serve the Lord. Paul gives testimony to this in a very remarkable way in chapter 15 of 1 Corinthians. He says, For I am the least of the apostles. And not need to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain But I labored more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which was in me The other apostles and other believers said, how could Paul do all that he did, writing 13 books and planning all of these churches? How did he do it? He says, it wasn't me, it was the grace of God working in me. The fact is we need God's grace in order that we can suffer well. In 2 Corinthians chapter 12, Paul gives testimony He says, unless I should be exalted above measure, through the abundance of the revelations there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan, to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. You're facing suffering right now, you know what? The grace of God can enable you to be in a place of suffering day after day without growing bitter and resentful and angry and despondent. God's grace can do that. And we also need God's grace for repentance and revival in our hearts. James chapter 4. We read these verses, these hard-hitting verses. He says, Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. Do you think the scripture saith in vain the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth the envy? But he giveth more grace Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to heaviness. Humble yourselves therefore in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. How is it that we can get out of our lives the worldliness and the sin that just seems to bind to our souls? The answer is only by the grace of God. When we humble ourselves before him and we desperately call out to him, he says he will give us more grace. And in 1 Peter chapter 5, we see that we need God's grace for spiritual warfare Peter writes, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. That's what Satan wants to do. He wants to devour us. That is, destroy us spiritually, whom resist steadfast in the faith, knowing the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. But the God of all grace, who hath called us to his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after you have suffered a while, make you perfect for Establish, strengthen, settle you. You see, God's grace will enable us to withstand the onslaught of the wicked one. And to remain even in an uncomfortable and suffering position because God's grace fortifies us and strengthens us. That's what a Christian is. A Christian is a trophy of God's grace. A Christian Is a person who has become who they are because of God's grace, and they continue to develop and to grow in grace and to mature and become more like Christ. The great author of Amazing Grace was a man named John Newton, and probably all of you know the story that he was a former slave trader, notorious for his wickedness. He is known even among the sailors for his wicked mouth and his blasphemous expressions and his immoral conduct. But by the grace of God, he was changed. And he became not just a believer, but a preacher of the gospel. And understandably a man who magnified the grace of God. And he said at the end of his life, I am not what I ought to be. I am not what I want to be. I am not what I hope to be in the eternal world, but still, I am not what I used to be. And by the grace of God, I am what I am. That's who we are as Christians. We are sinners who have been saved and transformed by God's grace. Let's have every head bowed and every eye closed. We're going to conclude this service with a hymn in just a moment. But I wanted to ask you, there's some of you here who have been with us for just about every one of these sermons in Philippians. My question to you is, are you a believer? Are you a saint who is striving to be more like a saint? Are you part of the family of God? Do you love your brother and sister in Christ? Are you a witness for Christ? Do you recognize that God has strategically put you in various locations that you might be salt and light? And are you appropriating the grace of God? Are you seeing God's grace sustain you for every circumstance and change you from the inside out? Being a Christian is not a matter of coming to church, although that's important certainly. It's not a matter of nodding your head to certain beliefs, although that's essential. But being a Christian is someone who has been changed from the inside out. You have new life New aspirations, new desires, new values. And that's reflected in your words, in your actions, in your goals. Father, I pray That you would take the word that's been preached today and use it to draw sinners to the Savior and encourage your saints To be more of who we are in Christ. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.