So I wonder if you like taking tests. Have you ever taken a really long test? A test where there is a great deal riding on that test, like your whole career. I know some of you have because you've talked to me about it. Some of you have taken the MCAT test and the LSTAT test and these tests. are very difficult. They last for hours. And there are often hundreds of questions. And it's amazing if you've ever taken a test like that that when you finish, even though you've just been sitting there answering questions, you are absolutely exhausted. Because of the mental energy that you have put into that examination. The Bible frequently talks about testing that we face in our Christian life. And the tests that we take are often not a little quiz But it's like that four-hour-long examination that is testing you in a variety of ways, in a variety of skills. that utterly exhaust you at the end. Because the Christian life is not a stroll through the park It's more like a grueling marathon that requires great endurance The Bible places a great emphasis on the believer's steadfast endurance. The Greek term that is generally translated endurance in our New Testament is made up of two smaller words. that means to remain under. This of course is a picture of a concept But it's very helpful for us because even today a person will talk about them feeling like there is the weight of the world on their shoulders. Like they have a great burden on their back. Because it it feels that way because of the pressure and the difficulty that we experience When we're going through a trial in our lives. Now we are to remain under this trial, but that doesn't mean that we are to be miserable and we're just supposed to grit it out. The Bible calls us to be contents. The Bible calls us to even be joyful in the trials of life. Because the Bible does not advocate stoicism. It calls us to endurance with joy. In Romans 5. 3, it says, we glory in our tribulations, knowing that tribulation worketh patience. And that word patience, there is this word endurance. You see, without the heavy weight of suffering, we can never develop the muscles of faith and endurance. Our text this morning comes from the book of James. And let me just say right off the bat, I'm not starting a new series today, okay? I've preached the book of James before, and we will start a new series soon. But I'm just preaching an individual message today. But the book of James begins in a very abrupt and shocking way. If you'll turn with me to the book of James, which is at the very back of your Bibles. The book of James begins James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ of the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting And then he begins the body of his epistle with these words: My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh Patience, and that word and patience there is endurance. God uses the trials of life to stretch our faith and develop our spiritual stamina. Now this talk of endurance raises a very important question. That question is this What happens if a person who identifies themselves as a Christian, what happens if they no longer endure? What if they just quit on the Christian life. What if they stop attending church, reading their Bibles, praying, calling themselves a Christian? What if they go through some great trial in their life and they turn away from God? This is not an academic question. This is a real-life issue. If you are here this morning and you've been a Christian for many years, undoubtedly you can think of people that fit that description That no longer have anything to do with the Lord. But at one time they were at church faithfully. Maybe they were teaching a Sunday school class. Maybe they were deacons. They were leader, they were song leader, they were involved in ministry. Maybe they were even a pastor. And today they perhaps don't even claim to believe in God I have a book in my office written by contemporary author Paul Tripp entitled Dangerous Calling: Confronting the Unique Challenges of Pastoral Ministry. This book was written in 2012. It's an excellent book. I recommend it to you if you're going into the ministry. And on the back cover of that book, it has five endorsements from prominent evangelical pastors. And three of those five men are no longer in the ministry because of scandal in their lives. Indeed, it was appropriately titled Dangerous Calling. Now we should be careful in labeling people. The Bible says that those who fall away from the faith and renounce their faith, the Bible uses this term apostate. But we have to be careful about quickly calling people an apostate because Christians can backslide, and often an apostate and a backslider look very similar at certain times. in their life. But we also need to realize that not everyone who claims to be a Christian is in fact a Christian. In our independent Baptist churches, we have tended to err on the side of comfort on this issue. We make a big emphasis on the security of the believer. And I Let me just say at the outset here, believe in the security of the believer. But I believe in the security of the believer. And you often hear people reduce this to this common saying, once saved, always saved. Have you heard that before? It's true. But the question is, have you been saved? That's the question And the Bible is crystal clear that a person can appear to look like a Christian, can espouse the right things And yet, in fact, not truly be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. And one of the ways that God removes the wheat from the chaff is through the crucible of suffering and trials that tend to show who a person is. This morning, I want us to look at one verse. It's an important verse in the book of James. It's James chapter 1 and verse 12. It says, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. For when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. I want you to notice there's three parts to it. First of all, it has this revelation or this declaration. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. Secondly, it has this reward. For when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life. And then thirdly, it identifies the recipients of this reward, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. You see, the suffering that believers face does not turn them away from God. It makes them cling more tightly to God. So I want to preach you this morning on this truth that Christians must faithfully endure the trials of life. And I want to look at these three phases, phrases, excuse me, to show three reasons why we should faithfully endure the trials of life. Look with me at this. First of all, because those who faithfully endure are declared to be blessed. Look with me at verse 12. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. This is a beatitude. Verse 12 is a summary of all that has gone before here in the book of James. It's kind of wrapping up the first twelve verses of this little epistle. The author James is the half-brother of Jesus, a significant pastor in the early church, and this is one of the best glimpses we have of what it was like in the early church. This book comes from probably only like 12 or 13 years after the death and resurrection of Christ. So it's very early. The church at this time is very Jewish and it's centered in Jerusalem. It was to these early Jewish believers who were mostly poor and experiencing some persecution from non-Christian Jews in their community that James writes. And James begins this brief letter by reminding them that the trials that they are facing are not an indication that God is against them. But an indication that God loves them, that He is refining them, that He is testing them. They are not something to be discouraged about But when you see what God is doing, they are something to actually rejoice in God was seeking to test their faith so that he could strengthen their faith and so they would grow strong in the afflictions of life. Now many of you know that the book of James has many quotations from our Lord's Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5, 6, and 7. And this beatitude in verse 12 is very similar. In fact, it's kind of a condensation of what the Lord says at the conclusion of the passage known as the Beatitude. So please keep a finger here and turn with me to Matthew chapter 5, please. Matthew chapter 5, these are very familiar words. Matthew chapter 5, look with me please at verse 10. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice! And be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Now you may turn back with me, please, to the book of James. Let me talk about this word blessed for a while. It's a very fascinating and important word in the Bible. comes from the Hebrew Old Testament and the word there is Ashray. We get our English word Asher, which is becoming more of a popular name now for boys. It means the blessed one. Now We know that the book of Psalm begins with this word, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. The root idea of this word is actually that of envy. The blessed man is in an enviable position. The term was used to describe Israel as the envy of the nations. The word was used by the Queen of Sheba when she observed the wisdom of Solomon and said, Happy are thy men, and happy are these thy servants which stand continually before thee and hear thy wisdom. 1 Kings 10, 8. It was used in Psalm 127 of the man who had a lot of sons who would defend his cause against all enemies. Now, the Bible, of course, is not promoting envy. But those who have been blessed by God tend to be envied by others. They see that they have a stability. And they have a peace and a joy that they do not possess. And it one of the common ways that this word blessed is translated is the word happy. And this is, of course, the same term the Lord uses in his beatitudes that are found there in Matthew, of which we just read a few verses. This could be rendered how happy is the person that endures temptation. This term describes an inner quality of joy that is not dependent on outward circumstances. Because Christians can not only survive the trials of life, they can spiritually thrive in the fires of affliction. Now let me talk about this word temptation for a moment. Our English word temptation means like a solicitation to evil, an enticement. But the Greek word is broader than that. It can be used in that sense. In fact, it's used in that sense. In verse 13. Notice what it says in verse 13. Let no man say, when he is tempted, I am tempted of God, and there it is an enticement to evil. But the term also can just mean testing or trial, and that seems to be the significance of it here in verse 12. One of my favorite commentators says that a trial is any difficulty in life that may threaten our faithfulness to Christ. And the imagery of this word comes from the world of metallurgy. The idea of precious metals being put into a crucible that is Heated to an incredibly high temperature so that the metal melts and the impurities in that metal are burned out so that that precious metal is purified and strengthened. even though it endures great heat. If you want to turn back with me just a few pages to 1 Peter chapter 1, we see the same kind of imagery used. 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 6, it says, Wherein you greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be you are in heaven, as through manifold temptations. The trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus. Christ. When we are experiencing suffering and trials, it feels like we are being burned up. But God is not burning us up, He is purifying us. Our pride is incinerated. Our self-reliance goes up in smoke. Our love for the vanities of the world Often changes abruptly when we are in the fires of affliction. Things come into sharper focus. You start to find out what is really important and what you truly believe when you are in the fires of affliction. The fact is that even in the very best of Christians, our faith is mixed with unbelief. Do you see that in yourself? Do you have enough recognition of who you are that you could say, that's absolutely true of me? Though I profess to believe these things, and I do believe these things, my actions don't always demonstrate that I do believe these things. And so often there is still unbelief that seems to be gripping and dominating my hearts. This is why we love the world and the things that are in the world. This is why when any little thing comes into our life, we begin to question the goodness of God. This is the origin of all of our disobedience. All of our disobedience is rooted in unbelief. This is the junk, if I can use that term, that God desires to burn out of our lives so that we trust Him more. Suffering is one of God's great tools in our sanctification. And so if we could see things from God's perspective We would not always pity those who are going through suffering and trials, but we would see that God is actually blessing them and strengthening them. God is at work in their life. The Bible says, blessed is the man that endureth temptation. But there is a second reason that we must steadfastly endure the trials of life, and that is because Those who faithfully endure will be greatly rewarded. Look with me at the next phrase in verse 12 of James chapter 1. If you're not there, would you turn with me there to James 1. 12? The next phrase says, for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life. Notice how this works here. James is explaining how this beatitude could be true. Why is the man who endures temptation blessed? The answer is, for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life. Now let me talk about this term tried for a second. It's used seven times in your New Testament. And the only time it's translated tried is here in James 1. 12. The other six times it's translated approved. The word has both the idea of being tested or tried and approved. Those both are wedded together and we should not have difficulty understanding this because we ha use language the same way in English. If you purchase an electrical appliance, you will see perhaps underneath of it somewhere a sticker that says that it has been tested. Now when you see that, you don't ask yourself, I wonder if it passed the test. Because the implication is it wouldn't be in your hand if it didn't pass the test. It means that it was tested and approved. And that's the idea here. We are tested and approved by God through our testing. So what is the reward for the man who stands the test of affliction and is approved? It's this, he shall receive the crown of life. Now, before I discuss this crown of life, I must address something that may be bothering you. A reward sounds like something that you earn And the whole concept of earning a reward seems contrary to the central Christian truth of grace. I've had several Christians tell me over the years that we should never serve the Lord with any concern for gaining rewards. That sounds very pious, except for the fact that the Bible encourages Christians to earn rewards in dozens of places. The explanation, I think, is simple. And that is that anything that we accomplish in our lives is only by the grace of God. I want to give you an example of this. You can turn it here if you want, or or if you don't, you can just wait and let me read it 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verse 9. This is the Apostle Paul speaking. He says, For I am the least of the apostles. that I'm not me to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but I labored more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me. Paul here says he's the elite of the apostles, but then he goes on to say that I labored more than all the other apostles. I accomplished more than they did. But Paul's not bragging. He says, but it's only because of the grace of God that worked through me. So any reward That the Christian receives for how God has worked through them is still all of grace. And we need to understand that When my children were very small, and Christmas time would come or birthdays would come, they would want to buy me a gift. It's a wonderful thing. I hope I'm not embarrassing them here. And so they might uh uh they wanted to buy me a gift, but you know what? It was usually my money that bought the gift. And and and I would drive them to the store and and they would pick it out and and yes it was a gift But all the means to get that came from me. Some of you parents know exactly what I'm talking about. It's that way in the Christian life. We strut around like we've accomplished something great, but anything that we have accomplished has been by the grace of God And if we could really see it from God's perspective and see how much He has done and how He's propped us up and sustained us and done everything for us, we would not be walking around like we've done something. It's all of grace. Now let me ask you a question. What is this crown of life? When I was a small boy in Sunday school, I remember a flannograph lesson where the teacher spoke of the various crowns in the Christian life. There are five of them. There's the incorruptible crown. 1 Corinthians 9. 25, the crown of rejoicing in 1 Thessalonians 2. 19, the crown of righteousness in 2 Timothy 4. 8, the crown of glory and 1 Peter 5. 4 and the crown of light here in James 1. 12 is also mentioned in Revelation 2. 10. In this picture there were like five different individuals and they all had crowns on their head. And you know they had uh the name of the crown on there. And that was very helpful. Children like things that are visual and concrete. But I wonder if you think that's the way it's really going to work. Are you going to be in heaven someday and you're going to see this guy and he's got this gaudy crown on his head and on top of it it says life? And you're going to say, that guy must have gone through a lot of suffering because he's got the crown of life. I think sometimes Christians think of things this way. That's not the way it's going to work. Okay? First of all, the word for crown here refers not to a gem -studded crown of royalty, but to the laurel wreath that was given in the ancient Olympic Games. Now you should not take from this picture that somehow we're competing with other Christians because we're not. We're all on the same team. The idea of that is it takes true effort and discipline. The next thing I want you to understand that this phrase, the crown of life, is denoting the crown which is life. I will spare you the technical grammatical argumentation for that, but any commentary on this passage worth the paper it's printed on will bring that out. The crown which is life. That's the reward. You know what the reward is? It's eternal life. It's salvation. Now again, some of you are cringing a little bit Because we are saved by grace and not by works. Yes, of course, withstanding affliction does not save us. Only the substitutionary death of Christ can save our souls. But those who have been truly saved by grace will endure, they will persevere in their faith It's very important that you understand because I think in many churches and in many places, good godly people think of these rewards as something given to super saints. And so people are out there, and I've heard it explained this way, you know, we're all in the Lord's army, but the Lord has his special forces. That th those elite people that go out there and do incredible exploits like bearing up under great trials And those people will get the crown of life. I want you to know I completely repudiate that interpretation of Scripture. Every true bloodwashed saint of God will have the crown of life, which is eternal life. And every Christian will have to endure some testing, some trial, some affliction. That's what the Bible promises. Those who have been truly saved will persevere. They may falter, they may fall, but they will always get Back up. They will continue to trust in the Lord no matter what trials they might face in this life. And I want to show you What I think is a good explanation of this truth. I want you to turn with me, if you can, to the second gospel, Mark chapter 4, please. Mark chapter 4. Okay. This is known as the parable of the sower or the parable of the soils. Mark chapter 4 I'll begin reading at verse 3. Hearken. Behold, there went out a sower to sow. And it came to pass as he sowed, some fell by the wayside, and the fowls of the air came and devoured it up, and some fell on stony ground where it had not much earth, and immediately it sprang up because it had no depth of earth And when the sun was up, it was scorched. Because it had no root, it withered away. And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it yielded no fruit. And other fell on good ground, and did yield fruit that sprang up and increased and brought forth some thirty, some sixty, and some a hundred. Now fortunately we have the explanation for this parable. Look with me at verse 16 of Mark 4. And these are they likewise, which are sown on stony ground, who, when they have heard the word, immediately receive it with gladness. And have no root in themselves, and so endure for a time. Afterward, when affliction or persecution ariseth for the word's sake, immediately they are offended. And that is that word means they stumble fatally. You see, how you respond to the trials you face is very important in life. Every pastor has seen this phenomenon many times. Of people who make a profession of faith And they seem to be enthusiastic about the things of God, but then some difficulty, some trial, some testing comes into their life, and they go right back to where they were before. They go back to life of unbelief, of living as if there is no God. I wish I could say I've never seen that, but I've seen that many times. What do we say about those people? I remember once going out with Pastor Aaron. Situation just like that. We were all rejoicing. Man made a profession of faith. Seemed to be growing. He was baptized. But then a little bit of testing came to his life and he said, I can't do this. And he went back to where he was. And I remember going back to going with Pastor Aaron, and we visited him and very solemnly warned him and spoke to him. And Aaron said to him, You should have no assurance that you're truly a child of God. You should not think, you know, I can I can just go back to the world and live this way from now on. But I know I'm going to heaven because I did that thing that you guys told me to do. Aaron said, you should have no confidence in that at all, because you're exhibiting the traits of someone who never truly was born again. And that was the right thing to tell him. Not to comfort him in his rebellion and his disobedience, but to warn him solemnly. You see, when you go through the testings of life, it reveals who you are, it reveals what you believe. And true born-again Christians will faithfully endure the trials of life. Because they are faithfully endure are the blessed, and those who faithfully endure will be rewarded, and thirdly, because those who faithfully endure demonstrate that they love God. Turn with me if you would, please, back to James now. James chapter 1, look at this last phrase in verse 12, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. Well, who are those who receive the crown of life? Well, they're renamed here. They're clarified. Which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. Notice how James calls this a promise. It's It's a reminder to us that this verse is here to reassure and comfort suffering Christians. Now, who are those that love the Lord? This is a very important question. Again, I must ask you, is this referring to a certain class of Christians? Or is this referring to all true born-again believers? Do just some Christians love the Lord? Or do all Christians love the Lord? Well, we must look to the scriptures to answer this important question, right? So let me turn, let me just mention some scriptures. I'm not going to have you turn there because of time. Jesus said to the Pharisees in John 8 42, If God were your father, ye would love me, he said. And so the fact that they hated the Lord revealed what? That God really wasn't father. They really weren't followers of God as they claimed to be. And we have this famous verse in Romans 8:28, and we know that all things work together for good to them who love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. And in the next verse, he talks about that unbroken chain of God's purpose is that the called will ultimately be justified and they will be glorified in heaven someday. So he's talking there about all true born-again Christians. All born-again Christians are those who love God. 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 9. I have not seen nor ear heard. Neither hath entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for them that love him 1 Corinthians 8. 3 says, If any man love God, the same is known of him. Paul concludes Ephesians by saying, Grace be to all them that love our Lord Jesus Christ. 1 John 4. 19 says, We love him because he first loved us. And at the conclusion of 1 Corinthians chapter 16, it says, If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, Let him be anathema, which means accursed. Now let me be clear about this. There's not one Christian here that loves the Lord Jesus Christ as much as you should. We all, I think, sense that in our hearts. I certainly feel that way. But every true believer does love the Lord. We see the same connection between suffering and our love for Christ in that passage we turned to a moment ago in 1 Peter. So I'm going to invite you to turn back with me. to 1 Peter chapter 1, just a few pages back in your Bible, 1 Peter chapter 1. He talks about the manifold temptations or trials in verse 6 and verse 7, the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold. that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ, and then this, whom having not seen ye love In whom though now you see him not yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. Peter is writing several decades after Christ's death, resurrection, and ascension. And though he had seen the Lord, the people that he was ministering to had not We see in this passage that loving Christ is the very essence of what it means to be a Christian. So let me ask you, just real frankly, do you love the Lord Jesus Christ? Does that idea embarrass you? Do hymns that we sing like My Jesus I love thee or Jesus Lover of my soul and we can name so many others, do those do those hymns Summarize how you feel about the Lord, or are they kind of embarrassing and seem very sentimental to you? I think it's very easy for conservative Christians to minimize the importance of how we feel emotionally. In some respects, this is a reaction to the charismatic movement. It is true that we can't live by our feelings, and our hearts can easily deceive us. However, how you feel about the Lord is very important. The thing that bothers me and disturbs me is the number of professing Christians who come to church Who are faithful in doing uh basic obligations of the Christian life, but there seems to be no affection for Christ in their lives. There's no evidence that they truly love the Lord. Now I have to be careful with this because I know some people are very reserved and they don't show their emotions and it might be there and it might run very deep. But it's not evident in the way they emote and the way they sing and the way they their facial expressions. It's just not there. And we can't judge people by that. But let me just say. If you think that Christianity is just a matter of keeping a few rules and going through the motions and performing a few duties like coming to church and reading your Bible, if you think that's what it's all about, you've got it wrong. If you don't have a heart for the Lord, you are missing the very essence, the very core of what it means to be a Christian. Let me ask you this. Do you ever enjoy reading your Bible? I think every Christian would have to say there are times they don't really enjoy reading their Bible. They do it as a matter of habit or out of obligation, but perhaps they don't always enjoy it. But let me ask you this. Do you ever enjoy reading your Bible? Do you ever pour out your heart to God in prayer? Do you ever look forward to coming to church and worshiping with the people of God? Do you ever look forward to communion services when you remember what the Lord has done for you? Or frankly, are you painfully bored by spiritual things? Are you there hoping that the service will go by very quickly so that you can do what you really want to do. Are you constrained to come by family ties? or by the perceptions of others. The fact is that true Christians love Christ And our love for Christ is the mainspring that drives everything in our lives. It's what prompts us to obedience, not because if I don't do this, God's going to get me. Or people are going to look down at me. No, I want to be obedient to Christ because I love him. Jesus said in John 14, 15, If you love me, keep my commandments. And a little later he said, He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me. It's our love for Christ that motivates our service to the Lord. Do you recall the question that the risen Lord asked Peter three times on that beach in Galilee? He said, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? And Simon responded, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. And he said, Feed my sheep. You see, when we truly love the Lord, it will compel us to serve him. In the way that God has called us to do. And it will also enable us and compel us to be willing to suffer and undergo trials for Him. Peter was told in that same encounter how he would die, that he would die a brutal death, and history records that he was crucified upside down. He knew that he would die the death of a martyr, and it was his love for Christ. that enabled him to remain faithful despite the suffering and the oppression that he knew would come. And it's our love for Christ that should sustain us and whatever trials we face in this life. We must not become bitter and angry at God because of some hardship that He has allowed into our lives. No. We must view it as an opportunity to demonstrate that Christ is more precious to us than our health or our financial security or even our family stability. He is our all. He is our treasure. And therefore, because we trust in him, and though we are going through difficulties and trials, and we are in the furnace of affliction, we love him because he is doing what is best for us. And when we are tried and purified, we will come forth as gold. This is the word of God. Do you love the Lord? If you love the Lord, you will be willing to face the trials and sufferings that will come into your life by his good providential hand. And you will not turn from him in unbelief, but you will cling to him in desperation with all of your heart, because he is your refuge and strength and a very present help in trouble. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, I pray that you would please use these words to minister to your suffering people. To those who right now are going through the fires of affliction, I pray that they would keep their focus not on their pain, but in your purpose. Not in the present, but in the future. And I pray, Father, that you would help those who are here who are but followers in name only to recognize their lack of love for Christ. And their need to truly be born again, I pray that they would seek you earnestly with all of their hearts, even today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen