Give your Bibles, please. Would you join me in John chapter 12? John chapter 12. In 1732, two Moravian believers became really burdened with Spreading the gospel to the ends of the earth. Johann Dober and David Nietzsche. Heard about the African slaves that were brought to the West Indies to harvest Sugar King. The working conditions were brutal. Most of the slaves didn't live very long at all. And these two men, a carpenter and a potter, decided that they would go, they would volunteer to be slaves. in order to reach these men with the gospel. They said, may the lamb who was slain receive the reward for his suffering. This has been considered one of the great demonstrations of Christian love in the history of the church. This morning as we continue our study of the Gospel of John, we come to one of those beautiful Episodes that are recorded in all of the Gospels. This is the record of Mary of Bethany anointing the feet of Jesus. John chapter 12 begins the record of the most significant week in the history of the world, sometimes called Holy Week or Passion Week It is in this week that Jesus died and rose again, and the world has never been the same since. Now, before we begin studying this passage , I want to try to clear something up that may be confusing to you. In each of the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, there's a record of a woman anointing Jesus. Have a record in Matthew 26, in Mark chapter 14, Luke chapter 7, and here in John chapter 12. If you compare those accounts, you will see that certainly the ones in Matthew 26 and Mark 14 are identical with what we have here in John chapter 12. There are some differences like in Matthew and Mark, Mary's name isn't given. But the dialogue and many of the details that are mentioned are exactly the same. And so certainly it's the same events. But the account in Luke chapter 7, where we read of Jesus dining in the house of a Pharisee and a sinful woman coming and anointing his feet, that's That is certainly a different occasion. That was during our Lord's Galilean ministry, at least a year earlier than this, so it's a different account from this. John has included this event in his gospel because he's once again signaling to the reader That Jesus is about to die at the Passover. But the simple act of Mary is very inspiring and instructive of how believers should demonstrate love for our Savior The Bible is clear that to trust in Christ, to truly be a Christian, is to be someone who loves the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible says this in many different places. It says, Peter writes, to you who believe he is precious. If you're here this morning and you don't love the Lord Jesus Christ, whatever else you might be, you are not a Christian. Because all Christians have a love for the Savior. And our love for Jesus should be demonstrated in tangible ways. It should not just be words that come out of our mouths, but it should be demonstrated in the way we live our lives. So let me ask you this. Do people know that you love the Lord Jesus Christ? Would your co-workers know that you love him and prize him above everything else? Can they tell from your words and actions that Jesus is all the world to you? And has anyone ever been amazed at the costly sacrifices that you have made to follow Jesus? I want us to see in this first paragraph in John 12 that Christians should demonstrate their love for Christ. in memorable ways. And I have three points I want to bring out of this paragraph that coincide with the three sections. Three movements that we find in this paragraph. Number one, demonstrating love for Christ will be costly Demonstrating love for Christ will be costly. Now, verses one and two provide the setting for this anointing. Look at verse 1. Six days before the Passover, Jesus therefore came to Bethany. where Lazarus was, whom Jesus has raised from the dead. The six days before the Passover would indicate that this event took place on the Sabbath or the Saturday. Before what we often call Palm Sunday, when we have our Lord's triumphant entry into Jerusalem. So this was a Sabbath-day meal. Jesus is on his way to Jerusalem. Bethany is about two miles outside of Jerusalem. And whenever Jesus was in Jerusalem, it seems that he stayed with this family, with Mary and Martha and Lazarus. They were not only followers of Christ, but they were close personal friends. And they seemed to be people of some means. They probably had a large house and ample provisions for him and his disciples to stay there. However, this meal If we compare it with Matthew and Mark, it is not taking place at their home. It's taking place in the home of a man named Simon the Leper. Surely he was no longer a leper, that he had been healed of leprosy, or else they would not have been gathering there. But for whatever reason that we can never know , This banquet was held not at the home of Mary, Martha, and Lazarus, but in the home of Simon the leper, who also lived in Bethany. This explains, by the way, why in verse 2 we read that Lazarus was one of those reclining with Jesus at the table. That would be a superfluous comment if this was the home of Lazarus. But it wasn't the home of Lazarus. Lazarus was there as kind of like this living, breathing exhibit of the power of Jesus. This man who had been dead for four days and has come back from the grave. It seems that Mary and Martha wanted to express their appreciation to Jesus. For bringing their brother back from the dead. And so they gave a dinner in his honor in the home of this man Simon in Bethany. And true to their natures, we read that Martha is serving and Mary is at the feet of Jesus. And then we come to the key verse of this paragraph Verse 3. Everything before verse 3 is leading up to this verse, and everything after verse 3 is talking about the repercussions of what happened in verse 3. So this is the key verse, verse 3. Mary therefore took a pound of expensive ointment made from pure nard and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. Now there are three details that are found in verse 3. First of all, the value of the oil or perfume. Then we have the applying of the perfume to Jesus' feet and then the wiping off of that oil with her hair. Every one of these details points to the costly sacrifice that Mary will make. Let's consider the value of this perfume. A pound here is a reference to a unit of measure that would be the equivalent to 11 or 12 fluid ounces by our reckoning today. So this was not a what we would think of as a little perfume bottle. I don't know how much they typically hold, but I don't think it's 11 or 12 ounces. I think it's considerably smaller than that. And then we read that this perfume is described as pure nard. Nard was a plant that grew in the mountains of India. They would crush the roots of this plant to extract an oil, and from that oil they would make this perfume. It was very labor-intensive. You had to gather an awful lot of plants, an awful lot of roots, and to crush them to get any oil out of it. And let's remind ourselves that in this day and age in which this gospel is recorded, they did not have the means of transportation we have today. So for that Nard to come from northern India to Israel, it would primarily be pulled by an ox cart or perhaps carried by someone, but it would take a long time and it would be expensive. This was like the edge of the known world in the minds of most people in that day. Judas in verse 5 reckons the value of this at 300 denarii. A denarius was the payment for a common man's work for a day. 300 denarii was The kind of total they talked about for a year's wages. When you took out the weekends, the holy days, the Sabbaths, most Jewish men worked about 300 days a year. So that was the value of this perfume. It was pure nard. That is, John's indicating that it wasn't watered down. With other cheaper oils. Just like today in the ancient world, often people would have products that were not what they claimed to be. They weren't pure. They were diluted to save money or perhaps deceive the customer. But this was no knockoff. This was the real deal. This was pure nard, and it was worth A lot of money, tens of thousands of dollars by our reckoning today. This was most likely the most expensive thing that Mary owned. And she gave it all to Jesus. The Bible records in Matthew and Mark that it was an alabaster flask, and she broke that vessel, and the oil came out. There was no recovering of it. It's not that she used a little bit of it on the Lord. No, she gave it all to the Lord. And then we read that Mary anointed Jesus' feet with this perfume. Now, this is not shocking to us because we've heard the story many times, and we don't have necessarily some great aversion to feet in our culture. But the Jews considered the feet to be unclean. This is why when they ate at these low reclining tables, their feet were not underneath the table. These tables were maybe only a foot off the ground, they would recline on their elbows with their feet out away from the table. Seems like a very odd way for us to eat, but that's what they did. Because the feet were unclean, you should not have them anywhere close to the food. This is why, in the very next chapter in John's Gospel, when they're in the upper room, Jesus, remember, will gird on him. the towel of the servant, and he will wash the disciples' feet. They forgot to make provision for that, but Jesus sets an example for them by serving them, though he is the Savior. No one wanted to wash each other's feet because they were considered ceremonially unclean. But this woman anoints his feet. There were people that were watching that day who would have thought it was uncouth and in poor taste. I'm sure as often happens when you're in a crowd of people and something awkward or unusual happens, it got quiet. People stopped talking. And all eyes were riveted on what she was doing. She was doing something that only slaves would do, dealing with a person's feet. And yet she was a woman of high society. She was apparently from a wealthy family. She had status, and yet she is washing his feet. But then things even went further. Because rather than using a towel, she wiped his feet with her hair. And the Jews considered a woman's hair to be her glory. Jewish women did not let their hair down in public. They always had it tied up and usually covered when they were in public. There's an ancient record about this godly woman, and in honor it says of her, that the rafters of her house never saw the locks of her hair. And the idea was a godly woman does not display her hair. But Mary would have untied her hair and let it down in order to dry his feet. And this would have been shocking to those present. They would consider it borderline something that was inappropriate. Something that they had certainly never seen before Mary was sacrificially willing to lower herself in the estimation of those people. And minister to the Lord. Because she didn't really care what they thought. She was more concerned with what Jesus thought. And then we read that the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. I guess it was, just imagine, 11 ounces of perfume. Eleven ounces of perfume wafting through that house. It would be very strong and unmistakable. So how can we summarize her gift of love? Well, it was costly , equivalent of tens of thousands of dollars. It was personal. This was her treasure. This was her hair that she used. It was humbling. She stooped down. She lowered herself. She touched his feet with her hair. And it was sacrificial. She gave up a great treasure in order to minister to the Lord. Mary Bethany wasn't trying to please people, she was trying to please the Lord that day. She was so grateful for his friendship, for the salvation that he had brought to her family, and for the way he had brought her brother back from the dead. She wanted to tangibly express her love for Jesus. And it's a beautiful thing for us to contemplate. But that was not the end of it. We see secondly that demonstrating love for Christ may be criticized. Look with me now at verses 4 through 6. But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples, he who was about to betray him, said, Why was this ointment not sold for 300 denarii and given to the poor? Notice how John describes Judas. He was one of his disciples. Amazing. And he was the one who was about to betray Jesus. Jesus, of course, knew this over a year earlier. At the conclusion of John chapter 6, we read Jesus saying, Did not I choose you, the twelve, and yet one of you is a devil? And John adds, he spoke of Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the twelve, is going to betray him. And Judas would leave this room, it seems, or perhaps it was the next day, and would conspire with the religious leaders to identify Jesus for 30 pieces of silver. Now notice the object, the objection that Judas raises. He says that what Mary did was wasteful. This money could have been put to better use. I mean, just imagine how many poor people could you feed with a year's salary? A lot. In his mind, what Mary did was impulsive, selfish, and wasteful. But once again we find that John adds his own commentary. He cannot help or restrain himself from Notifying the reader that this is not a good man and he's not making a good point. And so look with me at verse 6, please. And he said this not because he cared about the poor. But because he was a thief and having charge of the money back, he used to help himself to what was put into it. Excuse me. John says Judas didn't care about the poor, despite what he said. That was not his concern. He was a thief. That was his identity, his character. He was the treasurer of the twelve. He kept their money and ministered their money. And he skimmed off the top for himself. And he's thinking, we could have sold this oil, and I could have taken some of that 300 denarii for myself. You see, he wasn't a caring man, he was covetous, he wasn't gracious, he was greedy, he wasn't selfless, he was selfish. But what is remarkable is that it was not only Judas that felt this way. If we were to compare what we find in Matthew 26 and in Mark chapter 14, we would find that at least some of the disciples agreed With Judas Iscariot. Now it could be that Judas said these words and the other disciples chimed in and said, you know, Judas makes a good point. This was kind of wasteful. This could have been better spent. Or it could be that they also added their words to his. My point is That it's not just unbelievers who will criticize believers when they do something for the Lord Sometimes even other believers will not understand and be critical of it. The famous Welsh preacher, Martin Lloyd Jones. was an accomplished medical doctor. He trained under the doctor who was the physician for the royal family. A man with titles and with great respect. And he saw in Lloyd Jones that he had great ability to diagnose illness. And so he was going to retire and he was going to have Martin Lloyd-Jones take his place and he would be the physician to the royal family. A position that would come with great titles and wealth. But when Martin Lloyd Jones became a believer As a young man in his twenties, he felt instantly that God was calling him into the ministry. And so he talked to other Christians. And invariably they told him, no, no, no, stay as a doctor. God will use you in the hospital. God will use you with the upper crust of society that you minister to. He spoke to preachers and pastors, and they told him the same thing. Don't waste your gifts and your talents. That God has given to you. No, just stay where you are. But he could not reject the call to the ministry. And so in 1927 He left his position of wealth and influence and became the pastor of a little seaside village in Wales A congregation that was primarily poor and uneducated. And his salary was less than one-tenth of what he was making as a doctor. And many people said he was foolish and he was wasting his talent. But in the years ahead, hundreds of people were converted. And the church grew from 70 to 850, and his ministry transformed that village. And later he would move to London and continue his ministry, and today he is regarded as the greatest expositional preacher of the 20th century. So what about you? Do you value what Christ values? If your child were to tell you that they wanted to become a missionary, would you discourage them? If your adult son with a good career said that he felt called to preach, would you try to talk some sense into him? The question is, where do you see yourself in the story? Do you react more like Mary or more like Judas? Is your heart overflowing with love for the Lord? Or are you more focused on improving your financial situation here and now? Demonstrating love for Christ is costly, and demonstrating love for Christ may be criticized. And thirdly, demonstrating love for Christ is worth it. Jesus instantly comes to Mary's defense. Look at verse 7. Jesus said, leave her alone. This was an authoritative rebuke of Judas. And by the way, Judas did not like it. If you look at Matthew and Mark's account, the very next thing that happens after this anointing is that Judas goes to the religious leaders to plot to betray Jesus. He was indignant about Jesus rebuking him in public. This was the final straw. He had had enough. Now he was going to betray his Lord. Now the next words of Jesus are somewhat confusing. He says, leave her alone so that she may keep it to the day of my burial. But how could Mary keep this perfume for the day of his burial? That was yet a weakened way, and yet she has broken this vessel, and the oil has all run out. There's no way of recovering it. The best explanation seems to be that Mary was anticipating the Lord's burial in about a week, and that this anointing of her feet was her way. of expressing to Jesus that she knew he was about to die and that she was honoring him as he moved towards his death. It seems that Mary had a deeper understanding of the Lord's approaching death than even his disciples. We know that Jesus revealed this to them on many occasions. We read about this in the Gospels. But they were slow to hear. But Mary of Bethany, who sat at his feet, she heard him and understood him and believed that his death was imminent. And then we come to verse 8, for the poor you always have with you, but you do not always have me. Jesus' words at first glance may seem callous, but they are indeed true. There's never been a place in the history of the world where there have not been poor people. Even in the United States of America, the most prosperous nation that has ever existed, we have our poor. Many politicians, many economists over the years have thought that they could devise a system that would eradicate poverty. But it has never happened. And Jesus says, the poor you will have with you always. Jesus here is alluding to Deuteronomy chapter 15 and verse 11. Which is encouraging people to be generous to the poor. And Jesus says, or excuse me, Moses writes, for there will never cease to be poor in the land. They will always be poor people. Jesus here is defending Mary's extravagant act of love because she knew Jesus was about to die. There would be many opportunities for her to give to the poor. in the days ahead. But she had only a few more days to show her love for the Lord in a tangible way. Let me just add that Christianity, Christians have given more to help poor people through the centuries than any other group of people. So much of relief agencies, food drives Missionary efforts have been involved to helping the poor. So no one can look at these words of Jesus and conclude that Christian people do not help the poor. That is absolutely untrue. The opposite is the case. Christians have done more to help the poor than any other group of individuals. In Matthew and Mark's account, we discover that Jesus made another announcement on this occasion. He said, Truly I say to you, wherever the gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will be told in memory of her. Jesus not only defends this woman from Judas' accusation, but he gives her special honor. in a conspicuous way. He says that what she has done will be remembered and it will be announced wherever the gospel is preached. And this has certainly come true. Here we are today, on the other side of the world, almost 2,000 years later, and we're talking about Mary of Bethany and what she did for her Savior. Demonstrating love for Christ is costly. It is sometimes criticized, but it is always worth it. Now I want to make some applications and implications. Number one. People will demonstrate their love for Christ in different ways. We read earlier that Martha was serving and Mary was at his feet. We should not try to contrast these sisters and say that one was good and the other was bad. They were worshiping and serving God in different ways. Some believers are more reflective and contemplative, and some are more active in the way they do things. But every believer must both worship and serve the Lord. And one of the big ways that we misjudge people is we assume that everyone is like us. That everyone has the gifts. And the personality and the background that we have. But and yet we are all different. And we have different ways that we serve the Lord. We see here secondly that Jesus is worthy of our most costly sacrifices. He's worthy of our money, of our time, of our talents, and of our children. Have you given to the Lord something that was truly costly before? I think we like to give him our leftovers, the things that we will never miss. The things that we do not really treasure When we were over in Papua New Guinea as missionaries, sometimes churches would send care packages to us and I use this example with hesitation because there were often many wonderful things that they sent, but I remember this one church sent to us. A collection of used teabags. And their thinking was, there's still a little bit of use in those teabags. The missionaries won't mind. The point is they didn't give their best. They gave their leftovers. And sometimes we give that way to the Lord. We give him our leftover time, our leftover energy, the money that we do not need. But David says when he buys the threshing floor that would become Jerusalem, the place of the temple, that he would not give the Lord that which just did cost him nothing. We should be willing to give costly sacrifices for the Lord. And some of the most costly things we can give is our time. We only have so much time. We only have 168 hours in a week. And so much of that is unnecessary things. But how much of this do we really give to the Lord? We see thirdly in this passage that we should be more concerned with what God thinks of us. than what people think of us. Most of the people present at that dinner thought less of Mary of Bethany. She let her hair down and she washed, touched his feet, and she wasted that expensive perfume. What was she thinking? But Mary didn't care what people thought. She knew that Jesus would appreciate it and that he would understand and know her expression of love. I think one of the most common ways we sin against God is the ways we so often misjudge other people and their actions. We so often assume that we know their motives and why they did that. And we cast judgment on them and we criticize them And so often we're wrong. We don't know. So we must be careful. Not to judge others. We see here that our sacrificial gifts to the Lord will never be forgotten. Jesus says, wherever the gospel is preached, this will be remembered. He says in another place that a cup of water given in his name will be remembered. It's not that you have to give a costly gift for God to take notice of it. Even the smallest act done in the name of the Lord is remembered. Let me ask you, do you think that Mary ever regretted giving that costly gift that day? Certainly not. We so often focus on investing in the here and now I think and and and of course we don't we don't think of it. No one thinks they're rich, no one thinks they have a lot. We compare ourselves with our peers in an affluent society, in an affluent county, and it looks like we're just, you know, kind of average. But if we compared ourselves with all the human beings who have ever lived on the earth and even all of the nearly 8 billion people who live on planet Earth today, I think all of us would be probably in the top 1% of human beings. I think I can demonstrate that statistically. We don't feel that way because we live in the United States of America. But I I firmly believe that someday when we're in heaven If indeed we have regrets, we're going to say, Lord, why didn't I give more to the spread of the gospel? You blessed me so abundantly. I had so much. And yet, my focus was so much like every other lost person on just socking money away, investing in things that will give a great return so that I can live a life of comfort and ease and luxury for the last couple decades of my life. Why didn't I sacrifice more for your cause? But fifthly, I want you to notice here, I think we have a beautiful picture. Illustration, if you will, of Jesus as an advocate for his people, defending his people against the accusations of Satan. Remember what Jesus said about Judas back in John chapter 6 that I read earlier? One of you is a devil. We read in the gospel narrative that at this Passion Week it says that Satan entered into the heart of Judas. And what Judah says here, I think, is representative of the kind of accusations that Satan makes about the people of God. He misjudges Mary. He says that what she did was wasteful and implies that it was selfish. She's trying to draw attention to herself so everyone looks at her and thinks she's great. But Jesus says to Judas, leave her alone She's not at fault. She's done a beautiful thing. He says in Matthew and Mark, he describes what she does as a beautiful thing. The Bible tells us that Satan is the accuser of the brethren. That's you and I. He accuses us to the Lord. He lies about us. He's constantly telling the Lord, look how worthless that person is. Look how wasteful they are. Look how lazy they are. And how many times does the Lord say to him, leave him alone? Leave her alone. They're one of my children. I think we see a picture of his work as our advocate here. We see here that our opportunities to demonstrate love for Christ are limited. Mary had only a few days left. She understood that. Jesus understood that. We don't know how much time each of us has. What we do know is that our time on earth is a limited resource and that every day, every moment it gets smaller. It's so easy for us to adopt the position that someday I'm going to serve the Lord. Someday my time's going to free up. And I'm going to have all the opportunities to really serve the Lord. Sometimes people have said to me, you know, when I when I get become an adult, then I'm really going to serve the Lord when I get out of college. Others people would say, you know, when I get married and I have a a partner with me, then we're really going to serve the Lord. And then of course they have kids and all of their time is taken up and they say, you know, when our kids leave And they move out of the house, then I'm going to serve the Lord because I have more time. And then they say, when I retire and I long no longer no longer have to work, then I have all this time and I have more resources and then I'm really going to get serious About serving the Lord, and for so many people, it just never really happens. Because there's always something else to do, they're never intentional about it And before you know it, their life is over. Time's up. Their day to show their love for Christ and to lavish their love on him like Mary did is gone. The window is closed. Only one life will soon be passed. Only what's done for Christ will last. And finally, I want to say that Jesus is worthy of your trust. He's the kind of person that's going to defend his people, the kind of person that knows our hearts. And the kind of person that'll protect us from the accusations of the wicked one. And we see here that those who truly trust in the Lord love the Lord Jesus. Can you say that you truly love the Lord Jesus? We have so many songs in our hymn book that express this. I wonder if you're ever embarrassed about them. Sounds a little too sentimental to me. Or that would never ever be you, that you would never ever say to someone, I want you to know I love the Lord Jesus. Whatever else you might be, I want you to know if you don't love the Lord Jesus, you're not a believer. Because the Bible says in many places that all of his children love Christ. To those who believe he is precious. And so search your heart and see if indeed you love him, because those who truly know him love him and treasure him. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for this time that we spent together in your word. I pray that you would help us. to be a people who indeed love our Savior and our love for him is conspicuous. It's evidence. In the way we live our lives, in the way we sacrificially give for him, in the way we speak of him, in the way we serve him. Help us, Father. To be like Mary and to give costly gifts to our Savior because we love him with all of our hearts. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.