You have your Bibles, please. Would you join with me in John chapter 9? John chapter 9. At the heart of the Jewish worship was the Sabbath day God intended and ordained that this be a day of joy, a day of worship, and a day of rest. But over the centuries, religious leaders had transformed this day of rest into a day of restriction. In their attempts to define work, they built a hedge around the law that distorted God's gracious precision of a day of rest. Let me give you some examples from rabbinic rabbinic writings at the time of Christ. There was to be no lighting of a fire on the Sabbath day, and so if a candle was lit before sunsets on what they considered the beginning of the Sabbath day, It could not be put out for the entire rest of the day. But if you forgot to light the candle, you could not light it then. It had to remain unlit until the Sabbath day was over. A person was not allowed to wear false teeth on the Sabbath because it was considered carrying something, and carrying something is work. You cannot eat an egg that was laid on the Sabbath because that food was the result of work by the chicken. You could not saddle a horse or donkey on the Sabbath. You could ride the horse or donkey if you thought to put the saddle on before the Sabbath day began, but not afterward. Jesus never violated the Sabbath, but he frequently violated the man-made restrictions. that surrounded Sabbath observance. On at least five occasions, Jesus healed people on the Sabbath day We read of him healing a disabled woman in Luke chapter 13. We read of him healing a man suffering from dropsy in Luke chapter 14. We read of him healing a man with a withered hand, and it's recorded in Luke 6 and Matthew 12 and Mark 2. And earlier in this Gospel of John, we read of Jesus healing a layman by the pool of Bethesda. This so angered the religious authorities that it was that event that was the beginning of their plans to murder him. And today we discover that the healing of the blind man that we considered last Sunday actually took place on the Sabbath day. The conclusion of most Bible scholars is that Jesus intentionally performed these miracles on the Sabbath day. It was not that he was forgetful. He didn't realize of the Sabbath day. No, he did it intentionally to expose the folly of their man-made laws and to reveal his authority as the Lord of the Sabbath. This book, this chapter opens with the miracle in verses 1 through 7, and then verses 8 through 12, we have the reactions of the people to this healing And then beginning in verse 13, the religious leaders begin to investigate this miracle. And that investigation is in three phases. First, we have the Pharisees interrogating the man who was born blind, but now can see. And then we have them interrogating his parents in verses 18 through 23. And finally they interrogate the man born blind for a second time in verses 24 through 34. And this Interrogation is more intense. You might say the gloves come off. Now what becomes clear Throughout this chapter and this investigation by the authorities is that they were not truly seeking the truth. But instead, they were trying to find a way to discredit this miracle, the man who was healed, and ultimately Jesus. So what we have here is a blind investigation of a blind man's healing. I want you to notice with me, first of all, in this first paragraph, verses 13 through 17, the religious leaders interrogate the blind man who was healed. Look with me, please, at verse 13. They brought to the Pharisees the man who had formerly been blind. Now Who brought this man to the Pharisees? Verse 13 doesn't say, but undoubtedly it was the people mentioned right before this in verses 8 through 12. These people who knew him. who who saw the miracle or witnessed the miracle. They knew that this was a religious matter. They knew that this took place on the Sabbath day. And they knew that the religious leaders would want to know about this. And so they go and they tell them what has happened. Now I want you to notice that these leaders here are called the Pharisees. They were the conservative wing of the political-religious landscape in Israel. And they were likely some of the members of the Sanhedrin. Now in verse 18, these same people are simply called the Jews, which John often does to refer to the religious leaders. Now look with me at verse 14. Now it was a Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. This is what piqued their interest because the miracle took place on the Sabbath day. This is the first time in the story that we hear that this healing took place on the Sabbath. Now, the Pharisees would have believed that Jesus violated the Sabbath in at least two ways when he performed this miracle. Because the rabbis taught that it was wrong to heal on the Sabbath unless it was a matter of life or death. This blind man, it was not a matter of life or death. So in their thinking, he could have waited and done it the next day. But Jesus performed this miracle on the Sabbath. A second way they feel that he violated it is that in making the mud It was violating the Sabbath because this was classified as needing, which was one of the 39 categories of work that they had established. So in the minds of these religious men, Jesus had broken the Sabbath in at least two ways. Now I want you to notice that this is not something the Scripture taught. It did not teach that it was wrong to heal unless it was a matter of life or death, or that it was wrong to make mud on the Sabbath. Those are Findings of men, additions made by men, but not something that the Old Testament explicitly taught. And I also want you to notice something else that I mentioned when we were in chapter 5. And that is that these religious leaders do not rejoice that this blind man can now see Wouldn't that be an occasion for rejoicing? A man who had congenital blindness? A man who now can see and can work? and provide for himself and be a contributing member of society, you would think they would be overjoyed at the power of God that was manifested. But they don't care about this man. They passed by his gate undoubtedly many times over the years, but he was invisible to them. He was like part of the landscape, not a person, not a person that they considered or wanted to help. And you would think that this spectacular miracle would gain their attention And you would think it would make them wonder, is this truly the Messiah? But they, at least most of them, are not seeking to understand the truth, but to disprove and discredit what God has done. Now look with me at verse 15. So the Pharisees again asked him, that is the man who was born blind, how he had received his sight. And he said to them, He put mud on my eyes, I wash, and I see. It says that they asked him again. Of course, the implication being they've already asked him. Several times. You'll notice his answer is very concise. It's very terse because he said the same answer previously. He put mud on my eyes. I went and washed and now I can see. Those are the three parts. It hasn't changed. And they can tell they're getting nowhere with this man. In fact, his miracle has created a division in their own ranks. Look with me at verse 16. Some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, How can a man who is a sinner do such signs? And there was a division among them. One part of the Pharisees reasoned this way. A man who breaks the Sabbath is not a man of God. Jesus broke the Sabbath. Therefore, Jesus is not a man from God. Of course, their premise was wrong. Jesus didn't break the Sabbath, and therefore their conclusion was entirely false. But that is exactly the way they reasoned. However, there were other Pharisees who were more open-minded, and they reasoned this way. Any man who has the power to heal a person born blind is a man from God. Jesus healed a man born blind. Conclusion, Jesus is a man from God. So they are divided in their opinions, and they continue their investigation and ask the man another question. They said to the blind man, what do you say about him since he has opened your eyes? He said, He is a prophet. Now this is very interesting that they asked this man who he thought Jesus was. Certainly his Testimony would not mean that much to them, except perhaps to condemn him, which they will put him out of the synagogue later in this chapter The picture that you get here is that they are frustrated. They're not able to accomplish what they want to accomplish. This man is not complying with them. He's not giving them anything. He's not helping them try to disprove this notable miracle, and they are frustrated. But we see that there were also some Pharisees who were open-minded and were actually seeking the truth. So why did this man say that he believes that Jesus is a prophet? There are four different stages of his understanding of Jesus that progress in this chapter. First of all, he says that Jesus is a man, and now he says here that Jesus is a prophet. Well, he would say that Jesus was a prophet because every Jewish person knew that the prophets in days gone by did spectacular miracles. Everyone talked about Elijah and Elisha and the incredible things they did. Perhaps this man even wished that if only he lived back in those days, maybe he could have been healed. And so he concludes that Jesus is a prophet. Or perhaps this formerly blind man frequently heard people as they passed by his gates. talk about Jesus as a great prophet. This was the opinion of many people in Israel. At his triumphal entry into Jerusalem, Jesus is called a prophet, Matthew 21. In Mark 6. 15, we read that some of the people felt that Jesus was a prophet, like one of the prophets of old. When Jesus brought back to life the widow of Nain 's son, the people said, a great prophet has arisen among us. And you remember the two on the day of resurrection, just hours after Jesus rose from the dead, these two people say, Jesus of Nazareth, a man who was a prophet, mighty in deed and word. And three previous times in this book of John, we see Jesus identified as a prophet. In John chapter 4 and verse 19, the woman at the well says, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. And in John 6. 14, when Jesus fed more than 5,000 people with a little boy's lunch, the people proclaim, this is indeed the prophet who is to come into the world. And in John chapter 7 and verse 40, right after Jesus said, Whoever believes in me, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water, the people said, this really is the prophets. Which is a reference to the prophecy in Deuteronomy chapter 18. Moses said that a greater prophet than him would come into the world, but he would be like him. He would be Jewish. And he would speak the word of God. He spoke of an ultimate prophet. And you know what? Jesus was an ultimate prophet. We must not deny that. He's more than a prophet, but he's not less than a prophet. There are many people today who would say that Jesus was a great prophet. This is something that Muslims will tell you if you speak to them of Jesus. They would say, oh, I believe that Jesus was a great prophet. I spoke to a man a couple years ago on an airplane who was a Muslim, a very nice young man. And I said, you're right, he was a great prophet. And I said, but he's more than a prophet. He's also a priest who has made atonement for his sins, and he's a king who rules over all, and he's the Son of God who is the Savior of the world. Jesus is our prophet, priest, and king. But this blind man will come to see that Jesus is more than a prophet by the end of this chapter. But now I want us to look as the religious leaders interrogate the parents. of the blind man who was healed. This begins in verse 18. It says, the Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight until they called the parents of the man who had received his sight and asked them, Is this your son? You say was born blind? How then does he now see So this paragraph in verse 18 begins with a summary of the results of this interrogation. Here we learn that one of the ways these religious leaders were trying to discredit this miracle was to suggest that the man had not actually been born blind. That perhaps he had exaggerated his blindness, or perhaps he was a complete fraud. He was never blind, and this was all some elaborate hoax. So the people that would know if he was born blind would certainly be his parents, and so they call them. And the word call here is actually a word that has the idea of summons or subpoena it in a court of law. They didn't have a choice. They had to come to speak to these authorities. And they asked them three questions. Is this your son? Was he born blind? And how does he now see? And they answer in verse 20, we know that this is our Son, and that he was born blind. But how he now sees, we do not know, nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him, he is of age, he will speak for himself. The parents affirm that he is indeed their son, and that he was born blind. They would know they were there. As I suggested to you earlier, I think his blindness was obvious. I think his eyes were deformed. When he was born They probably were filled with sorrow because they could instantly tell that his eyes were malformed and that he was blind. And their joy of giving birth to a son was soon followed by sorrow that they had a blind son. And the Jewish religious leaders could not refute this. You can't refute the parents who were there who would certainly know that he was born blind. But when they are asked how he sees, they do not answer. They do not explain. They do not give credit to Jesus. In this passage you see they're very careful never to mention his name. Now, I think it's not at all likely that they were telling the truth that they didn't know how he saw I cannot but imagine that when this man who was blind his whole life could suddenly see and he came home that he told his parents every detail of that day the most important day of his life. And he told them that it was Jesus of Nazareth who healed him so that now he could see. I feel certain that he told them this. And that they knew this. But they're very evasive and defensive. And John In one of his editorial comments, explains why they are so defensive. Look with me at verse 22. It's in parentheses in my Bible. His parents said these things because they feared the Jews. For the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. These parents did not want to be ostracized by their community. It's hard for us to imagine how big of a deal this would be. We still, of course, talk about church discipline and excommunication. But the impact in their lives would have been much greater than it would be in our modern context. They lived in a Jewish community. They all shopped at one another's stores. They they had family ties, and all of it was part of being part of the synagogue family. To be put out of the synagogue to be excommunicated meant that all of those ties were severed. Their family would no longer fellowship with them. They would no longer celebrate meals with them. They would no longer acknowledge them. And if they had a business, none of the other Jews in that community would come and and uh uh buy goods at their stores. They were completely rejected and ostracized by the Jewish community. And this idea of being cast out of the Jewish community, which has been their life all of their days, was just unthinkable to them. And so they will not give credit to Jesus. And by the way, this is John Foreshadowing here in verse 22 what's going to happen to the blind man at the end of this chapter when he will be put out of the synagogue. We see here that following Christ can be very costly. But now I want to turn to an extended period of application. Not too extended, but a little bit. I have to tell you That this is a difficult passage to preach. It's difficult to preach two sections of interrogation. by hypocritical leaders who are trying to disprove the identity of Jesus. You don't have any famous verses here, you don't have any precious promises, you don't have any inspiring examples. You don't have anything like that. And sometimes as an expositor, you come to your next passage and you're like, oh, this is going to be difficult. Well, that's the way it was this week when I came to this passage. But I want you to know that this is the Word of God and that all of God's scripture is profitable and helpful and needful for us. So, if I have put you to sleep with my explanation of an ancient interrogation by a man and his parents, I want you to wake up now. Okay? Because I'm going to speak more directly to you. These are applications and implications that come from the text. The first one is this. Be very careful of the spiritual leaders that you allow to influence your spiritual life. And where do I get this from? Well, those who witnessed this miracle ran and told the religious authorities what had happened. They were the experts. They were trusting in their judgments. They wanted to know, should we follow this man? Is he the Messiah? Or should we reject him as a fraud? And so they ran to the religious authorities, but unfortunately, the people they went to Already were predisposed to not follow Jesus and to not really investigate the situation. Because the Pharisees, as we read in chapter 5, were already bent on murdering Jesus and were not objective judges of the truth. Have you ever thought about the fact this is not an uplifting truth, but it is a truth? Have you ever thought about the fact that most people in the world who are right now on their way to hell are religious people to some degree. They are we we often would think that most people who are lost are secular atheists, and there are certainly many of them. and the West especially. But most people in the world statistically who are on their way to hell are religious. But they're following the wrong leaders, and they're trusting in the wrong savior. And unfortunately, there are even many Christians who follow and listen to and allow to influence them people Teachers who may be believers, but they do not carefully explain and apply the Word of God. Many times they're unbalanced. There's one doctrine, there's one truth that they are very enamored with. And that's what they emphasize again and again and again. You may say, well, what's wrong with that? The problem is when you emphasize any doctrine beyond its biblical proportions, you are thereby distorting that doctrine and you're obscuring other truths It is very difficult, but it's so important for teachers and preachers of the word as much as they possibly can by God's grace to be balanced. And to let all of Scripture speak for itself and not find a hobby horse in Scripture. There are many Christians who become spiritually unhealthy and unbalanced because they do not have a steady diet. of what the Bible calls sound doctrine. That word in the pastoral epistles, sound doctrine means literally healthy doctrine. You could say nutritious doctrine. Some people have a diet, if I can put it this way, of spiritual junk food. It tastes good. It excites them. But they're not getting the spiritual nutrition of the undiluted Word of God that they need. It's all a lot of style and a lot of flavoring, but not much substance. This is true in probably the majority of churches in this nation. So we have to be discerning. You ever thought about how much the way you think and how much the way you interpret scripture has been influenced by the teachers and preachers that you have in your life. It is one of the biggest influences in your spiritual life that you have. And we have an embarrassment of riches available to us today in the modern world. You can literally access millions of sermons on the internet. You could watch services 24 hours a day, seven days a week for the rest of your life, and you would never run out. There are millions. of sermons, audio and video sermons available today on the internet. And beyond sermons, you have podcasts and Bible studies and devotional videos. Much of what is available is not healthy, and much of it is some of it is even dangerous. I am not at all suggesting That you cannot listen to other preachers. Just listen to me. Don't listen to anybody else. I'm not at all saying that. I enjoy listening to other preachers. And they can be very, very helpful. But you must be discerning and careful. Just because a man quotes a Bible verse and mentions the name of Jesus does not mean he's a sound teacher. And let me add this as well. No internet preacher or TV preacher can be your pastor. I am not speaking. My application now is not for those who are shut in and cannot physically get to church. I understand your limitations. But there are millions of American Christians who would say that their pastor is some celebrity on TV or some internet person that they watch on a regular basis. But that internet preacher or that celebrity cannot be your pastor because one of the qualities of a pastor is, according to scripture, that he knows his sheep. And that internet preacher doesn't know you. He doesn't care for you. He doesn't pray for you. And so he cannot be the one who holds you accountable and the one to whom you go to for counsel. And let me also say, in many cases, one of the ways that God has intended it to be, he says in the pastoral epistles, is that you would know their manner of life. In other words, when you have a pastor of a church, you can see him. You can see his family. You can see how he deals with people. You can see how he talks. He's a real person, but some celebrity that you watch on TV or on some podcast or something, you don't know anything about his personal life He may be an absolute fraud and you don't know it because you only see what he wants you to see. So I say all this to say this. God's design is that every believer would be part of a community of believers called the church. God designed us so that we need one another and we hold one another accountable and we place ourselves under spiritual shepherds who will lead us and guide us. The second application I want to make is this. Man-made theology leads to horrible consequences. One of the questions that you always get from reading through the Gospels is you ask yourself, how did these experts in the Old Testament miss their Messiah? And there are several answers to this. One is they did not want to lose their status and their power and their respectability among the people. And to follow Jesus would perhaps involve them losing all of that. But another reason is because they exalted tradition. above the word of God. Now they claim to be experts in the Old Testament, and in many ways they were But over the centuries, thousands and thousands of pages of rabbinic writing had been developed, and it was greatly revered and respected And so when they came to any passage of Scripture, their first question was not, what does this mean? What is God saying? But what did the ancient rabbis say about it? And what was their opinion? And in time, their findings, their interpretations became as respectable and as sacred as the Word of God itself. This is why they believe that Jesus was a Sabbath breaker, because they had a distorted understanding of the Sabbath. The Word of God must be our ultimate source of truth, not the opinions of men. I'm not at all suggesting that we should not read or admire Christians of the past. It's very helpful to know church history. It's very helpful to know how God has led and moved in people in the past. This is one of my great interests. But no teaching of any man can take precedent over the Word of God. Because every human being, every teacher, every preacher who's ever lived, except for Jesus. was flawed and had his blind spots and made mistakes. The third point of application I want to make is this. People Can witness God do incredible things and still fail to trust in Him. Talking here of these parents of the man born blind When they were questioned, they refused to give any credit to Jesus, and yet they had witnessed a spectacular miracle. It could not be denied. Their son, who was born blind, who'd been blind all of his life, now can see. He has a future ahead of him. He can get a job. He can live an independent life. What a relief that must have been to them. They should have been overcome with gratitude to Jesus. They should have gone to him and they should have with tears thanked him for what he had done for their son. But when they are questioned, they won't even mention his name They show great ingratitude, and though there was a notable miracle done right in their midst, in their family, they were not interested in following Jesus. They just wanted to maintain the status quo. They didn't want to create any problems. And they refused to trust in him. The final application I want to make is this, and that is that Jesus divides all of humanity. In verse 16, we read this phrase, and there was a division among them. Even among these Pharisees, there were some men who had an open mind and were thinking, perhaps Jesus is the Messiah. In our modern thinking, we think of all the Pharisees as being evil and bad and hypocrites and everything, but that's not true. Some of them were open-minded. Some of them were seeking to follow God. And we know According to Acts chapter 15, that some of the some former Pharisees became followers of Christ and leaders in the church What I want you to see is that Jesus does divide people. This is a sub-theme in the Gospel of John. In John 7, we read In verse 43, so there was a division among the people over him. We read of the same division here in chapter 9 and verse 16. And then in the very next chapter, John chapter 10 and verse 19, after Jesus says, I am the good shepherd, we read, there was division among the Jews. because of these words. Some said he was demon-possessed, while others said, can a demon open the eyes of the blind? Wherever the gospel is preached, wherever a crucified Savior is proclaimed, it divides the hearers. This is exactly what Jesus said would occur. In Matthew chapter 10 and verse 34, he says, Do not think I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have come not to bring peace but a sword. He was not speaking here of violence, but of division among people, even within families, that a mother would be separated from her daughter, and a husband from his wife. There would be division because one would believe and another would not, and often there would be persecution Jesus divides all of humanity. Now there are many people who think they can take the approach of these parents. And they could say, I'm just not going to be for him or against him. I'm just going to remain neutral. I'm just not going to be religious. If other people want to be religious, that's fine, but I'm not going to be that way. I'm just going to live life on my own terms. If that works for you, that's great. but it doesn't work for me. I'm not against you. I'm not going to persecute you. I'm not going to make fun of you, but I'm also not going to join you. But the problem is that ultimately you cannot remain neutral Ultimately, you must either trust in Christ and follow him, or you must reject him and face eternal punishment. There is no third space. There is no middle ground. There is no other option. You must Choose a side. These people, it says here in verse 22, as parents, they did not want to acknowledge for Jesus to be Christ, that is the Messiah. Elsewhere in Scripture we read of Gentiles that they did not want to acknowledge that Jesus is Lord. These are very early condensed Credo beliefs. Jesus is the Messiah. Jesus is Lord. And in the early church, people died because they believed these things. They would not say that Caesar is Lord. They said Jesus is Lord. And there were many Jewish believers who were cast out of the synagogues and ostracized from the Jewish communities because they said Jesus is the Messiah. It is very easy to claim to be a follower of Christ in Carroll County, Maryland. This is a conservative county. There are a lot of Christians here. You're not going to face a ton of persecution, I think, in this county. But what if simply saying, I believe that Jesus is Lord was a cause for rest? Or for you to lose everything that you have, or to be ostracized from your family, how many people would stand up and say, He is my Lord? Ultimately, everyone must choose. Everyone must be on one side or the other. And by the grace of God, his children will say, we are on the Lord's side. And they will follow him no matter what the cost. But let me conclude with just this question. Whose side are you on? Is Jesus your Lord and Savior? Is He the one in whom you are trusting? Or is he just a convenient choice for you today? May God help you to follow the Savior. Father. We thank you for your word. We thank you for giving us a great Savior. We thank you for His wonderful truth. And we thank you, Father, that he is, as the scripture says, he does divide humanity between those who believe and those who do not. I pray, Father, that you would not allow anyone here to believe that they can drift through life in that middle ground, refusing to take a side or take a stand or commit to Christ. I pray that you would convict them of their need of a Savior And that they would come to trust in him today, and they would find that he is the greatest treasure. Father, I pray that you'd work through your word. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.