If you would this time turn to 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. Actually, 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. We're going to work on our memory verse first. 1 Thessalonians, we're continuing our study in the book of 1 Thessalonians. We'll be looking at the first three verses for those of you that are working on memorizing the entire book of 1 Thessalonians. I hear there's a few of you out there. You're supposed to work through verse up through verse 5 today, but you're lucky. I'm only going to make it through verse 3. So you have a little bit of a reprieve. 1 Thessalonians are Our verse that we are memorizing together comes from chapter 5. We're going to be memorizing this entire passage, Lord willing. But we'll begin with just the first two verses. Let's stand together as we read this through two times. We began last week, and now we'll continue putting this in our hearts. 1 Thessalonians 5, 1 through 2. Let's say the reference, the verse, then the reference and verse again 1 Thessalonians 5, 1 through 2. Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need to have anything written to you. For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. First Thessalonians 5, 1 through 2. Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need to have anything written to you. For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. So we're going back to 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, and just by way of reminder, the structure of the book of Thessalonians, it's not like Isaiah. It's a lot easier to keep in mind. We did talk about ruin and redemption in Isaiah. This one has backwards and forwards. That's kind of how we're going to think about it. The two main divisions, chapters one through three, is a backwards look. Back at God's work among them and also the apostle Paul and his team, their ministry among them. So it's backwards. Remember what God has done. Remember how we behaved. And there's almost a sense in which in chapter two in particular it's a vindication. It's a remember how we behaved among you. Those people that might be that are almost certainly telling them the Apostle Paul had had ulterior motives or he was doing this for this reason. He's saying, remember how we lived among you. Our life was a clear testimony. And so he's pointing them back to not only what Christ has done, but also how he lived among them. And then in chapters four and five, it's a looking forward to the return of Christ. and how we should live in light of the return of Christ. Now, specifically, four and five are are heavy in this reality of the return of Christ. But every chapter of this book ends with a reference to the return of Christ. And that is very significant for us We have in these chapters, chapter one, a message of thankfulness for what God has done among them. Then in chapter two, a reminder of how Paul acted when he was with them. And in chapter three, a rejoicing in Timothy's good report about them, then it's grow in holiness, love and diligence because Christ is coming, and be watchful and sober because Christ is coming. So we talked about the theme. Let's see, let's go back here. The theme of this book is to grow in faith, hope, and love. in light of Christ's imminent return. We could have added more to it. It's designed to encourage and instruct a young church that is facing persecution to remain steadfast. in faith, hope, and love while they await Christ's return. But this is kind of a pocket theme. Grow in faith, hope, and love in light of Christ's return. This is a church that is facing some degree of persecution, severe per persecution, as we'll see. uh in in different ways, but they are needing to rem to stay focused on the return of Christ so that they will grow and continue to grow in faith, hope, and love. As we come to this beginning of chapter one, the beginning of this short epistle, this short letter from Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy to the church in Thessalonica, we see an amazing love from Paul and his missionary team to the church of Thessalonica. They are a beautiful example, really, of the heart of a Christian minister. The way a Christian minister should love and care for those that he's ministering to. They set an example for all of us in the ministries that God has placed us in. And you might say, well, I'm not a minister. You know, that's not my role. I'm just a church member. Or maybe you think I don't have a ministry. Ideally, all of us have a ministry. And we have people that we minister to. And so all of us have in spheres of influence and ministry. that we are to be using for the glory of Christ. And the example of the heart of Paul and Silas and Timothy is really a beautiful example for us to follow. It might be that you are involved in a Sunday school class. And those of your ministry to in that Sunday school class, you need to have the attitude and the heart that Paul and Silas had here. It might be a discipleship partner, someone that you are instructing in the Lord. It might be as a parent, it might be a child. It might be a spouse. It might be a family member that you are ministering to. Paul and his ministry team set an example for all of us. About the proper ministry heart. And what they're doing here is building up the believers by means of encouragement and thankfulness. There really is just an overwhelming theme of encouragement and of thankfulness. When we read through the book of 1 Thessalonians last week, I asked you to look for two things. One of those things was the love and encouragement that that Paul speaks about And the second was the frequent references to the return of Christ. And I hope they came out as we went through this. And if you had a chance to read through 1 Thessalonians again, I believe you saw that. But this evening we're going to be looking at the encouraging heart of faithful gospel workers and encouraging us to have that similar heart. So he starts out in verse 1, Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy. To the Church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace to you and peace. We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers. Remembering before our God and Father your work of faith and your labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. And honestly, I think that's as far as we're going to make it tonight. I wanted to go further. But we would see in this two primary points, the encouragement of their position. And that's the first point that we're going to look at, the encouragement of their position. But then also the encouragement that we see as we look at their the thankfulness that is exhibited from Paul to them and to God for them. They're encouraged with the united love of this missionary team. We have Paul, and I said, and as we read it, it says Sylvanus. Remember last week we we identified that Sylvanus is the same as Silas is just like William and Bill. It's the same name. So when you think of Paul and Silas in the jail singing till midnight and praising God, that's the Paul and Silas of the second missionary team. It's the same Silas who was instrumental in the founding of the church at Thessalonica. And Timothy, of course, is often called Paul's son in the face. He personally led him to the Lord and discipled him. We have the books of 1 and 2 Timothy that were written directly from Paul to Timothy at the end of his life and ministry. These three together are essentially writing this, although Paul is the main author, and he's the primary author we saw in 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. In verse 18, where Paul said, Because we wanted to come to you, I, Paul, again and again But Satan hindered us. So we see the first person singular jumping out when Paul says, I wanted to, but Satan hindered us. If you continue on a little bit further in chapter 3, verse 5 of this passage. He says, For this reason, when I could bear it no longer, I sent to learn about your face for fear that somehow the tempter had tempted you, and our labor would be in vain. And so we'll talk about this verse actually a little bit later. But Paul is again identifying himself with the first person singular. And then just a little bit further on at the end of the book in chapter 5, verse 27, Paul says I put you under oath before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers. So again, we have the first person singular. So Paul's writing. But they're all together. And here's how I kind of picture it. I picture them sitting there, and Paul's writing, he's sitting at the desk, and maybe he's reading aloud what he's about to say. And then they're looking over his shoulder and say, yeah, make sure you mention this. And they're together in this endeavor. And there's that same joy and love and encouragement that Paul has, that Silas has, and that Timothy have, as they are Writing this letter together. There's a warm and loving concern from the entire missionary team. The whole tone of the letter is one of deep affection. In fact, in chapter two, verse seven He says, there's an interesting statement. He says, but we were gentle among you like a nursing mother taking care of her own children. Paul says, when we were there serving, when we started this church among you, we were gentle. We weren't gruff. We weren't forceful. We weren't demanding our rights. We were like a mother caring for her child, like a nursing mother. The fact is that the church was born in adversity. And Paul and Silas and Timothy were all a part of the founding of this church. Unfortunately, when the church was founded, they didn't weren't able to stay there very long, probably not much longer than six months. And then Paul and Silas and Timothy were forced to leave. Let's go back to Acts chapter 17. I'd like to read this passage again a little more carefully in Acts chapter 17. About the founding of this church. Because this church is a church that is right from its very beginning facing significant adversity. If we have our slide open, we'll just go to Yeah, you see where Thessalonica is, right here. It's along the Ignatian way. And They you know they first came into Philippi and now they're traveling. There's Philippi and they're traveling along the nation way. They went to Amphipolis and Apollonia. And they go over to Thessalonica. The challenging thing is there are two Apollonias. So you see Apollonia over here. That's not the same one that's mentioned in Acts chapter 17. So if you look at this map, Note that there are two Apollonias. Right next to Amphipolis is also a little tiny town called Apollonia that is a separate one. But he says here in verse 1, now when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia They came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews. And Paul went in, as was his custom, and on three Sabbath days he reasoned with them from the scriptures. So Paul, whenever he would go to a new city, he would look to see if there was a large enough Jewish population to be able to go to the synagogue. Was there a synagogue there? When he went to Philippi, There was no synagogue. So we find him down by the riverside, and he's ministering among the God fearers that were there. Here he comes into Phil into Thessalonica, and there's a synagogue. And he begins first taking the gospel to the Jews. And the typical pattern of Paul's ministry, anytime you find him going to a town, is he was first thing he would do, he'd reason for several weeks in the synagogue, and then the Jews would kick him out. And then they would incite a riot, and Paul would have to leave town. That's kind of how Paul's ministry went. Now, sometimes he was able to stay a little longer than others and other places, but he was that's generally how that happened. He says here in verse 3, explaining and proving that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead, saying, This Jesus whom I proclaim to you is the Christ. So he's going through the Old Testament scriptures, showing them how Jesus is the Christ, that his suffering and his death were prophesied clearly in the Old Testament. And some of them were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, as did a great many of the devout Greeks. So the devout Greeks we talked about last week are those that were God fearers, but they had not submitted to circumcision. And not a few of the leading women, again, probably are the families of these devout Greeks. Some probably of their husbands were not God fearers, but they were not able to be proselytes because they their husbands were not. But the Jews were jealous. And taking some wicked men of the rabble, they formed a mob, set the city in an uproar, and attacked the house of Jason. seeking to bring them out to the crowd. So they believed that Paul and Silas were in the house of Jason, probably where they were spending the night on a regular basis, but at that moment they were not there. And so they they attacked the house, they looked for Paul and Silas, they couldn't find him. It says in verse 6, and when they could not find him, they dragged Jason. And some of the brothers before the city authorities shouting, these men who have turned the world upside down have come here also. And Jason has received them, and they are all acting against the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus. Now this is a pretty serious accusation. When you think about the time frame. We'll find in just a few chapters that the Jews had been kicked out of Rome. And now we have a Jewish man saying that there's another king. And they're not to be loyal, as the way they're spinning this, to Caesar. This other king is Jesus, and he's coming again. He's coming again. So you can imagine how this could be spun in a way that the Roman authorities would be very concerned about. Is this a revolt? Is this going to bring about uh some sort of mutiny or some sort of revolution? And the people and the city authorities were disturbed when they heard these things. And when they had taken money as security from Jason and the rest, they let them go. So this riot that took place left Jason and this young congregation in a very vulnerable place. They made Jason, as it were, pay something kind of like bail. And essentially his bail that he's paying is that this won't happen again. Even though Jason isn't the one who started the riot, they made him responsible for it, and he had to pay out of his own pocket. For his own freedom, and given assurance that this type of riot would not happen again. He continues on here in verse 10. The brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. And then when they had arrived there, they went into the Jewish synagogue. You see the same thing happen. Go into the Jewish synagogue, begin preaching in Berea, and the cycle begins all over again. But the reality that is mentioned here is that this church started under great affliction. In fact, in chapter 1 of 1 Thessalonians, he mentions that. He says, and you became imitators of us. and of the Lord, for you receive the word in much affliction. So you can imagine the heart of Paul and Silas and Timothy as they're thinking about this fledgling church. This church that was started with great persecution. That that riots began it. How is the church doing? What is their their faith like? Are they standing firm in the Lord? And Paul is writing this because he's just received word from Timothy that they are standing firm. And so he's encouraging them, reminding them, we love you. We pray for you. We're so excited and thankful for what God is doing in you. Paul sends Timothy back to Thessalonica at one point because he just has to know what is going on with this church. In fact, we read about that in 1 Thessalonians chapter 3. He says, Therefore when we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left at Athens alone, and we sent Timothy our brother and God's co-worker in the gospel of Christ. to establish and exhort you in your faith. So Timothy's, or Paul's in in Athens with with uh with Silas and Timothy, and he says, I just got to know how they're doing. And although it's not ideal for Paul to be alone in Athens, there's all sorts of dangers that could take place. He says, Timothy, you need to go back. And actually it seems like at this point, he also sends Silas over to check on the church in Philippi. Because they later return from Macedonia and meet Paul in Corinth. And so Paul is alone in Athens. He said, this is not ideal. But I need to know how you're doing. And I need you to be grounded and encouraged more. They are Warmly connected with this body of believers. They love them deeply. And that love is evident in how they encourage them. They encourage them with the fact that they are the church They are the church in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Notice what he says here in verse 1. He says, Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father. in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now often when we're starting off with pistols, there's these greetings, and the temptation maybe they just kind of run through them. And not really pay attention to what's being said there. These are just standard greetings, you know. It's like in the front of an email. I hope this email finds you well Or, you know, hope this email finds you in hell. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. They're just standard greetings. But there there's a lot more here because these are Holy Spirit-inspired greetings that are very significant. And he encourages them with this fact that they are the church in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Now the word church is a word that we think of pretty commonly. We think of church building, we think of the church congregation. It's from the Greek word that has the idea of a called-out group. And he's saying, you have been called out of the world, and you are assembling together as a group of believers. You are called out by God from the world into a unique relationship Unique association. But the next phrase is remarkable in the New Testament. The only other time a greeting similar to this is found is in 2 Thessalonians. But he says, in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, he says to these young believers in Thessalonica, you are called out of the world. And you have been placed in God the Father and in Jesus Christ the Lord. Now when we think of the New Testament, think of Paul's writings, we think of the phrase in Christ, or in Jesus Christ, or in Christ Jesus, or in him, over 80 times in the New Testament. That phrase, something like that, is found, the vast majority of it in the Apostle Paul's writings. But this is significant. Because he describes them as being in God the Father and in Jesus Christ. When we think of the phrase, in Christ. The more common, the more uh well-known designation. It describes an essential element of what it means to be a Christian. If you are a Christian You are in Christ. It's not just something that you're born into. It's not just your your hereditary pattern. You are born again into Jesus Christ. You are uniquely placed in him. Either a person is in Christ, or they're still in Adam, and therefore they are dead in their trespasses and sins. The Bible teaches that there are only two types of people in the world. Every person you and I meet, when you go to work, when you go to school, when you go to the mall, wherever you go, every person that you and I meet are either in Christ or Or they're in Adam and therefore on their way to hell. There are no other designations. They're either in Christ, And therefore secure and on your way to heaven. Or you are in Adam and on your way to hell. Paul points out that all who are in Christ have been united with Christ by faith. They have been brought into this unique relationship, this supernatural spiritual relationship by faith. In Jesus Christ. But we because of that, we are also in God the Father. I don't know if you think about that reality very often. When I was pondering this over the last couple weeks, just thinking about this statement. My mind began to run to John 17 and the prayer that Jesus prayed right before he was betrayed. In John chapter 17, we have these words out of verses 20 and 21. And it's really a beautiful passage. He says, I do not ask for these only. Jesus is speaking. I do not ask for these only, meaning the apostles. but also for those who will believe in me through their word. So those who in the future, by the testimony of the apostles, will believe in Christ, that they may all be one. the apostles and the entire church, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us. So that the world may believe that you have sent me. He says in his prayer to the Father: Just as you are in me and I am in you, they will be in us. Those who repent of their sins and put their trust in Jesus Christ are brought into Jesus Christ and therefore into the Father. Isn't that an amazing position? Isn't that an encouragement for this group of young Christians who are facing severe persecution? That intimate relationship of the Father and Son that has been throughout all eternity. We are brought into because we have been united with Christ by faith. By grace, we've been brought into an almost an unbelievably intimate relationship with our Creator, with God the Father. How does that impact us? I think one thing it does is how could we fear? How can we fear What man can do to us? How can we fear what a demon or Satan himself may attempt to do to us if we are in God and in Jesus Christ? This is one of the amazing truths that's brought out in Colossians chapter 3, verse 3. It says, for you have died. Meaning you've died with Christ, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. Your life is hidden with Christ and God. There are many ramifications for this statement. But I think there's three implications that are pretty clear. First of all, it's safety and security. There is an immense safety and security if you are hidden in Christ and in God. What is there to fear? What could possibly take you away from that? Who can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus, as Romans 8 says? I think it also speaks of identity. We are intimately linked together with Christ and God, and we in fact are in them. And so there's this unique identity. We have been brought into this relationship. We are in Christ. We are new creatures in Christ Jesus. And we are in the Father. We are identified with Him. And not only in the heavenly places, but then that should impact how we live. in this life. But also there's a there's an aspect of secrecy because we can't see this reality. It's a spiritual reality. We are secretly sustained by what we cannot see or even fully understand. In John 14, 19, Jesus said to them, The world will not see me, but you will see me. If you're a believer, you know that many times the Word of God ministers to you, the Holy Spirit ministers to you, and the lost world would be in the very same context and go. Huh? I don't get that. Why is that so significant? It's because there is this intimate connection that we have in God the Father and in Jesus Christ. I think about the encouragement this would have been to the young church in Thessalonica. They're facing persecution. And they're needed to be reminded of that protection that they have, that they have been taken out of the world, and they're not just left there in Thessalonica. They've been taken out of the world and they've been brought into the church, and they are in God the Father. They are in Christ Jesus. They are secure in him. That protection, that provision that they have is because they are in God. When they experience persecution for holding to the name of Jesus, they need to remember that. The enemy can kill the body, but he cannot touch the spirit. And they are secure in him. He not only encouraged them with their position as being in the Father and in the Son, but also as being recipients of grace and peace. He continues on here. He says, Grace to you and peace. Peace was the traditional Hebrew greeting. Even today, if you go into Jerusalem or go into Israel, you'll hear shalom is a typical greeting. Shalom, meaning peace or wellness or wholeness. And the original Greek reading was something very similar to grace, but not quite the same. And Paul modifies them and combines them together, and he puts them in a specific order. Grace, of course, is the free, unmerited favor of God that is given to guilty sinners who come to God by faith in Jesus Christ. They are in Christ by faith. We've been reconciled to God by faith. That is our grace. And it's because of this grace that we have a position of peace. And so Romans 5 talks about our position of peace. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. It's this justification by grace through faith that gives us the peace with God. We were enemies. We were of the world. We were at combatants with God. But now we are at peace with him. Because why? Because we're in Christ. And he's at peace with his son. The Bible talks about us being accepted in the beloved. Because we are in Christ, God is at peace with us. Our sins were placed on Him. His righteousness was given to us. The order of these two words is very significant. They can never be reversed. You never get peace before grace. Grace always precedes peace. If you try to reverse that peace before grace, you will fail. The grace of God leads to peace. But not only is it positional peace, there's a the call for experiential peace. So Paul is saying he is pronouncing a blessing on them. He is pronouncing grace and peace. They are, they do have peace with God because they have the grace of God. But now he's saying grace and peace, the experiential peace. Like Jesus said in John 14, 27, peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. And he said, let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. We do not need to be afraid. Why? Because of who we are? Yes and no, because of who we are positionally in Christ. But not because of who we are in ourselves. They could still very easily be anxious as they look at the world around them They're facing persecution. Jason is probably thinking, what happens if another riot takes place? Will they demand more money from me? How am I supposed to stop this? These Christians, these were pagans who were part of the cultural paganism, and in Thessalonica, they were required to be take part in the idolatry, the idolatrous practices as part of their civic duty. And now they are refusing to do that because they're waiting for a coming king. There could definitely be anxiety. What if they take away my job? What if they take away my home? What if my husband hates me for this? What if my wife leaves me because of this? And he says to them, grace and peace. Remember your position in Christ. Remember that you are in God the Father and in Christ Jesus. Consider the grace that you have received. And let that bring you peace. If you're anxious or fearful, even today, maybe you're not facing the possibility of your home or your job being taken, but maybe you are. Meditate on your position in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ and allow that to bring peace, a peace that passes understanding. Nothing can separate you from the love of God in Christ Jesus. And that is because of the position that you have in Him He encourages them secondly here. We talked about the encouragement that was because of their position, but now it is encouragement with thankfulness. And verses two and three. He says, we give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning in our prayers. Now, there's just a beautiful spirit throughout this whole epistle. Paul is filled with thankfulness in chapter 2, verse 13. He says, and we also thank God constantly for this. In chapter 3, verse 9. He says to them, For with thanks what thanksgiving can we return to God for you? There's just a spirit of thanksgiving that exudes from this epistle. He even began the letter to the Corinthians. with thanksgiving. Paul is a thankful person. In fact, in almost all of his epistles, he has a beginning note of thankfulness. The one primarily where he doesn't is Galatians, because he just jumps on them right away. Because the issue that they're dealing with was Significant. It was the gospel itself. But even Corinthians, think about the Corinthian church. You know, they're the ones that have all sorts of issues, and Paul writes an encouraging word. We give thanks, mentioning you in our prayers Wow. Even to the Corinthians. And so the message of Paul is not just here in Thessalonica, but to all those that he ministers to is a thankfulness. This should be an example for us that we ought to be thankful and express our gratitude to God For what he is doing in the lives of those that we minister to. Husbands, do you thank God for your wife and for your children on a consistent basis? Do you let them know that you're thankful to God for them? Wives, do you thank God for your husband and children? Are you praying for them with prayers that are filled with thankfulness or are they prayers that are filled with complaints? Father, you've got to change him. You have to change her. Or is it primarily thankfulness for what God is doing in their lives and who they are? Paul, even to the Corinthians, even with all of their problems, is thankful. We see it's a united thankfulness. It's not just Paul, it's the whole team. He says, we give thanks, mentioning you in our prayers. So there's this united thankfulness. And this is really the theme. And even to the end of the book, he says, says that they are to be rejoicing always, praying without ceasing, giving thanks in all things. The spirit of thankfulness is at the heart of Paul, Silas, and Timothy's ministry. It seems like from this though that Paul and Silas and Timothy would actually have times of corporate prayer. where they were praying together not only for the Bereans and the Athenians and the Corinthians, but for the Thessalonians. And their prayers were filled with thankfulness. And so this is just a clue for us that we ought to be praying For those that we are ministering to. Notice that Timothy's report to Paul was one that elicited joy and thankfulness. If you look over in chapter 3, verses 6 through 9. Paul says, Timothy has now come to me. This is he's in Corinth and Timothy has come. He said now that Timothy has come to us from you. and has brought us the good news of your faith and love and reported that you always remember us kindly and long to see us as we long to see you. For this reason, brothers, in all our distress and affliction, we have been comforted about you through your faith. For now we live if you are standing fast in the Lord. Now is that not a deep association? If you're standing fast in the Lord, we live. The implication is, if you're not, we die. That's how intimately connected they are. Then he says, for what thankfulness can we return to God for you, for all the joy that we feel for your sake before our God? Isn't that a beautiful attitude? Now if you're a parent here, you know sometimes as a parent, it can be very easy to be focused on the problems in our children's lives. Because we have a responsibility to correct them and to lead them in the right path. But sometimes we spend so much of our energy on the problems that we fail to have a heart of thankfulness. to point out what God is doing in their lives and to express gratitude to God for what he has done in their lives. To tell them, we're thankful to God for you. We're thankful to God for what he's doing in your life. We rejoice in God's work in your lives. Would your children describe you as thankful? Or would they say that you tend to harp on their problems? What about those you're discipling or those that you have a ministry amongst or your Sunday school class? Are you thankful for them? Do you pray for them with thankfulness? It's also a continual thankfulness. It's not just a one-time deal. He says we give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning in our prayers. This is a continual attitude of prayer. So when he says, pray without ceasing, Paul says I do that for you guys. I pray without ceasing for you guys. Even in chapter 2, verse 13, he says, we also thank God constantly for this. What I think is significant here as well is that Paul says that they give thanks for all of you. What does that seem to indicate? That he knew who they were. And he prayed for them individually. We give thanks for all of you. And, you know, Paul knew people. You read Romans chapter 16. Even though he'd never been to Rome. He had a list of people, greet so-and-so, and greet so-and-so, and greet so-and-so. And I worked with this person, remember this person. Paul kept these names before him because he prayed for them. And you think, well, maybe the Thessalonian believers were unique. You don't know our church. I think the Thessalonian church had its same collection of odd people, just like any congregation does. And he thanked God for all of them. He said, I thank God for most of you. No, no. I thank God for all of you. Making mention of all of you in my prayers constantly. There's an encouragement in that. What an encouragement to know the Apostle Paul was praying for him. And he was encouraged by what he saw in them Which brings out this next reality, the encouragement not only of thankfulness, but of thankful remembrance. What was the nature of their thankfulness? What did they thank God for? Well, three things are specifically mentioned here, and then we'll see some more in next week. But we have faith, love, and hope. Now when I say that, you might be going, no, it's faith, hope, and love. Well, in this passage he says faith, love, and hope. And this is one of the major themes that comes out in Thessalonians. Faith, love, and hope. Even in chapter 5 he says to the Thessalonians, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope. We think of 1 Corinthians 13, 13, that so now faith, hope, and love abide, but the greatest of these is love. And when we come to this passage, all three of these are to be thought of in relationship to God. Their faith in God, their love for God, and their hope in God. Now notice what he says here. Remembering before our God and Father your work of faith, your labor of love, and steadfastness of hope in Jesus Christ. Now this is interesting because when we think about work of faith. Maybe the idea of putting work and faith right next to each other seems a little bit dangerous. Because throughout much of the New Testament, we often think of these two words as opposites, works and faith. But here we have them right together. Your work of faith. Usually the Bible speaks about justification by faith alone, apart from the works of the law. However, they're not always separate in the Bible. And here's one example, but another one is in Galatians 5. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith. Working through love. Faith working through love. We are saved by grace through faith, apart from the works of the law, but a faith that doesn't produce works Is not saving faith. John Calvin said, faith alone saves, but faith that saves is not alone. It cannot be alone. The reality that Paul is thanking God for in the life of the Thessalonians is that their faith has demonstrated itself in work. The fact is true Christian faith is always done that way. Think about what what is Hebrews eleven is known as what the the the the hall of But what's so significant about the hall of faith is it's by faith Abraham does this. By faith, Noah does this. By faith, by faith, they do, they do, they do, they do. Ah, what's the significance there? Face does. Faith is evidenced by doing. A faith that does not do isn't a real faith. A quick definition of faith that I taught the teenagers years ago was faith is an internal certainty of an unseen reality that results in external evidences. And it's based on the word of God. Internal certainty of an unseen reality that results in external evidences, and it's based on the word of God. Now Time is a little short here. Let's move on to the next one. Their labor of love. Love is always a defining mark of a true Christian And a Christian who does not love is not a Christian. It's an oxymoron. It's not possible. The fruit of the Spirit is headed by the word love and it is encapsulated by the word love. The fruit of the Spirit is love. But this is not merely a sentimental emotion. It's a, for lack of a better term, a manly love. It's a manly love that labors. It's a manly love that toils for the object of its love. The word labor is a word that literally means arduous, wearying toil. Hard work. Work that wouldn't have they wouldn't have endured in if it wasn't for the love, the agape that Christ had built or created within them And this love is primarily directed at the Father. It's primarily directed at God, but then it overflows in love to one another. Because of our love for God, we love one another. I'd love to spend more time. 1 John 3. 14. I don't have time to go into this right now, but he says, we know that we have passed out of death into life. How do we know that? Because we pray the prayer? Mm-mm. Not that that's not important. Because we love the brothers. Because we love the brothers. We know because we love. The Holy Spirit produces a love for the brothers. This love is expressed in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. It says, for the love of Christ controls us. Because we have concluded this that one has died for all. Therefore all have died, and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for themselves. but for him who for their sakes died and was raised. So the love of Christ controls us to no longer live for ourselves, but to live for Christ and as a result to take the gospel to those who have who are dead and need the message of life. The love of Christ controls us. It forces us to love others. They remembered not only their work of faith and labor of love, but also their steadfastness of hope. And this is a beautiful reality, the blessed hope. In Titus chapter 2, we have this verse, for the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people. Training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age Waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. This was one of the verses that we would quote every Sunday in our church in Tanzania. Why? Because of that. It's a blessed hope. The young church needs to know of the blessed hope. The appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. It is what sustains believers in times of persecution. It is why this is a major theme in 1 Thessalonians. Their steadfastness or endurance was inspired by the blessed hope that Jesus is coming again, and when he does, it will be to reign in glory. This has always been the driving motivator for Christians in the faces of trial and suffering. Christ is coming again. And when he does, I will reign with him. And so I will be faithful till that day. So a couple points of application very quickly. We should strive to encourage one another. by remembering and giving thanks for the spiritual growth that God has produced in us. This can only happen if we are diligently praying and investing in one another spiritually. Paul and Silas and Timothy were praying diligently for and investing tirelessly in these believers. Even a great sacrifice. And so their hearts were filled with thanksgiving, celebration of what God was doing. I want to encourage you to think about doing something. Do you have a prayer journal or a method to help you pray specifically and thankfully for the work of God and others? If you're if you find yourself in a stage of parenting where you're constantly harping on the problems. Maybe you need to take some time and just write down some things that you're thankful to God about for them. And then to share that with them. But Pray thankfully. If you're ministering to, it's very easy when we're ministering to people to be concerned and so concerned about the things we the problems we see in their lives that we don't stop to give thanks for what God is doing. And to rejoice in what God is doing. It should fill our prayers. We always tend to be we, this is I'm just telling on myself, we tend to be one who goes and just says, Lord, this is the problem, and this is the problem, you need to do this. But we need to be thankful. Thankful in our praying for one another. A grateful attitude strengthens the church, it strengthens the home, and it strengthens any ministry. Let me ask you this. Who in your church or in your life can you give thanks to God for today? And why don't you do so? If you did. Would they be shocked? If you were to go to someone and say, you know what, I thank God for this in your life, would they be like, Blown over. That may be an indicator that we're imbalanced and there's not enough thankfulness in our ministry to others. Thirdly, faith should be visible through our actions. Our faith should impact our work ethic, our honesty, our generosity, our priorities And love requires labor. Christian love is not a feeling. It's not devoid of feeling, but it is not merely a feeling. It is labor. For a love for Christ that spills over in love to one another. Where this week does a love of Christ compel you to demonstrate sacrificial love? And lastly, hope in Christ and his glorious appearing is essential in the face of trials. We We need to set our affections on the fact that Christ is coming again. And as we look at the world around us, his appearing is closer than it has ever been. I know that's obvious, but we think about it less and less. We need to be thinking about it more and more and praying towards that end and rejoicing in the fact that He is coming and His coming is soon. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for these verses in 1 Thessalonians. We thank you for the Apostle Paul and his Gratitude in ministry. We pray that you would teach us from this that we might be filled with gratitude to you for all that you are doing. May it shape our lives and our ministry. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.