Your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Psalm 119? Psalm 119. Have you ever been alarmed by the fact that you're spiritually cold and listless? Ever come to church? And find that you have very little heart for God, what should you do? Well, you should tell God how you feel and you should beg him to change your heart. Let me show you an example of this in Psalm 119. I'm going to be looking at the stanza that begins with verse 33. Psalm 119, verse 33, Teach me, O Lord, the way of thy statutes, and I shall keep it unto the end. Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law, yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart. Make me to go in the path of thy commandments, for therein do I delight. Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, and not to covetousness. Turn away my eyes from beholding vanity, and quicken thou me in thy way. Establish thy word unto thy servant who is devoted to thy fear. Turn away my reproach, which I fear, for thy judgments are good. Behold, I have longed after thy precepts. Quicken me in thy righteousness Psalm 119, as I'm sure you know, is one of the Torah Psalms. It's very convenient to remember them. You have Psalm 1. Psalm nineteen and Psalm 119. They all deal with the Word of God. And nearly every verse of this lengthy Psalm There is a reference to the Word of God. There are eight different Hebrew words that are used to designate Some aspect of the Word of God. They are the Words law, Word, testimonies, judgments, commandments, statutes, precepts, sayings. And they are interspersed in all of the all through these stanzas. You can think of it like strands in a fabric coming this way. And then, of course, you have strands of truth coming in the other direction of the fabric And this is a very structured portion of God's Word. It's the longest chapter in the Bible, 176 verses. It's kind of like a book of its own. It's composed of 22 stanzas. Each stanza contains eight verses. It has 22 stanzas because there are 22 letters in the Hebrew alphabet. Most of you, I suspect, have Bibles that have the Hebrew letter of the alphabet and then the transliteration of it, like for the first one you have Aleph. Baith, Gimel, Dalith, and so forth. These 22 stanzas, all each stanza begins, each line in that stanza begins with the same Hebrew letter. the next sequential Hebrew letter. So in our fifth stanza that we're looking at tonight, beginning at verse 33, if you were looking at a Hebrew Bible, you would see that every line in that stanza begins with the same Hebrew letter, this letter hey. And you see the symbol up there probably in your Bible. Now, why was the psalm under inspiration constructed this way? Because it's easier for a person to memorize and to commit to their hearts. We do not know when the psalm was written or exactly who wrote it, but in this psalm the writer chronicles his spiritual life. In some stanzas the psalmist is doing well and praises the Lord, in other stanzas he's crying out to God to rescue him. And that is the nature of the stanza that we come to this evening. This is the fifth stanza. And it's punctuated by nine petitions or requests. I high have them highlighted in my Bible so that they stand out to me. You have teach me. Give me understanding. Make me to go. Incline my heart. Turn away mine eyes. Quicken thou me, establish thy word, turn away my reproach, and quicken me in thy righteousness. These are the nine petitions or requests. that are found in every verse in the stanza. The tone of the stanza is that of humility and dependence I want to look with you very quickly at this desperate cry for spiritual renewal. In the first two verses, verses 33 and 34, the psalmist praise, give me wisdom to walk. according to your word, because I am ignorant. Notice his request here are teach me and give me understanding. What exactly is the psalmist asking God to do when he says, Teach me, O Lord, the way of thy statutes? Well, he's not ignorant of what God's word says. He knows right from wrong. So what is he asking God to do? He's asking God to show him how to apply God's truth to a specific situation. that he is facing. This is often where we find ourselves. We come to a problem, and sometimes it seems that there are different spiritual principles that apply. And we're not sure. Should I do this or should I do this? Should I respond to this person this way? Or should I respond to them this way? Should I confront? Or should I just pass by? We have these situations that we face in life and we desperately need God's wisdom in such circumstances. In verse 34, he prays that God would give him understanding. This is basically a parallel to the request in verse 33. But I do want to draw your attention to one important consideration. Notice that the text of our understanding of Scripture is not the accumulation of knowledge, but wholehearted obedience. He says Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law, yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart. I think we find here, you might say, three different levels of biblical understanding. First of all, a person can intellectually know God's word But nothing more. This is not to discount the importance of knowing biblical facts, biblical truths. We can never progress in our Christian lives very far if we don't know what God says in His Word, if we don't know who God is and how He has revealed Himself. We will not go very far in our Christian lives. But sometimes people think that Christian maturity is all about accumulating facts. Maybe they have an academic bent and they love to learn. Maybe they have a mind that can memorize and and uh they're they're able to recall a lot of verses and they have a lot of truth and perhaps they like to read and yet sometimes These people who seem to have an incredible grasp, intellectual understanding of the Word of God, to be honest, are not that spiritual. They don't seem to be set above other believers in their spiritual attainment, in their love for God, and in their service of the Lord. Because that is not the ultimate level of understanding. There's a second level, and that is that a person could know God's word and basically obey God's word, but not with their hearts. You see, I've known people before, and you've known people before, who intellectually know God's word, but their life, their personal life is a train wreck. And they don't seem to really be living by the dictates of the Word of God. They lean to their own understanding. And somehow the truth has not come from here to their hands and to their feet and to their mouth. But then there's another level of people who know the Word of God and they do do the Word of God. They do put it into action. They are careful with how they live their life. They do give money to the work of the church. They do give their time. They do spend time in prayer. But they don't really have a great heart for the things of God. They may have a complaining spirit. They basically obey God's word, but not from the heart. They do it because maybe they're afraid what people will think of them. They come to church not because they delight to worship the Lord, but because that's what they're expected to do. And maybe they have a a post where they must serve every Sunday. And so that obligation keeps them coming, keeps them very regular, but they really don't have a heart for God. Their heart is not lifted up in worship They don't really enter into it. But in most respects, they do know the truth and they are obedient But what God wants from all of his people is a third level of spiritual attainment, of knowledge. And that is when they know the word. They obey the word and they delight in the word. Wholehearted obedience. Obedience that comes not because you're afraid of the judgment of God or because of what people are going to say about you, but because you want to. You want to do what is right. One of the themes of this psalm is this phrase wholehearted obedience. In fact, we find this In verse 2, it says, Blessed are they that keep his testimonies and that seek him with the whole hearts. Let me give you an example of what I've been saying. If I were to ask you, do you believe that Christians should give to the advancement of the gospel? I suspect that everyone here would pass the test and say, yes, Christians should give to the advancement of the gospel. But then I could ask you, do you give to any missionaries? Do you give through our church's program or do you give personally? And maybe you have other people and they send your prayer letters and you send out checks every month. Do you give? Perhaps you would say, well, no. Or maybe you would say, well, I give occasionally But it always leaves a sour taste in my mouth. I never give with joy. I always give because, oh, this is what I'm supposed to do But of course the third example would be a person who would say, yes, I give every opportunity that I get to. And I pray that God will enable me to give more in the future because I love investing in the advancement of the gospel. It's only that last person who really believes, who really fully grasps and understands what the Bible teaches. About giving to the advancement of the gospel. God is not only concerned about our knowledge And our obedience, but he's also concerned about our spirit, our attitude, our heart about these things You see, biblical obedience is a matter of our mind, will, and emotions being yielded to God. Secondly, The psalmist praise, give me the willingness to walk according to your word, because I am arrogant. Look at verses 35 through 37. He says, Make me to go in the path of thy commandments, for therein do I delight. Incline my heart unto thy testimonies and not to covetousness. Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity. And quicken thou me in the way. First of all, he prays that God would lead him into the path of obedience. When he says, make me go. to our English ears that sounds like coercion, like God, I just want you to force me. You know, I'm holding on to the world and I'm not going to let you go. But I want you to just come and just shove me in the right path Well, that's not the idea here. The idea is of being led by God. A similar expression is found in verse 27 where he says, make me to understand the way of thy precepts. Notice that this is not coercion because what does he say here? He says, make me to go in the path of thy commandments. Why? For therein do I delight. No one has to force you to do what you delight to do, right? Because that's what you want to do. I think the best illustration of what he's asking God to do here is of a parent leading a little child by the hand so that they go exactly where God wants them to go. We need the Lord to lead us into the paths of righteousness. And then he says, turn my heart to the obedience of your word. The Hebrew verb incline here. That we find in verse 36 means to stretch out or to bend. This prayer is a call for God to shape and mold the desires of our hearts. When I think of this word incline, I think sometimes of a young couple that is in love. You know what you often see? You see like the young lady, and she is inclining towards The one that she cares for, her whole body is kind of leaning in that direction. And this is the idea that God would incline our hearts to him Because all of us need a stronger affection for the things of God. The psalmist here is being Brutally honest. He loves the Lord, but he doesn't love the Lord as much as he should Well, why don't we want to follow the Lord more closely? That brings us to the last phrase in verse 36, and not to covetousness. Covetousness is an older word that refers to greediness. Our fallen hearts have an insatiable desire for more and better material things. I think our greed is a bigger problem than we recognize. The Bible puts this as a huge problem. It was greed that brought destruction upon Achan and his family, Joshua chapter 7. It was greed that brought leprosy to Gehazi in 2 Kings chapter 5. It was the desire for money that drove Judas away from his master. It was the love of money that led Ananias and Sapphira to lie about their gift. to the church, Acts chapter 5. This is why Jesus said, no man can serve two masters. And then what illustration did he give? You cannot serve God and mammon or material things. You can't have two masters. Now I wonder if you believe this. My wife and I several weeks ago went out and purchasing a mattress for one of our children and This guy started talking to me and he asked me what I did and I said I was a pastor and so I asked him if he knew the Lord and he said he did. He said he was a Christian, told me when he got saved and everything, seemed like a very credible profession and everything. And then he said something that I just had no answer to. He says, you know, when I was a young man, I really felt like God had called me to be a missionary. But then when I saw how much money they make, I said, you know what? I like money too much. I'm going to go into business And I didn't know exactly what to say to him. You know, what's what's your follow-up to that? I was just dumbfounded. I mean, even if I felt that way, I certainly wouldn't want to tell a pastor that But that's what he said. You ever stopped and wondered how much of your life revolves around getting stuff? Buying stuff, protecting stuff, insuring stuff, cleaning stuff, organizing stuff , cleaning stuff. How much of our life is about things having a nicer home and better furniture and a nicer car and and Don't get me wrong, we are material beings and we need material things to exist. But if that becomes the dogged pursuit of our life, we have missed God's calling on us. We were not made. In the image of God, so that we would pursue just getting more and better stuff. We were made to know God, not gather junk. So how can we keep our hearts from being focused on this foolish lifestyle that is so pervasive in our culture? That brings us to verse 37. Turn away my eyes from beholding vanity and quicken thou me in thy way. Our eyes are so easily drawn to the things of the world. What is vanity? This Hebrew word is used 55 times in the Old Testament, most often in the book of Ecclesiastes. It refers to what is hollow, worthless, and trivial. This is the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. How desperately we need this instruction today. The world is constantly seeking To allure our hearts away from God. Whenever I read this verse, I can't help but think of Bunyam's Pilgrim's Progress Because he quotes this verse in that scene concerning Vanity Fair when the pilgrim comes in and they they see this place where merchandise is for sale. Let me read a short excerpt from that. It says, but that which did not a little muse the merchandisers was that these pilgrims set very light by all their wares, and they cared not so much as to look upon them. And if they called upon them to buy They would put their fingers in their ears and cry, Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity, and looking upwards signify that their trade and traffic was in heaven. One of the finest books written on Psalm 119 was written by a man named Charles Bridges. And in that book he says, keeping the eye is the grand means of keeping the heart. What will most effectively turn my eyes from vanity, not the seclusion of contemplative retirement not the relinquishment of our lawful connection with the world, but the transcendent beauty of Jesus unveiled to our eyes and fixed upon our hearts. As the hymn writer put it, turn your eyes upon Jesus. Look full in his wonderful face, and the things of earth will grow strangely dim. in the light of his glory and grace. I had a friend in seminary, and one day I visited his little room where he lived And I saw this verse, turn away my eyes from beholding vanity. And it was printed out, and he had pasted it on the top of his television. as a reminder not to look at that which is vanity. Wonderful reminder. Thirdly, give me the power, he prays, to walk according to your word, because I am impotent. Verses 38 through 40, Stablish thy word unto thy servant who is devoted to thy fear. Turn away my reproach, which I fear, for thy judgments are good. Behold, I have longed after thy precepts. Quicken me in thy righteousness. He prays, first of all, that God would revive his spiritual life. One of the key sub-themes of Psalm 119, and I have it marked throughout my Bible, is this word quicken. I hope we know that older term means to make alive. To make alive. If you want to know where these are in Psalm 119, let me show you Verse 25, My soul cleaveth unto the dust. Quicken thou me according to thy word. Verse 37, turn away my eyes from beholding vanity, and quicken thou me in thy way. Verse 40, Behold, I have longed after thy precepts. Quicken me in thy righteousness. Verse 88. Quicken me after thy loving kindness. So shall I keep thy testimonies of thy mouth. Psalm 107, I am afflicted very much. Quicken me, O Lord, according unto thy word. Psalm 149 Hear my love my voice according to thy loving kindness, O Lord. Quicken me according to thy judgments. And 154, plead my cause and deliver me. Quicken me according to thy word. And 156. Great are thy tender mercies, O Lord, quicken me according to thy judgments. And 159, consider how I love thy precepts. Quicken me, O Lord, according to thy testimonies. Now what is the psalmist praying for again and again? This is not referring to regeneration, because a believer is writing this, but the re-energizing of spiritual life in the heart of a believer. Haven't you ever felt cold before? And you need spiritual vitality to come back into your life? This is why the psalmist praises again and again and again. He prays that God would reaffirm his faith and his promises. Verse 38, he says, establish thy word unto thy servants. The same Hebrew word that's translated stablish is translated as strengthen in verse 28. It says, My soul melteth for heaven is, strengthen thou me according to thy word. Sometimes the disappointments of life shake our faith. We need the Lord to reaffirm our faith in the promises of God. Verse 39, remove the reproach that I fear. What is this reproach? It could be the reproach that comes from the psalmist 's own sin, or it may be the reproach that comes from sinners as they mark the godly and most Commentators think it's the latter view because that's how it's most often used in Psalm 119. Look with me at verse 42 so shall I have wherewith to answer him that reproacheth me, for I trust in thy word. And then he prays that God would restore his spiritual thirst. Verse 40, quicken me. and thy righteousness. Make me spiritually alive so that I want to do what is righteous. That's what he's saying here. So this must be our prayer when our hearts become cold and dead to the things of God. We must never become content with a formal relationship of minimal obedience. I fear that that is the case with many Christians. They become content with a formal relationship of minimal obedience. I'm not committing scandalous sins. I'm not doing things that are going to endanger my relationship with other Christian friends. But I have no heart for the things of God. The Lord is not pleased with that. That is not where you need to be spiritually. This is why we must cry out for the intervention of God. We must cry for God to revive us again. The Lord will do this through the ordinary means of grace. The bowed knee and the open Bible are always the way back. The Psalm, as you know, is all about the Word of God. But it is also a prayer. It reads just like a prayer. It's a model prayer for all believers. So what should you do if your heart is beginning to drift away from God? I want to suggest, and I've done this to many, many people over the years, get on your knees and pray the psalm out loud as the prayer of your heart. The Lord delights to answer such prayers. He desires to fill our hearts with himself. I hope these words will be instructive and helpful for you. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you. That you have given us your word. We thank you that it has the remedy for all of our spiritual ailments. Father, how easy it is for us to become cold and to become content with minimal obedience. But Father, this is not what you desire from us. You want us to have a wholehearted obedience. A lifestyle that is entranced with the things of God. And so I pray that you would revive us again, that you would give us that heart, that you would quicken us That we might walk in the way of righteousness. Turn away our eyes from beholding vanity, Lord. Keep us away from the traps of covetousness of seeking to live the American dream. Help us, Father, to follow instead the steps of our Savior. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen