Turn with me to Psalm 119. I know that Sunday evening services are becoming more and more uncommon. But uh my perspective is as long as you'll come, we'll keep having them. And uh I think it's a wonderful way to round out and end the Lord's day. Psalm 119, 1922. British archaeologist Howard Carter made what is probably the most famous archaeological discovery of the 20th century. That is the discovery of King Tut's tomb. For six years, Carter had been exploring Egypt's Valley of the Kings because he believed that there was probably a tomb of King Tut that was somewhere present there, that there was no record of previously being discovered or plundered. The vast majority of the tombs that were uncovered by archaeologists had been plundered many, many years before, and there would be a few artifacts left, but The most valuable, the most interesting things were taken. But on November the 26th, in 1922 , Howard Carter looked on a scene that no human eyes had glimpsed in over 2,000 years. Carter waited for George Herbert, the wealthy English lord who financed the exposition, to come to the work site. Together they went down a staircase to the entrance of the royal tomb, and a workman made a hole in the stone door, and Howard Carter peered in with a lamp. Lord Carnivon, his sponsor, impatiently asked, do you see anything? And Carter finally replied, yes, wonderful things. That story has always reminded me of verse 18 of Psalm 119, which says, Open thou mine eyes. that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law. This is the best known verse in the third stanza of Psalm 119. I'm sure that many of you have memorized this significant verse, or at least you're familiar with it. I want to look at this third stanza tonight. I When I begin a series, I I'm very cautious. I often do not announce at the beginning because I'm always thinking I might change my mind. So I but I think at this point it's safe to say that though it will be difficult, I'm endeavoring to move through all of Psalm 119. on Sunday evenings when possible. And tonight we come to the third stanza we've already covered the first two. Look with me at verse 17. Deal bountifully with thy servant, that I may live and keep thy word. Open thou mine eyes. that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law. I am a stranger in the earth. Hide not thy commandments from me. My soul breaketh the longing that it hath unto thy judgments at all times. Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed, which do err from thy commandments. Remove from me reproach and contempt, for I have kept thy testimonies. Princes also did sit and speak against me, but thy servant did meditate in thy statutes. Thy testimonies also are my delight and my counselors. Let me remind you of the approach that we are taking to Psalm 119. We are studying this lengthy Psalm under the premise that it provides a sequential record. of a believer's spiritual journey through life. This is an interpretational theory that cannot be proved or disproved. Some scholars view this portion of God's word as just a random collection of personal reflections on the Word of God. But I believe, and many other students of the Word, think that this is a very well-ordered portion of God's Word. We've already noted that it's an acrostic. Corresponding to the Hebrew alphabet. It has eight different synonyms for the Word of God that are carefully woven through the fabric of the Psalm as well as other themes. So we have a very structured portion of God's word. And so it's hard for me to accept and many others that these are just random thoughts. I believe that what we have here is like the excerpts from someone's spiritual journal. I think it begins when the writer is young and extends to he is an elderly man at the end of his journey, although I think it was written at the end of his life, and he's reflecting back on various periods in his life. Of course, we looked last time at the second stanza that begins with that famous question, wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? So there is some empirical evidence that indeed the psalm at the beginning at least talks about a young person at the end it refers to an elderly person. Now the first stanza begins with optimism and hopeful resolutions like you often find in the life of a young person Notice what he says here in verse 1 of this book, of this psalm, excuse me. Blessed are the undefiled in the way who walk in the law of the Lord. Blessed are they that keep his testimonies and that seek him with a whole heart. They also do no iniquity. They walk in his ways. Thou hast commanded us to keep thy precepts diligently. Oh, that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes. Then shall I not be ashamed. When I have respect unto all thy commandments, I will praise thee with uprightness of heart. When I shall learn thy righteous judgments, I will keep thy statutes. Oh, forsake me not utterly. In the second stanza, we read of his fight for moral purity. We have these well-known verses 9, 10, and 11, which are a wonderful portion for us to memorize. So what is the theme of this third stanza? This is what an expositor has to do when they prepare a message. They read the section they're going to cover again and again and again and they try to find out what is the theme that organizes these verses into a coherent message. So look with me and I want us to look at what are the two halves of this Stanza and try to understand what he is saying here. Verse 17, deal bountifully with thy servant, that I may live and keep thy word. Open thou mine eyes. that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law. And then I am a stranger in the earth, hide not thy commandments from thee. What is the psalmist praying for in these verses? He is praying for direction, or we might say guidance. Notice he talks about open thou mine eyes and Hide not thy commandments from me. The psalmist is asking God to show him promises. and principles that will sustain him in his journey through the world. Now look with me at the second half of the psalm that begin of the stanza. It begins in verse 21. Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed. which do err from thy commandments, remove from me reproach and contempt, for I have kept thy testimonies. Princes also did sit and speak against me, but thy servant did meditate in thy statutes. Thy testimonies also are my delight and my counselors. Now, if you are paying attention, you probably note that in the second half of the stanza The psalmist is talking about the opposition that he is facing. The first time in this particular psalm, we we read of him encountering opposition. He's already said in verse 19 that he feels like a stranger in the earth. And no wonder, look at how he describes his persecutors. Look at verse 21. Describes them as proud, as cursed, as those that disobey God's commandments. They bring reproach and contempt upon God's people. And that's what he is praying about in verse 22. And then in verse 23, we read that powerful people have conspired against the servant of the Lord. Princes also did sit and speak. against me. Perhaps the writer of this psalm is reflecting the time in his life when he first entered the workforce. And got a sense of the opposition of the world. Picture a young man from a sheltered Christian home going to basic training and being ridiculed for his faith. Or think of a young lady from a godly family going to a state school and being mocked for her beliefs by one of her professors. How a young person responds to this kind of scenario often makes a very big difference in the rest of their life. How will they respond when they first encounter this opposition, when their faith is challenged, when they are questioned and find that they don't really have the answers? In the case of the psalmist, this adversity only strengthens his resolve to cling to God's word. What we have here in this stanza is a plea for God to help the servant of the Lord as he faces the opposition of the world. Notice how the psalm begins. He describes himself in verse 17 as thy servant. And then we find that same phrase again almost at the end in verse 23 where he says, thy servant did meditate. So I'm going to preach to you briefly tonight on this theme that believers should pray for direction and defense. as we face the hostility of the world. I've already mentioned to you that this stanza divides into two halves So first of all, we should pray for God to provide direction from the Word. Because this world is not Now look with me at verses 17 and 18. I want you to notice that they both have an identical structure, that they're both prayers. We have first of all a request, deal bountifully with thy servant. There's one request, verse 18, open thou mine eyes. There's another request. And then we have that followed by a purpose statement, such as that I may live and keep thy word, or that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law. Look at this opening phrase, deal bountifully with thy servant. The Hebrew word that's translated bountifully has the idea of deliverance often in the Old Testament. The reason he makes this request is so that he may live and keep God's word. Perhaps the psalmist was being asked to do things that were contrary to God's law, or at least his understanding of God's law. They were bothering his conscience Once again, this often is something that a person encounters when they grow up and they come from a godly home and then they go out into the workforce. And perhaps for the first time they're really confronted with decisions that they must make that make them uncomfortable, that perhaps are against what they think God would have them to do. This is again a very important point in the life of a believer. Will they say, well, you have to go along to get along? Will they simply compromise their convictions? and their standards because they want this job, they don't want to create any waves, and because they want to be accepted We think, of course, of the Old Testament example of Daniel, who was asked to compromise his convictions, but would not do so. And so we see, I think, a similar situation here. It's important that early in life a believer determines what they will not violate. That they will not violate God's word. They need to put certain lines in the sand that I will not do this, I will not be involved in this, I will not allow this to occur. And it will set them up really for the rest of their life. Some time ago I got a call from a young Christian who had just entered the workforce after receiving a college degree. They were given a job where part of their responsibility was to provide sensitivity training to new employees. That included politically correct assertions that homosexuality and the transgendered lifestyles were to be fully accepted and respected. And this person was to promote that training, was to teach that, and so forth. This young believer called me. She didn't want to lose her job, but she felt very uncomfortable doing this. And she asked me what she should do. I challenged her to trust in God. And to let her employer know what she believed and why she believed what she believed and to stand on her convictions. And so very fearfully and reluctantly she did. And they assigned her to another task, which was actually a job that she would much rather do than this job. God, I think, was rewarding her for standing up for what she believed. But let me just go back to that scenario. It's very easy for a Christian to become trapped in something because of fear. Well, I have to do this. I've gone to, I've invested all of this money in my college training, and this is the entry-level job that I've been given. So I really have to take this. And then find themselves trapped and find their conscience seared and a sense of guilt, but she did not do that, and God has rewarded her for that. I would encourage our young people. To make a stand early on in your life and stand up for what you believe Now verse 18 is the most familiar verse in the stanza, open thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law. This is one of the key verses in the Bible on what's known as the doctrine of illumination. Illumination means to shed light upon something. This doctrine simply teaches that we need the Holy Spirit to help us see the true meaning of Scripture. This doctrine has a two-fold application. First of all, the lost need the Holy Spirit to open their eyes so that they see the glory of the gospel. This is what the Bible teaches. 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 14 says But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. This is why you could and you should ask someone you're dealing with to read the scriptures, but they might might read the scriptures and say to you, I don't get anything out of this. It doesn't make any sense to me. It's just foolishness to me. Some of you have invited a lost person to a service before. And the gospel has been preached, and you were absolutely convinced that they would believe the gospel because it was so clear and so compelling, but afterwards they would say, you know, I couldn't make heads or tails out of what he was saying. Because they need the Spirit of God to illumine their minds, the Bible teaches. But the second application of this truth and the one that's in mind here in this passage is that believers need the Holy Spirit to help us to understand the Word of God. Now, I want to be clear about this. This is not saying that the Word of God is a hidden and mysterious book. You've heard me talk about this before, but you know you can go online and you can look up about all of these hidden codes in the Bible. and secret meanings in the Bible. And if you look at every fourth word in this chapter, it actually comes up with a coherent message that no one's ever seen before. That's all nonsense. God didn't write the Bible so that people would spend centuries trying to figure out the hidden meaning. We believe, and I'm going to use the theological term here in the Bible teaching , we believe and the perspicuity of Scripture. Alright? That means the Bible was written to be understood. It is not some kind of coded book intended to keep us from understanding. Having said that , We still need God 's help to understand what the Bible means and specifically how it applies to our life. Because we're sometimes wrong. I hope you've lived long enough and you're humble enough to admit that there were times when you thought you understood a passage of scripture and later you recognized it doesn't say that at all. I was wrong for years about that. And so you're probably still wrong about some things. If you're going to be logical about that. That's why I say we need to be humble in our approach to Scripture. And we need the Holy Spirit to open our eyes so that we see it as it truly is. The Holy Spirit makes the Word of God come alive so that we cherish and obey it and live at Charles Bridges. was a 19th century Christian and commentator, and he's written a fine book. In fact, there's one out there on our book table on Psalm 119. He said, Do not even Christians often find the Word of God to be a sealed book? They go through their accustomed portion without gaining any increasing acquaintance with its light and life. and power and without any distinct application of its contents to their heart. And thus it must be whenever reading has become unaccompanied with prayer for divine influence. The point is you may be a Christian now for 40 years, but you still come to the Word of God with a spirit of dependence. This is a model prayer for us to pray. I'm not going to say that every time in my life I do this, but I try to make it my habit in my pattern that when I start my day and I open up the Word of God, I pray this prayer, open thou mine eyes. That I may behold wondrous things out of thy law. George Whitfield, who turned the world upside down with his preaching, records a turning point in his life. in regards to this in his journal. He says, I began to read the Holy Scriptures upon my knees, laying aside all other books and praying over if possible every line and word. This proved meat and drink indeed to my soul. I daily received fresh life, light, and power from above. It is the Spirit of God who is the ultimate author of the Word of God, and therefore we need Him to unlock His book to us. And did you notice the implication of this when he speaks of wondrous things, that that is that the word of God is filled with wonderful treasures? Have you discovered that? Have you been reading through the Word for much of your life? I know that some of you have. You know that I promote reading through the Bible every year. There's nothing like in Scripture that says you have to do that. And I'm not saying you have to do it every year. There may be a time where it would be good for you to have a more concentrated study. But certainly everyone should at least do that once in their Christian life. And I know that many of you do that every year for many, many years. And I have talked to saints who have known the Lord for 50 or 60 or 70 years, and for every year they have known the Lord, they have read through the Bible. And you know what their consistent testimony is? That even though they may be reading through a passage for the hundredth time, they still find treasure in the word. Things that they have never seen before, that they've never discovered before, that they've never considered before. We will never exhaust the riches of this book. And that's why we can just keep reading over it, and yet we still find those gold nuggets there that feed our souls and that thrill our hearts. Now look with me at verse 19. I am a stranger in the earth. Hide not thy commandments from me. Now the word stranger here has the idea of sojourner or pilgrim, someone who is not a resident. They're just passing through. And since this world is not our home, we find it a strange and dangerous place. This is how God's people have always felt about the world. Abraham said, I am a stranger and a sojourner. Genesis 23 and verse 4. David confessed, for we are strangers before thee, and sojourners as were our fathers. 1 Chronicles 29, verse 15. This is the life of faith. Some of you have traveled abroad and some of you have gone to third world countries and you have gone to places That seemed very strange to you. Where you go to some place and the landscape is completely different from what you're familiar with. It doesn't look like Carroll County. And everywhere around you, people are speaking a strange tongue. You don't understand a word of what they're saying. And you go to eat, and the food is not like anything you've ever eaten before. It has strange flavors and strange textures. And everything in the world, and sometimes anthropologists and myologists will call this in regards to missionaries culture shock. You feel so alone and you feel that you're in a very strange place. That's the idea Of this scriptural mention of the pilgrim, this imagery of the pilgrim or the sojourner This world is not our home. We read of this in the great chapter of faith, Hebrews chapter 11, referring to the patriarchs, that says, these all died in faith not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off and were persuaded of them and embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country. And truly, if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out , They might have had opportunity to have returned, but now they desire a better country, that is, and heavenly, wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. This is why Christians don't fit into the world, because this world is not our home. Look at verse 20 of Psalm 119. My soul breaketh for the longing that it hath unto thy judgments. At all times. And it's important for me to note to you that this word judgment, it's not talking about like God pronouncing judgment on someone, but this is one of the synonyms for the word of God. When a person is in a strange environment, you know what they long for? They long for something that is familiar, that is comforting to them, that reminds them of home. And for the believer, one of our links to our home is the Word of God's. He talks here about his breaking for the longing. That sounds rather awkward to us. What he's talking here, he's saying, I am shattered by the intense longing of my heart. for the word of God. And specifically here he wants the guidance from guidance from the Word of God. This is the first place we must look for for direction in the Christian life, and that is the Word of God. Before we ask our friends, before we ask Other counselors that we might have, we need to go to the Word of God. Pardon me, please. This is a common theme. And Psalm 119, look with me at verse 59. Put out The psalmist writes, I thought on my ways and turned my feet unto thy testimonies. He's talking about the fact that he is reflecting and meditating on the word, and he's decided, you know what? I'm going to do things God's. way. Then we have this famous verse, verse 105. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. What a wonderful portion of God's word that is. Look with me ahead to verse 128. I love this verse. It's doubly highlighted in my Bible. Therefore, I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be right, and I hate every false precept. way. That is a comprehensive verse. You have all these all 's and every's in it. This is the way that we should view our pilgrimage. We should look through this lens, seeking our direction, our guidance, our values from the Word of God. And then look with me at verse 133, a wonderful promise. Wonderful prayer. Order my steps in thy word, and let not any iniquity have dominion over me. God 's word must be our guide, for we are pilgrims. Now the second half of this psalm Reminds us that we should pray for God to defend us from the world because the world is hostile to us And this is verses 21 through 24. Look with me at verse 21. Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed, which do err from thy commandments. This translation seems to indicate that the act of rebuke took place in the past, but the Hebrew verb is more timeless. It's just simply saying that God Will rebuke. He may be rebuking them now. He may have rebuked them in the past, and he will rebuke them in the future. They are under the judgment of God. God will correct them. The idea is we don't have to worry about why does it seem that wicked people seem to be getting away with their sin? God is sovereign, God is just, God will bring them to account. Don't you worry about that. We see here the unmistakable idea that God's people throughout the centuries have always been persecuted. These words are probably 3,000 years old. And the psalmist was persecuted for being a follower of God. And of course, the same thing happens today. The Lord Jesus warned his disciples of this. If the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love his own. But because you're not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world is not. Now notice how the enemies of God, the persecutors of God's people, are described here. They are described as the proud The idea of that word really is the insolence. And this is a common theme and a common designation for the opposers of God's people. in the psalm. You might want to mark these. Look with me at verse 51. We'll see this again. He says, this is my comfort and my affliction. No, sorry, verse 51. The proud have had me greatly in derision, yet I have not declined from thy law. The same term, verse 69 The proud have forged a lie against me, but I will keep thy precepts with my whole heart. Verse 78 Let the proud be ashamed, for they dealt perversely with me without a cause, but I will meditate in thy precepts. And then we have verse 85. The proud have digg pits for me, which are not after thy law. And then verse 122. Be surety for thy servant for good. Let not the proud oppress me. The proud oppressors are cursed. This should be reminded us of something. When we Act in pride, which is so easy to do, it becomes so natural to all of us, we are acting the part of the enemies of God. We are to be humble people. And the idea here is that we are dependent on God. You know, proud people in the world think that they're so strong and they're so wise. They don't need God. There are many people in the world who are lost who think that Christian people are psychologically weak. They need that support. That somehow there's a God in heaven who's going to help them out and answer their prayers and take care of them. And that's how they cope with their insecurity and their fear and everything else. But they would say, I am a person, I don't need that crutch. I'm strong, I'm independent, I'm resourceful, I can take care of myself, I don't need a God. That is the essence. of pride, to seek to live independently of God. And this is the characteristic of the wicked. And those who are proud are cursed. That is, they will someday experience the judgment of God. The persecuted church throughout the world will someday be vindicated by the God they serve. Look with me now at verse 22. He says, remove from me reproach and contempt, for I have kept thy testimonies. The writer of this psalm grows weary of the reproach and contempt that he is receiving from the wicked, and he asks God to remove it. Words do hurt. The opinions of others can be distressing. The psalmist asked God to take it away. Of course, we must always pray in submission. It may be God's will that he would shield us and remove us from this contempt. That can really distress our spirits, but it also could very well be God's desire and will that we live with that contempt. That we learn to trust in Him. It's not wrong to pray for it, but we must always pray with the submissive spirits. Because it may be good, as the psalmist will say later, that we are afflicted. Now look with me at verse 23. Princes also did sit and speak against me, but thy servant did meditate in thy statutes. The princes here are not necessarily members of the royal court. The term is used more generally for anyone in a position of power. The idea here is of a group of powerful people deliberating over a believer. And what a fearful prospect that is. They are conspiring against the godly. Perhaps they want to destroy his reputation, or perhaps they want to cast him out of his occupation and his living. They want to smear his name. This of course happens throughout the world and throughout history This has often been the lot of God's people when they have been unjustly accused of horrible things Their reputations have been destroyed. Their livelihoods have been taken from them simply because they were seeking to follow the Lord. And this is still happening throughout the world today, where people are losing their jobs, their freedom, or even their lives due to the crooked schemes of wicked people. So does the writer become obsessed with this development? The answer is no. It says, thy servant did meditate in thy statutes. What you meditate on will determine how you respond to something. Did you know that? If you've got a problem, if you've got somebody at work who is just making your life miserable, it's very natural and easy for you to meditate on that. And to think about it from every perspective and to replay every conversation you've had with that person and times where you've seen them talking to other people and say, oh, they were probably talking about me. And they may be. It's easy for you to meditate on your problem, to meditate on the opposition of others, and to just take this application a little bit differently. It's so natural and easy for us to meditate on the faults and the wrongs of others and to blow them way out of proportion. And we just think over it again and again and again and again, and every time we think about it becomes even more repulsive and more painful and more outrageous than it than it was the time before. Or we could take a different approach. We could say, yes, like he says here, they are conspiring against me. They are trying to destroy me. But you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to meditate. on God's truth. I'm going to remember the promises of God. I'm going to remember that God will not fail me or forsake me. that God is there for me and that whatever occurs as a result of their conspiracy and their schemes, God will work for my ultimate good and for his glory. This must be our approach. The writer reminds himself that he is at the Lord's disposal. He is the servant. of the Lord. Now look with me at this final verse, verse 24. Thy testimonies also are my delight and my counselors. I'm not going to take the time to look at the various verses, but one of the most common ways the psalmist here describes his response to the Word of God is that it is his delight. This is one of the clear indications of our spiritual health. Do we find the Word of God refreshing? Do we find it delight? Do we find it comforting? Do we find that it feeds our souls? Or is it just a painfully difficult task to read, a real ordeal that we have to get through because maybe our parents are forcing us to read. They're going to ask me later, have you read your scriptures today? Or because we have a sense of guilt, you know, I started out the beginning of this year reading through the Bible and I don't want to fall behind and I've got to do this. I don't really want to. I don't look forward to this. I want to get through as fast as I can. Or do we delight in the Word of God? Now, none of us delight to the degree we should Or every single day. And let me answer something that may have come into your mind. What do you do when you don't feel like reading the Word of God I can tell you what many Christians do. They say, well, it would be a hypocrite for me to read the Bible today because I don't really want to. And I don't feel like it, so I'm just not going to. And you know what? Amazing. The next day, they don't want to either, or the third day, or the fourth day. No. It's not being a hypocrite. It's not like now if you went out and told everyone, I love reading the Word of God. And you didn't read the Word of God, then you're hypocrites. But when you open acknowledge and you go to the Lord and say, Lord, I don't feel like reading your scriptures today, but I know that I need to. I know it has food for my soul, it has admonition for my heart. And so I will be faithful and I will read your word. And when you go there and you begin to read the word and you ask the Holy Spirit to open your eyes. You will often find that your heart is kindled and you find delight in the Word of God. Don't fall into that trap of I shouldn't do anything I don't really want to do. No, get into the word and let it warm your hearts. Now here the psalmist describes the word as his counselor. The Hebrew text literally reads, men of my counsel. That's an interesting thought, isn't it? You can think of almost the different writers of Scripture there in your room with you, and they are there to give you counsel. Not that those men are infallible, but what they wrote under inspiration is infallible. They are the men of your counsel. Where you go for counsel is very important. How many people have taken a very wrong turn in their life because of one conversation they had with someone that said, you know what, I think you should do this. And it wasn't godly counsel, it wasn't wise counsel. Perhaps it was a peer, perhaps it was a lost person, perhaps it was a co-worker, and they poured out their problems to them about their marriage and they said, you know what? You just need to cut that off. You deserve better. You need to start over. I can't tell you how many Christians I've talked to. who took the counsel of some unsaved co-worker about their marriage. What nonsense is that? What does a person of the world have to share with you of their profound wisdom? No, what does God say? God's word is your counselors. What principles does God have for you? Don't turn to the world. Don't turn to the ungodly The counsel of the ungodly, turn to the Word of God. This is where the best counsel you can ever find is. And let me remind you, however, that these are not cold calculating principles and rules. We must see the Lord beyond the sacred page. We must have communion with him. We must seek him in the word. The word of God, when properly understood, will never lead you astray, and it is always sufficient Listen to Spurgeon's comment on this verse. A man so furnished is never less alone when alone. For he hath counselors about him that tell him what is to be believed or done. And they are such counselors as cannot err. as will not flatter him, nor applaud him in any sin, nor discourage or dissuade him from that which is good, whatever hazard it exposes him to. And truly, if we be wise, we should choose such counselors as these This is the counsel that we have in the Word of God. It is sufficient for us. Let us seek it to guide our steps. to direct us in the path that God would have us to go and to defend us from our oppressors. Let's close in prayer tonight. Father, We thank you so much for your word. We thank you that it's always timely and relevant. We pray that you would take what has been said tonight and use it for your purposes. Among your people this evening. Help us, Father, to be a people of the book. Help us, Father, to cling to your word above all things. and to seek to direct our steps in the path that you have set for us. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.