Turn with me, please, to Hebrews eleven Most of you know the name of Hudson Taylor, one of the most significant missionaries of the 19th century. When Hudson Taylor went to China There were already many missionaries there, but they were all in the larger cities in coastal areas. where the missionaries could live with the comforts of civilization. But the interior of China was almost entirely unreached. And so Hudson Taylor had a burden to reach them with the gospel. One of the most Significant things that Hudson Taylor did was not so much his own missionary work, which he was very effective at, but he realized that he could never reach the interior of China by himself, and so he became a great recruiter. of missionaries, inspiring young men and young women to give their lives to missionary causes, forming a board, the China Inland Mission, and sending out hundreds and hundreds of missionaries To these remote regions of China. One day a man who he had recruited came to him and said that He wanted to take the gospel to a region that was very steeped in the occult, in paganism. Where they had thus far been very, very resistant to the gospel. And Hudson Taylor said to this young man, if you are to go to this region. You must advance upon your knees. God calls his people to do things that we cannot possibly do without his help. This has always been the case. This was true with the people of Israel. They were commanded by God. When trapped at the Red Sea to walk through the Red Sea as he parted it and created dry land And they were asked to march around the city of Jericho, even though it must have seemed like a ludicrous act. In Hebrews chapter 11, verses 29 and 30, we have two verses. that have two significant things in common with them. Look at verse 29. By faith they passed through the Red Sea. As by dry land, which the Egyptians are saying to do, were drowned. We covered that last week. Now, verse 30. By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they were compassed about. Seven days. Now there are two themes that hold these two verses together First of all, both of these verses focuses not so much on the faith of an individual, but on the faith of the collective people of God. And the other thing that holds them together is that in both cases, the people of God were asked to do something that was not just difficult, but was impossible. First of all, they were asked to pass through the Red Sea and then to conquer a city by just marching around it. Now verse 30 is a very brief verse, and it really is intended to summarize What you find in Joshua chapter 6. This chapter records Israel's miraculous conquest of the walled city. of Jericho. Everyone knows the story, at least I suspect most of you know it. If you ever were in church as a child or in Sunday school, you certainly heard about those walls that came tumbling down. But this is not just a kid's story, but a real historic event that was a new beginning for the people of God. This event has been called The greatest corporate act of faith in the Old Testament is where the body of believers responded as one person in faith. The miraculous implosion of the walls of Jericho is also presented as one of the greatest demonstrations of the power of God. And news of this event spread throughout this entire region of the world and caused the remaining inhabitants of Canaan to be fearful. of the Israelites. This was a huge step of faith under the leadership of Joshua. Jericho was the first major city that the people would encounter as they crossed the Jordan and entered into the Promised Land. And this was part of the problem. It wasn't like they were going to be able to build up and then finally conquer Jericho. No, the most difficult city. The greatest obstacle was there on day one, you might say. You may recall that many years earlier Moses sent out spies into the land, twelve men, to report back. And there were two men Who gave a positive report, who said, certainly with God's help, we can do this, but ten gave an evil report. And a great deal of that evil report, that report of unbelief, was based on what they observed in the city of Jericho. They said that it had walls that went up to the heavens. An exaggeration about how tall and formidable those walls were. And so the people responded in unbelief, and they wandered in the wilderness for forty years. But now a new generation under the leadership of Joshua obeys God's commands. and the fortress of Jericho is defeated. This example, remember, was given To a group of believers who were experiencing something and placed in a position that seemed impossible. This church was founded in a time of persecution, the church probably at Rome that consisted of Jewish individuals who came to believe that Jesus truly was their promised Messiah and they put their trust in him alone. They were rejected by the Jewish community. And now they were anticipating in the very near future being rejected by the Gentile world. There was a new emperor named Nero, and he did not like the Christians, and he was going to systematically eradicate them or remove them from his capital city. And so some of them were thinking maybe it would be better that it would be prudent for us to go back to Judaism. To assume our old way of life and worship, because Judaism was accepted by Rome as a legal religion and they would avoid persecution. The author of Hebrews exhorts them not to do this. They cannot go back, and he gives a number of reasons. And this book you may recall is structured on the fact that Jesus is better than anything that Judaism has to offer. And to renounce Christ and go back would be to commit the sin of apostasy. What they must do is respond with an enduring faith that is willing to face trials, suffering, and persecution. And so this story of God delivering his people, of God manifesting his power, and of these people trusting in God even when they were against incredible odds. Would have resonated with them. However, it is not a guarantee that God was somehow going to destroy all of their enemies and all of their persecutors. That they were facing in the first century. Because the author is clear in this book that God does not always deliver his people in that way. But what God is calling them to do is even when they can't see how things are going to work out or what God is doing, that they are to respond. with a living faith that obeys God no matter what. And here we see that a living faith is ultimately a conquering faith. That conquering faith may not always be so physically evident in this life, but ultimately it will be borne out as a conquering faith. When we see Christ and we live with him forever. This precious truth of a conquering faith is not just for the Hebrews in Joshua's day, or the persecuted Jews of the first century. This is a precious truth for believers of all ages. 1 John 5, 4 says, this is the victory that overcomes the world, even our faith. And in our passage today, Jericho sort of represents the world. It is powerful. It is popular. It seems so impressive. But it's conquered by faith. And Jesus said, In the world you will have tribulation. But be of good cheer, for I have overcomed the world. What I want to preach to you this morning on is this truth. Christians can overcome the world by trusting in the Lord. Now, because verse 30 is so brief and contains so little information , We are going to spend the bulk of our time actually in Joshua, which gives us the historic account of this. The first point I want to make is this: a faith that overcomes the world must move past our failures. Now verses 29 and 30 of Hebrews 11 come right after each other, but there is a gap of 40 years between those two verses. Now, why did the writer of Hebrews pass over those 40 years? The answer is because that they were not a great example of faith, but an example of unbelief. We've read of this earlier in the book of Hebrews, in Hebrews chapter 3, and verse 8, it says, harden not your heart as in the provocation in the day of temptation in the wilderness. When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years. Wherefore I was grieved with that generation and said, They do always err in their hearts, and they have not known my ways. So I swear in my wrath they shall not enter into my rest. And then he says, Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief and departing from the living God. It has been said that the Lord took Israel out of Egypt in one night, but it took him 40 years to get Egypt out of Israel. And he had to start over with the new generation. So this new generation came with some baggage, if I can put it that way. Their moms and dads are described in Scripture as people who were idolaters. And people who were immoral, that was part of their pagan worship. They were complainers , and they were anti-authoritarian. They gave Moses a very difficult time. This was the households in which they were brought up in. These are the words they heard. This was the attitude that was part of the atmosphere of their homes. And undoubtedly it had some influence on them. The Bible is clear. Eleven times in Scripture, we read of an incident where the children of Israel complained about what God had done for them. Here, God had brought them out. And provided for them miraculously and delivered them again and again. And yet we don't see a spirit of thanksgiving. We see a spirit of complaint and criticism. They complained about their leaders. They complained about the manna. They complained about their lack of water. They believed the reports of the unbelieving spies. My point is they didn't have a wonderful spiritual heritage. And yet, by God's grace They overcame and they obeyed. There's no sugar coating it. Their parents, in very large part , Failed God miserably, even though they had experienced so much grace and so many advantages There are many people here that have a past that you would like to forget. You didn't come from a strong Christian home. Or maybe you came from a Christian home that sort of on the outside looked okay. I mean, you guys look great at church on Sunday. But growing up in that home, you knew that it was anything but a wonderful, peaceful, loving environment. It was dysfunctional. And often it's not until you're adult that you're able to say, wait a minute, it's not the way I thought it was. And some Christians come from backgrounds where they rebelled We're involved in many sins. And by the grace of God, as an adult, they came to faith in Christ. And then you come and you join a church and you realize The majority of people here seem to have come from perfect Christian homes. And they got saved when they were like five years old. And they were spared a lot of the experiences and the baggage and the guilt that I feel they don't have. Some of them have wonderful role models and their mom and dad, and they have a Christian education. They have all this knowledge of Scripture. They seem to be light years ahead of me. I know this because I've talked to many people in counseling over the years. And so many people come to the conclusion I'm never going to be able to do much in the service of the Lord. I'm never going to have much of a Christian life. I'm never going to be really make a difference because I've got all this baggage. I didn't come from a good Christian home. My parents didn't instill really good biblical values in my life. Maybe they were very hypocritical. And so I have all these things, and so I'm really limited. In what I can do for the Lord. But I want you to know that that's a lie from the devil. It's not true. God 's grace, God's forgiveness can transform a life Some of the greatest servants of the Lord came from wicked backgrounds, from backgrounds where they didn't have a solid Christian home. Where they didn't have wonderful role models, where they weren't brought to church every Sunday. Think of George Whitfield, Perhaps the greatest preacher who ever lived outside of biblical times. Could tell all kinds of stories about incredible Numbers of people who were saved under his preaching. And the incredible voice that he has to reach people a mile away. He was brought up in a tavern. His mom and dad owned the place. They had no time for him. He said it wasn't until he was about ten years old that he even knew that there was a God because no one ever talked about God. His parents never taught him one thing about God. They were just intent on running this business. From the time he was a little kid, he was serving alcohol. God saved him out of that and made him the choice vessel of the Great Awakening. How about John Newton? We sang one of his hymns, our opening song today, Come My Soul with Every Care. John Newton 's father was a sea captain. His mother was a believer, but she died when he was very young. He was raised sort of by his dad and pretty much on his own. Became a sea captain himself and a slave trader, became known for his wickedness, for his cursing, for having no fear of God. But God worked in his life, taught him some very difficult lessons, and he became a believer. And a pastor and the author of Amazing Grace. He didn't have a great background. His father was not a good role model at all. Dwight O'Moody, the greatest evangelist of probably the 19th century, did not have Christian parents, was not brought up in a Christian home, was not taught about the Bible. As a boy. But God saved him as a young man when he was about 18 years old. And God used him to preach the gospel all around the world. So we can't, we must not believe the lie that because my family is messed up Or because I messed up, or because I got a bad start, that I can't really live by faith like some people can It's simply not true. The same grace that forgives us enables us to do God's will. And it's available for all believers. So we can go forward and we can establish a Christian home And we can be the role models that our children need to be, and we can serve in our local churches. We can respond by faith. A faith that conquers the world moves beyond our failures of the past. And secondly, a faith that overcomes the world must move beyond your unbelieving responses. You ever thought about it? What was it that kept the children of Israel wandering around in circles in the wilderness for 40 years? Well, in one word, the answer would be unbelief. But we can break that down further into different manifestations of unbelief. At this point, I want to invite you to turn back with me to the Old Testament. Numbers chapter 14. I'm going to go to quite a few here. If you can't keep up, that's fine. Just listen. I'll read them. Numbers 14 and verse 9. This is the spies report. Joshua says, Only rebel not ye against the Lord, neither fear ye the people of the land. For they are bred for us, their defense is departed from them, and the Lord is with us, fear them not. Verse 10, but all the congregation bade stoning them with stones. It's not what the people wanted to believe. They didn't like this positive report. Turn with me to the next book, if you were, Deuteronomy chapter one. And I'd like to begin reading at verse twenty-eight. Moses here is recounting their past history, how they murmured against the Lord, verse 28 of chapter 1. It says, Whither shall we go up? Our brethren have discouraged our hearts, saying, The people is greater and taller than we, the cities are great and walled up to heaven, and moreover we have seen the son of the Anaekims there, that is giants. Then I said unto you, Dread not, neither be afraid of them. For the Lord your God which goeth before you, he shall fight for you according to all that he did for you in Egypt before your eyes. And in the wilderness where thou hast seen how the Lord thy God bare thee as a man doth bear his son, and all the ways that ye went until ye came to this place. Yet in this thing ye did not believe the Lord your God. So the unbelief of the people was manifested In fear and discouragement. They were walking by sight And not by faith. The fortress city of Jericho and the giants of the land were much more real to them than the promises of God. Even though they had seen spectacular miracles again and again, they still were afraid. And they still were discouraged. These are two great manifestations of un belief, fear, and discouragement. And I want you to know that this is not a malady that comes to just A few weak Christians, every believer, whether they want to admit it or not, at some time and in some way struggles. with this. Even spiritual leaders. Let me show this to you. Turn with me to the end of Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy 31 now. Deuteronomy 31. First six Moses speaking here says, Be strong and of good courage. Fear not, nor be afraid of them, for the Lord thy God, he it is that doth go. with thee. He will not fail thee nor forsake thee. And Moses called unto Joshua and said unto him, in the sight of all Israel, be strong and of good courage. For thou must go with this people unto the land which the Lord has sworn unto their fathers to give them, and thou shalt cause them to inherit it. And the Lord, he it is, that doth go before thee. He will be with thee. He will not fail thee, neither forsake thee. Fear not, neither be dismayed. Now I wanted to invite you to turn with me just a few pages to the next book of the Bible, which is Joshua chapter 1. Joshua chapter one Verse One. Now after the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord It came to pass that the Lord spake unto Joshua, the son of Nun, Moses ' minister, saying, Moses, my servant, is dead. Now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, thou and all this people, unto the land which I do give to them, even to the children of Israel. And look at what the Lord says to him, verse six. Be strong and of good courage, for unto this people shalt thou divide for an inheritance the land which I swear unto their fathers to give them. Only be thou strong and very courageous, that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law which Moses, my servant, commanded thee Turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. And then that famous verse, verse eight, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. But thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein, for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Have not I commanded thee Be strong and of good courage. Be not afraid. Neither be thou dismayed. For the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. Let me ask you a question. Why do you think it is that Moses and then the Lord again and again were telling Joshua? Don't be afraid. Be of good courage. Don't be dismayed. You know why I think we see that again and again and again? Because I think Joshua was afraid and discouraged. And I think it was clear that that was the case. And he was the leader of the people. It's not that God has given some people just this kind of courage and faith that they never worry, they never fear. They just fly above the clouds, as it were, and everyone else has to like struggle with these doubts and these situations. No, this is true of everyone who's flesh and blood. And every spiritual leader, although he may not want to admit it, knows that this is true. This is true of your pastor. I remember back, Aaron can verify this. I remember back when we just started a building project and we were saving up all this money and we purchased this land in 2007 and then we Set up a building committee in 2008 and urging people to give and then there's recession hits and a number of our men are out of work and And uh there's numerous obstacles that we encounter. And uh I keep like saying, we're gonna trust the Lord We need to move forward. God's going to do this. And then I would go back and I would pray in my office and say, Lord, would you please do this? Because I don't know that you're really going to do this. And here we are today. It's all paid for. It's all taken care of. But that was that was that was a stressful situation. So my point is that we all struggle with these things, with fear and discouragement. We fear man. We fear circumstances. We get discouraged and we convince ourselves. that everything is going to end up in doom and gloom. You know, these people, the Israelites. They lived in misery all these years unnecessarily. They could have marched in 38 years earlier. Taken Jericho and everything else if they would have responded by faith One of the things that's hard for people to admit is so often the misery and the difficulties that we experience in life in large part are self-imposed. We've put ourselves in a little jail that we've constructed ourselves. Or we've exiled ourselves away over here And we convince ourselves it's because of these circumstances, or it's because of this person, or it's because of this. And someday Perhaps when we're with the Lord in glory, he's going to say, no, it's because of your unbelief. That's why you were in misery for those 38 years. Because you simply would not trust me How many people in their Christian lives get off to a good start, and then they encounter hardships and difficulties, and they never grow in grace. And they never really become that spiritually mature, fruitful believer that God desires them to be. Because there was some Jericho in their life that they come up against and they say, now that's that's too much for me. I mean, look at that walled city and its giants. No, I'm gonna stay here in the wilderness. So how does a person get beyond this? Well, let me tell you how Joshua did. Look with me at Joshua chapter 5. Joshua chapter five. Remember it's coming up. They're supposed to go up against Jericho, and Joshua is terrified. Verse 13 And it came to pass when Joshua was by Jericho, they lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, there stood a man over against him. With his sword drawn in his hand, and Joshua went unto him and said unto him, Art thou for us or for our adversaries? And he said, Nay, but as captain of the host of the Lord am I now come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth. And did worship, and said unto him, What saith my Lord unto his servant? And the captain of the Lord's host said unto Joshua, Loose thy shoe from off thy foot, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground And Joshua did so. This is an amazing passage of scripture. This is a Christophany, a pre-incarnate manifestation. Of the Son of God. And what's amazing is we don't read of any message that he gave to him. I guess it's possible that it's not recorded, but you know, Joshua says, What do you have to say to me? Take off your shoes. Place where you're standing is holy. He didn't say, I guarantee you're going to have victory today. So what do you need when you find yourself overwhelmed with fear and doubt? Discouragement. And you say, I just can't do it. Maybe some people can, but I can't do this. What you need is a renewed sense of the presence of God. That's what the Lord graciously gave Joshua here. When obeying God seems impossible. When going up against that great obstacle seems beyond your abilities, you need the presence of the Lord Lord. You need to know that the Lord is with you. Throughout Scripture, I encourage you to do a study on this. You look at fear and everything. The antidote to fear in both the Old and New Testaments is always the presence of the Lord. When you know the Lord is with you, you can do whatever he commands you to do. This is what fortified Joshua's faith that allowed this weak man to lead these fearful people up against this incredibly powerful fortress city. But by the grace of God, this new generation trusted and obeyed the word of the Lord. And that brings us to our third point. A faith that overcomes the world obeys God's word even when you don't understand. So, why did the author of Hebrews select this event as a great demonstration of faith? The answer is, I think, because the people obeyed even when the instructions didn't really make sense. The living faith leads to obedience. And conversely, unbelief is always the root of our disobedience. Did you know that? Every sin in your life, if you were able to trace it back, goes back to unbelief. I don't believe what God says. I don't believe what He wants me to do is best for me. It's all going back to unbelief. Now, if you've been taking notes And you've been with us throughout our study. You know that I brought up this point about trusting God when you don't understand several other times. Noah was asked of God to build a giant boat when he was probably out in a desert region. It didn't make a whole lot of sense. Abraham was called of God to leave an advanced civilization to go out in the middle of nowhere to a place he had never been to before. Gideon was told of God to reduce his army, even though he was going up against a superior foe. Jeremiah was asked by the Lord. Told by the Lord to purchase a piece of land, even though it was on the eve of them being exiled and moved out of the land. And the disciples were told to divide up a little boy's lunch and feed a crowd of over 5,000 people. This is a recurring theme in Scripture. We have the same thing occurring in our text today. We read together this morning the instructions from Joshua chapter 6. Can you imagine what the people felt when they were given these instructions? We're going to do what? You see, there were four basic strategies. in the ancient world when you were going up against a walled city. Number one, you could build a ramp. Use ladders to climb up over the wall. That wouldn't work here because the walls, remember, went up to heaven. No one's got a ladder that tall. Or you could build a giant battering ram and knock a hole in the wall or in the gate and then come in that way. Or you could tunnel under the walls and invade the city secretly at night. Or you could surround the city, and in a protracted campaign, you could starve them out after months and months. Those were the four ways. You know? If they had a YouTube tutorial back then on how to take a walled city, that would be the four points. But what God told them to do was to march around this massive city over the period of a week. And then a priest would blow the shofar, and the people would shout joyfully, and the walls would come tumbling down. Does that sound like a sound military strategy to you? I think it sounded to them like nonsense. and like a recipe for ridicule and humiliation. Can you just imagine What the soldiers on those walls thought when they saw these people. Remember, these are not soldiers, these are civilians. These are moms and dads and children. And they don't have these formidable-looking weapons. And they're just marching around the city silently, not saying anything. And I suspect That those soldiers on the walls were hurling insults at them They were laughing at them. They were mocking them. These people think they're any match for us? And I'm sure the insults got progressively worse every new day they marched around the walls. The fact is that God's people have always been mocked by the world. This is another reason this example would resonate with the original audience. The Christians in Rome were mocked by the world. They were ridiculed by both the Jews and the Gentiles. This has been always true of the people of the world. This is something I think we're going to have to get used to. When we when Christians face any kind of mocking or ridicule, our initial response, at least in this country, is to fight back. And perhaps for now that in some ways may work. But we must understand that The lot of God's people has always been that they're mocked and humiliated and insulted. And Jesus said that those people are blessed. So let me ask you, is the ridicule of the world enough to silence your witness? And do you obey God even when it doesn't make a whole lot of sense to you? Are you honest when It costs you financially to be honest? Do you serve the Lord even though it disrupts your personal schedule? Do you witness to a lost relative or friend even when it seems like a hopeless cause? A faith that overcomes is a faith that believes and obeys even when you don't understand how God's going to use it for good. And finally, I want you to see in our text this morning that a faith that overcomes the world depends on God alone for the victory. Now, unbelievers invariably try to find an explanation for every miracle in Scripture. And the collapse of the walls of Jericho is no exception. Many scholars suggest that this was simply the result of an earthquake. And it is possible that the Lord used an earthquake. But the timing of this event precisely As they on the seventh day marched around seven times and shouted and blew the horn would point unmistakably to the miraculous work of God. The city of Jericho is a very interesting city. Some people claim that it may be the oldest continuously inhabited city in the world. Over the century, many ethnic groups have lived there, and for good reason. It's located at the nexus of several ancient trade routes. It has a ample fresh water supply. And it's easily defended because it's located on a ridge. And this was the first city that the children of Israel encountered when they entered the promised land. And it seemed like an impossible task. The wall was high and the people were tall. We know from ancient historic records that the walls were so thick that they would race chariots too side by side. It was impossible for them to breach this wall. It was impossible for them to climb the wall. It was impossible for them to starve out the people because they had huge food supplies and they had a water supply within the walls. But once again, we see that the Lord puts his people often in impossible situations so that they will depend on him. God does not help those who help themselves. He helps those who recognize that they are helpless. Look with me at Joshua chapter 6, verses 15 through 16. And it came to pass on the seventh day. That they rose early about the dawning of the day and compassed the city after the same manner seven times, only on that day they compassed or went around the city seven times. And it came to pass. At the seventh time, when the priest blew with the trumpets, Joshua said unto the people, Shout, for the Lord hath given you the city. And verse twenty, so the people shouted when the priests blew with the trumpets, and it came to pass when the people heard the sound of the trumpets, and the people shout with a great shout, that the walls fell down flat, so that the people went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they took the city. Now this shout Was a shout of joy, a shout of victory. This was a shout of faith. Because when they shouted The walls were still standing. But the instant they shouted, the walls began to crumble and God Worked. These people had to step out by faith. This is just like the children of Israel who celebrated their deliverance from Egypt at the Passover meal the night before They were actually delivered. God desires that his people trust him and rest in him even before they see the signs of victory. One thing that is conspicuous in this narrative in Joshua 6 is the Ark of the Covenant. It's mentioned in this chapter ten times. This wooden box was a reminder that they could not do this without the presence of the Lord. In fact, this was the promise that God gave to Joshua back in chapter 1. The Lord thy God is with thee. And guess how this chapter of conquest ends? It says in verse 27: And the Lord was with Joshua. Is the Lord with you? Are you depending on the Lord? Are you overcoming by faith? This is what this passage calls us to do. I'd like to make a few closing applications as I conclude our service. The first point is this one person's faith can stir up the faith of a multitude. Joshua led the people. Even though at times he struggled to believe that God would give them victory. Because God Is not looking for great men and women who never have any fears or doubts. Hudson Saylor said that all of God 's Giants, spiritual giants, have been weak men who reckoned on the promises of God. And history is filled with individuals who changed the world by their faith. Men like Martin Luther and George Whitfield, who I mentioned earlier, and Jonathan Edwards and the list could go on and on. Their faith kindled the faith of many others. And God desires that our faith strengthen, encourage, and revive the faith of others. Second point I want to make is that true faith endures even when nothing has changed. Remember the first six days when they marched around, one time each of those days. Nothing had changed. There was no sense of progress. They didn't see cracks appearing in the walls. They didn't see see crack mortar crumbling down. They didn't say, aha, it's working. Our plan is working. Just a few more days and we'll have victory. No, there was absolutely no change the first six days. It must have seemed futile. But the people obeyed. They believed. They kept marching. And God gave them the victory This is a reminder to us that we must endure in our obedience. We must endure in our prayers. We can't pray for a person a short time and say, well, it doesn't seem to be working. I guess I'll stop that. We must endure. We must continue. We must believe. True faith is an enduring faith. And third, God delights to vindicate the obedient faith of his children. God delights to vindicate them. them. Delights to say, I will deliver them because they have obeyed what I called them to do. I always think of Adam Iram Judson in reference to this. He's generally credited as being America's first born missionary. He went to the Buddhist nation of Burma. And after a few years without any converts, he was falsely arrested as a spy, as a British spy, even though he was an American. But he was white, and so they assumed he must be British. And he was put into a prison and brutally tortured. At night his feet were suspended high in the air by ropes, so that only his head and shoulders were touching the ground. And at night the mosquitoes would come from the rice patties and cover his legs until they were black with mosquitoes. And he couldn't swat a single one of them. They just feasted. on his legs night after night. He was imprisoned with several other Europeans And one of the prisoners mockingly said to him, Well, how bright is your future now, Mr. Judson? And Adonai replied, my future is as bright as the promises of God's. He would remain in that prison for some 21 months. But after he was released, he went back to evangelism, preaching the gospel until his death in 1850. And when he died, there were 63 Baptist churches in Burma and over 7,000 believers. And today, this region of Burma or Myanmar has one of the largest concentrations of believers in all of Asia. Because this man trusted the promises of God. May God help us to be faithful. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you that by your grace we can live by faith. I pray that you would help us to be a people. Who trust in you, who do not allow our baggage from the past, our failures in the past, and our lack of understanding. To keep us from following you by faith. I pray that you'd help us to humbly obey and rely on you. I pray that you'd use these words, Father, to strengthen your people. To allow us to move forward by faith. And Father, if there's any here today who are yet lost in their sins, I pray that today would be their day of salvation, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.