If you have your Bibles, you can be turning to one of the most familiar passages in Scripture, Exodus chapter 20. I brought to your attention before this amazing Scottish missionary, John Payton. On November the 5th, 1858, John and his wife Mary went to the island of Tana in the South Pacific. It was part of a chain of islands known as the New Hebrides Islands. The first missionaries that came to this island chain in 1839 were killed within minutes of landing. And so the Patents went to the mission field knowing that it could be A mission that would result in death. They did face severe opposition. In the first year that they were there, Peyton lost his wife Mary and their son due to illness. And for four years he lived under the threat of death until he was really forced to leave. He went and recruited more missionaries for the cause and returned to a different island within that chain. And these islands all had similar worship and great opposition. He writes in his autobiography, the natives were cannibals. and occasionally ate the flesh of their defeated foes. They practiced infanticide and widow sacrifice, killing the widows of deceased men so that they could serve their husbands in the next world. Their worship was entirely a service of fear, its aim being to propitiate this or that evil spirit to prevent calamity or secure revenge. They worshiped the spirits of departed ancestors and heroes through their material idols of wood and stone. They feared the spirits and sought their aid. Their whole worship was one of slavish fear. But after 15 years of ministry on this island He could write in his journal, I claimed Annawah for Jesus. And by the grace of God, Annawa now worships at the Savior's feet. That entire island was nearly converted to Christ. And today still the vast majority of residents profess to be Christians. When you encounter such a man of God, you wonder who influenced him to serve the Lord so fervently. In his autobiography, Peyton says that it was primarily his father. His father was not a preacher. He was not a missionary. He was a very simple man, a very common man, but he was a man of God and a man of prayer. I've read this to you before, but I couldn't help but read it to you again. Peyton tells about his father's prayer life. He describes it this way. He says, the closet was a very small room. That was the sanctuary of our cottage home. Twice daily, generally after each meal, we saw our father retire and shut the door, and we children got to understand by a sort of spiritual instinct that prayers were being poured out on our behalf. We occasionally heard the pathetic echoes of a trembling voice pleading as if for life. The outside world may not know the source of our father's radiant smile, but we knew it was a reflection of the divine presence in which he lived. Though everything else in religion were by some unthinkable catastrophe swept away, my soul would wander back to those early scenes of my childhood cottage and my father's prayer closet and hurl away all doubts. He walked with God. Why may not I? This morning I'm going to look at a passage that tells us very simply that fathers have a tremendous spiritual impact on the lives of their children. We all know this instinctively. Why do you believe what you believe? Why do you worship the way you do? I suspect that for many of you, it's because your parents did. And their parents did. Now I hope that you have a faith of your own and you're not just following tradition. But we should not apologize. for following the faith of our fathers, if indeed they were followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now this morning, we're going to look at a most unusual Father's Day text, and it's embedded within the Second Commandments. You may know that the Ten Commandments can be divided into two halves. The first four commandments deal with man's relationship with God. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. These four commandments are not very popular. People don't talk much about them. We're much more interested in the second half of the Ten Commandments, which deals with human relationships in it. tells us not to murder and not to commit adultery and not to steal and not to lie and not to covet and so forth. We're much more interested in this, but the fact of the matter is that God put them in this order for a reason because man cannot be properly related to others until he's properly related to God. Now, in the first commandment, we are told who we must worship. We are to only worship the one true God. But in the second commandment, we're told how we should worship. And we tend to move quickly past the second commandment because at first glance we think it has absolutely no relevance for us. Notice what it says here in verse 4, Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness, or anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. But we must remember that all of God's word is profitable. And certainly one of the commands that speaks of worshiping God should arrest our attention. This is actually one of the lengthiest commandments. It has quite an explanation, continuing into verses 5 and 6. There are four parts to this passage. You first of all have the command in verse 4. Then you have the reason that we should obey the command at the beginning of verse 5. He says, For I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God. There is a type of jealousy that is not sinful. It is not sinful for a spouse To be jealous when someone's trying to lure their spouse away. If you're not concerned about that, there's something desperately wrong with your relationship. That's the kind of jealousy that God has for us, a holy jealousy that we would be faithful to Him. Then there's a warning to consider at the end of verse 5. God says, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me. And then we have a promise for those who obey in verse 6, and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. Now, the passage that speaks about fathers is at the end of verse 5 there, and that warning Where God says that he will visit the iniquity of the fathers upon the children. Now, before we really get going into this message, I need to issue a disclaimer. I want it's very easy for people to listen to a sermon and because of their own life circumstance to grasp onto something that they find very hurtful or very offensive or they misunderstand because of the lenses they're looking at it with. And that's why I'm giving this disclaimer. This passage is not teaching That when a child grows up and abandons his or her faith, that it's because their father failed to bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord's. It would be very easy for me to preach a sermon that would give you that impression. And there would be fathers here. Who know very well that they are not perfect and they have failed God and they've had all their children grow up and they've left the nest, and some of them are not walking with the Lord And this message could be received like salt on an open wound. This passage is not teaching that. This passage is not teaching that if a Christian father does his job, that God promises that his children will all become spiritual giants. That is a teaching that some people have adopted. It's very attractive, is it not? To find a program and you just follow the steps of this program. And if you do, you have an ironclad guarantee from God that all your kids will turn out as wonderful paragons of virtue. But it's a whole lot more complicated than that. And parents, you're going to come a time in your life when you realize that you do not control the heart of your child. You can influence them, you can model for them, you can pray for them, but you don't have control of their hearts. Sometimes people take that verse, train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it, to be a promise that if you do your part Your kids are going to stay faithful to God all of their days. That is not what that verse is saying. And it's often been very painful for Christian parents to consider. However, having said that, having given those disclaimers , Everyone realizes that your father does have a tremendous impact on the way you view God. On your worldview, your perspective on life. There have been many people who feel that often there's a correlation between the way people think about God. And the way people think about their father. If your father was indulgent and absent and not very involved in your life. It seems that often people think God's sort of like that. If your father was strict and stringent and never had any words of of compliments and never was gracious and never was forgiving, but just always was told a line. This is the way it is in my house. The people tend to think of God like that. So a father has a tremendous influence. What a huge responsibility we have, men. And in this passage before us this morning, we see that this amazing truth, that your faith, your example, your worship Your relationship with God doesn't just impact your children, but it impacts your grandchildren and your great-grandchildren and your great-great-grandchildren. It's a fearful thing when we consider how our lives and the changes that we make and the way we live now could impact people many years after we're gone. I'm going to preach to you on a father's legacy of worship. I want us to see this truth that Christian fathers should carefully consider how they worship God. Now maybe you're not a father here this morning. Maybe someday you're going to be a father. Or maybe you're a mother. Or you're a child. There still are points of application here for you in this message because all of our lives touch other people. And our examples, our words, are either helping them do what's right or hindering them in following the Lord. So this truth is for everyone. There are two main points to my message. There's a positive and a negative. You could talk about the stick and the carrots. To start with, we have the negative. Christian fathers must avoid all forms of false worship. Look with me at verse 4. Thou shalt not make Unto thee any graven image of any likeness of thing that is in heaven or above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. Now to modern Americans, idolatry, as we see it described here, seems like distant and ancient practice. But if you were to travel throughout the world, you would see it's not so distant. There are still hundreds of millions of people today, right now. Who were bowing down before idols of wood and stone. And it was a major temptation for the Israelites One of the ways that anthropologists and linguists can tell how important something is in a culture is how many synonyms they have for it. Like the Eskimos and the Inuit, they have an awful lot of different words for various types of snow. We don't. Snow 's snow. Those who live in the Middle East have all kinds of words for camels. I can only think of two English words. There's this ancient word dromedary, which we don't use very much, and camels. In the Old Testament, there are 14 different words for idolatry. Because the children of Israel were permeated around them in a world of idolatry. It was something they saw every single day of their lives. And it was a huge temptation. We must remember that people that originally heard the Ten Commandments had just come out of Egypt, a very idolatrous land. People of God have been there for over four centuries, and it had permeated their own culture. And so that's why we have so much instruction about worship and so much in the Old Testament against idolatry. Now a surface reading of verse 4 may lead you to think that any artistic depiction, any representation of anything in God's creation is off-limits. I mean it pretty much names everything, right? Is it wrong to make a sculpture? Is it wrong to paint a painting? If verse 4 was all you had of the Bible, you might think so. But verse 4 is further explained and clarified in the first phrase in verse 5, thou shalt not bow down thyself to them nor serve them. How do we know that God is not against making of any type of representation? Well, we know that's not the case because in the tabernacle in the temple he gave instructions for like depictions of the cherubim and of pomegranates and other things. So God's not contradicting himself. Verse 4 is saying that we should not ever make a representation of something and use it as an aid in worship. We don't set some image up, some painting up, some icon, something, and bow down before it. That's paganism. That's heathenism. That's the way people who don't really know God worship. But this command also prohibits the worship of the invisible God, the one true God, Jehovah, through the aid of material representation. You see, it's not just wrong to set up a stone idol and say, you know, I believe it represents this particular deity. I'm going to worship to it. That's wrong. That's forbidden. But it's also wrong to set up something and say, you know, this is a repetition of God the Father. And I'm going to bow down and worship this. The golden calf incident recorded later in Exodus 32. When Moses was up on the mount, remember they gathered together their gold and they made this golden calf, and that golden calf was to be a representation of Jehovah. Because it was an ancient depiction of power. God wasn't very happy about that. In 1 Kings 12, we read of King Rehaboam, who made two golden calves and placed one in the north and one in the south to make it convenient for people to worship Jehovah, and they worship this bull. And God wasn't pleased with that. We read in Numbers 21 about Moses in the wilderness setting up this bronze serpent. Do you remember that? And when people looked at it, then they were healed from the poisonous bites? This viper? Well, we read in 2 Kings chapter 18, centuries later, that that bronze snake Had become an idol. They believed it possessed magical powers, and so they worshipped it as this great relic. This is the way humankind is. This is why throughout the world in every culture there's holy relics and things that people go and they touch and they kiss and they weep over and they travel for miles to see. It's all paganism. There is a huge group actually many groups that fall broadly under the realm of Christendom That emphasize worship through statues and icons and paintings. And you go into their churches and there's hardly a square inch where there isn't some type of representation of some saints or some angel or something. These are supposed to be apes to worship. But they're not aids to worship that are pleasing to God. Why is God so adamant about using a statue or an icon for worship? The answer is this, because anytime you set up a representation, a statue, or something like that, you have just limited God 's. Because God's not like a bull. God 's not like that statue. That statue represents something that we know in the physical universe that is weak and finite and frail, and God's not like that. 1 Kings 8. 27 says, the heaven of heavens cannot contain him. Isaiah 40 says again and again, to whom then will you liken God? And that's a rhetorical question. The answer is no one. There's no one like God. John 1. 18 says, no man hath seen God at any time. John 4. 24 says that God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. Those statues, those icons are not aids to worship. They are violations of God's law and a form of idolatry. Now having said that, I doubt that any dad here this morning has an image in your home that you bow down to and worship. I hope you don't. But I strongly suspect that you do not. Why? Because you have in the providence of God been brought up and you live in a nation that still has remnants of Christian culture. And the founders who came to this land, the people came and settled here, had a strong aversion against idolatry. However, I think you realize that idolatry is alive and well in 21st century America. An idol is anything that you put in place of God. It is something that gives you ultimate meaning to life. It is your source of joy. It is the thing that you can't stop talking about. It's what really gets you excited It's something that has your hearts that gives you purpose to living Can be a person, can be a career, can be a thing, can be a hobby. But whatever that is, it's your idol. The question is not do you worship? The question is what do you worship? God made us as creatures that worship we cannot help but worship. Now I'm going to start here and meddle for a little bit. I'm going to say some things that are probably going to anger some of you. But I've timed it well because I'm leaving tomorrow for six weeks. I'm not answering any emails, I'm not answering any phone calls. I want to apply this in two ways specifically to our fathers. There are many more applications than this. But there are two ways that I see in modern 21st century America of Christian dads. that they put something in place of God that is very obvious to their children For many dads, the thing that thrills their hearts is sports, athletic competitions. Let me just be real clear. I like sports I play just about every sport imaginable. I enjoy watching sports. I have nothing against athletic competition. I love it. But dads, these two things often come into conflict. They often come into conflict. And it will often come down to this. Am I going to take my children to church on Sunday? Or are they going to play in that game? Are we going to go to that sporting event? For some reason, these leagues and things all have games on Sunday Often I'll have fathers come to me and say, you know, you're not going to see us for the next three months. We're in this season. Sorry, Pastor, we haven't left the church. Don't want you to worry about that at all. But you're not going to see us for a while. We'll be back. We'll be back. Don't worry. Well, I am worried. Because one of the things I worry about is that you can tell your children all you want that church is really, really important. It's really, really important that we worship God. But when they see where the real priority lies They will take note, oh, there's things a lot more important than worshiping God. In fact, mom and dad, they seem to have a whole lot more fun out there at the game than they do at church Got real quiet in here. And children can pick up on priorities. There's another popular God that often vies for this. And that is what I would call financial success. Don't misunderstand me. Dads, you should treat, teach your children about how to handle money, how to work hard, how to be responsible, how to save, how to invest. How to give to God his due. These are important things. And the Lord Jesus Christ spoke a great deal about money, as you know. But I'm afraid that a lot of dads, both by their example and by their speech, are teaching their kids that the most important thing in life is financial success. Our workaholic schedules, the way we spend our money. The way we invest our resources and our time speaks volumes Before I became a pastor here almost 16 years ago, I was a youth pastor at two different places. And I would often get these young people alone and ask them questions. Often I would ask them getting ready to graduate from high school, you know, what what do you want to do with your life? By far the number one answer was this. I don't know what I want to do. I just want to make a lot of money I want to make a lot of money. I want to have a huge home and a huge yard and really nice cars and for everyone to consider me successful. That's what I want out of life more than anything else Can I tell you, dads, if that's what you've taught your children, you have failed miserably? Dads, what will accomplish if your children become billionaires but lose their own souls? Now, I have to explain a little bit about this disturbing warning in verse 5. Visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children under the third and fourth generation. That might be disturbing to you. You might say, well, what is that saying? Is that saying that if your dad is is wicked and he's an idolater, then God's going to pour forth his wrath on your children and on their children and on their children? That doesn't seem very fair. This passage is not teaching that God judges the innocent because of the guilt of their ancestors. Deuteronomy 24, 16. Says this, the fathers shall not be put to death for the children, neither shall the children be put to death for the fathers. Every man shall be put to death for his own sin. This issue is addressed also in Ezekiel chapter 18, verse 20, it says, the soul that sinneth it shall die. You're not going to be held responsible for your father's sin. The key to understanding this is looking at the last phrase in verse 5. It says, of them that hate me. It's talking about the children of an idolatrous wicked father, and their children grow up to what? To hate gods. Because they're idolaters as well. They hate God and despise his word, so these are not innocent people. This passage is teaching. that the sinful choices that you make in worship will likely be adopted by your descendants who will in turn be judged for their sin. That's what it's saying. You see, example plays a very powerful part in our lives, doesn't it? You can teach your kids and say, you know, you should not do this, you should not do that, but if they see you doing it all the time, they're going to follow your example rather than your words. This is a really painful thing to consider. I think every parent feels this way. Every parent has had your children grow up to a certain age, perhaps even when they're young, you have seen Your sinful proclivities, the areas that you struggle with, echoed in the lives of your children. And you say to yourself, oh, I know where they got that stubbornness from. I know where they got that rebellion from. I know where they got that struggle with that sin from. That came from me. Wow. This is saying, dads, that the way you worship will greatly impact your children. And the way they worship and the way they relate to God, and that will in turn impact their children and their children. It's like a ripple effect like throwing a pebble in a pond and you see those circles of little riplets going out from it. That's the way our lives are like. No man lives unto himself. You dare not selfishly say, but this is the way I want to live my life. These are the kind of choices I want to make. My priorities make. Yeah, what about your grandchildren and your great-grandchildren? The very path and course of their life will be altered by the choices you make today. Now when it speaks here of worship and service, it's talking about the entirety of your life. I don't want you to think about one hour on Sunday, but That tends to be what we naturally think about. So let me talk to you about this for a second. It's really important that you be faithful in worshiping the Lord. But it's more than just coming to church, checking off your list, went to church on Sunday. Check. What do you like when you're at church? Do you pay attention when the word of God is preached? Or are you nodding off the whole service? Let me give a disclaimer here. I know there's people in medication. I know there are people who work the night shift and we're just glad you're here. I know there are people who are struggling with things, and when I see people nodding off I give them a break and I figure I I must not have been interestingly enough or interesting enough or whatever. But I do see dads and others, of course, that come Sunday after Sunday And they look like they're being held there against their will. Keep looking at their clock. They jit. Like a sheer torture. Or they just ease back in the chair, fold their arms, and as they do almost every Sunday, go to sleep during the sermon. Do you think your kids see that? Think your kids pick up on that? You think they're going to say, well, at least Dad went to church? You know what most young people, when they become thinking individuals, they start really observing these things. They say to themselves, you know what? I don't want any part of that. Why would I go to church And listen to the preaching of the word and so forth and things. If my dad, this man that I look up to, if he just thinks it's a time to sleep, it's not important at all. You see, your actions speak louder than words. Children are very sensitive and can pick up on hypocrisy Now, I've said this before, and it's absolutely true. Every single person that you've ever met in your life is a hypocrite. We all know better than we do. For instance, you can ask people, do you believe stealing's wrong? Yes, I do. Have you ever stolen? Yeah, I guess. You believe lying's wrong? Yes I do. Do you ever lied? Yeah, I've lied. You see, we all are hypocrites. We say one thing and we do another. God 's not asking that our fathers be perfect. And by the way, if your father's less than perfect, it doesn't give you an excuse to disobey and disrespect them and go your own way. But what children desperately need to see is something that's real, that you really do love God. that you really do want to come to church, that worship is something that is the centerpiece of your life, that coming to church is the highlight of your week because you get to worship the one true God that is the most important person in your life. And they can accept that you're inconsistent and you say things you shouldn't say and do things you shouldn't do when you're repentant and broken over it. But what they will not tolerate is when you pretend that you're something that you're not When you just put it on autopilot and you come to church and you hate every minute that you're there and you're completely disinterested and you don't talk to anyone and you don't minister to anyone, you're just putting in your time, you can't wait till the benediction is prayed and you can get out of there. You're showing them that your worship of God is just a ritual. And the fact is that you should not be shocked or surprised when your kids come of age and they have no desire to go to church. And when you give them their choice, they say, no, thanks. I don't want any part of that And you should not be shocked when they grow up and they establish their homes and their children are utter pagans who don't even know what the inside of a church looks like. Because what you allow in moderation, they will allow in excess. Now let me be very careful. I want you to Not misunderstand me. I'm not saying so dads, act like you really enjoy church. Act like you really enjoy prayer. Act like you really like reading your Bibles. That's not what I'm saying. Don't act like it. You've got to change. You've got to be a man of God. Not that you're putting , oh, the kids are here, got to act real pious now. No, that's the worst thing you can do They need to see that you are really changed. And that brings me to the next point, which is positive. We've had the stick. Let's go to the carrots. Christian fathers must worship God with all their heart and soul. We have this wonderful promise in verse 6 showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. You see, it's not enough to avoid idolatrous worship. You must instead worship God with all your heart and soul. This is what Jesus said when he was asked the great commandment. So love God with all your heart, your soul, and your might. With everything that is in your being, you love him, you worship him, you serve him. Now look at this inspiring promise. It says in our text showing mercy unto thousands, thousands of what 's The implied answer there, everyone agrees, every scholar is generations. It says that God visits iniquity of the third and fourth generation. But to those who are faithful to God, who walk in his ways, who have an ardent love for God, God says that that influence will extend for a thousand generations. The answer is it'll just keep going Not that 1,000 one it stops. But it means that God 's mercy will continue with your family. Why the disparity? Why is one three and four and the other a thousand? The answer is because God's grace is greater than his judgment. God delights to show mercy. This is the wonderful promise, the incentive for us, fathers. You can lay down a spiritual foundation that will last for generations. If we could get a hold of that, grasp that vision, man, it would make a tremendous difference in our lives. This is not just about your kids. This is about your grandkids and your great-grandkids and your great-great-grandkids if the Lord tarries. Psalm 127. It says that children are like arrows in the hands of a mighty man, referring to a warrior. One of the great weapons of the ancient world was the bow and arrow. And there were some groups that Just specialized in hand-to-hand combat, but the bow and arrow allow the warrior to extend his influence a hundred yards beyond him. He didn't have to be right there in your face to fight with you. He could shoot 100 yards away and strike his opponents. That's the idea, extending influence. Parents, our children are extending our influence beyond our lives to the next generation and to the next generation, beyond where we can go. That's why it's so important. We see this illustrated in Scripture God showing mercy to children. Six times we read in Scripture of descendants of David that says that God showed mercy to them for David's sake. It's a wonderful thing. You know one reason why I think our nation has been preserved so long and why God still shows so much patience and mercy with us is because of our godly ancestors who prayed for their children. and for their grandchildren who were faithful to God, who worshipped him in spirit and in truth. And God is showing mercy to us for their sakes. Now to whom is this promise given? It says to them that love me and keep my commandments. This phrase speaks of a vibrant personal relationship. It's not someone who's just following a list of rules and saying, you know, this is what we do and this is what we don't do, kids. This is what we do. This is someone who loves God. And therefore does these things. So Dad, so you're keep teaching your kids to love God Let me ask you some questions. Have your children ever caught you praying? They were slipped into your office onto a back porch or to your bedroom as little kids will do when they found you praying. Never found you reading your Bible. Is that an enduring memory that your children have? Dad sitting there and that chair with an open Bible. Have you ever led your children in family worship? You ever bend by their bedside and prayed with them before they went to bed at night? Have your children ever come to you with a great burden and you spoke to them out of God's word and you prayed with them about that troublesome issue? You see these are important things. I spoke to you earlier about this missionary John Payton. And his father's prayers, his father was very faithful in his worship. John says that his father, James, only missed three services in 40 years. Once because of a snowstorm, another because of an ice storm, another because of a cholera epidemic. But other than that, his father was always at church And he says in his autobiography that the most joyful day of the week was Sunday because the family went and they walked the four miles to church, and there was so much joy and anticipation they were going to worship the Lord. That's the example that we need to be setting for our children, men. Not only do you need to do this, but you need to talk to your kids about God. If you have your Bibles, I'm going to ask you to turn to one more passage, and that's the book of Deuteronomy, chapter 6. There's a few books ahead, Deuteronomy chapter six. Deuteronomy chapter 6 and verse 4 is the most famous verse. In Judaism. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. Notice what follows: And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words which I command thee this day shall be in thy heart, and thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thy house, when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and thou shalt be as frontless between thy eyes, and thou shalt write them upon the post of thy house and on thy gates. You talk to your kids about God. This is not saying it says teach your kids about God. It's not saying you sit down and You have a formal lesson. Today we are going to be discussing God's immutable attributes. That's not what it's talking about. Did you see how it described it here? As you're going through your everyday life, when you're going here, when you're going there , you look for teachable moments and you infuse God into the conversation, not artificially, but naturally, because you enjoy talking about God and you want your kids to know this is the most important thing in the world, your relationship with God. And so you talk to them about God. I can't tell you how many times I've had young people in my office, teenagers are a little older. and they're off the rails, they're going away from God, and will talk about their spiritual life at home. And they will say something like this, my father never ever said a word to me about God's. Came to church all the time, perhaps. Never talked about God. Never shared your walk with the Lord with your kids or how you were saved or how the Lord brought you out of a horrible situation or how they dedicated you to the Lord when you were a little child and The aspirations that they have for you, they never share that. I think this is true of so many Christian fathers, probably the majority. Man, that's a grievous omission. We talk about what's important to us, don't we? You ever meet a guy who's really into fishing? Every conversation ends up talking about fishing. or hunting, or as favorite sports. People can tell by your conversation what's important to you and our kids should be able to sense that this is really, really important. Again, I'm not saying, dad's alright, I guess I've got to go home and talk to my kids about God and, you know, and and no. It's not about doing something, it's about changing. So that you want to talk to them about God. And you naturally talk to them about God because God's the most important thing in your life. He's the foundation of your life. He's the one thing that will not change, that will not go away, that will not disappoint you. It goes on in this passage. Verses 20 and 21 it says, And when thy son asketh thee in time to come, saying, What mean the testimonies and the statutes and the judgments? which the Lord our God hath commanded you, then shalt thou say unto thy son, We were Pharaoh's bondmen in Egypt, and the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand. You should answer your kids' questions. You know, there's a certain phase in their life where they ask you a million questions a day. And they'll ask you about spiritual things. That's great. Don't put those off. Don't dismiss them as an important. Answer them. And what it's talking about here is they're they're passing on a legacy of heritage. Let me tell you, son, this Jewish father is saying about us, we were one time not living here like we are now But our ancestors were slaves in Egypt. But God brought us out. And let me tell you how he brought us out. He broke the most powerful man in the world, Pharaoh, and he divided the sea, and we crossed. That's the kind of God that we serve. And you know what that's all a picture of? That's all a picture of salvation, isn't it? Dad, you should share with your kids how the Lord saved you. The difference that He's made in your life the grace that he has bestowed upon you. And you can go on and talk about how he's rescued you numerous times, how there have been close calls and difficulties and trials and burdens. And he's delivered you from this because he's a God who delivers his people. This is the kind of legacy, man, that we need to pass on to our children. One such man that passed on this legacy to his family was Jonathan Edwards. The greatest theological mind that America has ever produced, famous, of course, for his sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God, as being the leader of the great awakening in this land. He had a large family and he wrote letters often to them. Let me read this little excerpt that he wrote to his son Jonathan Edwards Jr. on May 27, 1755. He says to him at the end of this letter, take heed that you don't forget or neglect him. Always set God before your eyes and live in his spirit and seek him every day with all diligence. For he and he only can make you happy. What a wonderful thing for a father to send to a son. And there are numerous letters like this. His kids were not perfect. Some of them grew up and renounced their faith. But historians who have traced his ancestors have noted the remarkable contribution that his family has made to this nation. Fourteen college presidents Over a hundred professors, a hundred lawyers, sixty doctors, many authors, and more than a hundred preachers of the gospel. In fact, today, 300 years later, there are still direct descendants of Jonathan Edwards who are faithfully preaching the gospel. 300 years later. That is the ripple effect of a man of God. Men, don't you want that kind of legacy? Don't you want to have that kind of lasting impact? Don't you want to see God's hand of blessing not just on your children and your grandchildren, but on generations that you will never see? This is the wonderful promise for fathers that we see in our text today. May God use it to work in our hearts. Let's close in prayer. Father, we confess That the choices before us are momentous. They're so weighty. You know it's difficult to be a father. We are so aware of our shortcomings, of our failures. I pray that you would not use, not allow this message to discourage individuals, but that it would inspire cause us to say, I want to be that man. Lord, help us to be mindful of the long-raging consequences of our actions, of our words, of our priorities. Help us, Father, to talk to our children and pray with our children and live out our faith before our children. And Father, for those who are here today who cannot live out their faith because they don't have a faith to live, I pray, Lord, that you would draw us to you. Thank you, Father, for your word and for the guidance that it provides for us. Words in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.