Most of you know where to turn Hebrews chapter eleven One summer morning, after a great storm, a man named Ray Blankenship looked out his window while he was eating breakfast. to see a small girl being carried away by swift water in the drainage ditch that ran in front of his house. Ray knew that this drainage ditch emptied into a large covert not far from this home, and he felt certain that if she were cast into those turbulent waters, she would drown. And so he quickly jumped out of his seat, ran out along the ditch, and dove into the water and grabbed her just before she was swept into this large covert. But all during this heroic rescue, he was terrified because Ray Blankenship didn't know how to swim. It was Emerson who said a hero is no braver than an ordinary man, but he is brave five minutes longer. This morning, as we continue our study of Hebrews, we come to a section in chapter 11 where the author refers to various heroes of the faith who triumphed over incredible difficulties. Calls us to a heroic, courageous faith I've mentioned to you before that the book of Hebrews is essentially a written sermon that was sent by an unknown pastor. To probably a house church consisting of all Jews who had come to acknowledge Jesus as their Messiah who lived in the great metropolis of Rome. And in the course of this written sermon He comes to a place where he realizes that he's going to have to be more concise in his thoughts. He says in verse thirty two, and what more shall I what more shall I say? He's making his way through Old Testament history, demonstrating that believers have always Lived by faith. The just shall live by faith. Starting with Abel going all the way through in a basic chronological fashion, he shows it's always been this way. And he realizes that he cannot continue at his current pace He has yet to cover the lengthy period of the judges, the kings, and the prophets. Perhaps he notices that he's running out of parchment. Writing materials were very expensive in the ancient world. You didn't just have huge reams of paper laying around your house. They used every little scrap. And so as he's writing, he realizes he's only got this much space left. And so he's going to have to compress what he's been saying. And make his final pleas as he's coming to the end of this book. And so he begins to summarize what God empowered them to do by faith. He mentions several people during the period of the judgments and the beginning of the monarchy. He says, time would fail me to tell of Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jephthah of David and Samuel and of the prophets. He doesn't tell us what they did. He's again assuming that his readers know what they did because they knew their Old Testaments. He just mentioning them so that they would think and reflect and say, oh yeah, that is right. He did live by faith. The fact is that these beleaguered followers of Christ desperately needed to be encouraged because they were discouraged by the events in their life. This is always relevant because this is often true of us. Our current events Our personal struggles, where we are right now in life, can often be discouraging The situation with these people is that about 20 or so years earlier, this church was established. These Jewish individuals in the city of Rome heard the gospel. They came to believe that Jesus was indeed their promised Messiah and Savior. And so they left Judaism. That was a monumental decision. It meant leaving their families. It meant leaving their friends. It meant being excommunicated from the synagogue, and all of their social life was gone. And for some of them it probably meant the end of their business because no one would come to their business from that community anymore. But they weathered the storm and formed their own Christian community. And they've gotten used to this new life, this new normal. But now a new emperor has come to the throne, and he's very anti-Christian. And it's evident that severe persecution is just around the corner. And so some of them apparently were thinking of returning to Judaism. And the writer of this abyss was heard of this from someone in the church. I 've said to you before that Judaism was a long-standing religion in Rome. They recognized it as a legal religion. They were exempt from saying that Caesar is Lord and giving that allegiance. And so some were thinking, well, maybe the safe course of action is for us to go back to our old life. Abandon Christ because the price is just too high in following Him. And so the writer of this book of Hebrews urges them not to go back because Jesus is better than anything Judaism had to offer. And if they abandon Christ. They will be committing the horrible and unforgivable sin of apostasy, which reflects that they never truly knew him. And so the writer of Hebrews urges them not to go back. At the end of chapter 10, we have a paragraph which really gives us Thematically, one of the key paragraphs of this entire book, summarizing the whole message of this book, verse 35 of chapter 10 says, Cast not away therefore your confidence. which hath great recompense of reward, for ye have need of patience or endurance that after ye have done the will of God, you might receive the promise. For yet a little while, and he that shall come will come and will not tarry. Now the just shall live by faith. But if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him But we are not of them that draw back unto perdition, but of them that believe for the saving of the soul. And then he goes right into chapter eleven and shows them that the just have always lived by faith. And that God has been faithful to them, and God brought them through their great struggles, and he will bring you through yours. The fact is that believers have always faced impossible circumstances and insurmountable obstacles, and by faith they have triumphed over these incredible difficulties. The point the pastor is making is that what they were facing was not unique or unprecedented. No, it's often the way it is in the Christian life And so this message is not for just for those beleaguered Jews in the first century, but it's for us in the 21st century as well. So, what incredible difficulties are you facing this morning? Maybe a recent cancer diagnosis Or a troubled marriage, or a car accident that has disrupted your life. The list could go on and on. God's word for you today is this. The people of God in every generation have triumphed over incredible difficulties by faith. Our sermon this morning will have two major divisions because that's the way our text is structured. In verse 32, we have a sampling of the kinds of people that triumphed over incredible difficulties by faith. And then in verses 33 through 35, we have the kind of things that can be accomplished by faith. People with a living faith. Can triumph over incredible difficulties. Now, my first point is this: believers who triumph over incredible difficulties are ordinary people. They are ordinary people. Look with me, please, at Hebrews 11, verse 32. And what shall I more say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gideon, of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthah, of David also, and of Samuel, and of the prophets. We have six names in this verse, and these names are intriguing for several reasons. For one reason, they are out of chronological order. There are three pairs of names, and in each case the pair is out of order. Because chronologically, Barrett comes before Samson and Jephthah comes before Samson. uh comes before and Jephthah comes before Samson, Samuel comes before David. But in each case the order is reversed probably to emphasize the more significant of the two figures. This representative list of men is probably based on a list that's found in 1 Samuel chapter 12 and verse 11, which speaks of men that God used to deliver his people from their enemies. Now the preacher is so intent on moving rapidly through these Hebrew heroes that he doesn't take us the time to tell us what to think about each one or how exactly they lived by faith. He expects us to study and think and meditate on these things ourselves because listening is not a listening to a sermon is not a passive activity. We have to think. And we have to remind ourselves and we have to consider as well. Now the first four names in verse 32 cover the period of the judges. This was a dark chapter in Israel's history. When every man did what was right in his own eyes. Then we read of David and Samuel, these men that represents the transitional period from the period of the judges to the monarchy. And then we have one final designation, the prophets, that covers all the rest of the Old Testament. So what can we learn from this list of names? What links them together? Let me mention two important lessons. Number one God only works through flawed people of faith. What comes to your mind when you think of these three Perhaps you're thinking, I'm not sure this is the best list in the world, because the first thing that comes to my mind about some of these individuals is problems in their lives. Let's look at this list. First of all, we have Gideon. He was a fearful man. You recover, remember how the story begins in his life? An angel comes to him and says, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. And he's like looking around. And he says, if the Lord be with us, why then is all this befallen us? If the Lord's really with us, why do we have all these problems? And that sentiment has been echoed thousands and thousands and thousands of times throughout the world. the ages. Remember it was Gideon who put out on fleece on two occasions because he was struggling to believe that God would really give him the victory. Gideon was indeed a flawed man, but God used him to root out idolatry and defeat the enemies of God's people. Second, we have Barak. Read about him in Judges chapters 4 and 5. He was a general, but he was a fearful general. He lacked courage to say the least. He wouldn't go into battle unless a prophetess named Deborah went with him. And you may recall the real hero of this battle was a woman named JL. Everyone knows about Samson. He was a really strong guy with a really great weakness. His weakness was women. And as a result of that weakness, he spent much of his adult life as a slave. But God did use him to defeat the Philistines. Then we have Jephthah. A little known figure from the Old Testament. He's been called the Robin Hood of the Old Testament. He was rejected by his own family because he was of illegitimate birth. But he's most famous, unfortunately, for making a rash vow concerning his daughter He said, If God gives me victory, the first thing that comes out of my gate when I return, I will offer as a burnt sacrifice to the Lord. He assumed that it would be one of his animals. But it was his daughter. He was impulsive and lacking in wisdom. And then we have David. He was Israel's greatest king and the author of about half of the book of Psalms. But he made some huge mistakes. He committed adultery with Bathsheba. And had her husband Uriah murdered. Then Samuel was the last of the judges and the first of the prophets. He was a great man of prayer. He was an effective priest and leader of the people. He was bold and courageous, but he wasn't a very good parent. He failed to properly restrain his sons, and so God took away his priestly dynasty. Every one of these six individuals named in verse 32 had a glaring weakness. They were all flawed human beings like you and me. But their weakness did not define who they were. So often People allow a flaw, a blind spot, or a failure in the past to completely derail their Christian life I think I can never serve God again because I've had a less than perfect past. Or I can never be the type of Christian that God wants me to be. And some people just want to keep their distance and to think of themselves as a second-class Christian. This kind of stays on the periphery because I'm a really broken, flawed person. And sometimes people, it still amazes me, they get into their minds this idea that that spiritual leaders and like the people at that church Are just perfect people who don't have any sin in their lives, who don't have any flaws, who don't have any shortcomings They've all got these beautiful families, but I can't seem to measure up. I can't seem to get to that level where they are. And the reason they think that way is because they don't know us I've had people come into my office before and they would talk about some sin struggle they have and they would say, I'm sure you have trouble understanding this, Pastor, because I know you would never ever struggle in any areas like that. And I'm looking down, are you kidding me? Do you think I'm not flesh and blood? Every human being that you have ever known is flawed. When I was growing up, I often heard preachers say things that God will never use an unclean vessel. And the idea is that you have to be part of the elite squad, those people that almost never ever sin. Before God will ever use you. And I know the intention in saying that was probably honorable and good, but it's simply not true. This is not an excuse. Well then I can just continue in my sin and it doesn't matter. No, it does matter. And it does limit rapture ministry And some of these individuals paid very heavily for the sin choices that they made in their lives. But it doesn't mean that God is looking out for a perfect individual that will do his will God wants people who are broken and dependent on Him. God Not only will use flawed people, it's the only kind of people that he uses because it's all he has to work with. Every great preacher, missionary, or evangelist that you've ever heard of or ever heard preach from this pulpit, you've ever heard me mention their name in the past. I want you to know they were all flawed. It's sort of like And I probably shouldn't go here, but it's sort of like in in in the political realm, candidates are always have high approval numbers when people don't know anything about them. Alright? And spiritual leaders and people of the past that you think, oh, that guy, he did incredible things. If you were to read their biographies and read the letters that they wrote and put their life under a microscope you would say, wow, there's all kinds of cracks and weaknesses and brokenness. I could tell you stories about some of these spiritual leaders. That would make you say, really? He struggled with that? I'll mention one right now. You know Hudson Taylor? That great missionary of God who took the gospel to the interior of China. He often struggled with depression and at times was suicidal. But God used them in an incredible way. Every godly woman of prayer and devotion in the history of the church had her weakness and inconsistently If you look close enough, there are no spiritual giants who never fail, who never fear, who never yield to temptation. This means that God can work through someone like you and me. The second point I want to take from these individuals mentioned in verse 32. is that God delights to empower people who are facing overwhelming odds and trust in Him. Most of the men in verse 32 were engaged in military combats. And the thing they had in common is that they all faced superior forces, and yet they were victorious. They were completely outnumbered. The odds were not in their favor And one of the keys to their victory is that several of these individuals in this list, the Bible specifically says that they were filled with his spirit. This is true of Gideon and Jephthah and Samson. All of them had the Spirit of God come upon them and empower them. This didn't just randomly happen. It was undoubtedly an answer to prayer, an expression of real faith. Do you remember the story of Gideon? He had this meager fighting force of 32,000 men, and God told him they're too many. And so he reduced it down to 10,000. And God said it's still too many until it was only three hundred going up against a multitude. And those three hundred men were instructed to blow their trumpets and break the pitchers in their hands and shout the sword of the Lord and of Gideon. And they were up against an innumerable multitude. Sounds like a suicide mission. But fearful Gideon obeyed and moved forward by faith. What about Barak? He lacked courage, that's true. But consider what he was up against. He was up against a much larger force, and the enemy had 900 chariots. That was the ancient equivalent of a tank. It gives a great tactical advantage. And God said, go. Conquer them. When it really counted, Baric did move forward by faith and he was victorious. But what faith did Samson demonstrate? Well, Samson was empowered by God on several occasions to defeat the Philistines. But I suspect that what the author has in mind here is Samson at the very end of his life. Remember How Samson was blind, was put between these great pillars. He was a broken man. But he depended on God and called on God to empower him to bring judgment upon the enemies of God. God's people and God empowered him, and that great building collapsed, and more people died, more Philistines died in that one event than in all of his earlier victories. Samson showed great dependence on the Lord. He trusted in the Lord for that victory. And the Lord honors him in this great chapter of faith. And Jephthah, he certainly made an ill-advised vow. But he did go up against the powerful army of the Ammonites, and God delivered the enemy into his hand. And even in his wrath vow , He revealed a genuine faith because he believed that God would give him victory, even though it was a poorly informed faith. And yes, David failed God horribly. But we must never forget that his life was filled with demonstrations. of faith. Most likely, I think the author of Hebrews here has in mind his epic battle between David and Goliath, recorded in 1 Samuel 17. David the shepherd boy went up against this giant with just five smooth stones. Even his brothers were misjudging him But David went in full confidence, declaring that the battle was the Lord's and that God would give him the victory. He was fully reliant on God's. And that was a great demonstration of faith. And let's not remember that Samuel didn't just fail as a parent. He was a great prophet of God. He spoke God's word faithfully and fearlessly to both the kings and the people. He served God with courage by faith. And he was a man renowned for his prayer life. He was a true intercessor. Let's step back for a moment and think of how these first century Jews would have responded to this list of victorious men. They too were facing overwhelming odds. They were shunned by the Jewish community of which they were once a part of. And they were hated by the Gentile Roman world now in which they lived. The Gentiles consider them to be dangerous. The Jewish people regard them as traitors. They were an oppressed minority living in this massive city. They were living, you might say, in the belly of the beast. And the message to them from this pastor is that by faith they can overcome these challenges. The same message is valid for us today. You ever feel like the odds are stacked against you? You look out of this world. You see unbelief and atheism and skepticism. And all forms of paganism and perversion growing and expanding its territory, it would be very easy to have a very negative view. And not to mention the personal challenges that you have in your own life that keep coming to bear. The fact is that God has called us to courageously live by faith. trust in him and people who trust in him can triumph over incredible difficulties. Not some special group of saints who are far above the rest of us, but ordinary people who fail and who make embarrassing decisions. And make messes in certain areas of their life, even those individuals can live by faith. But now I want us to turn to the second main point of this message. And that is, believers who triumph over incredible difficulties are empowered to do extraordinary things by faith. Ordinary people Doing extraordinary things. Look with me now at verses 33 and following. Who through faith subdued kingdoms Wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouth of lions, quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, Valiant in flight, turn to flight the armies of the aliens, women received their dead, raised to life again, and we will stop there. What follows in verses 33 through 35A is a series of nine short phrases that are grammatically arranged in three groups of three With the final phrase serving as the climactic conclusion to the triumph of faith. And I think we can learn three lessons. from these descriptions. First of all, believers who act in faith can be a great blessing to others. The first three phrases are intended to be viewed together. Subdued kingdom, kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises. These three phrases speak of the amazing challenges that came about when the people of God responded in faith. They faced these challenges by faith, and God brought incredible change that affected not just their lives, but the lives of others First of all, subdued kingdoms. This is a reference to all those military victories that we spoke of earlier. When Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jephthah and David stepped forward by faith It had a tremendous impact on the rest of the people of God. They were delivered from their pagan oppressors and able to live in peace. And then we read, wrought righteousness, that is, they administered righteousness. This is most likely a reference to David's reign. The Bible records that David executed judgment and justice for all the people. David's administration was not corrupt or prejudicial to certain groups of people. It says in 2 Samuel chapter 23 and verse 3, David says, he that ruleth over men must be just, ruling in the fear of God. This was all due to David's genuine faith. Because of his military victories and because of his reign And his leadership in the nation, the lives of everyone in Israel and Judah was better. And then we read, obtained promises. The faith that these individuals exercised was vindicated. When they stepped out and trusted in God for these victories, God rewarded them. This chapter is filled with this word promise. We find it in verse 9 two times in In verse 11 and in verse 13, and it's found in verse 17 and several other times in this chapter. The Christian life is to be lived by clinging to the promises of God. So let me ask you, is your life a blessing to others? Because you have walked by faith, has it been an encouragement and a blessing to others around you? Is your family stronger spiritually because you're in the family? Will your children rise up someday and call you blessed because they have witnessed your example of faith? Is this church bolder and more courageous in following the Lord's will because of your presence? One person can make an incredible difference. One person's response of faith can make the life of hundreds and thousands of people different Because of their leadership. God has called us, weak, frail people, to step out by faith, and our lives will be an example and a blessing to others Believers who respond in faith are often delivered from certain death. Notice the next three phrases. Stop the mouth of lions, quench the violence of the fire, escape the edge of the sword. These three are to be taken together. Stop the mouth of lions. We read of David and Samson both defeating lions, but certainly the writer has Daniel in mind. God preserved his servant from certain death, and he was thrown into lion's den. But we read that Daniel had absolute confidence that God would deliver him. He responded in faith to this crisis. We read of being quenched, quenched the violence of the fire. The mention of Daniel Lion's dead has reminded the preacher of Daniel's three friends, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. They trusted in God's deliverance even as they were cast into the blazing furnace. And how many of the Lord's servants, such as David, Elijah, and Elisha, escaped the edge of the sword? God preserved their lives even when it seemed certain that they would die. So let me ask you, do you think the Lord still delivers his people from death in amazing ways? I assure you that he does. He does protect his people. He does heal his people. He does bring peace to his people, even when they're in the midst of the furnace. God delights to deliver his people when things look hopeless and when they come and trust in him. This is something that you might need to hear this morning. Because your situation may appear hopeless. God delights to vindicate the faith of those in such a circumstance. And believers, thirdly, who respond in faith are empowered to do the impossible Now the next phrase that we read in verse 34 is, out of weakness were made strong. But I want to take this out of order and come back to it last. The next two phrases in verse 34 are nearly identical. Wax valiant in fight and turn to flight the armies of the aliens. It speaks of aliens, it's not talking about extraterrestrials. It's talking about foreign people, foreign nations. Again, it's a reference to the fact that these warriors were often completely outmanned. The numbers, the odds, the resources were completely against them. But God gave them the victory. And thirdly, we read The most amazing demonstration of the power of God concludes this list. Women receive their dead raised to life again. This is most certainly a reference to the ministries of the prophets Elijah and Elisha, who both gave to grieving mothers their sons brought back to life. And undoubtedly it is a reminder of Christ's resurrection And the resurrection of the body of all who put their trust in him, that even if we perish in the battles of life We have a sure and certain hope that we will be raised with him. Now these individuals in this chapter were not supermen or superwomen. We read that out of weakness they were made strong. They were all weak men and women who relied on the power of God. In 1 Corinthians chapter 1, the Apostle Paul says that God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the mighty. Fact is, we are all made of dust. We are all vessels of clay. We may like to walk around like we have all everything together and we have supreme confidence. But that's not really the case. Paul would write in 2 Corinthians chapter 12, My strength is made perfect in weakness. Weakness. And when I am weak, then am I strong. It is only when you realize how weak you are that you will depend on the Lord by faith faith. Feeling weak should not be something that you avoid at all cost. Because it is your weakness, your insufficiency that will drive you to depend on the Lord instead of yourself. Hudson Taylor, that pioneer missionary I mentioned earlier, said, all God's giants have been weak men who did great things for God because they reckoned on him being with them. That is true. All God's giants have been weak men. So do you feel spiritually weak this morning? Do you feel overwhelmed with problems and issues? I want you to know that God delights to use ordinary people who rely on Him to do extraordinary things. Many years ago, the world-famous violinist Fritz Chrysler was trying to enter a country in Europe. And he had somehow misplaced his passport and did not have it with him, so he was unable to verify his identity. The customs agent said to him, Well, if you are the great Fritz Chrysler, you won't mind playing this violin for me. He had next to him his son's practice instrument. He was a little boy who was learning to play the violin. And so he gave it to Fritz Chrysler, and he took the violin and played for several minutes, holding the crowds fellbound by his talents. The custom agent said to him, You may go through because only Fritz Chrysler could play an untuned child's toy with such mastery. You see, God delights to use flawed vessels like us. Because when we step out by faith and do great things, it is God who receives the glory. And only those who truly know the Lord can trust in Him. So let me ask you this morning: do you know the Lord? There's many people who know about the Lord. They have secondhand knowledge, but they don't truly know the Lord, and therefore they find it impossible to trust in him because we were not made to trust someone we don't know. I want to conclude with three brief points of application. Number one You should not think that because you have failed God in the past or because you have a besetting sin That you can therefore not live by faith or be a blessing to others. There's so many people whose self-talk is always negative. I can't do I can't do anything for God. I'm not like those other people. I'm not like those good people at church. I'm not like this person I admire. I'm not like this radio preacher that I listen to. I'm just not like them. Because I've blown it. And because I still have failures in my life. No, God only uses flawed vessels because that's true. all he has to work with. And he can use you. Number two We should be gracious in our estimation of others. You know, I was thinking if if we were there and the the man was writing this list of heroes of the faith, how many times would we say, stop a second? I don't think you should put that person in there. I don't I'm not sure about that Samson guy. You know, he had he had a colorful past. Let's just cross his name out. Or David, have you read Second Samuel twelve, eleven and twelve recently? Let's just strike his name and forget that he ever Christians often have a bad habit of shooting or wounded When someone fails, we turn away from them in disgust and we allow their failure to completely define who they are. This is part of the fall is that we often misjudge people. You ever do this like this person that you know very little? But you heard something about them. And so every time you see that person, that's the only thing you think of. Oh yeah, that's the guy that Or that's the lady that's the gossip. Or this is the guy whose son went astray. Or this is the guy over here. Yeah, I heard that he was divorced. And and and that's like the only label you have for that person. That's how you have identified them in your mind. It's the only thing that you would think of them. What a horrible, ungracious way of thinking of people You don't want anybody to think of you that way. Oh, that's the person who failed at that. And that's like your life story. Be gracious in your thinking of others. We are all flawed. We all have failures. But it doesn't tell the whole story of that person. Think of the good of those individuals. Get to know those individuals Judge individuals graciously and kindly the way you would like people to judge you. It'll make a big difference in your life And thirdly, we should face the future with confidence because we know the end of the story. This writer is writing to people who are facing a real crisis. It's, can I put it this way, an existential threat. But their entire little community of faith could be wiped out. Our churches never face something like that. like that. Like if we're going to be faithful and still say we believe in Christ, we we may all die. What do you think of that? What do you think we should do? They're not overreacting to a perceived problem. There really is a serious problem. But this writer, this pastor writes to them to be courageous and to walk by faith And to have joy in their lives. So many Christian people view the future as unspeakably bleak. The world's getting worse and worse. My health is getting more and more frail. Things are really bad and dark. This is not the way Christians should live. This should not be our perspective. Because that's not the end of the story I can understand if a lost person thought that way and they thought that when they died, that was it, there's no more, you just cease to go out of existence, but that's not what we profess to believe. The Bible speaks at the end of verse 35. We'll talk about this Lord willing in the future, but of a better resurrection He speaks in chapter 12 and just a few verses about Jesus looking unto Jesus, the author and finished of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. In other words, there should be a direct connection between what we profess to believe and our outlook on life in the future. And our outlook should be positive. It should be filled with hope and with joy. Yes, we're going to encounter some more difficulties ahead, but the end is an eternity with the Lord 's. And that truth, if indeed we receive it as the truth, should color how we look at everything. So the problem that we're facing today doesn't like seem insurmountable and cloud our judgment about the entire future of our lives. Because the remaining years that you have left are nothing compared to eternity. So I say again that Christians should be the most optimistic, hopeful, joyful people in the world. Because we know the end of the story. And we know that Christ will prevail. And we know that we will be with him forever. So don't allow the evening news or your doctor's report to completely set your perspective for the remaining year. The author of Hebrews is encouraging these poor people to be joyful, to be bold and courageous as they face an unknown future, because the Lord will be with them. them. And this is the way that Christian people, that true believers, have always faced the future. And this is the way that we must face the future. in the 21st century. May God help us to be a people of true and living faith. Let's close in prayer. Father Thank you for this time we've been able to spend together in your word. We thank you that your word is always relevant, that it always has a message. that we need to hear and it adjusts our thinking and renews our mind and renews our affections. I pray that you would help us to be a joyful people who trust you in you and give our future and our problems to you. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.