You have your Bibles, please. Would you open with me to Hebrews chapter 11? Hebrews chapter 11 It's good to have a number of our college students back for spring break today. So glad to have you with us. In 1976, the baseball star Reggie Jackson played for the Baltimore Orioles Some of you know that the Orioles at that time had a manager by the name of Earl Weaver. He was a small but fiery man who demanded that his players listen to him. One of the rules that he had is that you never steal a base unless he gives you the sign. Well, Reggie Jackson didn't like this because he was a star and he felt he knew when to steal a base. And so one day he took a big lead on the pitcher and easily stole second base. And he stood back up very sure of himself and felt that he had demonstrated to the manager that indeed he knew what he was doing. But after the game, Weaver took him aside and explained why he didn't give him the sign to steal. The next batter after Jackson was a power hitter who was intentionally walked because now first base was was open. And the batter following him did not hit well off of that pitcher at all. And so the inning quickly came to an end. And so the decision to steal second base was actually the wrong decision. The problem was that Jackson was only asking himself one question. Can I steal the base? But Earl Weaver was asking the question, how can I win this game? Obedience doesn't come naturally to any of us. Have you learned that you don't like it when people tell you what to do? We all like to make our own decisions in life. But if we trust God, we will obey Him. This morning we are going to consider the greatest example of faith in the Old Testament. I'm referring, of course, to Abraham. Today, as we continue our study of the book of Hebrews, we come to this remarkable man, Abraham. The first three examples that we find in Hebrews 11 are not directly said to have exercised faith. In the Old Testament narrative. The writer of Hebrews has simply inferred this from their actions. However, Abraham is directly said to have responded to God in faith. In fact, he is set forth in the New Testament as a model of faith. In Genesis 15 and verse 6 we read, and he that is Abraham believed in the Lord, and the Lord counted it to him. for righteousness. This verse is quoted in Romans 4. 3, Galatians 3. 6, and James 2. 23. It is one of the most theologically significant verses in the Old Testament. Paul says in Galatians 3. 29 that all Christians are spiritual descendants of Abraham. In fact, Jesus refers to Abraham more than any other person in the Old Testament. And so it's not surprising that Abraham takes up the largest share of verses in Hebrews chapter 11, this great hall of faith. His example of faith begins in verse 8 and continues through verse 19. Abraham is a remarkable man. He's the first real biography presented in Scripture. Before Abraham, we have brief sketches of individuals who lived and died, and maybe one notable thing is mentioned about them. But in Abraham, we read of his journey of faith. As he walks with God throughout different periods in his life. Abraham is the central figure in the book of Genesis. The first 11 chapters of Genesis mark the first half of the book, but then with Abraham, the second half of the book continues through the patriarchs, Genesis 12 and following. God's call of Abraham is one of the most monumental events mentioned in Scripture. Now, this morning we're going to consider this call. And Abraham's response of faith. Look with me, please, at verses 8 through 10. By faith, Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed, and he went out not knowing whither he went. By faith he sojourned in the land of promise as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. For he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God Now, what is the emphasis of these verses? What does it specifically teach us about living by faith? I think these verses reveal that people who live by faith obey God. No believer obeys God perfectly, not even Abraham. But everyone with a true faith has a lifestyle that is characterized by obedience to God. Faith is the root, but obedience is the inevitable fruit of faith The children's song has it right. Obedience is the very best way to show that you believe. Remember, the entire focus of this famous chapter goes back to the end of chapter 10, where the writer quotes from Habakkuk chapter 2, which says, the just shall live by faith. And now in chapter 11, he's going to show how these individuals in difficult times lived by faith. He's going to show what that looks like. And today we will look at the example of Abraham. People with a living faith obey God The first point I want to bring out of verse 8 is that people with the living faith obey God 's word. The key word in verse 8 is the word obeyed. By faith, Abraham, when he was called to go out unto a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed. By faith, Abraham obeyed. What did Abraham obey? Well, he obeyed God's call to leave Ur of the Chaldees and move to Canaan. The author of Hebrews is writing to a biblically informed Jewish audience, and so he does not take the time to explain the background of this call. He assumes that they know it But I would like us to take a moment to look back to Genesis chapter 12, please. So keep a finger in Hebrews 11 and turn with me, please, to Genesis chapter 12. The first three verses of this chapter are very significant Hebrews twelve verse one. The Lord had said unto Abram, get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house unto a land that I will show thee, and I will make of thee a great nation. And I will bless thee and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And I will bless them that bless thee and curse them that curseth thee, and in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. You'll notice that verse 1 says that God had previously called him, as the Lord had said unto Abram, and the very end of chapter 11 chronicles their journey in a very summary fashion out of Ur of the Chaldees. Now we know very little about Abraham before this call. In Acts 7, we read that God called Abraham from Ur of the Chaldees. This was a highly advanced civilization along the Euphrates River in what is today the country of Iraq. Joshua 24 tells us that Abraham was brought up in an idolatrous family. The people in the city at this time worshipped the moon god. This was likely true of Abraham and his family. You should not think for a moment that somehow Abraham gained God's attention by his righteous character, and so God decided to make a covenant with him. That would be the wrong way of thinking about it. No, God graciously called Abraham out of a pagan, idolatrous culture. God revealed his will to Abraham, and everything in his life from now on would be different Now he served the true and living God. And such a God was worthy of his obedience. And so he left his old life behind. This is a picture of what it means to follow Christ. We leave our old life behind. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 5 17 If any man be in Christ, he is a new creation. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. God may not call you to leave your country, but things will change. When you truly know the Lord. The Bible describes salvation as being born again or walking in newness of life. If your faith hasn't changed anything in your life, then it's likely that you don't have a saving faith. Now I want you to notice what specifically Abraham left behind as mentioned in Genesis 12, 1. This was not an easy call for Abraham to obey. First of all, he left his homeland. his culture, his language, his fond memories, his traditions. This was all part of his very identity. We know historically that the city of Ur was a large and prosperous city of about 300,000 inhabitants. At this time in the history of the world, this was a large city. It was one of the most sophisticated centers of civilization in the world at this time. And undoubtedly Abraham had a promising future there. But he left the comforts of home and society and civilization to go to an undeveloped rural region of the world. It would be like someone moving from Paris, France to West Texas. It would be a big change He also left his extended family. This would have been almost unthinkable in the ancient world. Your family connections were a much more significant part of your identity than they are in our secular culture today. But Abraham parted company with his extended family in obedience to God's call. But what is most remarkable in this call is that Moses didn't really know where he was going. In Hebrews 11:8, it says that Abraham didn't know where he was going. This doesn't mean that he didn't know the name of the country or the basic direction he was going, but it just means that he knew nothing about it. He didn't know the culture, the language, or the terrain. It was all new to him. Today, if we're going to travel somewhere, We do research right online. We may even go to Google Maps and we get a satellite image and we see how the city's laid out and what all the landmarks are and places to eat and everything else. Well, Abraham didn't have any of those advantages. People were not nearly as mobile unless they were traitors in the ancient world as people are today. They tended to stay in one place. So the idea of moving to an unknown land was very uncomfortable and perhaps brought fear into his heart. I just imagined that this was an amazing revelation. One preacher put it this way, he left no forwarding address. When he said goodbye to his friends and family in Ur, he couldn't really explain where he was going. His friends and family must have thought he was crazy. Just as the people thought that Noah was crazy when he was building an ark. Just imagine what the conversation must have gone like. Abraham comes, gathers his family, and he tells them, I'm going to this region to the west known as Canaan. And they ask him, why are you leaving your home country, your city? And he says, Because God has called me to leave. But don't you have great advantages here? Don't you have a great path forward? Yes, I do. But this is not what God wants me to do. They ask him, who do you know in Canaan? And he says, no one. So why are you going? Because God has called me. Where are you going to live in Canada exactly? And he says, I don't know. What are you going to do? Provide for your family. And he says, I don't know. He didn't know the main and basic things that you need to know when you're going to move your family. He just obeyed God's call. If you truly obey God by faith, you can be sure that at times God's going to take you out of your comfort zone And by the way, this reveals to us that God doesn't owe you a full explanation for everything that He's going to do in your life. But he does owe your obedience. Sometimes people think if God can explain everything to me And how it's going to work out, then I will obey him. No, then that wouldn't be a great step of faith at all, would it? All that Abraham had to go on was the word of God. He went to a land, sight, unseen. He gave up what he knew for what he didn't know. As far as we know, God gave him no spectacular signs or miracles. All that he had was the word of God. And the text. In Hebrews 11 seems to indicate that he left quickly from Ur of the Chaldees. One commentator put it this way: He set out while the word of God was still ringing in his ears. But I have to say that you should not think that Abraham was perfect. Abraham left Ur immediately. But he didn't go directly to Canaan. We know from the Genesis accounts that he went halfway to a place called Haran and lived there for about 15 years. It is likely that he stayed there because his elderly father Terah didn't want to go any further. I imagine that when they came to Haran, his father said, Let's rest here a few days. It was comfortable for them to rest there. You see, Haran was of the same civilization, the same culture, the same language, the same ethnicity as Ur, the Chaldees, where they came from. It was familiar. They weren't going off really into the true unknown until they left there. And so they stayed there. And he said, let's stay here a week. And then a week turned into a month, and a month turned into a year. And finally, after 15 years, Tara died. And Abraham remembered God's call on his life, and he went to Canaan as God commanded. Now I invite you to turn back with me, please, to Hebrews 11, if you're not already there. Hebrews 11. I want us to look now at verse 9. It says, by faith he sojourned in the land of promise as in a strange country. Dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. Notice that in verse 9 we have the next by faith. By faith, he responded to God's call, and by faith he sojourned in the land. Now we don't use the word sojourn very often today. It means to live as a resident alien in the land of Canaan. Four times in the book of Genesis we read that Abraham was a stranger, an outsider, an exile, a nomad in the land of Canaan. Abraham sets an example for us as the very first spiritual pilgrim. And it's a very important model for us to consider that we will speak of more in weeks to come. Even in the promised land, Abraham lived a pilgrim lifestyle. He was never accepted by the people in Canaan. He didn't have any legal rights. He never became a citizen. He never really fit in. He was always an outsider. In their minds he spoke a strange language and worshipped a strange god and wore strange clothing. He didn't worship at their altars, he didn't live in their cities, he didn't bury his dead in their graveyards. His lifestyle was distinct. His values were difference. Now some of you here have lived in foreign countries before. But some foreign countries are very much like America. But some of you, I know Pastor Aaron , have lived in a third-world country. And that's very, very different. I lived in a third world country from the ages of six to ten when my family served as missionaries in Papua New Guinea. It was very, very different from America. I remember my mom struggling to adjust and dealing with culture shock the first year that we were there. Everything was different. Everything That is familiar and comforting to you was gone. And so it's like you're starting out almost in life trying to figure things out. And feeling like you do not really belong. That's the way it was for Abraham when he moved to Canaan. Notice how Abram 's migrant status was practically demonstrated. Verse 9 says that Abraham and his descendants lived in tabernacles. We would say tents. Now there are two types of people in the world. There are those who are wildly enthusiastic about tent camping and those who are not. I tend to be in the latter category. I've gone tent camping before, but I never looked forward to it. I never enjoyed it. Some people like sleeping on the ground and being cold or being hot, whatever the case may be, and that's fine. But how would you like it for a hundred years? That's how long Abraham would live in a tents. I mean, I think the most enthusiastic tent camper here would say, that's a little bit too long. A hundred years he lived in a camp , in a tent. I imagine that Sarah felt like she could never get her house clean. The desert sand was always blowing into the tents. At night it was freezing cold. In the day, it was boiling hot. And Abraham's son and grandson continued this lifestyle. They lived an agrarian nomadic lifestyle that is They moved along with their vast herds where the grasslands were most fertile. So they were always moving around. But why did they live in tents? Abraham was a wealthy man. He could have built a palatial estate. But instead, he lived like a pilgrim because the tents were intended to symbolize to the world that this was not his home. They were just passing through. Their tents were a powerful testimony that they were living for another world. Now, I doubt very much that God wants you to live in a tent. He may call you to forgo some of the world's comforts so that you can follow His will for your life. I believe there are people in this church that could live in a larger, more comfortable home. But they have decided to give a significant portion of their income to the Lord and to the spread of the gospel. Some of you give up considerable income so that you can worship the Lord on the Lord's Day instead of getting a higher pay rate on Sundays. Some of you may be called to live as missionaries in a country where the nearest hospital is 400 miles away. and they do not have a reliable electric supply. That may be God's call for your life. But it's okay because the Lord will go with you. Now, the next thing that the Bible records in Genesis chapter 6. Is that when Abraham entered the land, chapter 12 and verse 6, he entered the land that the Canaanite was in the land? Now the Bible doesn't say this expressly, but I think that this must have been a source of confusion And perhaps disappointment for Andrew, for Abraham. God said to him, I have a land for you. I want you to go to this land. You're going to be a great blessing. All the families of the earth will be blessed for you. That sounds like a wonderful deal. And so he goes, he packs up his family, they make this long, arduous trip. His father dies along the way. They finally come into Canaan. He's there with his wife Sarah. Look at our look at this is our promised land. And she says, uh, there's already people here. How can this be our land if people are living here? It must have been disappointing. And you know what the next thing that happened is? There was a great famine in the land. Now, I don't know if Sarah was a complaining sort of woman or not, but she had some good grounds to complain about here. We left the comforts of home. We go out into this desert environments, to this land that your your God has promised to you, and yet people are living here already, and then there's this great famine. And we have to leave and go down to Egypt to save our lives. My point is That following the Lord sometimes may not make sense. And it may be very difficult and disappointing at times. Often people think That if they follow the Lord, everything's going to go smoothly. Everything's going to go well. People think Our marriage will become stronger, our children more obedient, our finances more stable, our health more robust, and much of our modern preaching at least implies this. And so many people in the contemporary church, when they experience hardship and difficulty and disappointment, they abandon God. And I suspect that this message would have resonated with this first century Jewish audience who were beginning to pay a high price For following Christ. They were not only ostracized by their families, the Jews who were still there in the synagogue But they were also persecuted by the Romans. They were between a rock and a hard place. And it could be that many of them were thinking of going back because this is not what they signed up for. And they were disappointed with God. But of course, the Bible never promises us that if we follow Him , That things will go better for us in life. The Lord is not a salesman offering you a better deal than his competitors. He doesn't want you to follow him because of the perks, but because you really know him and trust in him. So why did Abraham and the other patriarchs stay in the land? If it was so difficult, the answer is because of the promise of God. The word promise is the key word in verse 9. Notice, by faith he sojourned in the land of promise. The end of the verse then says, heirs with him of the same promise. The reason why Abraham stayed is because of the promise of God. This is a very important thing for us to consider. Something that I have come to appreciate more and more in recent years in my life, and that is the power of the promises of God's. It is our faith that must be anchored to these promises Abraham had the promise of God that God would bless him, that this was God's will for his life, that God had a great plan that he was going to work out through his descendants, including In Genesis 12, 3, the Messiah himself. And so Abraham and the patriarchs, his son and grandson, that followed him. They remain steadfast, clinging to the promise of God's. What difficulty are you facing right now in your life? Are you looking at your circumstances or are you clinging to the promise of God? God has promises for all different aspects of the Christian life, different circumstances that we find ourselves in. Different problems that are common to us in life. And there is some promise of God related to that circumstance. that you can find in his word and that you can rest in and strengthen your faith in and trust in forever. This is how we obey. We obey by resting in the promises of God so that when we look out and God's promises do not seem to be fulfilled in our lives. We do not respond in unbelief and go back to the world, but we cling more tightly to the promises of God because we know God and we trust in Him. So people with an authentic faith obey God's word and obey his word despite the difficult circumstances. And finally, would you notice that people with a living faith obey because of their eternal focus? I want you to notice that verse 10 anticipates the reader's natural question. We read in verse 8 that by faith Abraham obeyed the call. In verse nine we read that by faith Abraham and the patriarchs sojourned in the land. And the question you might ask yourself is, well, why did they do that? How could they continue steadfastly to obey God despite all of these problems? Verse 10, for he looked for a city which hath foundations whose builder and maker. is God. People with a living faith obey because of their eternal focus. You see, your outlook determines the outcome. He wasn't looking to the here and now. He was looking to what was beyond in his future. Abraham never fully saw the fulfillment of God's promise in this life. God told him that this land would be his. But he never experienced that in his long life. That promise would be enjoyed by descendants in the future, way in the future. In Acts chapter 7 and verse 5, Stephen describes his situation this way: God gave him no inheritance in it, not so much as to set his foot on. He didn't have one square foot of property, as it were, that he could say, This is my land The only land that Abraham would ever own was the cave of Magpelah where he would bury his wife. And yet God promised him the land. So let me ask you, are you focused on the here and now? So many of our spiritual problems can be traced And focus, being focused on the here and the now and the problems and the heartaches and the difficulties that we experience in this life. And we think that God has been unfaithful to us. It's very easy. It's very easy in our culture, in our society, to be caught up In this great quest for nothing but financial security, that's the American way. becomes the ultimate end of our existence on the planets. To lay up treasures, to lay up money, to make sure we're going to be provided for. Don't misunderstand me. The Bible tells us that we should be wise stewards. And we should make preparation. And we should be like the ant who stay who stocks up supplies for the winter. But that's not what our life is about. That's not what our focus is. That's not what we meditate on That's not what we worry about. That's not what we think about night and day. That's not what we ruin our health for. And yet, this is the air that we breathe. So much of what we hear, I'm afraid, in the contemporary church today and in Christian preaching Is not turning our attention on the things above, but it's turning our focus on the here and now So much of what Christians hear today is how to improve your life, how to deal with your problems better and more effectively, how to use God's wisdom. So that your life can really fulfill the American dream Yes, I believe that the Christian life is the best possible life that a person can experience on this earth. For a number of reasons that I could go into. But I want you to know something. The Lord has something much greater to offer you than 80 years of the American dream. Something far greater than that. And so our minds should not be consumed. As Jesus said, with what we're going to eat and what we're going to wear, what kind of shelter we're going to have. He says this is the way the Gentiles think. This is the way lost people live their lives. It's just this giant competition to get more stuff. Jesus said a person's life does not consist of the abundance of things that they possess. The Bible's consistent message is this is not your rest. This world that we live in is not our home. We are pilgrims, we are sojourners, we are refugees, we are migrants, we are resident aliens But the values and the goals and the treasures of this world are not ours The life of faith must be lived with an eternal focus. Otherwise, it won't work. Notice what verse 10 says. It says that Abraham looked for his city. The word looked refers to someone who is eagerly waiting or longing with anticipation. You know what it is to anticipate something. And you derive almost as much pleasure from the event itself as from anticipating what's going to happen, some great celebration. Or some wonderful time of social interaction that you're looking forward to, and you think about it, and you daydream about it, and you imagine what it's going to be like, and you look forward to it, and it gives you strength for today to go through. a boring, difficult day because something wonderful is on the horizon. This is the way we are to live our Christian lives. We are to live with the anticipation that we are on the doorstep, the threshold of eternity. Which is so far greater than anything we can imagine. Now, what does our text specifically say that Abraham was longing for? It says, a city which hath foundations. It's very interesting that it mentions foundations here. Perhaps there's a connection with the fact that Abraham lived in a tent for a hundred years, and a tent doesn't have a foundation. But cities do. Most scholars think that the use of foundation here is used to convey the idea of something that's permanent. Something that's lasting. Something that's eternal. So what is so unique about this city? I mean, Abraham once lived in a great city. Well, it's builder and maker, it's God. God is not only the one who constructed it, but he's the architect of that city, is the word that is used. This is a theme that the author of Hebrews is going to use a great deal towards the close of this book. Kind of marshaling all of what he's been saying and all of his arguments to inspire and to bring about endurance and resolve and faithfulness in his hearers. Let me show you a few of these passages. Look with me at verse 14 of this chapter. For they that say such things, referring to the patriarchs, declare plainly that they seek a country, and if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned. But now they desire a better country, that is a heavenly, wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them A city. Now look with me at this beautiful passage in Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 22. This is how the author of Hebrews describes heaven for us. Hebrews 12, 22, but you are come unto Mount Zion Under the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels To the general assembly and church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven and to God the judge of all and to the spirits of just men made perfect, and to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant and of the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better things than that of Abel. And now look with me at the last chapter, chapter 13, verses 13 and 14. As he wraps up this book, he says, let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach, for we have For here have we no continuing city, but we seek one to come. You see, Abraham came to understand that yes, this land would someday be owned and possessed and inhabited by his descendants, but his ultimate home. Was in heaven, the New Jerusalem. And that's what he was living for. God has called us as Christian pilgrims to live for the world to come. Do you have a living faith that will lead you to heaven? I'm going to conclude with just some brief points of application. The first point I want to bring up is this following Christ by faith may be costly. This is something that is rarely mentioned today in contemporary preaching. But all of Scripture, the Old and New Testaments, tell us that it can be costly. To follow the Lord. Abraham had to leave the comforts of home, his extended family, this advanced civilization, and he had to go out into a very lawless And dangerous place, and live in what, by most people's estimations, would be at a far lower level than what he had back at home. Jesus said in Matthew 10, 37, He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. Do we believe that? I hear Christian people all the time say that if you have your family, you have everything. It's not true. That's what lots of people say. I love my family dearly. It's one of God's greatest gifts to us that we have our family to support us. But what would you do if you had to choose between your family or the Lord? What would you do then? That has been a choice that millions of Christians in the history of the world have had to make. They couldn't have both. They had to choose one or the other. Jesus said that his message of the gospel would divide families. Would divide parents from their children, husbands from wives at times But he called on his followers to follow him first. Jesus in Luke 14 calls on people to count the cost. So often when we present the gospel or in sermons, We don't talk about any of the costs. We talk about all the benefits. We're like salesmen trying to get people to close the deal. And so we mention all the wonderful things that they're going to get as they become a Christian. But we don't tell them that following Christ may be difficult and costly and painful and cost them far more than they imagine. But this is what the Bible teaches. And undoubtedly some of these early Christians who first heard this book read to them. Had to make a choice at one time in their life between staying close within the Jewish community and their family heritage or leaving and following Christ. And they chose to follow Christ. But it was a difficult decision. Secondly, Christians should be different from the world. This is one of the messages that comes out of the life of Abraham. So often I think modern evangelicals think of Christians as simply people who are just like everyone else in the world, except We go to church occasionally. That's not what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches that being a Christian changes everything. Because we've been changed from the inside out. And if your heart has truly been changed, then everything else in your life is going to be different as well. Our goals and our ambitions should be different from people in the world. Your goals should be different than your co-workers Your goal should be different than the people who live in your neighborhoods. They should scratch their head at times and say, I don't know why they would do that. I don't know why they would invest in that. I don't know why they would live their lives this way. Why wouldn't they think about things the way I think about things? They should find you to be somewhat of an anomaly because your values are different from their values Our behavior should be different. People should see in us the fruit of the spirit, not the works of the flesh. They should see a different in us at work. We should have a testimony other than just we're a guy who goes to church, but people should say No, he really is different. That translates into a different approach to his work and to his family and to the way he talks and everything about him. Our marriages should be different. People should see that we don't fit the stereotypes Our children's behavior should be different. Our parenting should be different. Those two things go together, by the way. The investment of our time and money and energy should be difference. Because you have only one life to live. And you realize that you only have so much time and so much energy and so many resources to do what you need to do in this life. You can't do it all, so you have to be selective. You have to be focused. You have to be intentional. So let me ask you, do your neighbors, friends, co-workers, do they all know that you're a Christian? Do they know that you have different end goals than they do? Can they discern that you live your life by a different set of values than they do? Thirdly, I want to say the Christian life can only be lived by focusing on our heavenly home. Jesus said, lay up treasures for yourself. Lay not up treasures for yourself on earth where moth and rust with corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. That is, it's not a very good investment, you're going to lose it But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. He also said, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Paul would write, Seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affections on things above, not on things of the earth, for ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. Do you believe that? Do you believe that what really matters is the life to come? Or is that something that never factors into the way you think about things? Do you know one reason why God sends? There's many. But one reason why God sends disappointment and suffering and hardship into our lives, and so that we will become Dissatisfied with life on this earth. And we will turn our focus heavenward and find our joy in Him and not in the gifts that He has given us on this earth So sometimes when we cling too tightly to some gift, he'll take that gift away and say that remember, this cannot satisfy your hearts. Only I I can do that. Jonathan Edwards preached a sermon entitled The Christian Pilgrim in 1733. And he says these words. To go to heaven fully to enjoy God is infinitely better than the most pleasant accommodations here. Father and mothers, husbands, wives, or children, or the company of earthly friends are but shadows. But the enjoyment of God is the substance. These are but scattered beams, but God is the sun. These are but streams, but God is the fountain. These are but drops, but God is the ocean. Every bit of enjoyment that you've ever found in God's good gifts is just a faint reflection of what he offers in himself. And so our joy, our hope, our longing must be for him, not for the things of this world. And finally, let me simply say that only those who come to God by faith will be saved. You must come by faith. You cannot earn your way. You cannot impress God with your performance. You cannot somehow accrue points And merits that cause him to forgive you and to give you a home in heaven. No, you must come as a sinner, as a beggar who has nothing to offer You must come with empty hands and a broken heart. You must come in faith in Christ and Christ alone. Because it's only in Christ that we can be saved. May God help you To see the truth of the gospel and trust in Him today, if indeed you're still trusting in your own good works. May God help us to respond to what we've heard by faith. Let's close in prayer. Father,