Dave your Bibles, would you turn with me to Hebrews chapter eleven? Hebrews chapter eleven Bill Borden was a young man of privilege. He was born in 1887 as the sole heir to the Borden Dairy fortune. He was born with a silver spoon in his mouth, you might say. But he was also born into a devout Christian home. His family lived in the Chicago area, and they attended Moody 's Church. And it was there that Bill Borden was converted under the preaching of R. A. Tory. For his high school graduation, his parents sent him on a trip around the world. And while touring many foreign countries, he saw the great need and felt that God was calling him to be a missionary. But when he revealed his plans to his friends, they thought he was throwing his life away. He had everything going for him. He was good-looking, intelligent, athletic, and very wealthy. He graduated from Yale and Princeton. He was a star wrestler. But he wanted to give give his life to reaching an ethnic minority in China that were Muslim After his graduation from college, he was offered several very high-paying jobs, but he turned them all down. Instead, he left to train for the mission field in Cairo, Egypt, where he was learning Arabic and Muslim culture. Tragically, in 1913, at the age of 25, Bill Borden died of cerebral meningitis. For Billboard enduring God's will meant walking away from a fortune. It meant leaving the familiar for the unknown. He left behind power, possessions, and popularity to take the gospel to a people he had never met. Bill Borden made this amazing choice because of his faith. And Moses made a similar choice many years earlier. Often on this day, I preach a Father's Day message, but I've decided to continue going through Hebrews. Because we've been in Hebrews for a while and there's still a ways to go. And so I'd like to look at verse 27 this morning by faith, referring to Moses, he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king. For he endured as seeing him who is invisible One verse, but a lot of truth packed into that one verse. Our text says that he forsook Egypt. This simple phrase raises one of the most difficult interpretational issues in the book of Hebrews. But let me say at the outset, it doesn't really matter which way you interpret it because the truth is the same. The issue of controversy is simply this. Is verse 27 referring to when Moses left Egypt and fled to Midian after he had killed that Egyptian taskmaster? Or is it referring to when Moses left Egypt some forty years later and brought the children of Israel out of Egypt? Which event is verse 27? referring to. I'm going to take about one minute with this because I suspect that most of you are not as interested in this as I am. So what are the main arguments for the fact that this is referring to the earlier leaving of Egypt when he fled to the backside of the Well, first of all, the text speaks of Moses doing this as an individual, not with a multitude of people. And so many Bible interpreters see verse 27 as just reiterating what the author of Hebrews has already said in verses 24 and 25. Secondly, this view of the earlier departure was held by most early scholars in the history of the church. And some people would think, well, they live closer to the event, further back, so they must have some more insight. Also, the understanding that verse 27 is referring to the first departure fits the chronological, chronological progression because you'll notice in verse 28 And talks about through faith he kept the Passover. Well that was actually before he left Egypt if indeed it's a reference to the second departure or the exodus from Egypt. And so for this reason, many fine Bible scholars see verse 27 as a reference to Moses ' first departure when he escape to Midian. In other words, he's just repeating what he said in verses 24 and 25. But this view has one major problem. Moses didn't seem to leave Egypt the first time without fearing the wrath of the king. You'll notice in verse 27 it says, not fearing the wrath of the king. But in Exodus 2. 15, we read that Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh. So, what are the key arguments for the view that this departure from Egypt is referring to the Exodus? Well, Moses' leaving Egypt with boldness would fit the account of the Exodus. Remember, Moses courageously went before Pharaoh ten times and demanded that he let the people go. And when Moses left, I suspect that he knew that Pharaoh would change his mind and come after him and the people. Secondly, verse 27 seems to be speaking of Moses ' once and for all abandonment of Egypt at the Exodus. But of course Moses returned after his earlier departure at the call of God. And thirdly, every time we read in Hebrews 11, one of these new verses that says, by faith this was done, it refers to a different act, not an event that was mentioned earlier. This would be the one exception if indeed that is the case. This is possible, but I think unlikely. It seems to me more likely that verse 27 is referring to Moses ' once and for all forsaking of Egypt when he left the people. Out at the Exodus. However, no matter which event you think verses 27 is referring to, The message remains the same. People with a living faith abandon the world. This means that Christians say goodbye to the values, goals, and motivations that have always characterized lost people. It means that we deny ourselves, take up our cross, and follow our Savior As the hymn writer puts it, the world behind me, the cross before me, no turning back, no turning back. So what does this look like? Our text has three parts to it, verse 27. And so my message will have three points. The first one is this: people of faith. Do not allow their fears to control them. It says, by faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king. We encountered a similar expression in this chapter concerning the birth of Moses. In verse 23 of chapter 11, it says By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hit three months of his parents because they saw that he was a proper child, and they were not afraid of the king's commandments. Now, when we studied this verse several weeks ago, I mentioned that this does not mean that Moses ' parents were not the least bit concerned about the edict from the king. I told you then that it meant that they did not give in to their fears, but they obeyed God by faith. I think the same idea is here in verse 27. It's not saying that Moses was somehow, you know, a fearless kind of guy who never was afraid of anything. The biblical depiction of Moses is not that he was rash and arrogant. He was not the kind of person brimming with self-confidence. When God called him at the burning bush, he said, Who am I? And you remember that Moses offered one excuse after another for not going back to Egypt. He said, they will not believe me. He said, I'm not eloquent. I don't think that Moses looked or talked anything like Charlton Heston. He was not that person. The scriptures seem to indicate that he had some type of speech difficulty. The Bible describes him as the meekest man On the earth. When his brother and sister attacked him, he didn't even defend himself. He left God to do that. The fact is that Moses had a lot of good reasons to be a Of leading the people of Israel out of Egypt. First of all, he had justified the most powerful man on the earth on planet Earth, Pharaoh. Their empire was at basically its zenith at this time, and so Pharaoh had more power than any other human being. And Moses stood up to him face to face and defied him. Number two, he had just taken away slave labor Of one of the world's great empire. And it wouldn't take Pharaoh long to realize, hey, you know, we really needed those two million people. We've got to get them back. And then think about this. He was now responsible for the welfare of about two million people. That's a huge burden. And Moses will say later, this is a burden too great for me to bear He was also taking a multitude of people out into some of the most desolate and dangerous terrain in the world. And if all of that was not enough to make a person anxious, consider this, he was leading people who didn't really want to be led. When they came out of Egypt, the people were not enthralled with Moses and his leadership. And he would encounter, as you recall, so many problems You see, what our text is saying is that Moses did not allow his fears to keep him in Egypt. He obeyed the Lord because he feared God more than the king of Egypt. And he was going to need that faith and courage. We're going to look in weeks to come of when they came to the Red Sea and the Egyptian army was bearing down on them. What a crisis of leadership and of faith that was. Moses led the people admirably even in that crisis. And Moses was ready to lead the people. God was not prepared was not ready for Moses to take on this leadership until Moses was 80 years old. He spent his first 40 years, remember, in Egypt and the next 40 years on the backside of the desert in many And it was there in that solitude that he learned to walk with God. He heard the voice of God at the burning bush. He saw the glory of God. And he would never be the same. This is why when he came back to Egypt, he had a boldness and a courage that he did not possess before. John Knox, the reformer, who often sparred with Mary Queen of Scot Scotland He was once asked how he could do this when she had the power to imprison him and to execute him. And he said, one does not fear the Queen of Scotland when he has been on his knees before the King of Kings. When we face a crisis, we discover a great deal about our knowledge of God. We discover if we have really been walking by faith, as our choir sang, or by sights. It's easier to walk by sight and yet to convince yourself that you've been living by faith. But when we face a crisis and the props are knocked out from our lives, we find out on what we have truly been depending upon. And so often our response to fear and panic is evidence that indeed we have not really been walking with the Lord. It's no coincidence that the most common command in Scripture is fear not, because we are all fearful people. We're compared to sheep And fear often keeps us from obeying the Lord. Indeed, there is such a thing as a healthy fear that keeps us from making foolish choices. That would endanger our lives and the lives of others. But there is more commonly a fear that keeps us from really living the way God wants us to live. It can easily become toxic, and something that God designed within our human psyche to be a help and a warning and a guide for us becomes instead enslavement for us. Proverbs 29, 25 says, the fear of man brings a snare. How true that is. It traps us. It keeps us from doing what God wants us to do. It paralyzes us from accomplishing God's best for our lives. Fear traps us in so many ways. I've mentioned this before. When does fear become sinful? And the answer is when it keeps us from obeying God, when it leads us to disobedience. Fear keeps us from being a witness for Christ. Is not this probably the number one reason why we do not witness the witness for Christ Because we fear man more than God. We fear their opinions or what people will think of us or what they'll say to us or how they'll roll their eyes and look at us. And that's enough to keep us silent. Fear keeps people from stepping forward and preaching and teaching the Word of God when God has indeed put it on their heart to be do so. Full disclosure, this was a real struggle for me. I'm not one of those guys who from the time I was eight year old was just chomping at the bit to be a preacher. I've met guys like that. That was not me. I was reluctant follower into the ministry. And it's because I had this great fear of speaking in front of people. I say that God has a great sense of humor. He took someone who had this real problem with this and said, Well, this is what I'm going to call you to do all the time. But of course, when God calls you to do something, he gives you the grace to do it. Fear keeps people from going to the mission field. Fear keeps people from sacrificially giving to the Lord's work. Yeah, but if I give that, then I can't put this away for this. What if this happens and what if my car breaks down? And fear keeps people from identifying as Christians during times of persecution. And that was the application for the original audience. Here. Remember the people that this writer is writing to, this unknown pastor. These early believers were about to experience severe persecution like they had never known before. Most scholars believe they were probably a house church of Jewish believers, followers of Christ in Rome And now there's a new emperor that's come to the throne by the name of Nero, and he's changing policy, and he's decided, you know, I don't like these Christians. They're a problem, they're a nuisance, we're going to ramp up. Our persecution of them. We're going to drive them out of the city. And so some of them were thinking. Of, you know what, I think I'm not going to go and gather in that home anymore because the authorities might be watching. I'm just going to stay at home or I'm going to go and I'm going to go back and join the Jewish synagogue because the Romans tolerated the Jews and accepted them as a legal religion. And so it was the path of safety. You know, in chapter 10, when he says, not forsaking the assembling ourselves together, He's not talking about people who are just lazy, you know, who need to start going back to church because they've been sitting in home just relaxing and and drinking their coffee instead of coming to church. That's That's not what he's talking about. He's talking about people are saying, you know what, that sounds like a risky, dangerous thing to do right now. I'm going to stay home because I don't want to lose my employment or be arrested or be exiled. It would be so much safer for me and my family if we just didn't gather with those believers anymore. And so throughout this book, the writer of Hebrews is warning them: do not turn back. Do not renounce Christ. Do not go back to Judaism. It's all true Judaism was all pointing and preparing the way for Christ. But the Judaism of the first century was essentially a false religion. Of works and of earning merit with God and of continuing traditions and yet forgetting about the purpose of it. And so he says to them: consider Moses ' example. He didn't fear the wrath of the king, which is the authorities. So why should you? He trusted God to protect him, and so must you. That is his message to this early group of believers, and that is his message for us and for believers. Around the world. But now I must continue on to my second point. People with a living faith must continue to serve the Lord despite the hardships they encounter. It says, and I take all of this from this little phrase, for he endured. This is a beautiful description of Moses ' faith The Greek word that's translated endured is only used here this one time in the Bible. It has the idea of to be strong or steadfast or To hold out. It means to persist in a difficult undertaking. Moses didn't quit. He didn't quit when Pharaoh kept refusing to let his people go. He didn't quit when the people kept complaining. If you look carefully at the biblical record, you will find that the people of Israel complained about Moses ' leadership at least eleven times. That's a lot. But he didn't quit, even though they persistently complained about him And there were all these other problems as well, such as serpents and lack of water, and lack of food, and threat of attacks from hostile peoples. And then there was the discouragement of the golden calf incident and the rebellion of Korah and the vocal opposition by even his own brother and sister. Moses had a lot of good reasons to say, you know what? I gave it my best, but this ministry is not for me. This call is not for me. He never went back to Egypt. And when people were clamoring and calling for him and saying, let's reverse course, let's go back to Egypt. We had so much of a better life there, which of course was not true. They were slaves. Moses never considered their demands for a moment. because he had once and for all turned his back on Egypt. He had said goodbye to the world. Now this matter of endurance is a major theme of the book of Hebrews. In Hebrews chapter 3, verses 12 through 14, we read this admonition: take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief. and departing from the living God, but exhort one another daily while as called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. For we are made partakers of Christ if we hold the beginning of our confidence steadfast unto the end. That steadfast endurance. In chapter 6 and verse 12, he says that you be not slothful, but followers of them who through faith and patience or endurance inherit the promises. Then you'll look ahead to me to Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 32. He says, But called to remembrance the former days in which ye were illuminated, ye endured a great Fight of afflictions. This is probably a reference to when they were, the gospel first came to them some twenty or so years earlier. And then in verses 35 and 36, he gives this admonition: cast not there away, therefore, your confidence, which hath great recompense of reward, for you have need of Patience or need of endurance. And then you'll notice what he says in verses 38 and 35. thirty nine Now the just shall live by faith, but if any man draw back my soul shall have no pleasure in him. But we are not of those who draw back unto perdition, but of them that believe to the saving of the soul. And then he goes into chapter 11 to say, let me explain to you what faith is, and let me give you examples of people who in endured with a living face that you might be inspired to do the same. Jesus says in Matthew 10, 22 , And ye shall be hated of all men for my namesake, but he that endureth to the end, the same shall be saved. And in James chapter 1 and verse 12, blessed is the man that endureth temptation or trials, for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life which the Lord hath promised to them. That love him. We desperately need endurance in our Christian lives. We live in a culture That undermines all of this. Have you noticed that in previous generations and previous times The idea of being steadfast, of holding to your commitments, of working hard even through difficulty, were virtues and values that were disseminated everywhere. But today we live in a culture that says, hey listen, if it's not working for you, get out If it's difficulty, it's not making you happy, then maybe you should leave your marriage because we have this great mantra that's constantly bombarding our minds. that you deserve to be happy. And the way to be happy is to be able to express yourself exactly the way you are and not be confined. or oppressed or have face any difficulty in your life. No one should have to face any difficulty. And this is the message that's promoted today. And so we should not be surprised that the result of that is that people are continually leading. Commitments that they have made. But the ultimate commitment, the ultimate thing that people turn away from is to Christ. Now let me again say I do not believe a person, a true born-again believer, can lose their salvation. I believe the scriptures are clear about that But unfortunately, it's very easy for a person to profess to follow Christ and to seem to follow Christ. And to be like those individuals described in the parable of the sower that seemed to have enthusiasm. that seem to take to sprouts, that seem perhaps even in some ways to show evidence that their life has been changed. But when difficulty and hardship and crisis and it becomes costly and it's not what they thought it would be, when those factors come into their life, they wither and they go away. And that was the book of Hebrews is all about. He's talking to individuals, the professing church of Christ, that like every church Body in this fallen world has within it some wheat and some tares. And he's encouraging them. To hold fast, to demonstrate that indeed they are people with a living faith. And they will not turn away from the gospel. They will not renounce Christ. They will not take the path that seems to be safe. But they will be faithful unto the end of the Christ. So often this comes to bear when people from Christian upbringing come of age Become adults and start to make decisions for themselves. When I talk to other pastors, they always are worried about the young people in their twenties. Because that's the the the uh kind of the missing demographic in the church today, like so many people, stray away from the Lord in their twenties, and they dive headfirst into the world. Now, some of them, praise the Lord, some of them recognize this is not my home, this is not where I belong. This is not what I thought it would be, and they come back, the Lord, and they repent. But there are many who never come back because they never truly had a living faith. They never had a faith that it would endure the real testing and trials and temptations of this world. But that raises the question. How was Moses able to continue to endure despite all of the hardship and obstacles that he faced? And this is what we find at the end of Verse twenty the seven. It says in Hebrews eleven and verse twenty seven for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. This is how Moses was able to walk away from the world, and this is why he was able to continue to fulfill God's calling for his life. as seeing him who is invisible. This is, of course, a classic example of a paradoxical Statement, right? How did he do this? Seeing him who is invisible. What does something mean when it says it's invisible? It's something that you can't see. So he kept looking at something that he couldn't see. Scripture, Christian life is filled with paradoxes. But this is going back to what we find in chapter, excuse me, verse 1 of chapter 11, where it says faith is the evidence of things not. I mentioned to you when we covered that verse that everything that is dear and precious in the scriptures that has been revealed to us by God, which is all of it, these doctrinal truths. That are the pillars of our faith, of our entire worldview, that all of them are invisible Doesn't mean there is an evidence for them, but you can't just say, oh yeah, I can see that's perfectly clear, you know I can see God and I can see heaven and hell and I can see faith and regeneration and all of these other doctrinal truths that are taught in Scripture. I'd like to take credit and say that we'd planned it exactly like this, but you know what? It is true that the choir sang the perfect song for today. We walk by faith and not by sight. And we do that by focusing on the So what exactly is this phrase saying? It's not saying that Moses saw the Lord physically. You may recall that in Exodus we read of The children of Israel, while he was up on Mount Sinai, worshipped the golden calf, and he was very discouraged after that. And he says, To the Lord, show me thy glory. And the Lord said, Thou canst not see my face, for there is no one who can see me and live. Exodus 33, verse 20. And in John chapter 1 and verse 18, we read this categorical statement. No man hath seen God at any time. First Timothy chapter one and verse seventeen says, Now unto the king, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honor and glory forever. Amen. One of the attributes of God, you might say, is that He is invisible. God is a spirit. They that worship him will worship him in spirit and in truth. So it's not saying that Moses saw God, glory, and all of its fullness. Because Scripture says that can't happen. But Moses did see the glory of God in a unique and unforgettable way. I mentioned earlier that expression in Exodus 33 when he calls out for God to show him this glory. And the Lord in the next chapter in chapter 34 hides him in the cleft of the rock, and the Bible says, the glory of the Lord passed by. Then of course there's the time that Moses saw the glory of the Lord at the burning bush. Deuteronomy 4. 12 explains that he didn't He didn't see the image of God, but he heard the voice of God. And then, of course, we read that Moses went up to Mount Sinai. On several occasions to receive the Ten Commandments, and there he saw the glory of God. In fact, it was such an intense experience that when it came down His face was glowing and people asked him to put a veil over his face because it hurt their eyes to look at him. Now, I don't think that this passage is saying that in this life at least we will have a similar experience. Moses, the scriptures say lived a very unique life In fact, in Deuteronomy 34 and verse 10, it summarizes Moses' life this way. There arose not a prophet since in Israel like unto Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face. But it does mean that we can see the glory of the Lord in his word. What does this mean that we are to see him who is invisible, that we are to focus on the Lord? We speak an analogy sometimes, and maybe don't unpack what that means. What does this practically mean to keep our focus on the Lord? Well, it means that we must consciously remind ourselves of who God is and what he has promised to do for us. We have to preach the gospel to ourselves every day. We have to reinforce these truths in an intentional way. It means that we must turn our eyes away from beholding the vain things of the world. And never before in the history of the world have we had greater access to the vain things of the world. You know? Think about it, if you lived a long time ago and you wanted to see the vain things of the world, you'd have to get up and walk and go somewhere and travel and Not true today. Not true in the digital world in which we live. The world is pumped right into your home, right to your phone. And so even as Christian people who have been regenerated by the Spirit of God, if we focus our mind, our souls. Upon the vain things of the world, it will develop within us more of a desire for those things. And spiritual things will seem unreal and unimportant. And we will have no heart for them. So I say to you this morning, if you're here this morning and you have such such an affection for the things of the world, the things of the world that even that you know that are wrong, they draw you so powerfully. My friend, it's because you have been focusing your mind and your heart and your soul on the vain things of the world, not on the things of God's. So we have to remind ourselves of who God is. We have to turn our eyes away from beholding the vain things of the world. World. It means that we must set aside time to meditate and memorize and consider what God has said, because what we desperately need is to fill our minds with the Word of God's. We need to be always adjusting our thinking. The Bible speaks in Romans twelve of the renew. Renewing of our minds. That isn't like a one-time thing, like we go in, our minds renewed, and now we're good for the rest of our lives. No, everything Every day we have to renew our minds because every day our focus, our perspective, our worldview Is being altered and distorted by our own fallen hearts, which are like a traitor that lives within us, and the world that surrounds us So we have to continually remind ourselves of what is true, of what God has said, of what God has promised, and how we must live our lives. And this is why we also desperately need the encouragement of our brothers and sisters in Christ. I know I'm preaching to the choir, right? You're here this morning. But Christian fellowship. Is not an extra. It's not an add-on to the Christian life. It's absolutely essential for your spiritual well-being. That you be in the presence of your brothers and sisters in Christ who will encourage you and hold you accountable and pray with you and weep with you and help you. Because we're the people of God. And we desperately need this. Some of you are going through a dark valley right now. I may not be aware of it at all. Sometimes the dark valleys are self-created. By our own sinful choices, by going astray. And God will chasten us. As we're going to see in this next chapter. He adds, and this is not pleasant. This is not comfortable. You know what you desperately need? You desperately need a fresh glimpse of the glory of God. You need to turn your eyes Upon the Lord and give him your focus and shut out the deceptive message of the world. world which is constantly telling you to live for the here and now to think of yourself as constantly drawing you away from the Lord. Hebrews chapter 11 is one of the great chapters of scripture where we have all of these individuals. Who walked by faith. But as I've said to you before, the chapter divisions are not inspired. And so sometimes the unit of thought is not broken up correctly with chapter and verse divisions. And this is an example of that because you know what the ultimate example of living by faith is? It's the Lord Lord Jesus Christ at the beginning of chapter twelve. Look at chapter twelve and verse one. Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. Let us lay aside every way and the sin which doth so easily beset us, let us run with patience or endurance the race that is set before us. Verse 2, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame and a set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Did you know That even for our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, it required endurance for him to do the Father's will. And this verse, verse 2, gives us insight that we find nowhere else in Scripture. How is it that Jesus was was able to endure the most degrading form of death imaginable, not to mention the wrath of God abiding on him in the darkness of Calvary. The answer is for the joy that was set before him. He focused his mind on the wonderful benefits that would come from his obedience. The pleasing of his father, the salvation of sinners, bringing many sons and daughters to glory. This is how he endured And the author of Hebrews is giving us this final and ultimate example so that we know this is how we can endure. We have to look at the prize. We have to look at the end, the goal, where everything is moving towards. You see, the Lord must be much more real to us than anything that you can see and touch. And that is so counter to the way we are because we like to know things for certain, and we're so used to depending on our senses. To give confirmation to us, all right, this is real, this is something I can touch, this is something I can hear, this is something I can latch hold of But the Lord can by faith and by the grace of God become much more real to us than anything that we see. Hudson Taylor had a prayer that he often prayed. This is the prayer, Lord Jesus. Make thyself to me a living bright reality, more present to faith's vision keen than any outward object seen. More dear, more intimately nigh, than even the sweetest earthly pie. You see, we must develop the habit of looking Looking and focusing on the Lord. This tense of the verb in verse 27 speaks of a continued Looking, not a one-time looking, not an occasional looking, but habitual looking to Christ Thomas Goodwin, the great 17th-century Puritan, said that Christians must have a habitual sight of him. And to use this illustration, he says that we cannot doesn't mean that every moment of every day, every single thought must be focused on Christ because we can't function that way. We have to work. We have to take care of our homes. We have to take care of our kids. We cannot focus our mind 24-7 on Christ. But he said this illustration. He says, just as during the day we live in the light of the sun , Without giving a thought to the sun. So every day of our Christian lives we must live in the light of God's glory. And just as a sundial only functions when the sun is shining, so the Christian life only works in the light of God 's presence. Christians through the ages have known this truth. We have this wonderful hymn. We almost sang it today, but I was kind of developing a little different theme. Turn your eyes upon Jesus. Look full in his wonderful face. And the things of earth will grow strangely dim in the light. Of his glory and grace. It is true that no one can see God and live. But did you know there's coming a day When we will be able to see the King in his glory. High priestly prayer, the Lord makes a number of requests to his Father on our behalf. And the ultimate request is that we We would behold his glory. That will be the culmination of our redemption. When we See the king and his beauty, and when we see him, we will be like him. One of the oldest hymns in our hymn book is an ancient Irish hymn that's at least 1,300 years old. We sing it often here at Calvary because I like it and I choose the hymns. But this hymn summarizes exactly the text that we've been considering this morning. It says, be thou my vision, O Lord of my heart. Not be all else to me, save that thou art. Thou my best thought, by day or by night, waking or sleeping, thy presence, my light. Be thou my wisdom and thou my true word, I ever with thee, and thou with me, Lord. Thou my great Father, I thy true Son, Thou in me dwelling, and I with thee one. Riches I heed not, nor man's empty praise, thou mine inheritance now and always Thou and thou only first in my heart, High King of Heaven, my treasure thou art. High King of heaven, my victory won. May I reach heaven's joys, O bright heaven sun. Heart of my own heart, whatever befall, still be my vision, O ruler of all. This is how we must live the Christian life. This is how we can endure whatever challenges we face in this life by making the Lord our vision. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you, Father, that it renews our mind. minds that adjust our thinking. And Father, it also quickens those who are dead in trespasses and sins. And we pray, Lord, that is someone here today. who has never been born again, who is living just like everyone else in the world by sight. And with false values of here and now, I pray that you would open their eyes, unstop their ears. And help them to hear the call of the Savior and be saved today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.