Give your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Genesis 39, the passage that we read a moment ago? Genesis 39. Art Matthews and his family were some of the missionaries Some of the last missionaries to leave China when it went through the communist takeover in the 1940s They lived for a time in absolute poverty. All their contact back home was cut off. They had no financial support at all, no emotional support. They lived in a single room with only one stool for their furniture. They had one small stove and provided one meal a day for them, a meal of rice. In order to cook their food and heat their meager dwelling, Mr. Matthews every morning would go out into the streets and gather manure, and that was the fuel for their stove. They were often cold and hungry. And for a time it was questionable if they would survive, but they did. In fact, they would write and say later that they thrived spiritually in this hostile environment. And after their escape, sometime later, they wrote a book with a title taken from Jeremiah 17: A Green Leaf in Drought. Joseph's life could also be described as a green leaf in drought. He went through some very difficult times. He suffered at the hands of his brothers, and at the hands of Potiphar's wife and others. But yet, even when he was walking through the fires of affliction, he thrived This morning we're going to return to our study of the life of Joseph. We've had a pause here for two weeks for Palm Sunday and Easter Sunday. Perhaps you're visiting with us, and so I want to catch you up where we are in his remarkable story. Joseph, of course, was the favored son of a wealthy man. But he was hated by his brothers, and they eventually sold him into slavery. Joseph was purchased by a very important Egyptian official by the name of Potiphar. And there Joseph would make a new life for himself. He would experience the blessings of God. He started at the lowest position that a slave could have in that large estate, and he worked his way up. Over the years until he became the manager of the entire estate. Everything that he did was successful. But then Potiphar's wife began to make unwanted advances toward him. He faithfully resisted her over a period of time because he was loyal to his master and more importantly to the holy God. in whose presence he lived. But Potiphar's wife was not so easily dissuaded from her immoral intentions, and so she set a trap for him. It seems that she sent all the other servants out of the house, and then she grabbed Joseph and propositioned him. But Joseph left his coat in her hands and ran for his life. Joseph heroically remained pure in a pagan environment. But that was not the end of the story. We know that Potiphar's wife sought revenge. Undoubtedly you've heard the famous words of the English playwright William Congreve, who said, Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned. And nearly every book that I read about this incident this week quoted that because it certainly fits in this situation. Potiphar's wife lied about the incident and slandered the righteous character of Joseph. Subsequently, Potiphar put Joseph in the king's prison, a dungeon where enemies of the state were tortured and punished for their crimes. What an injustice! Joseph is effectively being punished for doing the right thing. Of all the amazing things that he accomplished in Potiphar's household, over several years had been completely obliterated and wiped out with one act of revenge. You may recall that Joseph was thrown into a pit by his brothers, and now he finds himself back in a pit We read that Joseph was in chains in his long journey to Egypt, and now he finds himself back in chains once more. Joseph's coat of many colors was torn off of him by his brothers, and now he loses another coat. This must have seemed like deja vu. Here we go again. How discouraging and infuriating this must have been for Joseph. It reminds me of the picture that I think often expresses our frustration. Joseph was cast down like to the bottom of a pit. And he through hard work and perseverance, he climbs his way out until he gets to the very top of the lip. And he's like a person who is pushed down and is pushed all the way back where he started years earlier. Except now it's even worse. He's not just a slave, he's a slave in prison. Just imagine if you were in his place. But there is one bright ray of hope that shines through this tragic tale. It's found in verse 28 as the writer Moses puts this in lest the the reader become despondent. He says, but the Lord was with Joseph. Yes, some really bad things happened to Joseph, but the Lord was still with him. Let me ask you this morning, have you ever been treated unfairly? You ever had someone assume the worst of you? You ever had someone assume something that you did in love and kindness was actually something that was malicious and mean and interpreted in that light? Have you ever had someone promise you something and then not fulfill that? Have you ever had someone that you were faithful to, that you worked hard for, that you went the extra mile for, and they repaid you? With betrayal. The fact is, there's a lot of injustice in the world. It's impossible for you to live on this fallen planet and not experience injustice. The fact is we can't prevent injustice from occurring. But we can control how we respond to that injustice. And so this morning, as we consider this final paragraph in Genesis 39, I want us to consider a godly response. to extreme injustice. And I want to begin this morning by having you consider the extreme injustice that Joseph experienced. I've labeled this extreme injustice because it represents an unusual combination of mistreatment. I want you to notice five factors that made Joseph's unjust treatment extreme. First of all, Joseph was severely punished for doing the right thing. Look with me at verses 10 through 13. It says, and it came to pass that she spake to Joseph day by day that he hearkened not unto her to lie by her or to be with her And it came to pass about this time that Joseph went into the house to do his business, and there was none of the men of the house there within And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me. And he left his garment in her hand and fled and got him out. And it came to pass When she saw that he had left his garment in her hand and was fled forth, that she called unto the men of her house and spake unto them, saying, See , He hath brought in a Hebrew unto us to mock us. He came in unto me to lie with me. And I cried with a loud voice. It is one thing to be punished for a crime that you did not commit, but it's quite another matter to be punished. For doing the right thing. The fact is that God made every human being with a sense of justice. It's part of being made in the image of God. God is a righteous God. And although our sense of justice is distorted and tainted, we still have the remnants of it there. That's why we become furious. When we have been mistreated or when someone we love or someone we know has been unfairly dealt with by some authority figure. It bothers us greatly because we have a sense of how things should be done. in a right fashion. But sometimes in the world people who do the right thing get punished for it, it seems We have something called Good Samaritan laws. Have you ever heard of those? They have come about because more than once Many times, in fact, an individual has stopped to help someone, perhaps, who's been in an accident, and they have saved their life, or at least attempted to save their life, and guess what they got for their troubles? They were sued. Even though they were just trying to help. And so government officials had to put in place good Samaritan laws to protect people who were trying to be a help to others. Another thing that made this such an extreme example of injustice was that Joseph's godly character was slandered. Joseph had a testimony in Potiphar's household. He was a righteous man, a godly man. Everyone knew it. There's a sense in which that is the most precious thing that a man possesses, his character. And now Potiphar's wife has maligned that character. She has stolen away the most precious thing that he possesses. She was a very conniving woman. I want you to notice what she does here. Look at verses 14 and 15. First of all, notice she blames her husband. For what has occurred. She says, He hath brought in a Hebrew unto us. Who's the he there? That's Potiphar. Here she is maligning her husband to the other servants. She says, You know, if my husband had any sense, he would not have brought in this man who has done this horrible deed. And then she uses xenophobia. Perhaps you don't know that big word. It means fear of foreigners. Xenos is that which is strange. Human nature is such that we tend to think the worst of things we don't understand. Did you know that? When somebody has a weird language and a weird culture and they eat strange things, we're like, I'm not so sure about that person. It's that way everywhere in the world. We're not aware of it as much until you go to a third world country as a missionary and you're the one who's the stranger And everyone treats you with suspicion because you're a little bit odd. It's called xenophobia. Notice she calls it a Hebrew here. This may be one of the very first occurrences of anti-Semitism. She's playing that card to malign his character. And then she tries to portray herself as one with the slaves. Look at this. She says, He hath brought in a Hebrew unto us to mock us. She says, listen to all the slaves in her house, and we're all in this together, and this man is a threat to all of us. An attack on one is an attack on all. That's the card that she's playing here. Of course it's nonsense. She's the privileged woman of a wealthy man and they are slaves. But she understands human nature. She knows that they probably didn't like their owner Potiphar, right? That would be a natural reaction. And so she blames him. And how do you think they thought about one of their own who came from a foreign country, started at the very bottom wrong, and worked his way all the way up to become their boss? Do you think they loved that? No, they did not. And so she finds it a very convenient way to attack them. I remember many years ago when I was 16 years old, the first job that I had. working on the Baltimore Beltway and I remember at lunchtime we all sat down to eat and I knew nothing about um uh work environments or anything like that and I remember I went home that day and I said Dad you won't believe what what happened today at work. We sat down at lunchtime and all the men started talking and everyone said that our owner was corrupt and that our manager was incompetent. And my my dad said to me, you'll find that everywhere you go, son. That's just the way it is. That's human nature. You cannot, unfortunately, people tend to have a negative view of people and authority. And so she is capitalizing on her knowledge. Of human nature. How difficult this must have been for Joseph to endure. His character was a shining light in this dark place. And now his character is malign. Thirdly, Joseph faced extreme injustice because he was betrayed by his own master. Look with me at verse 16. And she laid up his garment by her until his Lord Came home. And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, The Hebrew servant which thou hast brought unto us came in unto me to mock me And it came to pass as I lifted up my voice and cried that he left his garment with me and fled out. And it came to pass when his master heard the words of his wife which he spake unto him, saying after this manner did thy servant to me, that his wrath was kindled. And Joseph's master took him and put him into a prison, a place where the king's prisoners were bound, and he was there in the prison. It's interesting that Potiphar's wife tells the same story to her husband that she told to the other servants, except she drops the pretense that the attack was upon all of them as Egyptians. Now she describes it as a personal assault. She says, the Hebrew came to mock me. And then we read that his wrath was kindled. Now I want you to allow me to speculate for a moment. Our text does not definitively say whom Potter was angry with. Many commentators and Bible scholars believe that Potiphar did not really buy her story. Why would they say that? Well, consider these facts. Number one, Potiphar knew the character of his wife, right? When you live with someone for years, you get to know them pretty well. You know their character. You think that he knew that his wife was scheming and conniving and deceptive? Do you think he'd ever experienced that before? I'm sure he has. And did Potiphar know Joseph's character? Joseph had worked for him now for at least eight years. And he had been the best employee, even though he really was an employee, a slave, he had been the best servant that Potiphar had ever seen in his life. He knew how true and how righteous his character was. So it's hard to believe that he would have bought this at face value. But secondly, there's this. His punishment seems very light considering the accusation, right? His wife is saying that this slave tried to rape me. What do you think the punishment for that was in ancient Egypt? It was death, it was execution. No questions about it. They didn't have a long trial. You were done for. And this man was in charge. Of executing people for Pharaoh. He had no qualms about putting people to death, and yet he doesn't put Joseph to death For something so egregious. So I would submit to you that it's very possible that Potiphar either knew it wasn't true or he had his doubts. Perhaps he was angry because he was trapped because of his wife's public accusation, because she's told all the other people in the household he's kind of trapped due to honor. And he realizes he's going to lose the most trustworthy servant he's ever had because of his wife's lies. But think of it from Joseph's experience. Joseph has been faithful to his master. He has helped him. He has gone the extra mile. And this is the way he is rewarded. Why didn't his master stand up for him and defend him? Well, he doesn't Joseph, even in resisting the temptation, was loyal to his master, but his master was not loyal to him. There's a fourth factor that makes this an extreme example of injustice, and that is that Joseph was unable to defend himself. We never hear in the story of Joseph pleading for his own defense. Why is that? Well, first of all, he would put his master in a very embarrassing situation. And even in his silence, he is being faithful to his master. And then who is it that would take the word of a foreign slave over the accusations of a powerful woman? Sometimes when people in the public spotlight are arrested and reporters ask them to respond to these allegations, they will often say, I'm looking forward to clearing my name in courts. Well you know what? Joseph had no opportunity to do that. He had no opportunity to stand up and say, that's not the way it happened. It's actually the opposite. He had no way to clear his good name. He had to live with this false accusation. And fifthly, the fifth factor that makes this extreme example of injustice is that Joseph was physically tortured. Now this is not really brought out in the Genesis story, but we have further light On this incident in Psalm 105. I want to quote to you verse 18 of that Psalm. It says, Whose feet they hurt with fetters he was laid in iron. Now these chains in that prison were not designed so much to restrain the prisoners as to torture the prisoners. Joseph was not taken to a comfortable cell with a color TV. The Hebrew term for prison here is a word that literally means a house of roundness. We would think of it as a fortress. It was a dungeon. It was dark. It was damp. It was designed to break the soul and spirit of a man. in that dark, hopeless environment. And that's where he was taken. And the kind of chains that are spoken of in Psalm 105 would mean that his feet were held in shackles. And there would be like screws that could be tightened down to cause excruciating pain. The other term that's used describes an iron collar that was put around his neck. That would keep him in a very awkward and painful position without any chance of movements Joseph was tortured. It wasn't just that he was like demoted and lost his rank, as it were. No, he was thrown down into a dark damp place with no light, and he was put in chains, and probably for many nights he was there in this uncomfortable position, crying out to God. This was an extreme example of injustice And all because he did the right thing, he said no to temptation. He was faithful to his master. He lived uprightly before the face of God. You see, Joseph experienced extreme injustice, but now I want us to consider how Joseph responded to his extreme injustice. And we kind of have to read between the lines. The Bible doesn't explicitly say this in this passage in Genesis. But there are several things, several important factors that we can glean. I want you to note how Joseph did not respond. First of all, Joseph did not give in to despair. It would have been very easy for Joseph to give up in that prison. His future must have seemed bleak. What hope did he have of ever getting out of that prison? This was the king's prison. And only the king could release those prisoners. How would Pharaoh ever find out about him and release him from this dungeon? Joseph must have gone through his mind of different ways that somehow this could work out and he would be released. But none of them seemed likely or tenable. For all he knew, for the rest of his life, he would be down in that dark hole. When injustice and affliction enter our lives, it is easy to become despondent. There are a lot of Christians that I have met over the years who have become cynical, jaded, and disappointed with God. And often it can be traced back to some injustice that they experienced in their life. When people, perhaps Christian people, misjudged them, assumed the worse, put evil designs on their actions. It may have been a family member, it may have been a church leader, it may have been a pastor. And it never quite recovered from that. They still harbor off animosity about that. Joseph could have easily responded with despair and just given up. And died, but that's not what he did. Secondly, Joseph didn't give in to bitterness. How easily Joseph could have become bitter at God. You thought about this before? This is the second time that Joseph, it seems, has been punished for doing the right thing. His father sent him on that ill-fated journey to go and check on his brothers. And Joseph went to the place his father sent him. His brothers weren't there. And this man directed him to another location many miles away. And Joseph went the extra mile to be faithful to the errand that his father had sent him on. And for being faithful, for trying hard to please his father, he was nearly killed, was brutally assaulted and thrown into a pits and sold into slavery. His life appeared to be over. And now he has worked his way up He has been faithful to God in a pagan land. He has consistently resisted temptation from this evil woman. And now he's been falsely accused. and cast into this prison that was designed to break people and to punish them for defying Pharaoh. And yet we never read of him complaining. There's not one shred of evidence that he walked away from God, even in the darkness of that dungeon. It would have been easy for Joseph to complain, shake his fist at God, and say, I'll never serve you again. Look how it's worked out for me. How many people 's lives have been detoured due to bitterness? I had no idea when I entered the ministry how many people there are that are just bound by bitterness. Of some wrong, some injustice, some horrible act, some slander, some act of unfaithfulness on the part of their spouse or something has come into their life and they harbor that bitterness and they will not let it go. And it has soured their countenance. and the entire rest of their life. And if you talk to them about it, they will say, it can't be helped. And this is a right response because you have no idea how much that person hurt me. There are a lot of Christians profess to follow Christ who are not in church today. All across this country and around the world. And if you could talk to them, you would find a lot of them have been mistreated by someone at church. They've been misjudged by a pastor who has been harsh and unfair with them. And their spirit was so hurt that they determined they would never attend church again. It's more than just a few people that are like that in the world. Well, you know what? Joseph didn't respond with bitterness. You cannot determine how people will deal with you. Jesus Christ lived a perfect life. He was the sinless Son of God. He was horribly mistreated. You can't control how other people will treat you, but you can control how you're going to respond to that mistreatment. You can correct your attitude. You can bring your spirit in line with the teaching of God's Word. So many people doubt that. It is the case. By his grace, you can forgive, you can respond , you can move on. Beware of how you respond to the injustices of life. Now I want you to consider some of the positive ways that Joseph responded to this injustice. You know how we know that Joseph processed this correctly, then become bitter and despondent? Because Joseph continued to serve the Lord. Look with me at verse 21. But the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy and gave him favor in the side of the keeper of the prison. And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners that were in the prison, and whatsoever they did there, he was the doer of it. And the keeper of the prison looked not to anything that was under his hand, because the Lord was with him. And that which he did, the Lord made it to prosper. Let me ask you, does that sound familiar to you at all? It should be, because it's almost identical with how this chapter started. In fact, there are five parallels. First of all, we read in both places when Joseph went first to Potiphar's house and now when he went first into prison that the Lord was with him. Secondly, we read that Joseph found favor in the eyes of his superior. What do you think this jailer was like? What's the character of a man who kept And was responsible for enemies of the state. I don't think he was a kind and gentle soul. Let me put it that way. This was a man who tortured people. Who punished people. This was a tough guy. Probably did not have an ounce of compassion in his heart. But because of the work of God in his heart, he found, Joseph found favor with him. He liked Joseph. He promoted Joseph. He put him into positions of management and leadership. The Bible says, when a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him. The third parallel is that Joseph was promoted to a position of comprehensive oversight. That's what's mentioned here in verse 22. He put into Joseph's hand all the prisoners that were in the Prison whatsoever and whatsoever there did there, that was the doer of everything that happened in that prison came at his command. Joseph was in charge of everything in that prison. Just as Joseph became the manager of Potiphar's estate, now he's become the manager of this prison. Now, managing those slaves was not evil was not easy, I'm sure. Do you think it was easy to manage all those prisoners? It was not. What a challenge that was. The enemies of the state But by God's grace, he was able to rise to that challenge. What was God doing? Joseph managed this large estate of Potiphar, and now Pharaoh 's prison, God was preparing him to manage an entire nation in a time of crisis. And so he had two great learning opportunities in Pharaoh's and Potiphar's house, and now in Pharaoh 's prison. Joseph fourthly gained the complete trust of his superiors. The idea is that both Potiphar and the keeper of this prison had nothing left to do, because Joseph was making every decision. I think they bragged to their friends, you know what? I'm kind of out of a job. This guy, this new guy, he does everything for me, and he does it better than I could do it. I just sit around. It's great. And then we read fifthly that the Lord gave Joseph success in all that he did. Look at the last phrase in verse 23. The Lord was with him, and that which he did, the Lord made it to prosper. So how did Joseph respond when his whole world collapsed because of the false accusations of another? He got back up and he continued serving the Lord. Proverbs 24, 16 says, A just man falleth seven times and rises up again. Joseph didn't quit. Even though he was profoundly disappointed and betrayed and experienced extreme injustice, he got back up and started all over again. Don't you admire that kind of tenacity and perseverance in a person when they don't allow some difficulties? and hardships to derail them and their determination to follow the Lord Joseph served the Lord in that dark dungeon, just like he did in Potiphar's palace, because he knew that the Lord was with him. There's a second positive response that I want you to notice, and that is that Joseph continued to trust in the promises of God. I want to invite you to turn with me. to Psalm 105, because I want you to see this for yourselves. Psalm 105, right in the center of your Bible. 105 and verse 17. This is an historical summary of Israel's history. And here we have the section about Joseph. It says in verse 17, he sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a servant. Verse 18, whose feet they hurt with fetters, and he was laid in iron. Verse 19, until the time that his word came, the word of the Lord tried him. What does that mean? It means it tested him. This must be a reference to the dream that Joseph received from God when he was 17 years old. Remember, he had those two dreams that pointed to the facts that someday he would be exalted to a position of leadership. We have no other record of God communicating with him. In a vision, remember Joseph didn't have a Bible like we do. That dream when he was 17 was the only revelation he had. But he held to that promise He believed in it. He committed himself to the truth and the reliability of God's word. So how was Joseph's faith tested? Well, it was tested in this way. His experience and God's promise didn't seem to line up. Has that ever happened to you? You ever been in a period in your life and God has all these wonderful promises in this word, like he'll never leave you nor forsake you, he will provide your needs. And so forth, and yet your current experience doesn't seem to match that. Because you don't sense that he's with you. And it seems like he's abandoned you. And it seems like he's not meeting your needs. So what do you do then? Do you assume that God's word isn't true, that somehow it doesn't work for you? Or is it maybe the end of the story hasn't come yet? There are a lot of Christians Who just assume that God hasn't been fair with them. Maybe it works for some people, it doesn't work for me, and they abandon God. And they walk away from Him. Because they think that God has been unfair to them. That was not Joseph's response. Joseph continued To serve the Lord. He trusted in the Lord to fulfill his word. Joseph believed that his God was sovereign That even in pagan Egypt, even in the darkness of that dungeon, God was still in control. God was still accomplishing his purposes, and that somehow, in some way, God would still deliver him and exalt him. Joseph clung tenaciously to the promises of God, and so must we. I would like to make some concluding applications now. The first one is this, we must remember that God does not always rescue us from our painful circumstances. It's kind of difficult for us to put ourselves into Joseph's place in the story because we know how it ends. We know that from the prison he's going to be exalted to the palace. He's going to become second in command in all of Egypt. God's going to reunite him with his brothers, and it's going to have a happy ending. And it was all because God was using this to save his people and to bring them out of Canaan and preserve them from intermarriage there. We know how it ends. Joseph only had a very vague notion of how things might work out. I want you to notice that Joseph did not subscribe to the prosperity gospel. He was not hanging in there because he knew that someday he would be wealthy and powerful. Joseph had been a slave now for at least eight years. And all that he had accomplished had come crashing down. Now he was not only a slave, but he was a slave in prison. And there was no sign that God would soon rescue him. The lesson of Joseph's life is not if you're faithful to God, then God will solve all your problems. No, the lesson is that God is sovereign and he is worthy of your trust. We don't follow the Lord. Because of the good gifts that he gives us, but because he is good and he has a good plan for our lives. Sometimes people misread the story of Joseph and they think, you know, my life's going to have a happy ending like that as well. All my family problems are going to dissipate, and I want to be living in a palace and I have power and fame and status and all of those wonderful things that people crave after. But that is not the lesson of Joseph's. life, and it rarely works out that way. There have been many servants of the Lord that have been faithful to him through difficulty, through grave injustice, through suffering. And they died in that state. But God is faithful, and they experience the glories of heaven And you know what? The glories of heaven and the joy that is laid up for his people far outshines all the treasures of Egypt. That's what we read of in Hebrews chapter 11. Secondly, we must remember that God uses the injustices we endure for our good and his glory. It was the hatred of Joseph's brothers that took him to Egypt. And it was the lust and slander of Potiphar's wife that sent him to prison. And now the Lord has Joseph exactly where he wants him to be. Because it's from the prison. That Joseph will go to the palace and be in a position to save his people Why wasn't Joseph eaten up with bitterness and anger at the mistreatment he endured in life? It is because he saw the hand of God behind everything that occurred in his life. This is how he came to interpret his experiences. I can prove that to you. Turn with me, please, a little later in the story of Joseph to Genesis 45. We see this also at the end of this life, but I don't want to turn there yet. Turn with me to Genesis 45. I want to begin reading at verse 5. Genesis 45. And verse 5, Joseph here is consoling his brothers when they discover who he is and how powerful he is. He says, verse 5, now therefore be not grieved. Nor angry with yourselves that you sold me hither, for God did send me before you to preserve life. For these two years hath the famine been in the land, and yet there are five years in which there shall be neither be earring nor harvest. And God sent me before you to preserve you apostared in the earth and to save your lives by a great deliverance. Verse 8. So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God, and he hath made me a father to Pharaoh and Lord of all his house and a ruler throughout all the land. of Egypt. Joseph was able to interpret the circumstances of his life as that that ultimately came from the hand of God Not from the hatred of mankind. We so often never see beyond the second cause. That person who has maliciously lied about us, that person who assaulted us, that person who Failed us and abandoned us in our hour of need. We can't see beyond their wickedness and their transgression, and we get stuck on assigning blame and bitterness to them. But through the eyes of faith, if we had the perspective of Joseph, we can see beyond that this was still something that God was in control of and that He is going to use to accomplish His sovereign purposes. This is hard to do, especially with great tragedies that occur in our life. In fact, it's impossible to do apart from the grace of God. But the Lord intends us, intends for us to see his hand behind everything that transpires in our lives. We need to trust him even when we cannot understand what he is doing because God is worthy of our trust. And my final application is this, we must see in Joseph's godly response to injustice a beautiful reflection of our great Savior. There are at least two parallels in this passage that we've considered today. First of all, Joseph remained silent and did not defend himself from the false accusations. And so did our Lord Jesus Christ. Isaiah 53, 7 prophesies this way. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shears is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. I want to invite you to turn back with me to the very end of the New Testament, to 1 Peter chapter 2, because Peter brings out the injustice. That Jesus Christ faced and the way he responded to it. 1 Peter chapter 2, please, verse 21. Peter writes to suffering saints, he says, these words, For even hereunto were you called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow his steps. who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. That's the beautiful example of our Savior, far exceeds Joseph's example. The only perfect, sinless man, Jesus never mistreated anyone. He never said anything that was inaccurate or mean-spirited to anyone. He was always fair in his dealings. He was always loving in his ways. He went around healing people, helping people, lifting them up. And yet he was crucified on an old rugged cross. For envy the religious leaders delivered him up to Pilate, and Pilate from his cowardice refused to stand up for what he knew to be a grave miscarriage of justice. And he sentenced an innocent man to die. If anyone ever experienced true injustice, it was the Lord Jesus Christ. But he was silent and submissive to the will of his father. And just as God used the injustice that Joseph experienced to save the people of the covenant So the Father would use the grave injustice that our merciful Savior endured to save his people from their sins. Acts chapter 2 and verse 23 says, him being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God ye have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain whom God hath raised up. God uses the wrath of men to praise him. God uses the horrible things that people do to us to ultimately accomplish his purpose in our lives. And so our response was m must not be bitterness or despair or revenge or a complaining spirit or giving up on life. No, we must continue to serve the Lord faithfully. where we find ourselves because we know that he will be faithful to his promises. He is a sovereign God and he will not fail us. Let's close the Our Father, we thank you for reminding us once more of the great Savior that you've provided for us We thank you that by his stripes we are healed. Through his righteous response to grave injustice. Sinful people like us can be saved. We thank you that He is indeed the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. I pray, Lord, that you would help us. To be reminded again of who he is and what he has done. And Father, for those who might be here this morning, who have never put their faith and trust in Christ We pray, Lord, that you would help them to see all that He has taken on their behalf and that they might be saved. And Father, for those who are your children, who are right now grappling in their spirit with some injustice that they have experienced perhaps recently or perhaps many years ago. We pray, Father, that they would yield this to you, and they would continue to serve you with joy. And gladness, trusting that you have a plan and a purpose in what they face. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.