If you have your Bibles with you today, would you please turn with me to Genesis chapter 40? Genesis chapter 40, one of my favorite writers. On the life of Joseph was a British preacher named F. B. Meyer. He lived in the late 1800s, early 1900s. And I want you to listen to his comments on this time in Joseph's life when he was in prison He says that prison cell was the mount of vision, from the height of which he saw as he had never seen before, the panorama of divine loving kindness. It was well worth his while to go to prison to learn that. It was in prison that Bunyan saw his wondrous allegory, and Paul met the Lord, and John looked through heaven's open door. And Joseph saw God's mercy. God has no chance to show his mercy to some of us except when we are in some sore sorrow. The night is the time to see the stars. This morning, as we continue our study of the life of Joseph, we read of his exploits in prison. Joseph is not there because he has done what is wrong, but because he has done what was right. Let me very quickly recap the story for those of you who may be visiting today or may have missed a few weeks. Joseph lived a charm life really until the age of seventeen. It was then that Joseph received two dreams from the Lord that revealed that someday he would be exalted to a position of great authority. That revelation fueled his brother's hatred towards him, which resulted in his being sold into slavery and taken to Egypt. Joseph was purchased by Potiphar, an important official in Pharaoh's court, and in Potiphar's household, Joseph thrived. And in time became the manager of the entire estate. But Potiphar's wife tried to seduce Joseph, and his continued resistance angered her. And so she accused him of rape, and Potiphar had him placed in a special prison for the enemies of the state. But once again, Joseph demonstrated his godly character by continuing to serve the Lord, although he had been horribly mistreated. And once again, the presence of the Lord enabled Joseph to succeed and become the custodian of the prison. In chapter 40, we read of how God used the care of two prisoners to set the stage for his eventual exaltation from the prison. to the palace. But before Joseph would witness the fulfillment of those distant dreams, Joseph would encounter one more great disappointment Which concludes this interesting chapter. Our reading this morning was from Psalm 105, which reminds us that Joseph's time in prison was not an easy time. It was a time of painful adversity. It speaks of those fetters, those restraints causing him pain. Joseph was physically tortured in this prison. He was psychologically tortured by the painful reminder that he was an innocent man being punished for a crime that he did not commit. And then there was the sense of hopelessness that he must have struggled with daily. How would he ever get out of this prison? And then there was the spiritual testing that Joseph endured. Psalm 105 says that the word of the Lord tried him. And the idea there is that it tested him like metal is tested in a hot crucible. Joseph's faith was going through the furnace of affliction. And the reality is, as we study the life of Joseph, we see that the Lord still uses our suffering, disappointments, and unjust experiences. To make us more like Christ. So what adversity are you facing today? What suffering has intruded into your life? What disappointment has clouded your day. The Bible teaches that God causes all of these things to work together for the good of his children. This is the promise of Romans 8. 28. And Joseph's life has been called the great biblical illustration of that text, Romans 8. 28. So let me ask you this morning, are you looking at your problems with the eye of faith? Are you able to trust God in the dungeons of life? This morning I want us to consider three lessons that Joseph learned in an Egyptian prison. And what I want us to see here is that we need to learn to trust God in our Adversity. There are three things that we need to remember in our seasons of adversity that come right out of this passage. First of all , We need to remember that God has a good purpose in your adversity. I've mentioned to you from the beginning of the study that the key word in the life story of Joseph is the word providence. But it's occurred to me that I have not really defined or explained the meaning of that term. So let me do so at this time. Let me read from several different creeds and doctrinal statements. First of all, this is from the Westminster shorter catechism. It says God's works of providence are his most holy, wise, and powerful, preserving and governing of all of his creatures and their actions. And then let me give an abbreviated statement from the Heidelberg Catechism. It says, Providence is the almighty and ever-present power of God by which he upholds as with his hand heaven and earth and all creatures, and so rules them that all things, in fact, come to us not by chance, but from his fatherly hand. But my favorite definition comes from the 20th-century theologian J. I. Packer, the author of the famous book that you may have heard of, Knowing God. He says the doctrine of providence teaches Christians that they are never in the grip of blind forces, that is, fortune, chance, luck, or fate. All that happens to them is divinely planned, and each event comes as a new summons to trust Obey and rejoice, knowing that all is for one's spiritual and eternal good. Now the overarching function of Joseph's life is to demonstrate how God would use the events in his life To remove the children of the covenant out of the land of Canaan and take them into the land of Egypt. And you can think of it this way. I know some of you are visual learners. So let me give you a visual here. You can think of Joseph life as four links in a chain that are all connected one to the other. So let me talk about these four major events. First of all, the reason why Joseph was sold into slavery Was to put him in Potiphar's household. That's the first link. The second is this: the reason why the Lord placed Joseph in Potiphar's house was to send him to prison. And thirdly, the reason why Joseph was in prison was to be exalted to a position of power in Pharaoh's courts. And fourth, the fourth link is this. And the reason why Joseph was exalted to a position of power was to preserve the people of God in Egypt. Joseph's position enabled him to save his family from starvation and preserve them from being assimilated into the idolatrous culture of Canaan. Genesis chapter 40 reveals the man and the method by which Joseph would be delivered from prison. and exalted to the second highest position in the land. Look with me, please, now at the first four verses of Genesis chapter 40. It says that it came to pass after these things that the butler of the king of Egypt and his baker had offended their lord, the king of Egypt. And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers, against the chief of the butlers, and against the chief of the bakers, and he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard, into the prison, the place where Joseph was found. And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he served them, and they continued a season in Wart. These verses set the stage for the drama that is about to unfold. First, we're introduced to two court officials, the butler. And the baker. We must not think of these men as two lowly servants who performed menial tasks These men are described as officers. They oversaw all the food and drink that Pharaoh would consume These positions required the utmost trust because in the ancient world, most kings were assassinated by poison. And so you had really be able to trust the man who was cooking your dinner and preparing your food. Because one bite could spell the end of your life. So these men had to have the trust of their monarch, who at this time was the most powerful man in the world. And they became sort of unofficial advisors because they were right there at his elbow. They were there to take his orders and to bring his food and to clean up after him and to talk to them. They had access to the king. Which was something that everyone in the court desired. So these men had very important and trusted positions. Now, for some unknown reason, these men did something that angered the king. Perhaps they served a poor meal, or were suspected of being part of a conspiracy to murder the king. And so they are put in a dungeon, the same place where Joseph was imprisoned. We read of this in verse 3. Notice how it's Mentioned here by the author. And he put them in the house of the captain of the guard into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound. This is a signal to the reader that something significant is going to happen. This is not a coincidence That of all the prisons they could have been sent to, they were sent to this prison, the prison where Joseph was housed. Now, as a side note, let me mention that they are put under the care of the captain of the guard. Who is the captain of the guard? Well, if you look one chapter early at Genesis thirty-nine and verse one, you'll find the answer to that. And Joseph was brought down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, Captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmaelites. So this dungeon, this prison was probably on the estate of Potiphar, and Potiphar is the one Who sends these royal officials to be under the care of his former manager? Joseph. This, by the way, is one more incident that reveals that Potiphar did not fully believe his wife and her accusations. And so he, in a sense, I think, uh is showing his that he still has confidence in Joseph because he puts a very uh very important and delicate prisoner under his care. And perhaps, just perhaps, he's thinking that this might be a way for Joseph to be out of prison. So we see the providence of God at work unfolding in this chapter. What appears to be circumstantial coincidence is actually the providence of God. at work. We know these truths are in Scripture, but I think we rarely really process them that way. But God is in control of the people that we meet, the places we go, and the assignments that we are given by others. We often think that the things that occur in our lives, things that may seem to be coincidental and trivial, but yet can completely direct and derail our life. That these things are just things that happen by chance, that they just occur. The scriptures tell us that is not the case This is all part of the providential plan that God has for his people. Indeed, the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. When we interpret the events of our lives considering this truth, it makes all the difference in the world. It means the difficult people, the unfair circumstances. It means the assignments that our boss gives to us and puts on our desk. that those things that may be irksome, may be difficult, may be unsought, that we need to see them, that this is God 's ordering of my life. And he has a purpose and a reason and a plan for why he has put this on my plate. Joseph learned To look beyond the secondary causes of his life. Causes like the hatred of his brothers, the favoritism of his fathers, the unfair accusation of Potiphar's wife And the unjust condemning him to prison by his former boss Potiphar. Joseph was able to look beyond those secondary causes to the ultimate cause God himself. Let me show you this by the way Joseph would come to interpret the events of his life. He does this on two occasions. Turn with me first of all to Genesis 45. Genesis 45, verses 7 and 8. Joseph here speaking To his brothers says this. Genesis 45, 7 and 8. And God sent me before you to preserve you apost in the earth. to give your lives by great deliverance. So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God. And he hath made me a father to Pharaoh and Lord of all his house. and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. Now turn with me back further to Genesis chapter 50, the last chapter in this book. And the most important verse in the life of Joseph, verse 20, that kind of encapsulates everything. Joseph again speaking to his brothers who are fearful. that once their father Jacob had died, that Joseph was then going to get his revenge on them. And Joseph assures them and he says this Verse 20, Genesis fifty. But as for you, you thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good to bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. Joseph was able to see the hand of God in his adversity. And that is what the people of God must learn to do as well. The second thing that we must remember as we turn back to Genesis chapter 40 is to remember to minister to others. While facing your adversity. Look with me at verse 5, Genesis 40, verse 5. And they dreamed a dream, both of them, each man his dream, and one night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream, the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in the prison. And Joseph came in unto them in the morning and looked upon them, and behold, they were sad. And he asked Pharaoh officers that were with him in the ward of his lord's house, saying, Wherefore look ye so sadly today? And they said unto him, we have dreamed a dream, and there is no interpreter of it The life of Joseph is interwoven with dreams. His life story essentially begins with The revelation of two dreams when he's at the age of seventeen. And then we have this pair of dreams that is ultimately going to set the stage for a complete reversal in his life. And then we have two dreams that will come two years later to Pharaoh that would result in him being exalted. to the second highest leader in the land. In the Old Testament, we often read of God communicating with people through dreams, but not so much in the New Testament. Because with the advent of written revelation, this form of revelation was no longer necessary. Now, before we consider the content of their dreams, I want you to notice three ways that Joseph ministered to these men. First of all, Joseph was sensitive enough to notice on their facial expressions that something was wrong. These men had had a dream. They had it the same night. It was a very vivid dream. And they knew there must be some significance to it. But what was it? They were frustrated. What is it that is going to happen in our future? We know that these dreams reveal what is going to happen, but we have no way of interpreting them. Joseph here noticed that they were distressed, and so he tries to meet their need. Now let's not forget that Joseph had his own problems to worry about. He's described in verse 3 of this chapter as being bound in prison. He's been sold into slavery by his own brothers. He's been falsely accused by Mrs. Potiphar, and yet he still has a servant's heart. And verse 4 of this chapter, notice it says, and the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he served them, and continued And they continue the season and war. And it's interesting that expression, he served them, is exactly the same that you find precisely one chapter earlier. If you look with me at Genesis 39 and verse 4. Says of Joseph and Potiphar's household, and Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him. The same words that we find in chapter 40 and verse 4. Joseph Had a servant's heart. He never stopped serving the Lord, even though he had had so much disaster occur in his life More problems than most of us will ever encounter. But he never stopped ministering to others. One of the common ways that people respond to intense suffering or great upheaval and difficulty in their lives is they become self-obsessed. It's a very easy and natural trap to fall into where you think of nothing else but yourself and your health or your problems or your family or your difficulties and the whole universe seems very, very small and very negative. It's very, very easy to fall into a pit of despair as you just rehearse in your mind all of your problems and all of the injustice and all of the unfairness of what you're facing in life. and to be completely oblivious to anything else that is happening around you. Joseph's not like that. Joseph has had some very unjust things occur to him. It seems that every time he tries to do what is right. something really bad occurs in his life and yet he is still doing God's will in this prison. He is still sensitive to the needs of others. He's still concerned about their need and he wants to know a way that he can meet that need. The reality is that one of the most helpful ways to combat depression, self-pity, despair. is to get out and minister to other people. Think about the other people all around you that have burdens and difficulties and problems just like you and seek to Minister to them instead of just thinking about poor me and my problems. What a wonderful example Joseph is in this respect. These men felt that these dreams had great significance, and yet they could not discern the meaning And so they bring their problem to Joseph. Notice how Joseph responds. He says, do not interpretations belong to God? He doesn't say, oh yeah, I can interpret your dream, no problem. No, he doesn't say that. He says Let's look to God. Let's turn to God. God is the only one who can unravel the inscrutable problem of dreams. This is the second way. That Joseph ministers to these men. He turns their attention to God. And this is what we must do in our words and actions. We must point men and women to God. In our conversations with others, we may not have opportunity to give them a full rendering of the gospel. We may not have the opportunity to open our Bibles in every conversation and read some verses to them, but we can very subtly and very intentionally turn our conversations to God's In a variety of ways. And that's exactly what Joseph does here. Look with me at verse 9. We have the butler telling him the dream, and the chief butler told him his dream to Joseph, and he said to him, In my dream, behold, a vine was before me, and the vine. were three branches, and it was though it budded, and her blossoms shot forth, and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes, and Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup. And I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand. The fact that the butler was eager to tell his dream probably points to his innocence. He was not afraid to hear what God would reveal because he had nothing to hide. Now look at the interpretation that Joseph gives in verse 12. And Joseph said unto him, This is the interpretation of it. The three branches are three days. yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head and restore thee unto thy place, and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hands afterward the former manner when thou wast his butler. How relieved the butler must have been to hear that he would be restored to his former position in the royal courts So often when our lives get disrupted, we just want to go back to the life that we had before. And that's what Joseph tells this butler is going to happen. You're going to be right back in the same position that you were in before. How that must have encouraged his heart. But then we have the first real glimpse of the heart of Joseph in the Joseph narrative that we've been studying. Look with me at verses 14 and 15. Joseph says this, but think on me when it shall be well with thee, and show kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house. For indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews, and here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon. This is a heartfelt plea for help. We see in these words the pain of Joseph's ordeal and his desperate desire to get out of that dungeon. He says, Bring me out of this house. This is something that we can identify with. How often have you been in a situation? Maybe you are this morning. Where you keep praying, the Lord, bring me out of this. This is not pleasant. This is not the way I want to live my life. Joseph was desperate to get out of the circumstances that he was living in And so he makes this plea to this man who soon will have the ear of Pharaoh, the only man who can deliver him out of that dungeon. Now, what do you think of Joseph's request? There are some Bible scholars who believe that it was wrong. They have said that he should have left the matter with God instead of trying to find a way out of his dungeon. I don't agree with this assessment. Trusting the Lord does not mean that we can do nothing to improve our situation. For example, if you have a financial need, it doesn't mean that you should refuse to look for a job. You should both work and pray. You must trust and obey. God's sovereignty works hand in hand with man's responsibility. Now the favorable interpretation that Joseph gives to the butler induces the baker to ask for an interpretation of his dream. Look with me at verse 16. And when the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he said unto Joseph, I also was in my dream, and behold, I had three white baskets on my head. And in the uppermost basket there was all manner of baked meats for Pharaoh, and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head And Joseph answered and said unto him, This is the interpretation thereof. The three baskets are three days. Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee, and shall hang thee on a tree, and the bird shall eat thy flesh from off thee. There is an intentional play in this chapter on the words that he would lift up your head. He said that to the butler, meaning you're going to be exalted to a position of leadership. But he says it to this man with the meaning, you're going to be decapitated. Both the lifting up of the head. Interesting play on words that he uses here. Now I want you to notice the third way that Joseph ministers to these men. He tells them the truth. I don't know that this was an easy thing for Joseph to do. To tell this man that he would be brutally killed in a few days was not what he wanted to hear. Telling the butler that he would be restored was fun. It was enjoyable as he saw the excitement and the joy in his face. But telling this man that in three days you are going to be executed. was not a fun assignment. But he was faithful in telling the truth. The word gospel means good news, but it also contains an element of bad news. It reveals that we are all sinners. It tells us that we are all unable to save ourselves. It also proclaims loud and clear that there's only one way to God, and that is through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, this biblical message is considered intolerant and out of touch in our pluralistic world, but it is still true and it must be proclaimed. There's great pressure to conform to the new societal norms of morality and of truth. And I suspect these will only increase in the days ahead. But the church must be a faithful witness to God's truth that does not change. The New Testament calls the church the pillar and ground of truth. And so preachers and teachers of the Bible must continually say, thus saith the Lord, no matter how the world responds to that message. So what should we remember in our seasons of adversity? Number one, we should remember that God Has a good purpose in our adversity. Number two, we should remember to minister to others while facing our adversity. And number three, We should remember to wait on the Lord to deliver us from our adversity. Look at the closing verses of this chapter, verse 20. And it came to pass the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, that he made a feast unto all his servants, and he lifted up the head of the chief butler, and the chief baker among his servants, and he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again, and he gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand. But he hanged the chief baker, as Joseph had interpreted to them. Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgot him. These verses tie up the loose ends of this chapter. and also set the stage for the coming chapters. Egyptian historical records indicate that it was customary for Pharaoh to pardon someone on his birthday. Kind of like often the president at the end of his Term of office will pardon people. He has the authority to do that. It's very controversial. He can pardon people who have done wicked things. And so what we see here in Scripture recorded is exactly in keeping with the historical records that we have. And so Pharaoh on his birthday, when there was a huge national party, pardons. The butler, and he is no longer guilty of any crimes that he may have committed. But the chief baker is not so fortunate The butler was probably guilty. The baker was probably guilty of being involved in some conspiracy, and he paid for that transgression with his life. But I want to conclude our time here today by looking at this final verse, verse 23. Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgot him. This has been called one of the saddest verses in the Bible. Proverbs 13, 12 says, hope deferred maketh the heart sick. And the fact is that Joseph was sick with disappointment when this occurred. Let me mention three factors that made this such a profound disappointment for Joseph. Number one, because Joseph had gone out of his way to minister to this man. That's why the first word in verse 23 is the word yes. Even though Joseph helped this man so much, yet he still forgot Joseph. Notice how the text emphasizes this by repeating what had occurred. It says he didn't it it's not that he didn't remember him, but he intentionally forgot him. This was not a slip of the mind. But a sinful failure to help the remarkable man that had ministered to him. This is a difficult thing that happens often to people in ministry. So often the people that you spend the most time and give the most aid and offer up the most prayers for Often people who never say thank you or often may turn on you someday. If you talk to any pastor, he can regale you with stories of that. This is part of ministry. We don't minister for what we get out of it from people. We do it because this is what God has called us to do. But secondly, there's another reason this was so devastating. Because Joseph had shared his heart with this man. In verses 14 and 15, Joseph, who seems very reserved, Pours out his heart, he says, But think on me, when it shall be well with thee, and show kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh. and bring me out of this house. And then in verse 15 he mentions how he is innocent, for I indeed was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews. And here also have I done nothing that they should put me into this dungeon. We see here the spirit of a man who is desperate. Joseph has been in Egypt now for a number of years. He came when he was seventeen. He is now twenty-eight at this point. It's been a long difficult road. You see, the most difficult aspect of any trial is not the intensity of the pain, it's the duration of that trial. You can put up with anything for a short time But when it goes on and on and on and on, it wears you down. This man was selfish, the butler, and did not help the man who had been so helpful to him. But I think the main reason this abandonment was so difficult for Joseph was because of his own expectations. I think that when Joseph met these royal officials, he began to work things out in his mind. We already have seen from that passage in Genesis 48, Genesis 45 and 50. That Joseph was trying to process and interpret what God was doing to him. God made us as human beings that we have to process things, events that occur in our lives and try to make sense of them, what's going on. Everyone has a narrative. Some people have a very ungodly negative narrative. There is no God in my life. That should never be the narrative that goes to the mind of any believing person. Joseph was trying to understand and grasp why God has allowed these events to occur in his life. And now he begins to see some hope. He begins to put things together. And he starts to see a way out. I suspect that when the dreams of these officials were interpreted and then came to pass as Joseph had predicted, that Joseph became more confident that God would fulfill the dreams that he gave to him eleven years earlier when he was seventeen. And he says to himself, the God who has answered these dreams will answer those dreams way back then. He will promote me, he will deliver me, he will exalt me as he has promised, and I think that this man. Is the key to my exaltation. And you know what? He was right. But it wouldn't happen now. Just imagine how high his hopes were. We know that the prison was a difficult and painful place for him to be, but now he had hope. In that dark dungeon there was the light of hope. And as he perhaps again reminded the man to put in a good word for him, and he was led away on Pharaoh's birthday back to the palace. Joseph's heart was filled with expectation. And the next day as he waited around, he wasn't too profoundly disappointed because after all, things take time. Requests have to be processed. Bureaucracy is never efficient. It might take a few days for the paperwork to go through to summon my release, but I know it's coming. But then a few more days went by, and then a week, and then another week, and he kept waiting to hear word, and he would ask those who would bring messages from the palace. Is there any word? Is there any notice? Is there any decree? And there was nothing. And weeks turned into months. And months turned into years. And Joseph began to realize that this was not a slip of the mind, but that that man never had any intention. Of speaking up on Joseph's behalf. Perhaps he felt that his own position was still a little precarious and he didn't want to push anything. He didn't want to give any requests. Because he may have felt that he was sort of still like on probation. And so he wasn't going to make any request because he was selfishly just enjoying his own newfound freedom. And so Joseph is profoundly disappointed because things did not turn out the way he had worked them out in his mind so often, so often. We have great difficulty in life because our expectations do not match the reality of our experience. And we have high hopes that we know how our life is going to play out and how it's going to work. And we tend to have a pretty rosy and optimistic view. That things are going to fall into place and life is going to be good, and so often it doesn't work out that way at all. Because God has a different plan. But I don't think that Joseph had given up hope. But God was giving him one final test, and that was the test of waiting. on the Lord. This is a very common way that the Lord prepares his choice servants. Abraham waited For the promised son Isaac. Moses spent 40 years on the backside of the desert. David fled as a fugitive king for 10 years before he was fully given his role as king. And our Lord and Savior waited until he was the at the age of 30 before he began his brief ministry. Waiting. Is an essential part of learning to trust the Lord. Back before the days of cell phones and text messages. You would sometimes be waiting for someone to come who had an appointment with you and they didn't arrive And then you had to begin to wonder, is that person the kind of person that would just forget about this meeting? Or are the kind of person that is always late? Did they just dismiss this meeting or has something come up that was unavoidable and they will be here? I'm just going to have to wait. I know for our younger people it's hard to imagine an age like that One of the things that is a test of our dependence and our trust in the Lord is when we have to wait and we don't know why. We don't know what's happened. We don't know what the delay is. Why aren't things working out the way they're supposed to? Why am I waiting here, languishing in this prison? Hudson Taylor, the pioneer missionary to China's interior, liked to say that not only the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, but also the stops of a good man. And the Lord is making Joseph stop and wait. So are you waiting for the Lord? this morning to deliver you from the dungeon of adversity. Let me remind you it doesn't mean that God has forgotten you. Doesn't mean that he doesn't have that he no longer has a plan for you or that he's abandoned you or he's forgotten you. It means that he has a reason why you are still waiting. Listen to the words of David. Wait on the Lord, and be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. I want to make just one brief concluding observation from the life of Joseph as we conclude this message. And that is of Joseph's desperate plea to the butler. He said to him , Ask him to think on him. Think on me. Put a word in for me. Help me. Rescue me. This reminds me. This reminds me. Of the thief on the cross who, hours away from death, turns to the Savior and says, Remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. The butler forgot Joseph, but Jesus will never forget those who call out to him in repentance and faith. Instead, he said to that thief, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. And he promised in his word, he that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out Our Savior will not ignore us or forget about us or reject our plea for help, but for those who are broken for their sin, who see their desperate need of a savior and of a king in their life, He will remember them. He will restore them. He will save them. Let me ask you this morning: can you claim that promise? Have you cried out to Jesus in saving faith? Let me make one more observation. Perhaps you will find it a bit strained, but I will make it of anyway. There are two men in this story, the butler and the baker. One is restored to the favor of the king and the other is not. One perishes. And like the two thieves on the cross, they represent all of humanity. All of humanity We either be with the Lord forever in glory or will perish eternally. It's one or the other. There's no third middle grounds. So much of the message of the church today, whether implicitly or just by omission, they give people the idea that absolut after all we're all going to end up and make it to heaven someday. It's a very popular message. People like to hear it. There's no losers, only winners. Everything works out great. I attend a lot of funerals. I attend a lot of funerals. And many of the funerals that I attend. The implicit message that I get from the preacher is that we're all going to make it in heaven someday. It's not the truth. It's not what Jesus said It may make people feel good for a moment, but it is not the gospel. The gospel is That there's only one way, and that's through the Lord Jesus Christ. There's only one door, and we must enter in by faith into that door. That's our only hope of salvation. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you. That it is the truth. We thank you that it shows us the way of life. We thank you that it provides us. With the truth of the gospel. Father, I think especially this morning of your dear children that find themselves in a world of adversity this morning But are trusting in you to deliver them. Father, we know that your deliverance may not be in this life. But we know that ultimately all of your children will be exalted. We will reign with you. And we lay hold of that blessed promise. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to exhibit our trust and our love for you by waiting on you, even in the painful circumstances of our lives. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen