Every Bibles, please would you join me John chapter 7, the passage that we read together a moment ago This classic book, The Trial and Death of Jesus Christ, James Stalker, tells the story of a soldier who served in the Franco-Prussian War. A man that he was able to have a conversation with. This man was severely wounded on the battlefield, and he lay there on the ground for more than a day, wounded. in great pain and discomfort, surrounded by other people who were also in agony and dying. But he says that the most painful part about that experience, even more painful than his wounds, was the thirst that he had. He'd been there for some time out in the sun and through the night, and he was completely dehydrated and thirsty. And he said that he would have given the entire world for a cup of water. I suspect that no one here has experienced that level of thirst We live in an area of the world where things are green, where there's lots of water. We have wells and we have water faucets. And if we run out of water there, we have these things that are ubiquitous that are everywhere I wonder how much water we have in the sanctuary right now. If I were to confiscate all of our water bottles and jugs and everything, we probably have many gallons of water here. We could probably live for many days if we were confined to this room with the water that we have stowed away in various places. We all know that water is essential for life and that most of our body is made up of water. Right now there are millions of people, primarily women, who are carrying water all over the world to their families. We don't see this in the Western world, but in much of the rest of the world, that indeed takes place on a daily basis. And because of our need for water and our experience of thirst, thirst is a universal symbol for a deep longing and desire. It's found in the writings of every culture and of every language group and of all literature that has ever existed. Thirst as a metaphor for desire and longing. And Jesus uses this natural human experience in a wonderful invitation that we're looking at. this morning. I have to tell you we we're coming to the high water mark of John chapter 7. There's a sense in which all that is in this chapter leads up to these verses and all after it are a consequence of these verses. I've been looking forward to preaching this text. We have our Lord making a great invitation. on the great day of the Feast of Tabernacles Now let me remind you that the Feast of Tabernacles was a false celebration in which the children of Israel remembered how God provided for them during the wilderness wanderings. And it was also a commemoration of how God provided for them in the land with rains that provided harvest for them and food for their survival. And it's not a coincidence that Jesus makes this proclamation at this day at this feast. Now, because this text is so significant, I'm only going to cover three verses today. I want you to notice that in verse 37 we have an invitation. And then in verse 38, we have a promise that is intended to make the invitation even more attractive. And then in verse thirty-nine, we have an explanation about the promise that Jesus makes here. This is indeed one of the great invitations that we find in the Gospels. And throughout the Gospel record, we find Jesus making these invitations like Matthew chapter 11, verse 28, come to me all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Or John 5, 24, whoever hears my word and believes, him who sent me has eternal life. Or I am the bread of life, whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. And now John chapter 7, verse 37, if any one thirst, let him come to me. Once again, Jesus is inviting sinners to trust in him. This is a constant theme in the Gospel of John. This is the Gospel of belief. And John has recorded this dramatic incident in order to cause his readers to consider their own lives and ask the question have I come to Christ? Have I been thirsty? Have I come and drink? Have I really trusted in Him? This is the question He wants us to ask. from our passage this morning. As we make our way through this book, we see this reoccurring emphasis. So let me ask you, have you placed your faith in the sacrificial death of Christ for your sins? Or do you assume that you're not that bad, or because of your Christian heritage or your Christian background or your knowledge of the Word of God? That your sin is not so bad, and that God will be pleased with your efforts to live a moral life, and He will accept you as you are. My friend, if that's what you believe, you believe a delusion that will fail you on the day of judgment. You can only be saved from your sins by putting your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I'm going to preach to you this morning on a great invitation on the great day. Jesus here invites all who recognize their desperate need to believe in him. So let's look first of all at a great invitation to those who need Christ. Now the first part of verse 37 provides the setting of this expression. John is letting the reader know that this was a very dramatic occasion. Notice what he says, on the last day of the feast, the great day. Jesus stood up and cried out. This is the setting for this event. Now let me first of all mention that between verses 36 and verse 37, three days have elapsed. We read in verse 14 that Jesus came to this feast in the middle of the feast, probably on day four. And then he goes to the temple and he teaches. And then we have all the record of the response to that teaching. And now we're at the last day of the feast. There's a little intramural debate among scholars whether this was the seventh day or the eighth day, because officially the feast ended on the seventh day. But over the centuries, they added an eighth day with ceremonies and so forth. Most scholars think it was the eighth day, and that's the way I understand it. Although it doesn't make any difference whether it was the seventh day or the eighth day. Now what really matters is what Jesus has said. There were many elaborate ceremonies that took place during this week. These were ceremonies that were not necessarily prescribed in the Bible but had cropped up over the centuries of celebration and became traditional. One of the most important of these was called the water ceremony. And that is that a gathering of the priests led by the high priest would process down to the pool of Siloam in Jerusalem. They had a pitcher that was made of solid gold, just imagine that, and they would dip it in the pool of siloam. And then they would very solemnly march back to the temple as people are lining the streets watching this. And when they entered the water gates, which was called the Watergate because that's where people went out to get water. There was the sofar that was sounded three times. And there was the choir as they drew close to the temple that would begin to sing. The temple choir would sing Psalms 113 through 118, known as the Halail or Praise. And the people would often along the streets would join in this singing. And the climax was when they reached Psalm 118, and all of the male pilgrims that were there to celebrate. the Feast of Tabernacles, they had in their right hand a willow branch symbolizing their time in the wilderness when they had branches for their booths, and in their left hand they had a piece of citrus fruit that symbolized the bounty of the harvest. And they would cry out three times, give thanks to the Lord. And then the priest would go up to the altar in the temple. They would pour out the water, and it was occasion for great joy. One rabbi said that you don't know joy until you have seen the water celebration in Jerusalem. This ceremony symbolized God's miraculous provision of water throughout the wilderness wanderings. And it was a symbolic prayer that God would give them rains in the coming years so that they would have harvest and be able to live. This ceremony occurred every morning for seven days. But on the eighth day, the last day, there was no water drawing ceremony. The people would joyfully take down their booze and crowd into the temple for a sacred assembly where there would be sacrifices and they would once again sing. Psalm 113 through Psalm 118. And there were periods in this time period as people were preparing to leave to go back to their home countries and their home regions of Israel. Where there would be silence as people worshiped, kind of like we have silent prayer when we celebrate the Lord's table. And during this silence, as people are crowded all around the temple complex, Jesus stands up And it says, he cries out as loud as he can speak so that anyone in the area could hear him. If anyone thirst, let him come to me and drink. And the point he is making is there is no water ceremony today, but the water that I offer never comes to an end. And it's so much more helpful and refreshing than the water that comes from the pool of Siloam. And once again, we have one of these open-ended invitations. If anyone thirst, we find this throughout the Gospel of John. John 3. 15, whoever believes in me may have eternal life. John 3. 16, whoever believes in him should not perish. John 3. 18, whoever believes in him is not condemned. John 3. 36, whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. John 4. 14, whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. John 5. 24. Whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. John 6. 40 Everyone who looks in the Son and believes in Him should have eternal life. And John 6. 47, whoever believes has eternal life. And now John 7. 37, if anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. He doesn't address himself to the spiritually moral or the elite or those who are observant of the Jewish feast days. He addresses himself to anyone, but there is one condition. Do you know what it is? They must be thirsty. You see, no one's going to come and drink unless they are thirsty. Just like no one's going to believe unless they sense that they have a problem, unless they sense that they have sins that must be forgiven. So let me ask you, have you ever experienced this soul agony, this thirst for forgiveness, this desire to be right with God? It's been said that the first step to heaven is to become convinced that you deserve to go to hell. And this desire for forgiveness, this desire to be right with God, is something that comes about through the work of the Holy Spirit in a person's heart. Because this is not naturally the way lost people think. People in the world thirst for everything except for God. They thirst for wealth and power and security and pleasure and for a perfect family. They think that there are so many things that if they could just achieve these things, they would be satisfied, they would be happy, they would be complete. But they can't understand people who are burdened over their sin. They think it's strange. They think they must be insecure. struggling with guilt and shame and some mental illness or something because who goes around burdened about their sin? That is a strange idea to a typical lost person But there are many people who do feel burdened about their sin. And not all of those people come to trust in Christ because they may go and look for answers in wrong places. What should you do? If you're one of those people, you're here this morning and you would say, Yes, I do feel unsatisfied. I do have this heart longing to be forgiven. And to be right with God, what should I do? You should do what Jesus says here. Let him come to me. Let this person come to me and drink. The only person who can satisfy the thirst of your soul is Jesus. This is what he said, remember to the woman at the well. Whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. If you would be saved and turned from your sins, the first step is you have to recognize that you have a need. This is where most people go wrong. They don't even get to that first step. They don't think they have a need. They don't think their sin is a real problem. Yes, they know they've made mistakes Yes, they know they're not perfect, but everyone else is at least as bad as they are, if not worse. And so they're not troubled by it. This is normal. This is to be human. And so they don't sense the need to come to Christ because they're not really thirsted. The idea here is of someone who is desperate. Of a person who thinks, I will do whatever it takes to be right with God, that's the kind of person that's on the right track. So they must be thirsty, number one. Secondly, they have to come to Christ. They have to come to the right place, to the right person. This is a picture of believing, of trusting. But there's a third step. And that is, you must drink. You must appropriate. I would suggest that there is a contrast here between a head knowledge and a heart knowledge. Between a person who knows some things, who knows some facts about Jesus But they haven't really trusted in him. They're not really resting in him. They have to receive the gift of salvation I once read of some men out in the southwestern part of our nation where things are much drier and there's desert. They stole a tanker truck. Man left it idling in a place. He went inside. They stole it. They drove away. They drove out into the desert at night. And they ran out of gas. And they'd been gone for many hours. They had no provision. They weren't planning this. They were very thirsty. So they split up and left the truck and went out looking for water. And in time, those men perished. And what they didn't realize is that tanker truck was filled with water. They had the answer to what they needed, to their thirst, right there in their midst. But they didn't drink it And I fear that there are many people who are surrounded by the truth or surrounded by the gospel who may attend church But they've never really taken the gift for themselves. They've never drank of that fountain. They've never depended on Christ alone. And this is what you must do if you would be saved. But next we have an amazing promise to those who believe. Look with me at verse 38. Jesus says, whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of this heart will flow rivers of living water. Jesus is going to explain the imagery in case the readers or those present didn't pick up on it. What does it mean to drink? It means to believe. Whoever believes, like if if anyone thirsts, if anyone comes, if anyone believes and drinks Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. I want you to notice that the way he completes this after believes is not what you would have expected. If you'd never read this before, but you'd read the all of John's gospel up to this point, you would have expected him to say, whoever believes will be saved, or will be given eternal life, or they will never thirst again, like he said to the woman at the well. You would expect some answer like that, but that's not what Jesus says. They all would have been true, but he says something that's unusual and provocative. He says, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Now, there's a minor debate, I think it's a settled matter, but there's a minor debate about the identity of the his in this verse. There are some who have suggested that the word his, that is, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water, is a reference to the heart of Christ. Because we know that Scripture reveals Jesus as the fountain of water, as a life-giving stream. And so they say perhaps this is a reference to Jesus. But this is not the traditional understanding of this text from ancient times or the natural understanding from the grammar of the passage. It seems very clearly to be referring to the one who believes it is that person. that will have water flowing from them. Having said that, we recognize that we do not save ourselves and that we are not responsible for this. The only Christ is the only fountain, the only source of salvation. But we who have drunk of that fountain have the result of water as it were flowing out of us. I think it's interesting the way translations are. I'm not this isn't a big deal. It just has to do with translation uh uh philosophy. But the word that's translated heart here is not the the Greek word, the normal Greek word for heart, which is cardiac. This is the word for belly, and if you have a King James Version, you see the word belly there. Out of this belly, it's the word for belly. Now the reason why The translators made it hard is because it seems odd to us in our culture and things to say. Um belly coming out of your belly, uh, we understand heart because when it uses the term belly, it's using it for the inner man, the inner person. the true spiritual being that you are, out of your being, your inner being, will flow rivers of living water. This is the point that Jesus is making. And the idea is that this water would not be stagnant or limited. It would not be like water in a pool or in a tank or in a water bottle. It would not be stagnant or small amount of water, but it would be like a mountain spring that just continues to flow. That doesn't come to an end. Jesus here is making again a contrast like he did with the woman at the well, that the water he offers Will forever satisfy. Now I must answer another question. Verse 38 says That as the scripture has said, well, where does the scripture say that out of his heart will flow rivers of living water? Well, this is a summary of a number of texts. This is not what any one passage in the Old Testament says. We do know, of course, that water is symbolic for salvation in numerous passages, like in Isaiah chapter 12 and verse 3, where it says, with joy you will draw water from the wells of salvation. And we know that this verse was recited as part of the water-drawing ceremony at the Feast of Tabernacles. And Isaiah 55 and verse 1, come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. But probably Jesus has in mind Isaiah 58 and verse 11, which says, you shall be like a watered garden, like a spring of water, whose waters do not fail. Saying that the people of God will be a blessing. They will have, as it were, life flowing out of them. What a beautiful picture this is. But how is this possible? That brings us to verse 39. And here we have a surprising explanation of the promise of living water. We read, now this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not yet been given, because Jesus was not yet Verse 39 is John the Apostle's editorial comments on what Jesus has just said. We see this often in the Gospel of John. Now, John was certainly there that day at the Feast of Tabernacles. He witnessed what Jesus said, but I suspect that he did not fully understand what Jesus meant that day. I say that because throughout the Gospel of John, he makes comments like that reveal that after Jesus' death and resurrection, after the day of Pentecost, he understood. And this this fits with John 14, 26. When Jesus told the disciples the night before he died, when the Holy Spirit comes, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. Have you ever wondered how John could remember all of these sayings of Christ and like the upper room discourse which takes several chapters? How could he remember all of that when it was 50 years after he heard it? The answer, according to John 14, 26, is the Holy Spirit brought it to his mind so that he remembered exactly what was said. But there's one step further. The Holy Spirit revealed to him what it meant, gave him a divine interpretation of what Jesus was saying, and John records that in this gospel. Now this might make you scratch your head. He says that the Spirit was not yet given. You say, wait a minute. The Old Testament is filled with examples of the Spirit of God. involved in the lives of people, we read of the Spirit of God coming upon certain individuals or clothing certain individuals. We read about the Spirit of God in the life of Christ on many occasions. How can John say that the Holy Spirit was not yet given? The idea is that the Spirit had not yet been given in his fullness. And when it refers here in verse 39 to the Lord's glorification, John uses that term to refer to the summation of our Lord's death, resurrection, and ascension. Remember, the Spirit came after Christ ascended. He was another comforter, another helper of the same kind, a divine helper that would come to the people of God. So let me summarize it this way. In the Old Testament The Holy Spirit did come upon select individuals like kings and priests and warriors who were leading the nation. He came upon them for a specific task. And for a temporary period of time. But at the day of Pentecost, that all changed. Now believers were indwelt by the Spirit of God and empowered by the Holy Spirit, and this was a permanent situation. Where for the rest of their days the Holy Spirit would be within them. This is why the scriptures say that our body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. Because he dwells within us just like he dwelt in the Old Testament temple and tabernacle So all of this explains how a believer can be overflowing with spiritual blessing and life for others. It is only through the Holy Spirit. So what is the evidence that a person is truly controlled by the Holy Spirit? Well, first of all, of course, you must be a believer. You must trust in Christ. The Spirit does not indwell those who are not part of the people of God. But in the epistles we read many, many evidences of being controlled by the Spirit of God, of walking in obedience. and of being filled with the truth of Scripture that is lived out in our lives. We read in Ephesians chapter 5. that we will sing to ourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in our hearts to the Lord. The idea is we'll have a heart of worship. Do you look forward to gathering to worship with the people of God? Or do you like, oh no, it's another Sunday? I hope that's not your your thoughts. And do you find yourself worshiping God even when it's not a time that you've set aside to worship God Not a time when you're reading your scriptures for your own prophet, but like you see uh a beautiful sunset Or you're reminded about how God has answered your prayers and you sing to Him and you praise Him and your heart is overwhelmed and overflowing with joy. That's the life of a Christian. That is an expression of the Spirit of God indwelling within us. He goes on in Ephesians 5. 20 with another evidence, and that is gratitude. Gratitude, which by the way is the opposite of a complaining spirit. All right? Christians don't go around saying, Lord, why have you given me such a hard life? Why have I had so many struggles and problems in my life? That's not the question that we keep rehearsing in our minds. We say, Lord, why have you been so good to me? Why have you blessed me so much? I don't deserve it. I haven't earned it. We have a heart that's overflowing with gratitude. And then beginning in verse 21, all the way into chapter 6 of Ephesians, he talks about the fact of how it makes a difference in our home lives. And the way the wife responds to her husband and the husband to his wife and the children to the parents, it's all results. of being filled with the spirits, of being controlled by the spirit. But undoubtedly you also thought of Galatians chapter 5, verses 22 and 23, the fruit of the spirits. Of love and joy and peace and patience and kindness and goodness and faithfulness and gentleness and self-control These do not come about naturally through the work of the flesh, but only as a believer yields. to the leadership of the Holy Spirit in his or her life. And you see, this is where our lives become attractive to a lost and dying world. when they see these fruits just flowing out of us in the way we deal with others. Let me ask you, does your life give evidence that the Spirit of God resides within you? Is your life like a cup of water that you sit in the sink and maybe you turn the faucet on and it's going into that cup and the water is just overflowing of that cup? Because wherever you go, the Spirit of God and blessings and positivity and joy is just exuding out of you because it's the overflow of the Spirit of God. Now that will look a little different depending on your personality, but that should be the evidence. That should be true of every believer. God wants us to be channels of grace. to all around us. Now I want to turn to just a few points of application as we conclude. Number one, Jesus is the only one who can satisfy the human soul. We live in a world where everyone is looking for satisfaction. They think if I can just manage my affairs right and fix some problems in my life that bring difficulty into them, then , I will achieve what I'm looking for. I will find satisfaction. I will find peace. I will find contentments. But it's like a dog chasing its tail. They never achieve it, no matter how much money they gain No matter what beautiful home they may purchase, or how much or the family or the beautiful spouse that they may gain, no matter what, they never ever satisfy the deepest longings of their hearts. And that's because only God can fill that void. Prophet Jeremiah says they have dug out cisterns for themselves in very dry places in the world they will dig holes into the ground and into the rock to hold rain water because that water is precious. And he says they've dug cisterns that will not hold water. They dissipate into the ground and so it's worthless. What they thought that they had hoarded up and that they could use for the rest of their life, it's gone. It's disappeared. Even some of the most successful people in our culture, if you truly knew them, you would see that they are miserable and unsatisfied and unhappy people. This explains why the world is filled with discontentment and cynicism and disappointments and depression. People are dissatisfied. And so Christians have an opportunity To be a powerful witness because we can demonstrate that regardless of our circumstance, we are content in Christ. We have the joy of the Lord. We are not dependent on having everything lined up in the American way that's perfect in order to find happiness. No, we have a deeper happiness. that's not connected with our circumstances, but with our relationship with God. Now the Feast of Tabernacles was a commemoration of God's provision for the children of Israel in the wilderness. And one of the ways that God provided water for them was, do you remember, water out of the rock. And water came out and provided refreshment for all of those who were in dire thirst. And one of the most amazing passages in Scripture is that in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, Paul says that that rock was Christ. Not that the rock was literally Christ, but it was symbolized Christ and the life-giving refreshment and life that he provides for his people. Because Jesus is the only fountain that can satisfy a thirsty soul. A second point I want to make is that Christians should patiently invite unbelievers to trust in Christ. even after they have rejected the gospel. What's amazing to me in this chapter and the chapters that follow is our Lord's patience. with sinful people who continually rejected him. This chapter is dominated with talk of the authorities wanting to kill Jesus and arrest Jesus And the residents of Jerusalem who mocked him, and others who had a shallow faith in him But Jesus continued to invite them to believe. He stands up in the most public of settings and invites them to come and drink. And so I would say to this, we have to be wise about this. It's not uh effective to be annoying to people. But we should not allow our first opportunity to be a witness to someone and they reject it to be the end of the story. If we're going to be like Jesus, we will look for opportunities and ways that we can continue to invite them to believe and to demonstrate his compassion And his patience with sinful people. And thirdly, Christians can only be a blessing to others through the power of the Spirit. Jesus here says that those who drink of him will have water flowing out of them to others. We are not supposed to be like the Dead Sea. The Dead Sea has water flowing into it like the Jordan River, but it has no outlets coming out of it. It's a large body of water in a very dry, low place, and the water just evaporates out of it. It leaves behind all of these minerals and all of this salt. It takes in, but it never gives out. It's never been easier in the history of the world for Christians to take in. We have the Bible so readily available. We have Christian Bible studies and great preachers and teachers available at our fingertips that we can listen to them or study with them at any time. And we can make it kind of our hobby where we take in all of the spiritual knowledge, and it's great that we have those advantages. The question is, what are we doing with it? Are we just hoarding what we're learning or are we giving it out to others? God wants us to be like a vessel that's overflowing, that we're sharing what we're learning with others. And that way we are being a blessing to our brothers and sisters. And we can be a witness to those who are lost around us. That is why God has provided us with the gospel. and with the Holy Spirit to indwell us so that we can be a blessing, a source of life wherever we go. We live in a part of the world where our basic landscape color is green There are many places in the world where that is not the case, where the basic color is brown. It's out that way in some places in the West. It's out that way in large parts of the world in Asia and in Africa and in other locations The landscape is brown. It's like that in Israel. And where you see green, you know it's because there's a constant source of water. There's a spring there. The lowest place on planet Earth that's furtherest below sea level, but is on land, is in Israel. It's a place called Engedi. You read about it in scripture. I can remember visiting there in 2011 with my wife. It was like 100 degrees. It was so hot. It was so dry. But there was all this greenery there because there's this beautiful spring that comes out of the rock. And all around it for about a hundred yards is green, and then desolate wilderness beyond it. That spring provides life for the animals that are there and for the plants that are there, everything around it. And people from the beginning of time have come to that spring to get water, including David and many others. Let me use that imagery for a second. The world in which we live, the sin-cursed earth, is like a brown dead landscape. But we as believers have a fountain of water within us. The question I would ask you is, are things greener where you reside? Because the water's flowing out of you. Is your neighborhood any different because you've been living there for 20-some years? Do people come to you with their questions because they know that you care for them and they know that you have answers and they've seen the way you've weathered storms in life over the years. But that person has some stability in them. That person has contentment with them. They have a source of peace and joy that I don't have. Is your workplace a little different environment because you're there and you've been there for years and the people who work around you they know that you're different. They know that you're a positive influence. That you're a blessing, though you're always there to help and to listen and to be a witness for Christ God has called us in this dry, barren desert of this fallen world to be like an oasis, a source of life and greenery wherever we go, because the Spirit of God is flowing out of us because we have come to drink at the fountain of Jesus Christ. This is what God has called us to be. May God give us grace to do so. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you that by your grace we have come to drink of this fountain of Christ. We thank you for the gift of the Spirit that dwells within us and renews us and restores us and convicts us and allows us to be a blessing to others. Help us, Father, to be faithful in doing so. Help us, Father, to be a source of life wherever we go, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen