Give your Bibles, please would you join me in John chapter 6? We begin a new chapter in this wonderful gospel this morning. In the 1930s, almost every American home had a radio that served as the most important connection with the outside world. During those early years of radio, the most famous preacher on the air was a man named Harry Emerson Fosdick. His 30-minute radio program began in 1927 on NBC and was known as National Vespers. Dr. Fosdak gave an hour of preparation and is said for every minute that he was on the air. His carefully scripted, eloquent messages mesmerized American audiences for decades. Harry Fosdick was a Baptist preacher, but he was also the most famous liberal of his time. He pastored the famous Riverside Church in New York City that was known as the Church of the Rockefellers. On one notable broadcast, Bosnik preached from the feeding of the 5,000, the passage that we're considering this morning. Fosdic explained the miracle this way. When the people saw the little lad share his lunch with Jesus, They were embarrassed about their selfishness. And so they took out the food that they had hidden under their robes and shared it with the poor around them. And Dr. Fosdick said that the whole point of the story was this: if we who have much would share with those who have little, we would all have more than enough. I want you to know that he was completely wrong. That is not the message of the story, and it was an actual miracle. This morning we're going to study and consider John's account of the feeding of the 5,000 You may recall that John structures the first half of his gospel around seven miracles. And this is the fourth. of those seven signs. This miracle has the distinction of being the only miracle That is recorded in all four Gospels: Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. It also marks The climax of our Lord's popularity. There would never be a time where larger crowds would follow our Savior. And right after this spectacular miracle, Jesus is going to give the bread of life discourse And we're going to see in just a few weeks that this great multitude goes away. They are offended by his words, and they no longer follow him. So many of the people that were there that day and enjoyed this miracle would never see or hear from him again after that next day. But they could never forget what they witnessed that day. The feeding of the 5,000 is a spectacular miracle. For several reasons. Number one, I've already mentioned it made an impression on all the disciples because it's recorded in all four gospels. It's also amazing because it is a miracle that was not only witnessed by a great multitude. But a miracle in which people, in a sense, participated in that they didn't just see it, but they tasted the food that Jesus made. You've probably heard before, though it is called the feeding of the 5,000, the scriptures are clear that this was only the number of the men or the heads of household. And that when you add up the number of the women and children, it certainly must have exceeded 20,000 people. This was a large crowd. 20,000 people is what you will have in a large arena. Or a smaller stadium. It's a lot of people. This miracle was also a great blessing. To many people. Usually when Jesus performed a miracle, the recipient was just one person, maybe a blind person, maybe a lame person, and they were greatly blessed, and their life was forever changed. But this miracle was a blessing to like 20,000 plus people. And this miracle was also creative and unique. Except that the feeding of the 4,000, which is a separate incident, would have been very similar to this, undoubtedly. And that is that Jesus either took this meager lunch and somehow multiplied it, or perhaps it's better to say that he created it out of nothing, this food, like he did when he created the worlds. It was a spectacular miracle. A miracle that was witnessed by many, many people. Now, what is the point of this miracle? The point of this miracle in John's gospel is to reveal the identity of Jesus Christ to the reader. Because John says that's the whole purpose of his gospel. So as we read this miracle We are intended to have a better understanding of who Jesus is. And I want us to learn four things. about our Savior from this miracle. We have a great sign that points to a great savior. Number one, the first thing we learned is this. Jesus has compassion. for all of humanity. Now look with me at the setting of this story that's found in the first four verses of chapter six Look at verse 1. After this, Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is the sea of Tiberius. Now this phrase after this does not mean that right after the last incident in chapter 5, John uses this to begin a new narrative. And the reality is that by comparing the four Gospels, we know that between the last verse in chapter 5 and the first verse in chapter 6, there's at least six months of time, if not a year. A lot transpired between those two verses. Our Lord ministered extensively, preaching and teaching and healing in Galilee. Matthew, Mark, and Luke record many of these incidences. John, who was written later, focuses on the Judean ministry since that period of his ministry was so well covered by the other gospel writers. Now we see that this setting is by the Sea of Galilee. The Sea of Galilee is seven miles wide and 13 miles long. And our Lord grew up and ministered around this body of water. Now you will notice that John Identifies this body of water also as the Sea of Tiberias. This is another name for the same body of water. Now we know that the Romans officially changed the name of this body of water in about the year 20 to the Sea of Tiberias, but the name didn't catch on right away. People kept referring to it as the Sea of Galilee. But by the end of the first century, nearly everyone referred to it as the Sea of Tiberias. So this is one of those clues that the Gospel of John was written towards the very end of the first century, perhaps between the years 85 and 90. when this was the common way it was referred to. Now we see that he comes And a large crowd, it says, is following him. He is moving with his disciples from the western side of the Sea of Galilee to the eastern side. which was less populated and more desolate because the disciples and our Lord had been ministering nonstop for some time. And they need a break. They need to get away from the crowds that are mobbing them for miracles. And so they go to the other side. But their plan doesn't work. Look at verse 2. And a large crowd was following him because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick. The key word is the word follow here. It's speaking of continuous action. They kept following him. He's trying to get away, and they keep following him. Why were they following him? Because of the signs or miracles that he was doing This is nearly identical to what we read in chapter 2 when we read that many of the people believed on Jesus But Jesus did not reveal himself further to them because it says he knew what was in their hearts. That is, they were superficial followers. They really didn't, they really weren't interested in him. So that's what we have. This great multitude of people, in large part, were superficial followers. What do I mean by that? I meant that they didn't want Jesus. They wanted to see the miracles and to receive the benefits from those miracles. Undoubtedly, some of them brought relatives and loved ones and friends who had disabilities because they wanted him to heal them. Others were just bored and they wanted to see something spectacular, while others were looking for a patriotic leader who would overthrow Roman oppression. They had different reasons, but they were all superficial reasons. Now look with me at verse the three. Jesus went up on the mountain and there he sat down with his disciples Johnny describes this miracle as taking place up on a mountain. Now we know that there is no like one distinctive mountain peak in this region. There is what we would call today hill country there, and today this region is known as the Golan Heights. You may hear that in the news. Now, when did this miracle take place? Look at verse 4 Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand. Of the four gospel writers, John is the one most concerned with chronology. And so he tells us this happened right before the Passover. Now the question that expositors have to answer is, why does he give this bit of information? This may very well explain why there was such a large crowd because people were already beginning to make their way from the north to the south to go to Jerusalem for the Passover. And that's why there were large crowds. That could be a reason. But many scholars believe that John is showing that there's a parallel And there's a spiritual meaning behind the Passover and the miracle that Jesus is going to perform. They were both meals that had great significance to them. And only John mentions this particular detail. Now, I entitled those first points Jesus has compassion on all of humanity. You might ask, where is the compassion in this setting of the miracle? Let me explain. If we were to look into the parallel accounts in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, we would see that the disciples are fed up with the crowd. And they tell the Lord, send them away that they may buy food in the villages. All right, they're tired, they're hungry And they're annoyed by this crowd that just will not stop following them. But then we read this striking contrast. It says that Jesus, when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion toward them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. Our Lord's response of compassion, which is the most common emotion ascribed to him in the Gospels. Is amazing. And let me give you some reasons why it is amazing. Number one, because these people were being annoying. He was trying to get away from them. He desperately wanted to have some time of refreshment and solace with his disciples, but the mob just kept following him. Number two, Jesus knew that they were following him for selfish reasons. It's not because they wanted to learn more. And they wanted to become convinced that he was the Messiah and put their trust in him. It was because they wanted him to do something for them. And yet he helped them. And number three, Jesus, because he's omniscient, he knew that they were going to reject him the very next day, that they would go away from him. And yet he still has compassion for them. And how about this number four? This miracle of the feeding of the 5,000 was not like a life or death matter. It was not like opening the eyes of a blind man or raising someone from the dead. These people would not have starved to death if he didn't perform that miracle that night. They would have made it till morning. They would have eventually made it back home. They would have got food somewhere eventually. They were not going to starve to death. And yet Jesus has compassion on them and feeds this multitude. This is why I say that Jesus is compassionate to all of humanity. The second thing that is revealed in this passage is that Jesus is patient with weak disciples. Now look with me at verses 5 through 9, which gives us the problem in this story. Look at verse 5. Lifting up his eyes then. And seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him, Jesus said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread so that these people may eat? He said this to test him, for he himself knew what he would do. This is very interesting. We see, first of all, that Jesus lifts up his eyes. We read this expression several times in the Gospels. And the idea is that Jesus was moved when he saw a large gathering of humanity Have you ever felt that way? Have you ever been to like an arena or a stadium or someplace where there are thousands and thousands and thousands of people and thought that all of these people here will live somewhere forever. And undoubtedly most of these people do not know the Lord. If we are going to have eyes like the Savior, that's the way we should feel when we see large, large crowds. Now Jesus asked Philip a question. And the reason he asked Philip this question about where to procure food is because Philip was from Bethesda, which was in this region. So we were in the home region of Philip, and so it's natural that he asked Philip, where would be a good place to buy food? And it's not because Jesus didn't know where to go, because in the very next verse, John explains this was a test. He knew what he was going to do. He knew he was going to perform a miracle. But this was a test. Now I find this very fascinating. We find from the other gospels That this was a test not just for Philip, but for all the disciples. He wanted to see how they were going to respond. to this crisis. In Matthew, Mark, and Luke, we read that he says to the disciples, you give them something to eat. You know, when you're a really good teacher and you're trying to show people how to do something, you follow this procedure. You show someone how to do it, and then you say, now I want to see you do it. You want to see if they were really watching and they were really learning. Now you do it. And that's what the Lord's doing to his disciples here. You've been following me now for over a year. You've saw me perform many miracles, do many wondrous things. You've heard my teaching. You've gone with me from village to village. What have you learned? You guys handle this situation. You handle this crisis of tens of thousands of people that are here out in the wilderness and they need food. Look with me at verse 7. Philip answered him, 200 denarii worth of bread would not be enough for each of them to get a little. He doesn't really answer the question. Did you notice this? He didn't really say, well, there's this place down. No. He's like, that's even irrelevant, Lord. Do you have any idea how much money it would take to feed this multitude? I mean, if we had 200 denarii, now that would be equivalent of like eight months salary. And I feel certain the disciples did not have that much money in the treasury. It would be thousands of dollars in our estimation. Lord, if we had thousands and thousands of dollars, we couldn't buy enough food so that everyone would have a mouthful, is what he's saying. He doesn't answer the question because there's no point in even answering the question because it's a ridiculous question. So let me ask you this question. How did Philip do on his test that the Lord gave him? He failed it. He got an F And the reason why he failed is because he looked at his circumstances, he looked at the problem, he didn't look to the Lord. He looked at the problem and it seemed immense I think Philip was one of those people who likes to analyze and calculate things. Whenever we have inventured on a building project or something that requires a lot of money And I don't want you to, I'm not trying to portray myself as a person of great faith or anything, but whenever we present it, there's always people come and say, Pastor, it can't be done. I added up the numbers. It's not going to work. We don't have the resources. It can never be. And yet here we are in this building that's paid for. The Lord loves it when we attempt to do things that seem impossible to us. And if every decision that you've ever made in your spiritual life has cleanly worked out on a sheet of paper, then my friend, you're not walking by face. Because it doesn't take any faith if you can figure everything out and add everything up. Well , it's all going to be paid for just like that. You don't have to trust the Lord at all to live that way. Now in the other gospels we read that Jesus sent the disciples out into the crowd to see if anyone had food. Again he knew the answer, and they found a little boy who had a mom undoubtedly who liked to plan ahead and did not want her little boy to go hungry, and so she had packed him a lunch. And everyone has heard this story before. It's a beloved children's story. He had five loaves and two fish. I want you to know that a loaf, the reference here to a loaf is not like our loaves of bread. It would be like a biscuit or a little roll. And the fish mentioned here was not like a ten -pound trout. This would have been what we might refer to as sardines. They were pickled or salted dried fish that were there for flavor. There wasn't much to that fish. It was very small. It was like a memo And John adds this detail that the other gospel writers do not, that the loaves, these little biscuit pieces of bread were made of barley. Barley was a poor man's grain. The bread was coarse and nearly tasteless with very little nutritional value. This was a poor boy's lunch. Tiny little resource that is given to the Lord. And notice how Andrew summarizes the situation. But what are these among so many? And he was speaking for all the disciples. The disciples had this situation. They had tiny little resource and a tremendously large need. How would you describe the situation? I would describe it as an impossible situation. Not that it was difficult or it was hard or it was unlikely. No, it was impossible. You cannot feed 20,000 people with a little poultry lunch And the fact is, the Lord wanted them to be in this impossible circumstance. You know what He wanted them to do? He wanted them when he said you guys handle it. He wanted them to say, Lord, we can't. We can't do it. We need you to rescue us. So often when we face impossible circumstances, our immediate response is I'm a resourceful person. I'm going to try to handle this myself. I'm going to calculate. I'm going to develop a scheme and a strategy to solve this problem and I'm gonna work my my plan and it's all gonna work out and sometimes God puts us in situations where we say there is no plan, there is no solution, there is no way for me to solve this. And that's exactly the conclusion he wants us to reach. So that we turn to Him and say, Lord, I can't do it. I need you to do it. I can't do it. And what's amazing to me about this is, you know, Jesus doesn't rebuke his disciples. He doesn't say to them, you guys gave the wrong answer. You've been following me all this time? Don't you know I'm a miracle worker? Why didn't you come and ask me? He doesn't berate them. He's patient. and gracious with them, just like he is with us. Jesus is about to teach them a very memorable lesson And the third point I want you to see this first third revelation of Christ is that He is sufficient to meet all our needs. Now we have the resolution of this crisis. Jesus takes charge. He gives the disciples some instructions. We have a portrayal here of Jesus as a gracious host. This is one of the ways the Bible describes him. Do you remember the end of Psalm 23? The last two verses, David says, you prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies, you anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows. The Lord Yahweh is portrayed as a gracious host who pours forth his blessings on his guests. And this is what we see in Jesus right here. Look with me now at verse 10, please. Jesus said, have the people sit down. Now there was much grass in the place, so the men sat down about 5,000 in number. Jesus organizes this mob. He has them sit on the grass in groups of 50 to 100. I want you to know that Grass does not grow everywhere in Israel. It's the landscape in Israel is more brown than green But there are places where there's grass, especially in the spring, which is when the Passover was, March, April. You know, right now it looks kind of brown out there But in just a few weeks, the grass is going to be green. And what I see here in this little detail Is the Lord is concerned for the comfort of his guest, like a host. He wants them to be comfortable seated on this grass in different groups so that he can easily distribute the food. He's so gracious to these people who are superficial followers. As I mentioned earlier, the 5,000 here refers only to the men The Greek word translated men in verse 10 is a word that's very distinctively only of men. And Matthew tells us that it did not include the women and children, not that they didn't sit down as well. But his directions here are specifically to the head of households. Now look with me at verse 11. Jesus then took the loaves And when he had given thanks, he distributed them to those who were seated, so also the fish, as much as they wanted. Did you catch the miracle there? This is a very understated miracle In fact, we can't say definitively of exactly where it takes place. It's sort of like you're watching a play and something amazing happened, but you've got to rewind and watch it in slow motion because you didn't catch it the first time. It's sort of like reading this miracle count. You're like, where where are the miracles? I miss it somewhere. It's somewhere there in verse 11. Where was this incredible miracle? So let me give you my best guess, and it's not just mine, it's that of many scholars. Picture Jesus holding up this little basket with this little boy's lunch in it And he's taking the bread and the fish out. And in the other gospels we read that he actually didn't distribute it to the crowd. He distributed it to his disciples who distributed it to the crowd. But just to mention he's taking this food out and it just never ends. It just never ends. And this is a pattern that we see in Scripture, right? You remember in 1 Kings 17 when Elijah is at the widow of Zarephath and she has this jar of flour and and he asked her to make him some food and she says, I only have enough food for me and my son, and then we're going to starve to death. And he says, well make some for me first and you'll have some left over. And she obeys him and she does. And for all those days Flour just kept coming out of that container. And then we read in the life of Elisha This other widow had great debts, and she didn't know how to pay off her debts, and so he told her to take oil that she had in this container and pour it into all of her empty containers. and then sell the oil and that would pay off her debts. Well there was only a little bit of oil in this one container. But as she poured it out, it just kept coming and she filled up every one of her containers. And so I say on the basis of that pattern that we see in Scripture, that this is what happened in this miracle. Jesus just kept doling out fish and bread from that little basket. until everyone had everything, all the food they wanted. This is emphasized three ways. It says that they ate as much as they wanted. And they probably were very hungry. They've been walking all day. They perhaps hadn't had any other food to eat, which would not be unusual. They are very hungry and they eat to their full. And it's brought out again in verse 12. The idea is they just couldn't eat anymore, perhaps like you feel on Thanksgiving. And then to emphasize the bounty that God had given here, we read of the twelve baskets of fragments. By the way, this is a case for leftovers here, all right? I'm a big believer in leftovers. We don't like to throw out food. But anyway, that's nothing to do with the message. Everyone wants to know what the twelve baskets represent And there's all kinds of theories. I think the simplest explanation is the Lord had provided food for the disciples for the next day. This was a lesson that they would never forget. It was a reminder of his all-sufficient power. But I want you to know that this whole miracle is given for us 21st century readers to remind us of the all-sufficiency that we have in Christ And we know this because the very next day in the bread of life discourse, and in John chapter 6 and verse 35, Jesus says, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall never hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. We find our satisfaction in Christ. He fills the deepest longings of our hearts. But there's one more thing. very briefly that is revealed in this passage, and that is that Jesus will not be found by superficial followers. We have the conclusion of the story, the response of the people in verses 14 and 15. Look with me please at verse 14. When the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, this is indeed the prophet who is to come into the world. Notice they didn't say a prophet, they said the prophet. That is the prophet that Moses mentioned in Deuteronomy chapter 18 verse 15. It says, the Lord your God will raise For you a prophet like me, that's Moses speaking, like me, from among your brothers, that is, he would be Jewish. It is to him you shall listen and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I have commanded. This is a prophecy of Jesus Christ as the ultimate prophet of God's But the very next day, when Jesus spoke the word of God, they were offended. And they didn't like what he had to say. You see, they wanted a prophet, but they wanted a prophet who would tell them what they wanted to hear. Not someone who would speak the truth to them. And then we come to verse 15. Perceiving then that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, Jesus withdrew again to the mountain by himself. Now why did Jesus respond this way? If he was trying to gather a following, this was the moment he's been waiting for. The people want to coronate him as their king and march down to Jerusalem on the Passover and gather more followers and break away from the oppression of Rome. It was a time at the Passover of nationalistic pride. And indeed, Jesus is a king. But he's not the kind of king that they wanted him to be. They wanted a king that would provide all of their the blessings of earthly life Of wealth and power and independence and freedom. They wanted A king that would allow them to live their lives the way they wanted to live their lives. But Jesus withdrew himself because he will not be found by superficial followers. So I'm going to quickly make some application here. If we are to respond like Jesus, we should be compassionate to all people. Jesus was gracious with these people. He treated them better than they deserved. He met their need, even though they didn't really want to follow him. Number two, when we face impossible situations, we should recognize that God is testing our faith. You ever feel like you're facing an impossible situation? You know what? God puts people in impossible situations. And so often what he wants you to do is come to the end of yourself. Stop trying to solve the problem yourself and figure it out and lay your burden before the Lord. Maybe you have a broken marriage or a diagnosis of cancer. Or maybe there's The death of a loved one has changed your life forever. Or maybe there's an unsaved family member that is dear to you that you've prayed for for years and yet they will not come to Christ. What do you do with these impossible situations? You say, Lord, I can't do it. I'm relying on you. I'm giving this matter to you. Don't respond in unbelief to your crisis. Number three, we must examine our hearts to be certain that we're not following the Lord for false motives. Today the prosperity gospel has swept over the globe. It's a huge problem in South America and in Africa and in Asia. It is our most embarrassing export. From this country. Because it's a false gospel that tells people that God wants everyone to be happy and healthy and prosperous. And if you just give a little more to this false prophets, then maybe he'll make it happen. The idea is I can manipulate God to get what I really want. And it resonates with everything that is fallen in our nature. But God will not be fooled. Your greatest need is not that you would have more money or better health, but that you would come to have your sins forgiven and trust in Christ alone. One of the greats evidences that a person has A false faith, their superficial followers, like the people who receive this miracle, is that they follow the Lord for a time, but when real difficulties come They abandoned him. Unfortunately, this often becomes apparent with young people. Grow up in a Christian home, hear the gospel from the time they were a child, claim to believe. They live in a very secure, sheltered environment. And then when they get out in the world and they have to think and make decisions for themselves and they face temptations of the world, sometimes their superficial faith just crumbles. Or maybe it's a person who's an adult and they've they they're not a young person anymore, but some incredible crisis comes into their life. And they can't believe that God would want them to go through something so painful, and so they turn away from the Lord. Because they were viewing God as kind of like a good luck charm. And they liked the blessings that came from God, but not God. My friends, we must be a people who come to Christ because we love Christ. And we acknowledge him as our Savior. And we desperately need his help in every moment of our lives. And so we cling to him. This is how we can have such a powerful testimony in the world. When we go through great crisis and great difficulty and we have great loss. And yet we still are content and have the joy of the Lord because we find our satisfaction in Him alone. That is a testimony that resonates with people. And may God help us to be that kind of people. Let's close in prayer. Father. We thank you that you have given us a great Savior who is compassionate and gracious and patient. and kind and able to do the impossible. Help us, Father, to be faithful followers who do not follow him for the blessings he gives. But because we love him and we want to do his will. Oh Father, for those who are here this morning who are yet lost in their sins, I pray that they would come to trust in you. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen