We are going to be continuing on in 1 Thessalonians. We have a new memory verse for tonight out of 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. So if you didn't receive a memory card on your way in, you can Either grab one on the way out or just look in your Bibles for right now as we look at this together. But 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 We're going to be looking at verses 5 and 6 for our as we continue on memorizing these this passage of scripture together. So For our first time, let's stand and we'll say it through two times, the reference and the verse together. 1 Thessalonians 5. It'll be verses 5 and 6. 1 Thessalonians 5, 5 through 6. For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. So then let us not sleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober. 1 Thessalonians 5, 5 through 6. For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. So then let us not sleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober. Excellent. You may be seated. These verses are indicating the attitude that we are to have in anticipation of the return of Christ. That we are not to be Sleepy, unaware, even like those that are drunk, that we are alert and aware that Christ is coming again, living carefully in light of that reality. We've been talking about the book of 1 Thessalonians, a simple, small five-chapter letter from the Apostle Paul and his missionary team, Silas and Timothy. And they're writing to the church in Thessalonica, and they're the they're writing a simple message, and we saw we'll look at the theme of that in just a moment, but the first three chapters are a backwards look about their their time with the Thessalonians. They were there probably around six months. They were in Thessalonica ministering the gospel to them, sharing Christ with them. Teaching them, training them, preparing them for the persecutions that were going to come, preparing them to know doctrine, He taught them many things. These were Gentiles who had left their idolatry and come to know Christ. And he taught them about Satan, and he taught them about the coming of Christ, and he taught them about the gospel clearly so that they would be able to stand and hold fast to truth when his time to leave would come. So he begins by just talking about how thankful he is. for them, for their reception of the gospel, for what God had done among them and bringing them out of darkness into light, out of idolatry, into worship of the one true God And in the second chapter, Paul is really defending his ministry because there are there are those, especially in the community in Thessalonica who are not believers, who are who are insinuating that Paul was a deceitful uh deceitful minister, he was a false teacher, and that he left because things got too hot there in Thessalonica, and he really didn't care for them. And so he's defending his ministry among them as he reminds them about how he lived and how how the missionary team responded to the trials that came. And then in the third chapter, we see that Timothy receives a report or comes back and gives a report that they are standing firm in Christ. And in the last two chapters It's a forward look saying, stand firm because Christ is coming again. Continue to grow in faith, hope, and love in light of the imminent return of Christ. Christ is coming again. It could be at any moment. So be steadfast. Grow in faith, hope, and love. We're coming to the very end of chapter two And the end of chapter 2, beginning in verses 17 through 20. I'm just going to read these verses. They're simple verses, but they're profound and quite beautiful. He says, But since we were torn away from you, brothers, for a short time, in person, not in heart, we endeavored the more eagerly and with great desire to see you face to face Because we wanted to come to you. I, Paul, again and again, but Satan hindered us. For what is our hope or joy or crown of boasting before our Lord Jesus at his coming? Is it not you? For you are our glory and joy. This really is an example of the Apostle Paul's tender heart, his open heart to those that he ministers to. And I've I've just titled this message a heart open wide. The heart of the apostle in the heart of the epistle. You see the heart of the Apostle Paul right here in the middle of this letter as he is pouring out his love to them and expressing how deeply he loves them. And although this section here, these verses 17 through 20 are the last paragraph in chapter 2, Paragraph breaks are not inspired. They were added later. Probably more naturally would fit with chapter 3. And probably the reason it was put in chapter 2. was so that every chapter would have a reference to the coming of Christ at the very end of it. And so they put the paragraph break at kind of an awkward place. It doesn't really fit with the argumentation of Paul at this point. And it really flows really nicely with chapter three, and we're kind of setting our s the stage for that. It begins a new section in the book where Paul explains to them. What has happened since they were forced to leave Thessalonica? What has happened since this missionary team left? Why have they not returned? And he's expressing to them what's going on and how There's three aspects that come out in this section. The first part in chapter two, the verses we're looking at here, Paul's love and reason for his continued absence is expressed. My deep love for you, that I was torn apart from you. I've tried to get back to you multiple times, but I've been hindered by Satan. Then in chapter 3, verses 1 through 5, Paul's love is seen by how he sent Timothy to them at great personal cost. He was left back at Athens Without Timothy, although Timothy was very useful for him, he said, we thought it best that to go hear how you were doing, send Timothy to you, and then we would stay back in Athens. And then in verses 6 through 13, Paul's love is reciprocated, and that brings rejoicing. They are evident Evidently loving the Apostle Paul in a significant way. And that comes back when Paul when when Timothy returns, he says, They're faithful. And they love you just like you love them. And so that love that Paul had shown to them was reciprocated and then it caused tremendous rejoicing on Paul's part and the the whole missionary team. So we have your three basic things that are coming across in this this three verse or four verse section tonight. First of all, we see Paul's heart-wrenching love for the Thessalonians. And it seems like Paul is defending against accusations. that they had abandoned the Thessalonians because in the accusation, the way the accusation seemed to be going, Paul really didn't love them. You know, the absence of Paul was an opportunity for opponents of the gospel, for the Jewish community there to who had not converted to say, well Paul really wasn't one of us. Paul really isn't a true Jew. He doesn't really know the Old Testament. And you know there's a lot of things we can tell about Paul. One of the things is we know that he really doesn't love you guys because when things got hot here, he fled. And he left you guys to suffer. He really doesn't care about you. There have been a number of accusations that Paul defends against. Without naming the accusation, he defends against them in this second chapter. We have this accusation that he lacked integrity in verse 10. He says, you are witnesses and God also, how holy and righteous and blameless was our conduct toward you believers. The reason why he's saying this is because obviously there's been an attack. You know, the Apostle Paul had nefarious motives. Silas and Timothy had nefarious motives among you, and he said Remember how we lived among you. You guys witnessed our lives. You know the character of our integrity. There were accusations that they were just deceitful flatterers. In verse 5, he says, For we never came with words of flattery, as you know. So he's telling them, you know that. When I came, I preached the gospel. I told you you were sinners and you needed to turn from your demonic idolatry. I wasn't flattering you. I wasn't preaching to your to your your goodness. I was preaching to your sin and telling you to repent and put your faith in Christ. There's accusations that they were only after their money. In verse five, the latter part he says, we didn't come with flattery nor with a pretext for greed. And he says, God is witness. And then in verse 9 he says, For ye remember, brothers, our labor and toil We worked night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you while we proclaimed to you the gospel of God. So Paul says, we didn't take money from you. In fact, we worked with our own hands. You guys know this. You you saw us. Making tents, working with our own hands, selling them in the marketplace, working night and day so that we would provide for our own needs. There wasn't any pretense for greed. There's also accusations that they were power-hungry manipulators. In verse 6, it says, nor did we seek glory from people. whether from you or from others, though we could have made demands as apostles of Christ. And he says, remember how we live, remember our lifestyle among you. And then this last accusation that he seems to be defending against here is this idea that he had casually abandoned them. He left even though he could have come back. Those who would make that accusation know it's not true. They themselves know it's not true. And Paul simply has to remind them of the events that surrounded his departure. I didn't casually leave you. We didn't leave because we were looking for greener grass. We left because we were forced out and Jason had to pay a bribe to the government so that we would leave. We were forced out of the city. And so Paul is answering that. He says, we were torn away from you, brothers. We see that Paul really wore his heart on his sleeves. When Paul ministered to people, it was not it was not a distant relationship. It wasn't a professional relationship. It wasn't an academic relationship. It wasn't a business relationship. It was a deep, loving, family bond. And Paul expresses himself with deep affection. Not only to the Thessalonians, but to all the people that he ministered to. We can see several examples of this in 2 Corinthians chapter 2 Paul expresses his love for the Corinthian believers. When Paul's writing the epistle of 1 Thessalonians, he's in Corinth. And later, as he leaves, he writes back to the Corinthians and he says this. For out of much affliction and anguish of heart, I wrote to you with many tears, not so that you would be made sorrowful, but that you might know the love which I have especially for you. Does that sound like a professional business relationship? No, he's he's crying as he writes the epistle. He's deeply in love with them. He poured out his love to them. He does the same thing to the Philippian believers in Philippians chapter 1. He says, For it is only right for me to feel this way about you all, because I have you in my heart. Since both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers of grace with me, for God is my witness how I long for you all with the affection of Christ Jesus. Again, it's not this distant casual surface relationship. It's a deep affection that he has For the Philippian believers. And again, he was at Philippi right before he came to Thessalonica. This is the people he's ministering to, and he pours out his heart to them again and again. You remember when Paul was going back to Jerusalem and he knew that something was going to happen to him in Jerusalem. And in Acts chapter 20, he's on his way to Jerusalem and he stops by Miletus and he calls for the Ephesian elders. Come, I have a message for you. I will not see you again likely on this side of glory. And we're told in Acts chapter 20, verses 36 and 38. He said, when he said these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all, and they all began to weep aloud and embraced Paul I'm reading from the new magic standard when we read it from here. Embraced Paul and kissed him, being sorrowful most of all because of the word he had spoken, that they would not see his face again. And they accompanied him to the ship. You see that this love that Paul poured out to the Philippians, to the Thessalonians, to the Corinthians, to the Ephesians, there's this deep love that's also reciprocated in how they respond to him. They respond with weeping and in hugs and in kissing when they find out that they will likely never see him again, the side of glory. Paul ministered in a very personal, beautiful way. It's a great example for us. You know, they spent, what, six months with the Thessalonians? Six months. And yet their hearts were knit together in a powerful way. And their departure is this heart-wrenching departure. This is a beautiful example of what our ministries should be like. How we ought to relate to one another as brothers and sisters in Christ It's not academic. It's not professional. It should not be casual. It should be rooted deeply in Christian love. Affection that tugs at the heartstrings, that causes us to make sacrifices, and to be knitted when one brother cries, we are touched. We weep with those who weep, and we rejoice with those who rejoice. That's the bond that we are called to have. And Paul simply says here that we were torn away from you, brothers. He reminds them that their departure was not by choice. It was by force. They had no choice in the matter. The word torn, it's a Greek word a porphanizo. A porphan, orphan. A porphan. We get the word orphan, our our English word orphan from this word. And the idea is to be orphaned. In fact, the New American Standard translates it that we were orphaned from you. And I don't think that's probably the best way. Paul wasn't orphaned. He wasn't left as an orphan. He was as the parent. being wrenched away from his children, and the children were left orphaned. The word can be used to describe someone who's bereaved. We were bereaved of you. We were wrenched apart from you. You see the intense relationship and pain that comes. I remember watching a movie recently about Polish Jewish parents who sent their children to Britain at the beginning of World War II. Knowing that they couldn't leave, but if they could get their children out, there was every likelihood that their children would survive the war. And as they took them to the train station, they were doing the very best that they could for their children, lovingly, caring for their children, but the heart wrenching cost, knowing that the goodbye there at the train station in Warsaw would probably be the last time that they would see their children in this life. And it was a heart-wrenching, deeply emotional time as they said goodbye, and many of them never did see their parents or their children again. That's kind of the idea of what Paul is talking about. We were torn away from you. We were bereaved of you. And it wasn't something that was done by choice, but an external force kept us from being able to stay with you. And he says, we were torn away from you, brothers. It's interesting that 19 times in this little epistle of five chapters, Paul calls them brothers. 19 times. That's a lot. He repeatedly mentions this fact that we're family. There's a connection here that is deeper than just acquaintance or friendship or we worshiped at the same church together. No, we are brothers in Christ. The source of the love that Paul has for the Thessalonians and that they have for him is rooted in a blood relationship. It's that relationship that we have in the blood of Jesus Christ. That we have been made brothers of Jesus Christ. We've been made brothers of one another. We've been made children of God. And he says, I call you my brothers. Remember, think about this Just a year, probably before Paul wrote these words, he had never met any of them. Probably never heard of them, seen them, had any acquaintance with them a year earlier. And now he says you're my brothers. And departing from you is like being bereaved of my children. It's a heart-wrenching experience. One, some actually several of the early church fathers said that Paul spoke like a mother about his children in these verses. And you can see that reality that comes out here. This family bond is really what connects us. You ever just sat and observed the church, observe people interacting with one another. What brings us together? From different backgrounds. Different communities, different different relationships, different work experiences, different different educational experiences. It's Christ. And I love sometimes just sitting and observing people. I'm like, I'll say, those two people, apart from Christ, would never even know each other. But they love each other. And they care for each other because of Christ. That's a beautiful thing. The love of Christ that is found in the church that unites people from different backgrounds And makes them brothers. It's something that's extremely powerful. Have you ever felt that connection? Have you ever been on a missions trip and you've worshipped with believers in another country? You think, wow, I don't know anything about these people. But I know they know my savior and they love my savior and my savior loves them and their family. And I love them. We had our our granddaughter was was born about a month ago, and it's amazing how you just instantly go, I would die for that child. I love that child. How does that happen? It's the same thing in the body of Christ. God knits us together and say, I would die for that person. I love that person. And Paul's expressing this reality that he experiences. With the Thessalonians. This bond is what Jesus spoke about. Remember in Matthew chapter 12, when the disciples said, Your mothers and your mother and your brothers are outside. He said, Who is my mother? And who are my brothers? And stretching out his hand toward his disciples, he said, Here are my mother and my brothers, for whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. That family love Jesus expresses is what we experience as well. He describes this departure not only as heart-wrenching, but it's a temporary thing. Now Paul can't say for sure that he's going to see the Thessalonians again, but he but he anticipates that's the case. He said, We were torn away from you, brothers, for a short time. Even if it's the rest of his life, it's a short time. Because he will be with them throughout all eternity. But as he looks at it, he anticipates This will be short. It's almost the hopefulness of the Apostle Paul that's coming out here. He's confident that this separation is temporary, but what makes it difficult is that there is no end in sight. There is no on such and such a date, this will be over and we will be able to be reunited again. We have today instant travel and real-time communication. I heard some disheartening things from Tanzania today and the ability to communicate with people in Tanzania like that. is beautiful. It's wonderful. But Paul couldn't do that. Paul couldn't couldn't have go on WhatsApp or signal and text them and see how they're doing or have a face communicate face to face. communication with them. And there is no end in sight. You can't say, well, you know, I'm going to schedule a flight and I'll be there in a in a couple months. He just didn't know. And that unknown is part of the pain that takes place here. It's the pain of not knowing when this will end. But he describes their departure as Only physical. He says, I've left you physically, but not spiritually. He says, I left you, I was torn away from you, brothers, for a short time, in person, not in heart. Literally means in face. Not in heart. So you don't see my face, but my heart is there. I am right there with you. We've all heard the phrase, absence makes the heart grow. Fonder, or maybe you've heard it the other way around. Absence makes the fond heart wander. I don't know which analogy that you've heard of, but both of those can be true in certain situations. And Paul is saying That absence has not caused our affections to be diminished in any way. I am there, my heart is with you, I yearn for you. So regardless of the physical proximity. He felt an intense pastoral concern for this church and for all the churches that he started. You remember reading in 2 Corinthians chapter 11 where he's describing the Abuses that he's endured for the cause of Christ. And at the end of that list, he says, and apart from other things, there is the daily pressure on me of my anxiety for all the churches. Who is weak and I am not weak? He's saying, Who is weak and I don't feel that weakness? He says, who is made to fall and I am not indignant, or as the New American standard says, or I am not without intense concern. So if if you're if you fall, if you fall into sin, I am intensely concerned about that. Paul says, I feel as a pastor for all the churches. And so when I hear a report of a problem in Corinth or in Galatia or anywhere, my heart is broken for that. There's an intense pastoral concern. And I wonder, do we have that same level of love and concern for those that we minister to? Or are they out of sight and out of mind? Can we just turn that off and not think about that? Paul says, you're out of sight, but you're not out of mind. My heart is with you. And as a result, they greatly desired to come and visit them in person. And notice what he says here. He says, we endeavored the more eagerly and with great desire to see you face to face. And Paul really is heaping together descriptive terms to show that he didn't just have a casual interest, like, yeah, I'm going to try to get there. I hope that's going to work out, but I'm not sure how it's going to work out. But I'm I'm I really do want to be with you This could literally be translated, we most earnestly made every effort to see you face to face with great desire. Paul's saying, I've done everything I can. I've used every power at my disposal to make a trip back there, but it has been thwarted at every turn. The word endeavored refers to actual attempts. It wasn't just like I was hoping to, and that just didn't work out. But he made actual attempts to return to Thessalonica. And these they were they had come to no avail. He said it describes it great desire. The word great desire there is a word that normally refers to the intensity of sexual desire. And Paul says, here, not referring to sexual desire, but he had this intense desire to be back with the Thessalonians, this intense yearning and longing to be with them. But it wasn't possible. And he switches. You notice here in verse 18, he says, but because we wanted to come to you, I, Paul, again and again. He's using the the plural, we wanted to, we tried. Then he goes, let me just say, I, me, Paul. I really wanted to come to you. And I tried again and again. That that switch and then the his insertion of his personal name, Paul, in the middle of an epistle, is is this intensifier This is my strong desire, and I have tried every way possible, but it has failed. Paul's love for them is beautiful to see here. But Paul's love was hindered by satanic opposition. We see in verse 18 he continues to say, but Satan hindered us. Satan hindered us. The reality of satanic hindrances in the ministry is what's being described here. The word hindered, it's a military term. It literally means to cut into. Like someone might cut a section out of the road so that vehicles couldn't pass or cut down trees so that you couldn't pass down that road. Oftentimes when an invading army was retreating or a retreating army was was going back down the roads, they would dig up sections of the road so the army that's following after them couldn't easily pass with their equipment. And that's the word that he's describing here. Satan has put roadblocks in the way to him coming to them. And it seems to be what he's describing. If you look forward just a little bit in chapter 3, in verse 11, he says, Now may our God and Father himself And our Lord Jesus direct our way to you. The phrase there, direct our way to you, has the idea of removing of hindrances. He seems to be saying, I am dependent on God Himself making a way for me to get back there because it seems at this point that there has been no way. Satan has hindered us from coming And this is not unusual. Paul describes the reality of satanic hindrances in his ministry in a few places. For example, in Romans chapter 1. He says, I don't want you to be unaware, brothers, that I have often intended to come to you, often intended to go to Rome and see the Roman believers. but thus far have been prevented, in order that I may reap some harvest among you, as well as among the rest of the Gentiles. And then in the latter part of Romans Chapter fifteen he says, this is the reason why I have so often been hindered from coming to you. There's been a l a f a reality that has kept him from being able to come to the Rome to Rome and visit the Roman believers. Already in this chapter, we've seen a few of those hindrances to the apostolic ministry. There were hindrances from the state in chapter 2, verse 2, 1 Thessalonians. Chapter 2, verse 2, he says, but though we had already suffered and been shamefully treated at Philippi , as you know. So the first hindrance was at Philippi. They were hindered from doing the work of the ministry there. The government had persecuted him and it forced him out. There was opposition from the society, from the culture in verse 14 of chapter 2. He says, For you brothers became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea. For you suffered the same things from your own countrymen. as they did from the Jews. So there was there was from within the society there was hindrances to the work of God. And now he's describing hindrances or opposition. from Satan. And these may look like three different enemies, but in reality it's one. Satan is behind all of these hindrances that take place. There are channels for the devil to hinder the work of God. We need to recognize that Satan is an active adversary against the gospel. And an active adversary against the minister of the gospel. If you want to do gospel work, there will be opposition. And it might be in ways that you don't anticipate. It might be in ways that you don't even understand. Satan hates and he is vehemently opposed. to the gospel. And he uses every possible way to thwart any advance of the gospel. He can use physical infirmities. He can Sicknesses, cancer, illnesses can be used to thwart the work of the gospel. In 2 Corinthians chapter 12, remember that that story where the Apostle Paul tells us that Satan Hinder the work of Paul by what? Giving him a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, he says. Now it's important to recognize God wasn't absent from that. God had a purpose in Satan's harassing. God allowed Satan to harass Paul so Paul would not be conceited. And rather he would depend on the Lord. And so Satan's work actually created the opportunity for God to work in greater power in the life of the Apostle Paul. Satan can use demonically controlled individuals to thwart the gospel. In Acts chapter 13, there's a story about Elamis, the magician. And Elamus the magician, it says, opposed them, seeking to turn the proconsul away from the faith. And so as Paul's preaching, there is a demonically controlled individual who is actively fighting against the message of the Apostle Paul and the missionaries that are there. And this happens. There are demonically controlled people who are thwarting and attempting to to undermine the message of the gospel. When you hear false teachers, know that they are being used by Satan, many of whom are demonically controlled individuals who are seeking to undermine the work of the gospel. But it's important to remember that although Satan is a powerful enemy, he is not omnipotent And ultimately, all of Satan's endeavors are within the limits of God's sovereign will. We see this in the book of Job, that Job Doesn't understand all that's happening, but Satan is only given permission by God, and God's purposes are being carried out even through Satan's evil plan. So we are enabled to respond to these hindrances in faith. And that is for our good and for the glory of God. D. Edmund Hubert said, Satan may cut in on us and prevent us from doing what we feel is best, but the omniscient God allows it for a higher purpose. I think the example of the thorn in the flesh of Paul is one of those great examples where we see this happening, and it's described for us that Satan was trying to undermine the Apostle Paul's ministry. Whatever that was, whether it was blindness or malaria or whatever it is, we're not told what it is, whatever that that thorn in the flesh was It actually caused Paul to throw himself on the power of Christ. And he says, therefore I will gladly glory in my weakness, that the power of Christ may be known in me. And so it is important for us not to lose heart or despair, but to recognize that we have a sovereign God who even uses Satan's evil schemes. for our good and for his glory. But not all hindrances are satanic in nature. Remember we do I have this here? Oh, I had that one. There we go. Yeah. In Acts chapter 16. In Acts Chapter 16, we were told of an event that took place in Paul's ministry earlier before he went to Philippi, and the Holy Spirit hindered, or might say forbid Paul from going and serving in that area. He says, and they went through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit. to speak the word in Asia. And when they had come up to Mysia, they attempted to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit of Jesus did not allow them. So not all hindrances, can we say, are Are demonic. And Paul was able to discern the difference. One was of the spirit, and the other was an external one of Satan. So how should a Christian respond to satanic hindrances? Maybe you're experiencing that in your life. First of all, we should not lose heart. Rather, we should expect them. And I think we should be encouraged to some degree by them. The enemy does not seek to hinder something that is not moving. You don't hinder a stationary object. You hinder a moving object. You hinder a threat. And so if Satan hinders the work of the gospel in your life, say, ah. I am a threat by the grace of God, and find comfort in that. We should not lose heart Secondly, we should run to God in prayer because he is greater than our adversary. When all the powers of earth are impotent to thwart the working of the evil one, God is unhindered. And God has absolute control and he has Satan on a short leash. And so we can run to him. He has boundless power to thwart the evil one. Thirdly, we should rest in the fact that God's will is not thwarted when Satan hinders God's work. Never has Satan defeated the work of God. So we should be encouraged by that. And lastly, we should put on the whole armor of God. Remember, we're told to be strong in the Lord and the strength of his might. put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness Against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places, therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand firm So we ought to be putting on the whole armor of God, putting on the belt of truth, knowing the truth and speaking the truth We've got to be putting on the helmet of salvation, secure in the promises that God has given us. Putting on the breastplate of righteousness, imputed and actual righteousness in our lives. Having our feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, knowing the gospel well, carrying the shield of faith, using the sword of the Spirit, and in all prayer. In dependence on God against the schemes of Satan. The last thing we see in these few verses here is Paul's eternally motivated love. Although there was satanic opposition, Paul's vision was ahead. And his love was focused on the future. He says here in these verses, for what is our hope or joy or crown of boasting before our Lord Jesus at his coming? Is it not you? For you are our glory and joy. This is a really beautiful touching description of the Apostle Paul's love for the Thessalonian believers. And he asks two questions which are essentially rhetorical and then he answers them. He says, what is our hope or joy or crown of boasting before our Lord at his coming? Then he says, is it not you? That's essentially he's answering his question with a question. Then he says, for you are our glory and joy. And again, this is where some of the early church fathers said, this sounds like a mother and how she would speak about her children. What is my boasting? Is it not you? You are my joy and my crown of glory. The Thessalonian believers were Paul's hope. The way we think of the word hope in English today is very different than the way the Bible describes the word hope. We think of things like hope, we say, I hope the Steelers win the Super Bowl. That's my hope. It's it may or may not happen. You know, some of you are going, I hope the Steelers don't win the Super Bowl. It's just my wish. Another way to describe that don't raise your hand. It's it's it's uh when I say that it's just my wish, I wish that the Steelers would win. But there's no expectation. Especially not this year. That's not how the New Testament uses the word hope. The word hope in the New Testament is of a confident or a certain Expectation. This will happen. We see this later on in First Thessalonians. Go to chapter 4 in verses 13 and 14. He says, but we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope. They have no hope. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. So Paul wasn't saying, you know, we hope, so we don't grieve, because we hope that they're gonna live again. No, he says we have this confident expectation that because Jesus died and rose again, we also will rise again. And our brothers and sisters who died in Christ will also rise again. Paul was confident. This hope he's describing here is this confidence that God will complete the good work that he began in them. Like he said to the Philippian church, I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. So Paul says For what is our hope? Then he answers it, you. You are our hope. We are confident that God is going to bring to completion the work that he began in you Then he says, you are our joy. What is our joy? The Thessalonian believers were Paul's joy. The heart of the apostle and his missionary team were so intertwined with the Thessalonians that their joy was dependent upon them. Like we mentioned last week, that a mother is only as happy as her saddest child. Paul says, my joy is wrapped up with your joy, your future joy. It reminds me of the original words of the hymn, The Sands of Time Are Sinking. I think we know that that song pretty well. It's in our hymnal, number 559, in the Blue Hymnal, and it's written by Anne Cousins. But it's interesting, if you look in the hymnal, it'll say tune on the right, bottom right-hand side, which says Rutherford. And it means Samuel Rutherford. She wrote that based on the dying words of One of the Westminster divines, who's a renowned Protestant theologian and pastor named Samuel Rutherford, who was on his deathbed, wrote several things And they became then the basis of this song. One of the verses that we don't actually have in our hymnal because it would be hard for us to understand without a great deal of historical and cultural context. is what I'm going to read to here in just a moment, but he is writing about his hometown where he was a pastor, Anwath by the Soul Way. And he says this, fair and with by the soul way, to me thou still art dear. E'en from the or even from the verge of heaven I drop for thee a tear. So as he's on the verge of heaven, he is weeping for his congregation in Anwath. And he says, Oh, if one soul from Anwith meet me at God's right hand, my heaven will be two heavens. in Emmanuel's land. That's the affection of a true Christian minister If just one person that I shared the gospel with will meet me there, my heaven will be twice the heaven in Emmanuel's land. Paul says, you are my joy. When I stand before Christ and you stand there with me, you are my joy. You are my crown. My heaven will be twice a heaven because you are there with me. Paul says, you are my crown of boasting. Or you might say the crown of exaltation, my glory when I stand before the Lord. The believers themselves. Paul says, you yourselves. I'm not looking for a wreath. You yourselves are my crown. You are my glory. You are my exaltation in the presence of Christ. Maybe you're wondering, how could Paul boast? I thought he said in Galatians 6, far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Well, Paul wasn't boasting in eternal salvation because of that I'm saved because I led them, but he's saying, look, this is the product. of my work. This is the effort of my labors and my prayer. I rejoice, I exult, I boast in the fact that God has allowed me to see this fruit for my labors. The Thessalonian believers were won by the cross of Christ. And in that reality, he was united with them. And that's what motivated them as a missionary team. But remember what Paul said in 1 Corinthians chapter 9. There's this great passage where he says, I have become all things to all people, that by all means I might save some. I do it all for the sake of the gospel. that I may share with them in its blessings. This is what he's talking about. When I stand before God, I'm sharing with them in his blessings, do you not know that in a race All the runners run, but only one receives the prize. So run that you may obtain it. Paul says, I run that I might have the prize of as many people as possible. Around the throne of Christ together with me. Paul's love for the Thessalonians was motivated by the reward at the coming of Christ. All of Paul's ministry. All of his ministry was done in light of that day when he would stand before the Lord and give an account of his ministry. The fact that one day we will stand before the judgment seat of Christ ought to motivate us to greater faithfulness in spite of the difficulties that God allows in our lives Again in 1 Corinthians chapter 5, he says, So whether we are at home, and that means with Jesus, or away, that's from Jesus, away from Jesus, we make it our aim to please him, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. so that each one may receive what is due from what he has done in the body, whether good or evil. This is the reality for all. We will stand. We will give an account. And Paul says, when I do, I want to be known as being faithful. And so I minister in light of that day. It is the love of Christ and the desire to please him with many who have been brought to glory through his efforts that motivate him. And that should be what motivates our hearts as well. A great part of the joy of heaven will be the glory and joy of those who we have had the privilege of reaching for Christ. Paul asked the question, what is our hope or joy or crown of boasting before our Lord Jesus at his coming? Is it not you? The believers are his joy. This is what Jesus spoke about in the parable of the unjust steward when he said, Make friends for yourself by means of the wealth of unrighteousness, so that when it fails, They will receive you into the eternal dwelling. What is the wealth of unrighteousness? It could be finances, it could be the blessings that you have in this life. This life, you have one life. To shore up treasures for eternity. And some of those treasures are the souls that you will win for Christ. And he says, labor for that. Use the time you have, the energy you have, the health you have, the money you have. to bring people to Christ so that you will have these treasures with you in glory. When we have the privilege of sharing the gospel with a neighbor, Or family member, and they come to Christ, they become our crown of rejoicing now and in eternity. When we support a missionary who makes disciples of Christ in a distant land, they become our crown of rejoicing. We may never actually meet them in this life, but they become our crown of rejoicing. Do you have one who will make your heaven twice a heaven? As Samuel Rutherford said, if just one would meet me there, my heaven will be twice a heaven in Emmanuel's land. You say, I don't know. Well, can I encourage you? Pray for that. Ask God to make you a tool where You multiply yourself and you bring another. Plead with God for that. And then open your mouth With boldness and confidence and in love, that your heaven can become twice a heaven in Emmanuel's land. Do not fear opposition and hindrances. They will come But remember that Satan is powerless to derail the purpose of God. And then minister in deep love. The love the Apostle Paul here sets an example for us that is intense. We need to love with a deep intensity that costs us. Because it costs our Savior. And love like that is hard to resist. The Thessalonians couldn't resist it. The Philippians couldn't resist it. The Galatians couldn't resist it. The Corinthians couldn't resist it. When we love deeply and intensely and sacrificially for the gospel's sake, It is powerful, and God is glorified. May God help us to have this heart that the Apostle Paul and his team had for the sake of the gospel. Let's pray. Lord, I thank you. These words are convicting. The example before us is a high one. Lord, I pray that we would we would love as we have been loved. I pray, Father, that That we would give sacrificially and labor sacrificially so that the gospel can be known to those who are outside of your grace. Father, I pray that you would allow us the privilege of making disciples. Father, I pray that you would make us a multiplying church That we would reach those in our community, in our family, and at work. There may be some here tonight that said, I've never had the privilege of Leading one to Christ. I pray that you would give them that privilege. And I pray a lot, Lord, that you would stir within them passion to pray for this and to seek after this. And Lord, then I pray that you would deliver an answer to that prayer. We thank you that you hear prayers like this, because it is in line with your will. And we have confidence as we pray this way. Thank you, Lord, for this time this evening. Use it, use your word in our lives, in Jesus' name, Amen