With the preaching of John the Baptist. But in John's Gospel His portrayal is not so much on his ministry of preaching repentance, but on his humility and his pointing to Christ. Today, as we continue our study of John's Gospel, we come to the section that immediately follows the prologue. The prologue is the first 18 verses which serve as the introduction to this wonderful book. And now we delve into narrative. And this section from verse 19 to verse 51 is kind of like a bridge. between the introduction and the body of this book, which really begins in chapter 2 in verse 1. And this section of Scripture is recording for us the first week of our Lord's public ministry. Now I want to show you an interesting feature here. And I don't want to spend a lot of time with it, but you'll notice that verse 19 begins with the words the next day And then verse 35 begin with the words the next day. And verse 43 begin with the words the next day. What we have is this first week that's carefully documented here. And the seventh day would be that first miracle in Cana that's recorded in chapter 2. Why does John develop his chronology this way? Let me give you a hint. You remember how this book begins. In the beginning was the word. And when we started this study of the Gospel of John, I mentioned to you that that of course is intended to remind the reader of what the first day of creation, the beginning of a creation, the very first verse of the Bible. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And now in the first week of our Lord's ministry, we have the days carefully denoted, just like we have in the first days of creation. And this is John's way of signaling to the reader that just as creation was a new beginning and it changed everything, so The beginning of the ministry of Christ was one of the great monumental events in the history of the world, and everything would be different after this week. Now the paragraph that we are considering this morning, which is verses 19 through 28 , is the witness of John the Baptist to Jesus Christ. You may recall in earlier messages that John has seven witnesses to Christ. The first one is John the Baptist. Now, the term for witness is the term for someone who would give testimony in a court of law. It's the origin of our English word martyr. In fact, John the Baptist would become a martyr. He would die for boldly denouncing sin. Now we have already considered this remarkable man in our study of the Gospel of John. There's a summary of his entire ministry in verses 6 through 8. It says there was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness to bear witness about the light that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light. And then again in verse 15 we read, John bore witness about him and cried out, This was he of whom I said, he who comes after me ranks before me, because he was before me. So John the Baptist's life was all about being a witness to Christ. He sets for us a wonderful example of testifying for Christ throughout this book and in this paragraph. Now The purpose of the paragraph that we're considering this morning is to begin the ministry of our Lord and to set it in a context. And set in the context of the ministry of John the Baptist and in a place and in a time. The last verse of this paragraph in verse 28 says these things took place and Bethany across the Jordan where John was baptizing. Why does John include details like that that you might mention, think that doesn't mean anything to me? It's because he wants you to know that these things really occurred. in a point in time and at a very specific place. This is not fantasy. This is historic record. The ministry of Christ came about after the ministry of John the Baptist that was preparing the way And one of the things that John provides for us is a model of testifying for Christ. Now our text has two two main points because there's two sections of Scripture. You have, first of all , John the Baptist being questioned from a group of leaders concerning his identity in verses 19 through 23, and then in verses 24 to 28, he's questioned about his baptisms that he's performing. And I want to bring two points out of this. I want us, first of all, to understand from this entire passage that all disciples of Christ should bear humble witness to him. And I'll explain what I mean by being a humble witness. That means that we're not drawing attention to ourselves, but to Christ. Now the first point is that we must humbly turn people's attention away from us. Look with me, please, at verse 19. And this is the testimony of John when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, who are you? John here is clarifying his identity. As more and more people were going out into the wilderness to hear the preaching of John the Baptist, The religious authorities sent a delegation on a fact-finding mission. They questioned John about his identity in verses 19 through 23, and then about his baptism in verses 24 through 28. Now we read that the Jews sent out this delegation. John is using, the Apostle John is using this term, the Jews, to refer to the leaders of the nation. The nation was ultimately under the authority of Rome at this time, but there was a 70-member body called the Sanhedrin. And they were a religious body that had great authority and influence in the nation They were comprised of liberals and conservatives. There were liberals like the Sadducees who didn't believe in the supernatural. And then there were conservatives who were the Pharisees. The priests that are mentioned in verse 19 would have been the Sadducees, that is, the more liberal group, and the Pharisees are mentioned in verse 24. And the Levites that are mentioned would have been temple guards that were used to demonstrate the authority and power of this delegation. Now just imagine this. You have John the Baptist, he's out in the wilderness. He looks like a figure from the past. His belt and his coat. unmistakably identify him as a prophet. And then you have these men who are well dressed. They are important leaders of the nation. I picture, I don't know how many were there, maybe six or eight of them, and they come there and they're very official looking. And they're very respectable and they have high status, and they're talking to this eccentric man who is gathering large numbers of people out in the wilderness. Now, why did they come to see John the Baptist? It was not because they were personally interested in repenting of their sins. They were politically motivated. You see, these leaders are trying to maintain the status quo Yes, they would like Rome to be overthrown in some ways, but they also were well aware that Rome had given them broad powers of self-governance. And they wanted to maintain that. And they know that if there was a revolution sparked by John the Baptist, that Rome would come down with brutal retaliation. And there would be turmoil and they might lose their control and the nice situation they had for themselves. So they're trying to maintain the status quo. And they want to know for themselves Who is this man, John the Baptist? They ask him, who are you? And notice what he says in verse 20. He confessed and did not deny, but confessed, I am not the Christ. This wording sounds a little redundant to us, maybe even a little confusing, and what it is What it is conveying is that John the Baptist clearly and categorically denied that he was the Messiah. And it implies that they asked him the same questions in multiple ways. And he gave the same consistent answer again and again. I am not the promised Messiah. We call this kind of questioning an interrogation. Now the reason why they kept questioning him is because there were many people who claimed to be the Messiah at this time. There was a lot of turmoil. People greatly resented the pagan Romans having authority over them. They wanted a Messiah to come and restore the glory of this nation to what it once was. And so when someone stood up and said that they were the Messiah, they invariably gathered people around them until people realized this guy is really not the Messiah. And these religious authorities kept trying to keep control over this volatile situation. So John the Baptist says categorically, I'm not the Messiah, I'm not the Christ. Verse 21, then they continue their line of questioning. They ask him , What then? Are you Elijah? And he said, I am not. Now why did they ask him if he was Elijah? Well, for one thing, Elijah never died. He was taken up in a chariot of fire. And there were legends that he was still in the atmosphere going around and sometimes he would make appearances. And so they thought that maybe this was Elijah. But more importantly, the very last verse of the Old Testament predicted that Elijah would return. It says in Malachi chapter 4 and verse 5. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and terrible day of the Lord comes. But John the Baptist responds to this question, I am not him. That's not me. Now the problem with his answer is that it seems to contradict at first glance what Jesus says in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Because Jesus says that for those who will receive it, John the Baptist is Elijah. Secular scholars seize on verses like this and they say, ah, see, the Bible is filled with contradictions. But this is not a contradiction. John the Baptist denied it because he was not that same person, Elijah. He has not come back from the afterlife to come to earth. That's not him. He's a different person. However, he did come in the spirit of Elijah and fulfill the prophecy. Jesus says in Matthew 11, 14, if you're willing to accept it, he is Elijah who is to come. Now the next question they ask John the Baptist is, is he the prophet? Notice they're asking about the prophet, not a prophet. He was a prophet. He was the last of the Old Testament prophets. But what they're referring to is the prophet that Moses predicted would come in Deuteronomy chapter 18 and verse Verse 15 it says there, the Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers. It is to him you shall lish listen. Now, some rabbis correctly understood that this is a reference to Christ, and it is. He is our prophet, our priest, and our king. And this is a prediction of him as our prophet. But some rabbis mistakenly understood this as a reference to another figure, a second Moses. And this is clearly how this delegation understood this prophecy because they asked this question separately from the question about him being the Messiah. And once more John the Baptist answers, no. Look with me now at verse 22. So they said to him, Who are you? We need to give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself? At this point, this delegation from the Sanhedrin is frustrated. They can't go back to the Sanhedrin and say, well, we know who John the Baptist isn't. He's not the Messiah, he's not Elijah, and he's not the prophets. So they're asking him, what do you say about yourself? Notice his remarkably humble answer. Verse 23. He said, I am the voice. of one crying out in the wilderness, make straight the way of the Lord, as the prophet Isaiah said. This is a quotation from Isaiah chapter 40 and verse 3, that great chapter that begins the second half of the book. Pastor Aaron covered this not too many weeks ago in his study on Wednesday nights. This is a significant verse because it's found And all four Gospels. It's found in Matthew 3. 3, Mark 1. 3, Luke 3. 4, and here again in verse 23. It tells us that John the Baptist's ministry of repentance was to prepare the way for the Messiah. I think you can think about it like this. John the Baptist came and with his hard preaching, he plowed up the soil. so that the Messiah could come, the Lord Jesus Christ, and plant the seed of the gospel, so that the ground would be better prepared. to receive the good news of the gospel. But what's amazing to me is the humility of this man that's exemplified here. Make no mistake about it. John the Baptist was a great man of God. He could have said and answered this question, who do you say you are? He could have said, I am the greatest of all the Old Testament heroes of the faith. And he would have been telling the truth. That's what Jesus said. He could have said, I'm greater than Abraham or Moses or David. But he doesn't say that. He could have said, my birth was the result of a miracle of the intervention of God. He could have said, I am the divinely chosen forerunner and announcer of the Messiah. He could have said, I'm the first prophet that God has sent in 400 years. But he doesn't say anything like that. He says, I'm just a voice. I'm just a messenger. I'm just pointing people to the coming Messiah. And so we see here The humble way that John the Baptist turns tension away from himself and to the Lord Jesus Christ. What a model testimony this is for us. Not to live to gain people's attention But to deflect the attention away from ourselves to Christ. And that brings me to my second point We must humbly turn people's attention to our great Savior. Now, John the Baptist is now going to clarify the superiority of the Lord Jesus Christ. Look with me at verse 24. Now they had been sent from the Pharisees. This brief verse is meant to indicate to the reader the source of the next question. Some scholars think that there were two delegations, one that came from the Sadducees, the Liberals, and one that came from the Conservatives, the Pharisees. But that is not likely the case It's likely that in forming this fact-finding delegation, they had members of both groups of the Sanhedrin there And so the Sadducees asked their questions, and now the Pharisees ask their questions. So what do you know about the Pharisees? If you know anything, you probably know that they're not highly regarded by people. If someone calls you a Pharisee, it's not a compliment. Okay? But I want you to know that the Pharisees were greatly admired by most people in the first century in Judea. They thought highly of them. Josephus' historian tells us that there were about 6,000 Pharisees at the time of Christ, but their small numbers betray the incredible influence that they had over the nation. The verb means to separate, and that's probably the origin of the the word Pharisee They emerged as a distinct movement right after the Maccabean Revolt, about 160 years before the birth of Jesus. They had many positive traits. They were conservative, traditional, and patriotic. They were all about God and country. They lived disciplined lives. And they knew God's word incredibly well, but they were the Lord's constant antagonist. Jesus denounced the Pharisees more severely than any other group that he encountered. He spoke against them publicly and he angered them often. The Pharisees stand as the Bible's best example of the dangers of formal religion. They are an uncomfortable reminder that a person can promote traditional values and religious conservatism and yet be far from God. Now look at the question that these Pharisees asked John the Baptist, verse 25. They ask him then, why are you baptizing if you are neither the Christ nor Elijah nor the prophet? They say, if you're not any of these important people that the Old Testament speaks of, then why are you baptizing? Now let me take just a moment to say that baptism as a practice began at this early time. primarily as a way for Gentile converts to come into and acknowledge Judaism And the idea was that Gentiles were from a pagan, sinful background. They were considered unclean, and so they need to be cleansed. So there was this ceremony of them being cleansed in order to become a convert to Judaism. The problem is that John the Baptist was calling Jews to be baptized. And that disturbed the Pharisees. Now look with me at verse 26. John answered them, I baptize with water, but among you stands one you do not know. When he says, among you stand, some have speculated this means that Jesus was there when these words were spoken. But most scholars think that's unlikely, that it simply means that he is alive and well and about to reveal himself to the nation. But perhaps even in a deeper sense, John intends that we understand that these religious leaders were ignorant of him and would remain ignorant of him. They would never come to know him in a saving sense. But now we come to verse 27, which is I think the most significant verse we will read today. John the Baptist gives this testimony, even he who comes after me, the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie. He describes Jesus as the one who comes after me. He doesn't mean, of course, after him and the sense of less importance. He's very clear about that, but in his ministry chronologically took place after his. But in verse 15 of chapter 1, we see that Jesus indeed ranks far beyond John the Baptist. And John here in this expression is trying to reveal that it's not That Jesus is here and he's just like slightly below him, almost, but not quite equal with him. He wants his readers to know that there is a huge gap. between the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ, and himself. And so he uses something that they all would have instantly understood It seems that there was a proverbial saying at this time that a student should respect his rabbi or his master just like a slave does his master, but with one exception, and that is that no student of a rabbi should be asked to stoop down and untie his sandal. That is as he's coming from the dirty streets to come into a room and to have his feet washed, his sandals would need to be untid. And that was a job reserved for the lowest slave in the house. Now, why did the Jews consider this such a menial task? It's because they considered the feet to be unclean. And so only unclean slaves were given this duty. But notice that John the Baptist is not saying that he was willing to do what even a typical sturt student wasn't willing to do for his master. He's saying that he's not worthy to perform this task. And that's what would have been striking to his readers and to this delegation that day. You see, John the Baptist is communicating clearly to this delegation that they should not be so concerned with him. They should not be questioning him. They should not be seeking him for answers. They should be looking for this man, the Messiah. Because this man is much more significant and important that he is. Now we see here something very interesting. We see here one of the great reasons that people do not come to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And that is that they are distracted by other things and other concerns. These men are distracted. They are coming to find answers so that they can manage and maintain control of the situation. And what they don't realize is that they providentially have been privileged to live in the most significant period of time Since the beginning of creation, when the Messiah would take on flesh and would come into their midst, but they were so distracted with maintaining their status. and their wealth and their power that they missed him. In fact, it would be this body that would actively put him to death through Pilate 's. So how many people today are so distracted? with issues in their lives or with their quest for money and power and status in our American culture that they miss Putting their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Because their mind and their energy and their affections are all drawn out in achieving this level of power and influence. instead of finding a savior for their souls. May this not be your situation today. Don't be distracted from finding the Lord as your Savior. Seek him while he may be found. I want to conclude this message with just a few brief applications. Number one, every Christian should be a witness for Christ. In this gospel, I mentioned there are seven witnesses. And the clear implication is that all disciples, all followers of Jesus Christ, should be a witness for him. And there are two broad ways that we witness for him. We witness through our words by speaking for him, and we witness with our lives. By living in such a way that people see that we are different. That we have Something about us that's compelling and winsome and attractive because there's a stability, there is a peace, there is a joy. There is a different ethic. There is different values and different goals in our lives than other people that they know. This should be true about our families. This should be true about our marriages. People should see that we're not just like them, except that every once in a while we occasionally go to church. No, they should see that every facet of our lives, our whole outlook on life is different because Jesus Christ has changed everything. The fact is the gospel went out in the first century primarily not by the work of the apostles. but by common people who were scattered over the Mediterranean world through persecution, who went out And just told people, you won't believe what happened 30 years ago. There was this man in Jerusalem who died and rose again. And he was the promised Messiah of the Hebrew Scriptures. The idea of the word is that they gossiped the gossip, the gospel, that they could not help from sharing with their neighbors and their friends and their co-workers what Jesus had done for them. And this is how the gospel spread like wildfire through the known world. The second thing I want to point out is that every Christian should have a high view of Christ. John the Baptist says here in verse 27 that he was not worthy to untie the sandals of Jesus. Do we have such a high view of our Savior? Do we have that exalted view? We live in an unusual place and an unusual time, and one of the things that's unusual is that In our American culture, Jesus Christ is a part of that cultural melu that we live in. So in films and in movies and in books and in paintings and everything, we have representations and fictionalized accounts of Jesus. And I think we have to be careful that we don't allow Hollywood to shape and mold the way we perceive Jesus to be. Because almost always there is something that's a little bit off in the way he's portrayed. And the things that he says and the way he interacts with people. We have to be careful. that we allow the divinely given revelation of our Savior in Scripture to help us to understand who He is Not someone who's trying to sell something or trying to use his fame and our society for their own purposes. And almost always what they end up doing is removing some of his divinity, as it were, and his authority and his power to make him more approachable. And we must be very careful that we don't allow our thinking to be shaped by the world Number three, every Christian should strive to grow in humility. What do you think of when you think of a spiritually mature individual? I think for many Christians, they think of it as almost like a checklist, all right? I go to church. I read my Bible occasionally. I put money in the offering plate. Therefore, I am a spiritually mature individual. It's good to do those things, but can I tell you a lost person could do those things? That's not marks of spiritual maturity You want to know how spiritually mature you are? Ask yourself, how humble am I? How easily slighted am I by others because they don't give me the attention? or the status that I think I deserve. How often in conversations do I want to interrupt and bring the attention back to myself? Let me tell you about me. How often do I feel like, why aren't people giving me more attention and more status than they seem to? We are all naturally proud, but by the grace of God, we should be humble. We should grow in grace. You see, humility is not thinking lowly of yourself. It's not the person who goes around saying, I'm not really any good at anything, you know, and and then people prop them up. So no, no, no, you're really good, you can do that. And they give them compliments and that person's fishing for one compliment after another saying, I'm not really talented at all. That's not what humility is. Humility is a realistic understanding of who you are because of your knowledge of God. You see, when you truly walk with the Lord and you understand how great and how powerful and how wise and how eternal he is, and how you will also have a sense of how finite and frail and prone to wonder you are And you will be a humble person. The more you expose yourself in worship to the Lord, the more humble you will become Nothing is so humbling as knowing God. And then finally, I want to mention that every preacher should point people to Christ. John the Baptist is a good model for preachers. He's not saying, look at me. Look at my eloquence. Look at the great crowds that I have gathered. He keeps pointing people. Look to him. I'm reminded of an American tourist who once went to London, England in the late 1800s. And at this time, London, England was home to many of the greatest preachers. in the world. And in the morning he went to the city temple to hear Joseph Parker, who was a very eloquent man. Who had knew how to turn a phrase, and he had a congregation of over 2,000 people. And he went to hear this man and he left in the morning and he said, What a great preacher! And then that evening he went to the Metropolitan Tabernacle to hear Charles Spurgeon preach. And he walked out of that service and he said with tears in his eyes, what a great God. You see, one man was pointing the attention to himself, and the other was pointing his attention to the Lord. Charles Spurgeon was a phenom. Do you realize he pastored the largest church in the world at the age of 21? On May 27, 1855, he preached a sermon entitled, The Eternal Name. And he said again and again with great passion and fervor, let my name perish, but let Christ's name last forever. And this should be the model and the sentiments of every true preacher of the gospel. For all of our young men here who are thinking of ministry and others who are in ministry, I say to you, don't draw attention to yourself. Don't try to draw loyalties to yourself. Get people to love you, but turn people to Christ. Because you are but a voice. You are not the Savior. You are not the Messiah. But let me conclude by saying if you're here this morning and you do not know the Lord as your Savior, you desperately need The Savior that John the Baptist speaks of. And the next day we're going to get in a few weeks to this text where he says, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And if you do not put your trust in God's given Lamb, then you must bear the consequences of your own sin. And you will perish eternally. So seek the Lord. Come to trust in Christ alone, because he is the only Savior that God has provided. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we do thank you for your word. We thank you that you have given it to us That we can in this precious book hear of our great Savior and of The way to trust in Him, I pray that you would help us to know you and to walk with you. And for those that are here this morning who are yet lost in their sins, who are trusting in their own abilities, their own good deeds, who want to be a savior for themselves, I pray that you would show them the foolishness of this And they would come to trust in Christ alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.