If you have your Bibles, you can be turning with me to Acts chapter sixteen. One of the most remarkable conversions recorded in the Bible is found in this chapter. It's the salvation of the Philippian jailer. This is the basis for perhaps the best-selling tract of all times entitled, What Must I Do to Be Saved? I can remember when I was five years old, and at that time my family was living in Chattanooga, Tennessee. My father was going to Bible college, and I can remember When he took me and my sister and we went out on a street corner and he gave us a stack of these tracks and in downtown Chattanooga and we were passing them out. I can remember the picture on the front of that tract captivated me. It was a picture of a Roman jailer kneeling down before Paul with his arms outstretched and asking, what must I do to be saved? And this, of course, is the most important question that anyone can ask. And tonight I want us, as we prepare for this baptism, to consider this model conversion. And what we see here, I think, is what the salvation of a sinner looks like. And I want to make seven observations briefly from this passage. And let me begin reading in Acts chapter 16 and verse 23. And when they had laid many stripes upon them, that is Paul and Silas, they cast them into the prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely. who having received such a charge thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in stocks. And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God, and the prisoners heard them. And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's bands were loosed. And the keeper of the prison, awaking out of his sleep and seeing the prison doors open, he drew out his sword and would have killed himself, supposing that the prisoners had been fled. But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm, for we are all here. Then he called for a light and sprang in and sprang and came trembling and fell down before Paul and Silas and brought them out and said unto and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house. And they spake unto him the word of the Lord and to all that were in his house. And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their stripes and was baptized, he and all his straightway. And when he had brought them into his house, he set meat before them and rejoiced, believing in God with all his house. I want you to notice, first of all, that God often uses a Christian testimony to bring individuals to Christ. In verse 24, we read that the jailer thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in stocks. Roman jailers in the first century were notorious for being violent, aggressive, and not the nicest people in the world. Their job was difficult and demanding. If a prisoner escapes, it meant that you would die. And they, of course, dealt with the basis forms of humanity. We also know from historical records of the time that jailers were usually retired Roman officers. So picture a veteran who has been through many wars and many battles, who has been hardened through combats. And when he comes, as it were, to retire from active military service, he takes the job as a jailer. But he is still in many ways at battle with his prisoners. They were known for being hardened and of stoic disposition. And the initial impression we have of this man is that he was not very considerate of Paul and Silas. It says that he thrust them. And of the prison, the idea he was being violent and aggressive and perhaps abusive in the way he treated them. And of course, in that day there were no such thing as prisoner rights. No one was going to be sued. The prisoner could do with you, the guard could do to his prisoners whatever he wanted. Now, the stocks that they were secured in were not really designed to keep them from escaping because they were already in a prison cell. They were designed to torture them. They were very uncomfortable. They kept their hands and their feet. in a very fixed position so that in a short time they would experience spasm and cramps and they had no way of straightening out their limbs and relieving the pain and discomfort. And so that is the situation that Paul and Silas were in. And often prisoners in this type of situation would cry out in agony. Or they would curse their guards or the officials that put them in prison. This was what guards would do to kind of soften up the prisoners so that they would not give them any trouble in the future. But instead of hearing the cries of agony or the imprecations upon those who arrested them. Paul and Silas sang praises to God. That must have sounded very strange to those who were present in that prison. It says in verse 25 that the prisoners heard them. Their singing was reverberating through the hard surfaces of those cells. I wonder if those rocks had ever heard praises to God sung before. Most likely Paul and Silas were singing the Psalms, which of course they learned as boys. And this was quite a testimony of the joy of Christ. That was independent of circumstances. And I believe it had a profound impact upon this callous Roman guard as he listened to them singing and heard the joy in their voice He knew that they were unusual prisoners, and this testimony made him pause and think and consider their claims. Secondly, I want you to note that God often uses a crisis event to draw people to himself. In verse 26, we read of this great earthquake. This was God's means of delivering Paul and Silas. But also the crisis would bring this self-sufficient jailer to his knees. In verse 27, we read that the prisoner, or excuse me, the guard, the keeper of the prison, was asleep. Because it says that this earthquake awakened him. This was a no-no for a prison guard. You were not disposed to go to sleep. And so as he is startled, awake, he assumes the worst, that his prisoners indeed are all gone. And so he has decided he's going to take his own life. And the first century culture of Roman soldiers, suicide was considered an honorable death. It was better than being disgraced and being executed. And so this man does what his peers would do in this situation. He is going to end his life rather than have his life ended for him. And it seems that the prisoners were so startled by this earthquake that no one had left. And so Paul quickly says, Do thyself no harm. We are all here. And in verse 29, we read of this bold man of authority falling before Paul, trembling and shaking. This was quite a switch. This man was used to prisoners falling before him and begging for mercy, knowing that their life was in his hands. But now he falls before two of his prisoners. And begs them to somehow spare him. The roles have been reversed. Now, do you suppose this man would have ever sought the Lord apart from this crisis? I suspect not. He seems to be a hard man. He seems to be a man set in his ways. Often God will use a crisis to shake us from our complacency, to wake us up Because we tend to go in a certain path. We tend to adopt the thinking of the world. But then when a crisis comes into our life and turns our world upside down, It causes us to think of what life is all about and what lies beyond the grave. And that's what happened with this man. God often uses a crisis. One of the things I enjoy doing is talking to people about their testimony. Of course, that happens when we have a baptismal It happens when we have folks join our church. I get to hear how the Lord has worked in their life. And so often I find that there was a crisis. where a person was brought to their knees, where their life was broken, and their once hard heart had been broken up and plowed up. And it was then in the crisis that they sought the Lord. That's going to be true of several people who are going to be baptized this evening. God often uses a crisis event to get people's attention and draw them to himself. And thirdly, God prepares people to receive the gospel It's interesting that this jailer cries out, What must I do to be saved? What a wonderful question. Paul must have welcomed this inquiry with great enthusiasm. Now, how did God prepare this man to receive the gospel message? I'm sure we don't know all the factors. I do believe that his meeting with Paul and Silas was a divine appointment. The earthquake was no coincidence. Now there are some commentators that say the jailer was speaking about his physical life when he said, What must I do to be saved? But I think this is ridiculous. His prisoners were there, he now knew that his life was not going to to end in tragedy because no one had escaped. I think the only logical conclusion is to consider that Paul and Silas had been speaking to him about his salvation earlier I'm going to speculate a moment about Paul's response. He says to him, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house. Now let me pause there and say something about this to clear up any misconception. He's not saying that if the head of the household gets saved and everyone in that household is saved, that's not at all what he's saying. What he's saying is the same gospel that will work in your life as also will work in the life of your loved ones. That's what he's saying. They would each have to, of course. repent and believe themselves individually. It's not something that happens as a group activity. But let me ask you this question. How did he know that this man had a household? How did he know that he had a wife and children and perhaps servants which would have been included in this word? I suspect that earlier in the evening Paul was talking to this man. And perhaps this man opened up his heart to Paul about his family. Perhaps he had a disabled son or a wayward daughter. He had problems and issues, and he noticed that this man was kind and concerned and seemed to have a certain peace about him, and so he poured out his heart to Paul, and so Paul knew about this man's burdens and about his family And so when he addresses him with an exhortation to believe, he says it's not just you that can believe, but your family can as well, because this man might have been thinking, but if I come to Christ and and I adopt this new life, What about my family? And so Paul speaks to him. Fourthly, I want you to notice that God provides salvation to all who believe. This is one of many passages in the scriptures that teach us that salvation is by faith alone. He does not tell him when he says, What must I do to be saved? He doesn't say, Well, you know, you've got to start living a good life And you've got to stop doing what you're doing. You've got to stop being so abusive to prisoners. And you've got to start going to church. And you've got to start putting money in the offering plate. And really you should start praying to God each day. And you need to re He didn't give him a grocery list of things to do. He says, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Again, I think it reveals that there was a previous conversation because he might have asked, well, who is this Lord Jesus Christ? Or what do you mean by belief? I think the reason why Paul could give such a concise answer is because he's already explained the gospel to him earlier And we also are told in this passage that after he made this remark in verse 32, it says, They spake unto him the word of the Lord and all that were in his house. I think he invited them to come back home. And there in his house, Paul preached a sermon, and he told them the gospel in its fullness. So it's not like he was just giving this guy a very short answer that the man could not understand. I think there was conversation before and after. But we see that this man was saved by faith alone. This was Paul's response, faith in Christ, Jesus as Lord and Savior. This man is going to be baptized this very evening, but it wasn't his baptism. He didn't say, Paul didn't say, believe and be baptized. He said, believe. It is that salvation by grace through faith is the only kind of salvation that will give hope to a desperate sinner. And fifthly, God's provision for salvation is found in the Word of God. It says in verse 32, as I mentioned a moment ago, that he spake unto him the Word of God. This is always how Paul evangelized. He wasn't giving his own ideas. He wasn't using his imagination. He wasn't telling him stories He was telling them, look at what God has revealed in his word. We see this earlier in this chapter. Look with me in Acts chapter 16, verse 13 and 14. Paul, when he first comes to this city of Philippi, where the gospel has never gone before, he goes down by the river. Where some women, some Jewish women doubtly were having a prayer meeting. It says, on the Sabbath, we went out of the city by a riverside where prayer was wont to be made. And we sat down and spake unto the women which resorted thither, and a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple of the city of Bytira, which worshipped God. Heard us whose heart the Lord opened, that she attended unto the things which were spoken of Paul This woman, Lydia, heard the word of God preached, and her heart was open to receive that, and she believed, and she followed the Lord in baptism, it says So why did Paul always turn to the scriptures? Because faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. The message of salvation. It's not a message that someone came up with or invented. It is God's revelation of his eternal truth in his word. It's not found in experience or science or nature. It's not found. Through someone's imagination, it is found in what God has revealed to us that we could never grasp and understand apart from Him. And God reveals himself through his written word and through the preached word of God. The fact is that no one has ever figured things out for himself. And just put two and two together and come to Christ. Anyone who has ever been saved, it has been because they heard or they read the truth of the gospel through God's revelation. God's gracious revelation is essential for salvation, and this is why we preach the word at every service. And God desires that all who believe be baptized, verse 33. Now baptism does not save But it is a symbol of salvation, and it is something that is commanded in Scripture, and it should be the first step of obedience of everyone who has truly believed. And Acts, this is the order that we invariably find. We read again and again on at least eight occasions that a person believed And then they were baptized. We saw that earlier with Lydia. We see that here with the Philippian jailer in his household. The scriptures reveal to us, I think, that baptism is not something that should be put off indefinitely. You know what happens with things when you put things off, right? I'll do that someday. Ends up never happening. This is something that we should take care of soon after we have truly believed and we understand what it means to follow Christ. The Bible never presents baptism as an option for an elite group of people. It is something that should be followed up with by every believer. It's an act of obedience. And then finally, I want you to notice that God brings joy to those who trust and obey. In verse 33, we come full circle. It says that he took them the same hour of the night and washed their stripes. and was baptized he and all his straightway. And when he had brought them into his house, he set meat before them and rejoiced, believing in God with all his house. In the first paragraph of this story, we read of the joy of Paul and Silas, of them singing praises to God. And here we read of an old Roman soldier. who has joy because he and his family have come to Christ. You see, when a person is saved, their life is changed, this violent jailer who laid those stripes upon the backs of these men is now washing them. And tending to them with mercy and with grace. And this one sorrowful man who was at the point of death is now filled with new life and joy. Several years ago, when I conducted a baptismal service at our old building I baptized an individual that night, and at the end of the service, a man who was there came up to me and he said to me, I need to be saved. I recognize that I am lost. And I was delighted to bring him to Christ in the days ahead and to see him follow the Lord in baptism. Baptism is a testimony Of the gospel, of the change that it makes in our life. It does not wash away our sins. It does not do something magical to an individual, but it is a testimony. It is a proclamation that I am a follower of Christ. My own life is over. I have died to self, and I have risen to new life in Christ, and I want everyone to know that, and I want to identify myself as a follower of Jesus Christ and with his people. This is what baptism is all about. And so inherent in every baptismal service is a proclamation of the gospel. If you're here this evening, And you don't know the Lord as your Savior, you would not, you do not understand the gospel as I have explained it to you tonight. I would encourage you to seek the Lord. Because as I mentioned earlier, the most important question that anyone can ever ask was the question that this Philippian jailer asked, what must I do to be saved? And there's a sense in which the answer is there's nothing you can do. It has all been done for you by Christ. All that you can do is believe. And I would encourage you to seek the Lord tonight. We would be happy to talk to you after this service