If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to John chapter 4? John chapter 4. Lord willing, we'll conclude this chapter this morning. In 1847, there was a 15-year-old young English boy who was in the depths of despair. Because he had lost his job. But God would turn this tragedy, this sorrow into something great for himself. His family's finances were suffering, and so he needed to work He began training to work as a clerk at a prestigious bank. And after 18 months of training, he began to excel at his job. He was mentored by an older man who saw real promise in him. And as he got to know this man, the man recognized that this young boy of 15 was very religious, and he began to scoff and mock at his naive faith. And in a short time, the young man became very materialistic and worldly. He began to adopt the attitude and the approach of his mentor. But then this young man began to notice a problem. He had to work with ledgers all day, and they had rows and rows and rows of tiny numbers. And he began to suffer from eye strain and not be able to read effectively. And so finally, after several months, he was let go by the bank because he could no longer do his job. And he was very discouraged. But many years later he would write in his journal God in his infinite mercy caused my eyesight to fail, and I had to leave the bank. And the man who wrote those words was Hudson Taylor, the great missionary to China. In his estimation, if God had not allowed that to happen or caused that to happen, he would never have gone to the mission field. This morning, as we continue our study of the Gospel of John, we're going to consider a tragedy in a man's life that God is going to use for good in ways he could never have imagined. This man's son was seriously ill, and the Lord is going to heal him. Now, before we get to this account of the second sign, I want to make some brief comments about the transitional paragraph that's found in verses 43 through 45 right before this account. It says, after two days, he departed for Galilee. The two days mentioned here are the two days that Jesus spent evangelizing in Samaria. And then we read, you'll see it in parentheses, perhaps in your Bible, for Jesus himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his own hometown. And that is John alerting the reader. That his reception in Galilee would not be like his reception in Samaria, where many, many people were saved. But then what's confusing to us in the very next verse in verse 45 it says, so when he came to Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, having seen all that he had done in Jerusalem at the feast. for they too had gone to the feast. And so what may be confusing to you is it says that no prophet has any honor in his own home area, and now Jesus comes to his home area and he seems to receive honor. Well, the fact of the matter is that this is explained by the fact that they did not have a true faith. They had a superficial response, and soon that would wear off. And they would have a very antagonistic view of his ministry in this region of Israel. So they had an initial enthusiasm because the hometown boy has become very well known and he's one of their residents and they're happy about this. But they did not receive him by faith as the Messiah, the Son of God, not like the Samaritans. Now we must turn to the second sign that John records in this gospel. If you've been with us through this study, you may recall that the first 12 chapters of this book form like the first volume of this book. And John structures this part of his gospel around seven signs. seven miracles that point to the identity of Jesus Christ as the Messiah, the Son of God. And now we have come to the second of those. The first, of course, was in chapter 2, the water turned into wine at Cana. This miracle also takes place. at Cana and this involves the healing of the official's son Now there is an account of the healing of the centurion son that's recorded in Matthew 8 and Luke chapter 7. There are a couple of similarities, but there are also many, many differences from this account. So we should not think of that as the same thing, the same miracle. It's something different but similar. Now, before we start looking at this account verse by verse, I want you to notice the key word. in this paragraph. Perhaps you want to underline it or highlight it, I have in my Bible. I'll give you a hint. It's the key word in the whole gospel of John It's the verb believe. It says in verse 48, Jesus says, unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe. In verse 50 we read, the man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him. And in verse 53 we read, and he himself believed, and all his household. So once again, this story is all about a man coming to faith in Christ. And one of the things that John is going to show in this story is the growth of faith And the difference between a superficial faith or a nominal faith and real saving faith And so we find a very instructive pattern in this account. So I'm going to preach to you on a model of how the Lord often brings people to saving faith. The first point that I want you to see in verses 46 and 47 is the Lord often brings adversity into our lives to bring us to Him. Verses 46 and 47 provide the setting for this miracle. Look with me at these verses, please. So he came again to Cana and Galilee, where he had made the water wine And at Capernaum there was an official whose son was ill. When this man heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, He went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death. Jesus has been in Judea ministering at the Passover season. He had a stopover for at least a couple days in Samaria. And now he's going back to his home region of Galilee, and he is staying in Cana. We don't know why he stayed in this little village. It could be That he stayed there because we find in chapter 21 of this gospel that was the hometown of one of his disciples, Nathaniel. And so perhaps the disciples are staying with his family. Now Capernaum was about 16 miles from Cana. It is right on the shores of the Sea of Galilee. It is a beautiful little fishing village. I've been there. I wish I could take you all with me there right now. It's a beautiful, beautiful location. This unnamed official Has a problem. His son is at the point of death. He's heard that Jesus has returned from his time in Judea, and his son is at the point of death, and so now he's going to go see him. Now this official was probably a member of the court of Herod Antipas. Herod is one of those, Herod Antibus is one of those Herods that you read of. There was Herod the Great, the man who was this great builder who helped to rebuild the temple and other many other cities. in the world. He loves to build things. And he was the one who wanted to kill Jesus Right after his birth and the slaughter of the innocents in Bethlehem, that was his doing. And shortly after that time, he died. And this man, Herod Antimus, came to be the ruler of Judea. These people were racially Idemeans, that is, they were descendants, they were Edomites, descendants of Esau. And they were despised by the Jews because they were puppet rulers of Rome. This man was the ruler in Judea for all of Jesus' life and probably about six years after his death He was still on the throne, except for those first few months of Jesus' life when Herod the Great was the ruler. This was the man who beheaded John the Baptist. He was a wicked man. This is the man that Jesus called a fox and that he was cunning and deceptive. This is not a man of character. But in this man's court there was this individual. We are never told his name. But certainly being in his court, he would have been a man of stature and of wealth and of position. He is the opposite of the woman at the well that we just read about in this chapter. This man has heard of Jesus' presence at Cana, and so he goes to him. Now, we read about the seriousness of his boy's situation in several ways. He says, come down before my child dies We read also in verses 46 and 47 that he was at the point of death. But then we read in verse 52 that it was the seventh hour that his fever left him. Now, for us in the 21st century, generally speaking, a fever might make you miserable, but it's probably not going to kill you. And other exceptions to that. But in the ancient world, that was not the case. Fevers were leading cause of death. They did not have antibodies like we have today. to fight infections. They did not have the drugs, at least most cultures did not have them, to to lower the temperature, painkillers. They did not have those things. And so there were especially many children and infants who died of a fever. In fact In most cultures throughout the world, up until the 20th century, when your baby or your child had a fever, it was a very serious problem. This man, though he is wealthy and a man of power and status, that did not exempt him from having a problem like this. In verse 49, the Greek word that he uses for child here speaks of a little boy. It's a term of affection. His little boy was raging with the fever. And he was afraid that his little boy might die. And so he hurries to see Jesus He makes this journey probably on horseback or in a carriage of some sort because he was a man of importance and wealth. Who had this conveyance. And I imagine that he went as fast as he possibly could because his son's life was on the line. And when he comes, the language that he uses with the Lord is respectful. But the text indicates he said this again and again. Sir, come down before my child dies. He is begging the Lord to come. Some of you here know what it is to have a child who is seriously ill. I know what that's like And some of you know the fact that there's nothing that will probably drive you to your knees in prayer more than a great crisis in the life of your children. That's where this father was. Now from our biblical worldview, we understand that this illness was not a random tragedy. But it was all part of God's providential plan for this man's life Sometimes people think that when tragedy comes into their life that it's probably God judging them. This is true in just about every culture and every tradition in the world. I must have done something wrong because this has come into my life. We'll see this very idea in the book of John as we continue through it. But generally, it's not God bringing judgment at that moment. But I think more likely that God is getting your attention. And He is getting this man's attention. So that he will seek the Lord. Would this important man ever have gone to see Jesus except for this situation? I doubt it. He had a good life. He had no problems. Why would he need to see Jesus? But now he has a problem and he seeks the Lord Our Lord sends adversity to get our attention. C. S. Lewis said this famously. God whispers to us in our pleasures. He speaks to us in our conscience. But he shouts to us in our pain. It is his megaphone to rouse a deaf world. John Bunyan, who faced great agony of soul before he came to faith in Christ, said, I was driven to such straits that I must of necessity go to Jesus, and if he had met me with a drawn sword in his hand, I would sooner have thrown myself upon the edge of his sword than have gone away from him, for I knew him to be my last. Hope. Now it's not in the text, but I suspect that this wealthy father had tried other remedies. He had the best doctors at his disposal, but they could not lower the fever of his little boy. And so he comes to Jesus, and there is no plan B after this. This is his only hope for the life of his son. My second point I want you to see in this pattern is that the Lord challenges our faith to bring us to Him. Verse 48 is one of those unexpected things you find in the Word of God. How would you expect Jesus, who is a man of compassion, to respond to this man? You would expect him to give him all kinds of time and to hurry with him back to his place, but that's not what we read in this text. Instead, Jesus issues a rebuke. Look at verse 48. So Jesus said to him, Unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe. That is not what you would expect to find. It seems heartless. How do we understand this? How should we explain this? Let me mention two things. Number one, the U in verse 48 is plural. Jesus wasn't just speaking to this father. It could be put this way, unless you people see signs and wonders, you will not believe. There were other Galileans around him. They were probably following Jesus around, hoping that he would perform a miracle, and now they have their opportunity. And so Jesus is addressing both the Father and the bystanders, and he charges them with having a superficial faith, a faith that just wants to see the sensational. This is explains why the Galileans were there. We read in verse 45 that he had done many miracles. in Judea and they were at the feast as well. They saw these miracles and they wanted to see more This is why Jesus drew huge crowds early in this ministry in Galilee. They wanted to see the spectacular. But they didn't want Jesus. They didn't really want his gospel, but they wanted to see something that was truly spectacular. So they would go. They wanted to see things like water turned to wine and bread materialized out of thin air. Think of the feeding of the 5,000. These Galileans were just like millions of nominal Christians today. They wanted the blessings of God, but not God. This is a very common thing. In my 24 years here as pastor, I've seen many, many people come here because of crisis in their life. It might be that they're diagnosed with having stage four cancer. And for the first time in their life, they feel like they need God. Or it might be that they just discovered that their teenage son is on drugs, and no matter what they do, he will not stop, and they don't know where to turn, so they come to church for the first time in 12 years. And of course, we do everything we can to help these individuals and to meet their needs and to counsel them and do whatever we can to help them. And some have come, I believe, to saving faith in Christ, and they have remained with us. But the majority of people that have come in the context of crisis After the dust clears and the crisis is over, they go back to their old way of life. They wanted God's help with this huge problem in their life, but they didn't want God's They didn't want to worship him and follow him. They just wanted his help. That was what was happening here. But this might raise a question for you. If you're a thoughtful person and you're thinking carefully about this, you might be thinking something like this. Why would Jesus perform miracles at all if if what it brought were superficial followers, right? And why would John structure his gospel around seven miracles if miracles tend to create superficial followers? The answer is, well there's many answers, but one of the answers is that many of those superficial followers in time would come to faith in Christ In other words, they came to Jesus for the miracle, but they stayed because they came to believe the gospel and they followed him. And that's what happened with this father. So when Jesus sends out this rebuke that's directed towards the Father and those around him It's in essence Jesus challenging this man, his motives and the basis of his faith. He's saying, do you have a selfish and superficial faith like the rest of the Galileans? Or is your faith different? And notice how the Father responds. He doesn't go away. He isn't offended. Verse 49, it reads, the official said to him, Sir Come down before my child dies. Now I want you to notice the unspoken limitations that he places on Jesus' power. He first of all assumes that Jesus must be present To heal, right? Come down to my house. You've got to make this journey with me. I need you to be there. I need you to pray over him and perhaps lay hands on him because this is what healers do. And he certainly doesn't consider for a moment that Jesus could raise his son from the dead, which we will see take place three different times in the gospel record. This man has a level of faith, or he never would have come to Jesus, but he does not yet have saving faith. He's struggling to believe, and Jesus will now test his faith. The third point I want to make is this. The Lord gives us his word so that we will trust him. Look with me at verse 50, please. Jesus said to him, Go, your son will live. The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way. This is the the climax of the story here. This is the main point, the crisis event. This is an amazing verse Jesus gives him this very terse command, go. It's not like you can go, no, it's a command, go. Your son lives. This phrase is found three times in this account. It's found in here in verse 50. It's found again in verse 51. And as he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was recovering. And I wish they wouldn't have translated it that way, because in the Greek text is his your son lives. The same words. And then we see this again in verse 53. The Father knew that the hour was when Jesus said to him, Your son will live. John has structured this story so that the reader encounters this phrase, the most important part of it, three times. And what we need to understand is that this was not a prediction. Jesus was not saying to him, your son's going to be alright. You go back, you see, it'll be okay. He was saying at this moment, go. Your son lives, and with those words, your son lives, his son was healed that instant. That was his word of power. That was not a prediction. And what's amazing is The father believed. He doesn't pester the Lord. He doesn't, oh no, no, no, please, please, thank you for saying that But please come with me. He doesn't continue to harass him and say, you must come with me, sir. You must come down to my house in Capernaum. He doesn't do that. He takes the Lord at his word. Put yourself in his shoes. Wouldn't it have been very reassuring If Jesus went down with him, made that journey with him. They go down, Jesus goes in, prays over the boy, the boy's healed instantly, the father is happy, Jesus goes on his way. But Jesus was not offering to do that. He just wants this man to trust in his word. John is going to build on this truth, and at the very end of this book, we're going to read That Jesus says to Thomas, Blessed are those who have not seen and yet believe. Have you ever thought in your hearts that if I could just live back in Bible times When Jesus was on earth and see those spectacular miracles, I would have such a strong faith. I've encountered this many times with people. Oh, if only I could see like something spectacular that defies any scientific explanation. I mean if I could see something like that with my own eyes, man, my faith would be rock solid. I want you to know it's not true. It's not true because thousands and thousands of people who saw Jesus perform great miracles walked away. and never trusted in him. Some of them saw miracle after miracle after miracle, and they did not believe This is something I want you to remember here. God 's word is as good as his presence. God's word is as good as his presence. The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way. Now there's a demonstration of faith that you may not have noticed in this passage. We read later that the miracle took place at the seventh hour. I'll talk about this in a moment, which would have been, by their reckoning, 1 p. m. Early afternoon, 1 p. m. What would you have expected this man to do when he heard Jesus say that? You would expected him to get back on his horse or back in his uh his chariot or whatever he had. and go back quickly to his home in Capernaum to see if his son had recovered. He does go back, but we read that when he encounters his servants on the road, they say that the miracle took place. Look at this, yesterday. Now follow me on this. He apparently spent the night in Cana He didn't rush back to Capernaum to see if what Jesus said was going to happen. He spent the rest of the afternoon there in Cana. Spent the night there, got up in the morning, and traveled back home. Because he was certain that what Jesus said had occurred. That was faith. He didn't have to see it, and he believed it This man trusted in the promise of Jesus. And fourthly, the Lord confirms our faith. so that we will trust him more. Look with me at verse 51. And as he was going down, that is, down to Capernaum, The Sea of Galilee is below sea level. It's a very strange place. Most of this 16-mile journey would have been gradually going down to the shoreline there. And it says, as he went down, his servants met him and told him that his son was recovering, or his son was alive, or his son was fine. And so he asked them of the hour when he began to get better, and they said to him, Yesterday, at the seventh hour, the fever left him He wanted to make certain in his own mind that this was really the miracle of God and not some kind of coincidence. When did it occur? And it occurred at the instant when Jesus said to this Father, your son lives. That instant, his son recovered. And in verse 53, we read, the Father knew That was the hour when Jesus had said to him, Your Son will live. And he himself believed, and all his household. This is the end of the story. The father believed that Jesus had healed his son already, but now he knows for certain. That when the Lord uttered those words, his son fully recovered. And as the father reflected on this incident, he came to believe that Jesus was not just a great prophet and a powerful healer. But he was the Messiah, the Son of God. And what do people instinctively do when they have been saved from their sins? You know what the answer is? They tell other people about it. This is the pattern that we see in the Gospel of John. Andrew goes and tells his brother Peter. We have found the Messiah. Philip finds Nathaniel and says, Come and see. The Samaritan woman goes into the village and says, Come and see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ? And now this official shares his faith with his household, which would have included probably a large number of servants and some family members. You see, God had a bigger plan and purpose than this father could have ever imagined. He just wanted his son to be better. But Jesus wanted to do something much greater. He wanted to bring his entire household to faith in Christ. And then verse 54 is John's note to the reader, this was now the second sign that Jesus did when he had come from Judea to Galilee. John has included this story as a signpost that points the reader to Jesus as the only hope of salvation. Let me make just a few points of application as we close. Number one, the Lord often brings crisis into our lives. so that we will seek him. This is true of both lost people and believers. He brings crisis into the lives of lost people so that in their desperation, when they come to the end of themselves and they have nowhere else to turn, they will turn to God. He's getting their attention. And sometimes in our Christian lives, he brings crisis into our lives because we've been drifting. We're not where we should be spiritually, and God gets our attention and brings us back in line. Not as judgment, not as condemnation. Perhaps he does chasten us. We read in Hebrews 12 as a father chastens his children. But sometimes it's not a chastening, but it's a blessing of God so that we come to trust and rely on Him more. Number two, we must beware of a superficial faith that only seeks the Lord in time of need. If your prayer life is just an occasional 911 call to God when you don't know what to do, my friend , You are a nominal Christian, not a Christian in the biblical sense of the word. Because to be a Christian is to walk with God and to have fellowship with Him. God wants us to seek Him because we love Him, not just the gifts that He provides. I read once of a grandmother. who for years and years, when her grandchildren would come over to her house, she would bake cookies for them. And they love those cookies. And when they were kids, that's all they would talk about was those fresh baked cookies that grandma made for them. But when they got older, they still enjoyed the cookies, but the main reason they wanted to come over was to be with grandma and talk to her, not because of her cookies. This is what it means to grow in faith and maturity in Christ. We don't see God as a means to an end. No, we want to have fellowship with him. We want to talk to him. We want to spend time with him. Not because of anything he might give to us. Many, many millions of Americans claim to be believers. But I fear that most of them are like the Galileans who had a superficial faith. They would have said, oh yeah, they might have said, oh yeah, I think he's the Messiah. Oh yeah, he's a miracle worker, no doubt about that. But it did not change their life at all. Number three, we must not question God's goodness when he doesn't answer our prayers the way we want him to. That ever happened to you? You ever prayed and asked God to do something and he didn't do it? At least not the way you asked him to. This royal official wanted Jesus to come to his home. Jesus didn't do that. Because he had something much greater in mind. He wanted to save his entire family. We must learn to trust the Lord when he answers our prayers in unexpected ways. We must recognize that he has a better plan than we do. And that if we could see things from his perspective, we would say. Yeah, Lord, that that was the right choice to answer it that way. Number four, our faith should grow as we trust God's promises and see Him answer our prayers. This paragraph records The growth of a man's faith. And throughout our Christian lives, we should grow in our faith. You should be able, if you've been a believer for many years, to look over your life and at various times of crisis in your life. And see when you cried out to God, how God rescued you and helped you and answered your prayers, and it should cause you to have a stronger faith. Sometimes people think of faith as just something that you exercise when you come to trust in Christ. That is not the case. We walk by faith and not by sight. And so the more we have trusted in the Lord throughout our life, the more we should come to trust in Him more and rely on Him more so that when the next crisis comes And it will, we will not fall to pieces and flounder and question and wring our hands and say, why, God, why? But we will remember, wait a minute. God has given me many promises and he has brought me through many difficulties in the past, and he will again So many Christians, their spiritual journey can be compared to a roller coaster. They're up and they're down. They're up and they're down. There's no stability And so often it's because they are not grounded in the promises of God. They're living their life more by their experiences and their own judgments rather than what God has promised in His word. And finally, if you are struggling to believe, you should fill your mind with the Word of God. There are people who are attending our services who have told me and continue to tell me, I wish I could believe those things. I wish I could believe that Jesus is the Son of God. I'm just not convinced. I don't I don't know how to do that. The Bible says in Romans 10, 17, faith comes by hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. If you're filled with doubts and unbelief, you must saturate your mind with God's truth. You must read his word and study the word and come to hear the preaching of the word. Because God uses his word to strengthen our faith and to bring those who are dead to life in Christ. Because the gospel is the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes. May God help you to put your faith and trust in Christ alone. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you For the amazing way that you dealt with this desperate father. I pray that it would not just be an interesting story from ancient times. But that it would be a reminder to us that nothing is too hard for you And that you have a good plan for the lives of your children. And that plan is that we would come to trust in you more and rest in you. And Father, for those who are here this morning who are yet lost in their sins, I pray that they would see this miracle as a signpost pointing to the unique identity of Christ as the Son of God. And that they would come to trust in him and him alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.