Give your Bibles, please turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 2. 1 Peter chapter 2. Some of you remember A dear elderly couple that we had as part of our church many years ago when I first came here. Names were the church wards, Russell and Louise I've been with the Lord now for several years. I remember in July of 2001, they asked me to speak at their 50th anniversary celebration. And at the celebration I met one of their lifelong friends, a man named Stuart Corey. He was a remarkable man, one of the original test pilots, along with Chuck Yeager. He was a rare combination of physical and psychological traits. He told me that he just missed becoming one of our nation's first class of astronauts. They Tested these men and they were taking six men, six original astronauts, and he finished number seven. So he just missed out on being one of our first astronauts. But that never really bothered him because he was part of the most elite company of people the world has ever known, and that is the Church of Jesus Christ. This morning as we conclude this paragraph and the first section of the book of 1 Peter uh we are considering the identity of those in the church. You'll notice in verse 11, Peter begins, dearly beloved, and that is because he's beginning a new section of the book. But we are looking at the verses, the two verses previous to that, verses 9 and 10. this morning. Now it's easy to miss the forest for the trees, so I want to read this first paragraph so that you can see for yourself the ground we've covered and how it connects with what we're looking at this morning. Look with me at 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 4 It says to whom, coming as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God and precious. He also as lively stones or built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God. by Jesus Christ. Wherefore also it is contained in the Scripture, Behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect, precious, and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe he is precious, but unto them which be disobedient the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense. even to them which stumble at the word being disobedient, whereunto also they were appointed. But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness. into his marvelous light, which in time past were not a people, but are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Peter here describes our identity in Christ. This paragraph ends with a climax, with a crescendo here. in these last two verses, some of the most wonderful verses found in this epistle, and some of the most significant verses in the New Testament concerning our identity on Christ. And the identification of the church. We see here in this paragraph that there is a clear contrast that Peter's drawing between those who are in the world, those who have rejected the truth, and those who have come to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Now, the word grace is not actually found in verses 9 and 10, but that's really what it's all about. Those verses are talking about the grace of God, God's amazing grace that has changed our lives. And has brought us into a relationship with Him and part of the Church of Jesus Christ. This is what has made all the difference in the world. And what is true of the group is true of every individual in that group. And so as we begin our sermon this morning, I want to ask you, do you know who you are? Are you part of this group of people, the most important and significant group of people the world has ever known? Are you part of the people of God, the body of Christ? This morning I want us to consider embracing our gracious identity as the church of Christ. And there are three things From verses 9 and 10 that I think we need to remember, these are wonderful things for us to consider and meditate on this morning. First of all, we should remember that we are people with gracious privileges. In the beginning of verse 9, we have four phrases that provide a concise description of us as the people of God. Peter here is weaving together two Old Testament passages in verses 9 and 10 of our text. The first one that he alludes to, and you don't need to turn to these, I'm going to read them for you. I want you to keep your eyes really on our text here in 1 Peter so you can see that these Verses are indeed the source of Peter's ideas here in Isaiah chapter 43, verses 20 and 21 We read this, I give waters in the wilderness and rivers in the desert to give drink to my people, my chosen. This people have I formed for myself. They shall show forth my praise. Isaiah here is prophesying the Lord would bring his people in time out of the Babylonian captivity. And that was a picture, one of the Old Testament pictures of our salvation. We would be brought out. by God's mighty hand. But the more common picture of salvation in the Old Testament, as far as being a historic event, was God's deliverance of his people from Egypt. And so the other passage that he weaves into our text is from Genesis chapter 19, right before the giving of the Ten Commandments. And Genesis chapter 19, excuse me, Exodus chapter 19, and verses 4 through 6, it says The Lord says, You have seen what I did unto the Egyptians and how I bear you on eagle's wings and brought you unto myself. Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me. above all people, for all the earth is mine, and ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children. of Israel. And so Peter is going back to the Old Testament and he's citing these two historic events That picture God's gracious work among his people, God bringing his people out of Egypt, and God bringing his people back from Babylon. These are wonderful pictures of our redemption. Both of these passages reveal that God has a distinct people within the world. Now, some theologians understand Peter's use of these Old Testament passages to be teaching that the church has replaced Israel. In fact, this is often one of their proof texts. And that God is finished dealing with that nation. But in my estimation, there are many other passages such as in Zechariah and in Romans chapter 11, and many others that indicate that God still has a plan for Israel and that he will fulfill all of his promises to them. Now that being said, there are many parallels between the people of God and the Old Testament. and the people of God, the church in the New Testament. And so I want us to look at these, to begin with, these four phrases. a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people. First of all, let's look at this Expression a chosen generation. Now the Greek word that's translated chosen in verse 9 has been rendered earlier in this book as elect. Found there in chapter 1 and verse 2, elect according to the foreknowledge, the same term. It's used in chapter 2 and verse 6 Where it says, wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect. And that is, of course, a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. The term means to choose or to select or to elect. And of course, we see this throughout Scripture, especially in the beginning and God's call of Abraham out of the Ur of the Chaldees. Abraham was among a people who were idolaters. And undoubtedly, and there's scriptural evidence for this, he was part of that culture himself. He was blinded in darkness. But God called him to leave those people and go to the land of promise, the land of Canaan. And God would make from Abraham a great nation. Now people sometimes ask why God chose Israel to be his people, of all the peoples of the world, why did he choose them? There is a passage of Scripture that addresses this in the Old Testament Deuteronomy chapter 7. If you can find that easily, you might want to turn there. Deuteronomy chapter 7 and verse 6. Familiar language here it says For thou art A holy people unto the Lord thy God. The Lord thy God hath chosen thee to be a special people unto himself above all people that are upon the face of the earth. The Lord did not set his love upon you, nor choose you, because you were more in number than any people, for you were the fewest of all people. But because the Lord loved you, and because he would keep the oath which he had sworn unto your fathers, hath the Lord brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you out of the house of the bondmen. from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. I would summarize it this way. God chose Israel not because of who they were. But because of who he was. The same is true of New Testament saints. Just as God called Abraham out of a pagan land So the Lord calls us out of the world to form a new group of people. , In fact, the Greek word that is translated church literally means a called-out assembly We have been called out of the world. We are no longer part as spiritually of that group. We will sing a hymn later this morning that has the verse in it, elect from every nation but one or all the earth. That is an apt description of the church. And the Bible is clear that God took the initiative in our salvation. 1 John 4. 19 says, we love him because he first loved us. This truth should give us confidence, but not arrogance. We have in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 a wonderful reminder about this. Corinthians 1 verse 26 it says, For you see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty Not many noble are called, but God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the to confound the things that are mighty, and the base things of the world, and the things which are despised hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not to bring to naught things that are that no flesh. should glory in his presence. We are the people of God, and it is all due to the grace of God. Secondly, we are described as a royal priesthood. And you may have remembered that I read the origin of that expression from Exodus chapter 19. There it's put, we are a kingdom of priests. Now what does this mean? Does this mean that we are priests? who serve the king in that sense we are a royal priesthood? Or does it mean that we are both priests and kings? The biblical answer is both. The Bible reveals that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is both a priest and a king. We have this most prominently brought out in the book of Hebrews in reference to this mysterious figure, Melchizedek, who was both a priest and a king, and so is our Savior. And because we are in Christ, we share in this lofty status. In the ancient world, virtually every group of people had kings and priests And they were the most elevated members of ancient society. And we as the people of God have that identity That is something that may be hard for you to believe, and you might be scratching your head saying, I'm not sure the Bible really says that. I want you to turn with me to the last book of the Bible, the book of Revelation. Turn with me to Revelation chapter 1 And verse 6. I'm going to begin reading at verse 5. And from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness. and the first begotten of the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth, unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins, and in his own blood, and hath made us kings and priests unto God and his father. To him be glory and dominion forever. Did you notice there? He has made us kings and priests. Turn over just a few chapters to chapter 5. And one of the most amazing portions of God's Word Revelation 5 and verse 9, and they sung a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by the by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation, and has made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. This is our gracious privilege as the people of God. What an astounding thing to consider. And then thirdly, we are called a holy nation. This again comes from Exodus chapter 19. How are New Testament saints a holy nation? We are not in one geographic region. We are not of one ethnicity or language group. And so in many respects, we are very unlike Old Testament Israel in these senses. Well, a nation is a community of people held together by the same laws and customs and mutual interest. It's interesting to note that wherever you are in the world, people love their country. Sometimes we think that because we live in the United States of America, you know that we love our country more than other people love their country. Not true. Part of the way we are is even though our country might be weak and it might have many problems, people still take pride in their nation. They have this natural sense of patriotism. And so we should, as the people of God, we should be proud of our identity as members of the Church of Jesus Christ. We should not be afraid to show our colors and to let people know who we are It's interesting we find that there is uh despite our diversity, we are united by unbreakable bonds. of grace. The scripture talks about this. Ephesians chapter 4, verses 4 through 6, it says There is one body and one spirit, even as you're called in, one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all and through all and in you all There is a unity in the body of Christ. And when I speak of the church in this sense, I'm not speaking of a local assembly or denominational group. So often we get those things confused and mixed up in our minds. You ever sang the song Onward Christian Soldiers? Of course you have. What do you think of the verse that says, we are not divided, all one body, we, one in hope and doctrine, one in charity. I've had on several occasions people come up to me and say, that is nonsense. We are not divided. Look around. There's a gazillion different denominations and groups, and even within those denominations there's different groups. We are incredibly divided. But he's not talking there of Christendom. He's talking about the true church. The true church that is scattered throughout the world. In that sense, it is not divided This is the teaching of Scripture. We cannot see all who are part of the body of Christ. We don't have X-ray vision to see into the hearts of those in every assembly. A very distressing thought. But in true churches where the gospel is preached, there are people who are truly born again, followers of Christ. part of the church and there are people there who are not. They might be moral, they might look like they're Christians, but in their hearts they're not. They might be there because of family ties and so forth, but they're not really part of the church, and so we cannot see. But if we could somehow see, as the Lord sees, and see the true church, we would see that they have this unity and this bond. in Christ that transcends national boundaries and ethnic boundaries and linguistic boundaries and denominational boundaries And then we read that they are a peculiar people. Let me just quickly say this passage is not saying that there's some virtue in being odd or eccentric. When the King James Version was translated, the word peculiar had a different range of meanings than it does for us today. If someone says you're peculiar today, it's usually not a compliment. Means you're a little odd, a little off. But this expression means that we are a people of God 's own possession. It is a reminder to us that we have been bought with a price. This is what Peter writes earlier in this book. chapter 1 verses 18 and 19. For as much as you know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish. and without spot. The scripture is filled with these kind of illusions. In Titus chapter 2 and verse 14 we read, who gave himself for us that he might redeem us. from all iniquity and purify unto himself a peculiar people zealous of good works. This is the identity of the church. We are the blood-bought children of God. And that truth should inspire us to live for him. 1 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 20 says, ye are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit which are God's We share in all of these gracious privileges as the church of Christ. This is part of our identity, and we must never forget this. But verse 9 goes on and gives us another thing that we should remember, and that is that we should remember that we are a people with a gracious purpose. It says that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Why have we been given this exalted status as the people of God? It's not so that we walk around thinking that we're something special. No, it's so that we point men and women to the God who has redeemed us. What we have here is grammatically known as a purpose clause. This is God's intention in his calling us out from the world. It's not for us to be proud, but for us to glorify God. It's interesting that this term that's translated show forth. This Greek term is only found here in the New Testament. It means to announce, to proclaim, or to broadcast everywhere. The Church of Jesus Christ has not been called to be a silent witness We are not like trying to infiltrate companies and neighborhoods and businesses. We're like undercover Christians and people have no idea who we really are. No, we are to announce it. We are to make it well known that we are followers of Jesus Christ. This is one of the reasons we have been saved. This is why Jesus said to his followers, ye are my witnesses. Do you remember what the early disciples said when they were told by the authorities Not to speak anymore of this Jesus. They said, we cannot but speak of the things which we have seen and heard. They said, that's not possible. We will continue to tell people about the Lord. Let me ask you a question. Do you have a conspicuous testimony wherever you are? I'm not talking about being obnoxious. Sometimes Christians, because of perhaps of their personality or the way they go about things, can can be a poor witness for Christ because they alienate and offend everyone around them. That's not what God wants from us But he doesn't want us to be undercover Christians. He does want us to be a constant testimony, a light for him in a dark world. We should be always looking for opportunities to share our faith and to talk to people about God's truth. We are his witnesses. You've heard it said before. You are the only Bible that some people will ever read. But if we keep that Bible closed and shut and hidden away, how will they hear? How will they know the good news of salvation? Let me ask you, if I were to go and talk to your neighbors, would they know that you're a Christian? Or would they be surprised? Really, I had no idea. If I were to talk to your co-workers, people that you rub shoulders with. Does anybody know you're a Christian? Or have you bought into the lie that God wants me to keep those things private? I don't want to stir the pot. I don't want to be offensive to people. So I'm just going to keep it private. That is not what God wants for you. We are to be lights. And as Jesus said, you don't take a light that's to provide illumination and hide it under a bushel. That is to deny the very purpose of that light. It's interesting that he goes on to say that we are showforth the praises of him. The word that's translated praises is not the normal Greek word. It's a term that means excellencies or virtues. People in the world should come to understand something of the nature of our God from observing our lives. Now that's a tall order. I wonder if we ever think about that. Do your co-workers know that God is holy, that God is different because you're different Do your unsafe family members know that God is love because you deal with them in love? Does your neighbor know that God is merciful because you have been merciful and gracious to him? When he has wronged you. Notice the dramatic way in which our conversion is described here. It says, who has called you out of darkness? into his marvelous lights. What a wonderful description of Christian people. This is a gracious call, an effective call, a call that has made all the difference in our lives. This is a reminder to us of the significance of our salvation. Have you ever thought about the different analogies and descriptions the Bible gives of salvation? It is like passing from death unto life, from blindness to sight, from bondage to liberty and here from darkness to light, those things are radical changes. It's a reminder to us that salvation is not some minor adjustment. It's not you deciding that you're going to try to do better. It's not someone who's trying to reform their life and kick some addiction. It's not someone who's decided that they just want to make a difference in other people's lives, and so they're going to be involved in social causes. No, it's a dramatic change from the inside outs. It's not some minor adjustment. It is nothing less than a new beginning. How did this take place? We have a wonderful verse that reveals this 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 6. For God, who hath commanded the light to shine out of darkness have shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Paul there is using the wording of creation when God said at the beginning, let there be lights. And so salvation is like a new creation. It is an incredible supernatural change. And therefore, our lifestyle must reflect that we have been changed. What does it mean that we are now the children of light? The Bible uses this analogy and brings this out again and again. I want to invite you, if you can, to turn with me. I want to begin in Romans chapter 13, please. Romans chapter thirteen and verse eleven I don't have time to expound these passages, but I want you to see them for yourself. Romans 13 verse 11 And that knowing the time, that now is it high time to wake out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. The night is far spent. The day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness. Let us put on the armor of light. Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in riding and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envying, but put you on the Lord Jesus Christ and m make no provision for the flesh. to fulfill the lust thereof. So to walk in the light means that we live lifestyles of honesty, sobriety, purity, and peace. Now turn with me please to Ephesians chapter 5. Ephesians chapter 5 And we're going to see the same analogy brought out again. Ephesians 5, verse 2. It says, and walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us and hath given himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as becometh saints, neither filthiness nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks. For this ye know that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. But not ye therefore partakers with them. For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light, and the Lord walk as children of lights. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth, proving what is acceptable unto the Lord. And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather Reprove them. So what does it mean to walk as a child of light? It means that we live a lifestyle of sexual purity. We live a lifestyle that is free from greed and covetousness. And we live a lifestyle of thanksgiving. We are grateful to God for all that He has blessed us with. And then another passage that brings this out is 1 Thessalonians. 1 Thessalonians, if you can find that, chapter 5 and verse 4. But ye brethren are not in darkness that the day should overtake you as a thief. Ye are children of light and the children of the day. We are not of the night nor of darkness. Therefore let us not sleep as others, but let us watch and be sober. For they that sleep sleep in the night, and they that be drunken are drunken in the night. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love and for a helmet the hope of salvation, for God hath not appointed us to wrath. but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, that whether we wake or sleep, we may live together with Him. We see here that we are to be spiritually alerts. He compares here the lost as being asleep and unaware of what's really going on. They are oblivious to the the raging battle around them. They are just killing time when eternal destruction is just around the corner. We are not like that. We see the deeper realities of life, the peril that people are in. We also see that we are to live a life of purpose. It says that we are to live together with him. Our whole point is to look to him. Only those who know the Lord know how to truly live life as God intends it to be lived. We live life with a sense of purpose because we have experienced God's amazing grace. And thirdly, we should remember that we are people with a gracious position. Look with me now at verse 10. It says, which in time past were not a people But are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Our position is that once we were not the people of God, but now we are. Peter here is drawing some truths out of the Old Testament book of Hosea. Very interesting book, part of what's called the Minor Prophets. God called the prophet Hosea to marry a woman named Gomer. And the Lord revealed to Hosea that in time she would be unfaithful to him. She would break her covenant vows with him. But God still insisted that he marry her. Because his marriage was to be a picture of Israel's unfaithfulness to God. And in time Gomer did commit adultery and disgraced herself. She even had children that were fathered by men other than her husband And after a while her wicked lifestyle left her destitute, and she was put on the auction block to be sold as a slave. And God told Hosea to go and to buy his disgraced wife back. at that slave market and to take her home and to love her as his own wife It was to be a powerful picture of God's unfailing love, of his tender mercies. This is a sordid picture, somewhat disturbing. But you know, we are all pictured in that account like Gomer, the unfaithful wife. And God is the one who is faithful and loving and merciful and gracious to us. Apart from God's grace, we would all be slaves to sin and live lives of disgrace and ultimate destruction. But the church is a collection of wicked people who have experienced the mercy and grace of God. Notice how Peter describes the church as once not a people. We will were all once dead in trespasses and sins. We were once living in the dark, but God, His infinite grace, has brought us out of the darkness into His marvelous light. Another passage that's very similar in tone and thought to this, which I would like you to turn with me now to, is Ephesians chapter 2. Verses , begin reading at verse 1. Ephesians chapter 2. And you hath he quickened who were dead and trespasses and sins Wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. among whom also we had our conversation in time past in the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. Those three verses describe us when we were not the people of God , describes in graphic detail our estrangement from God But now look at verse 4. But God, who is rich in mercy , for his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, have quickened us together with Christ. By grace you are saved, and hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace. and his kindness towards us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves it is the gift of God, not of works lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. What a marvelous passage of Scripture. We are now the people of God. We were not the people of God. We were in the dark, we were disobedient, we were rebellious, defiant of God, but by his mercy and grace, We have now become the people of God. We have been saved and now we live for his glory. We are his work of arts. Not that we would receive the glory, but that God would receive the glory. But what God has done for us as individuals, he's also done as the body of Christ. Notice how this passage doesn't end in verse 10. of Ephesians 2. But look with me at what we find in verses 11 and following. Wherefore remember that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh who are called uncircumcised by that which is called the circumcision, the flesh, made by hands, that at the time ye were without Christ being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who were sometime far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ, for he is our peace. who hath made us both one and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us. This is a wonderful revelation of the truth that the church would be comprised of both Jews and Gentiles. That they would be brought together by the grace of God. This is an amazing thing. There was so much animosity and hatred and disdain between the Jews and the Gentiles in the ancient world. And yet God redeemed for himself people out of both of these groups to bring them together. To bring him glory. And this is exactly how the purpose of God. We read this passage earlier, but let me point out to you this wonderful truth in Revelation chapter 5 and verse 9. A scene from heaven, and they sung a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain and hast redeemed us. to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. And has made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. The Church of Jesus Christ is very diverse. There are people, it says, from every people group in the worlds. If you stay in the United States and you never travel abroad, you don't get a sense of the diversity of the world, of different cultures and different customs and things. different languages and different foods. But if you were to travel and some of you have all over the world to Africa and Asia and South America and Europe. You would get a sense of the diversity that is there in the world. And from all of those nations, even those nations that are supposedly close to the gospel, God has a people that will be saved. and that will make up part of the church. And what will these people do? And verse 11 it mentions that they will sing with a loud voice, Worthy is the lamb that was slain. To receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. You see, we are parts Of this marvelous plan of God's. If we could latch hold of this and truly embrace this and believe it with all our heart and not listen, To our flesh and to the message of the world, but walk as we are children of light and walk in that light, what a difference it would make for us. So let me ask you this morning, are you part of the people of God? Have you come from darkness in the light? John chapter 8 and verse 12, Jesus says, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness. But shall have the light of life. There are many people today who think that you can be a follower of Christ and continue to walk in darkness. But Jesus said that can't happen. None of us are perfect. We are all inconsistent. But are you walking in the lights? Have you come out of the darkness? Has there been a real change in your life? This is who you used to be. This is who you are now. God has called his people to himself that we might show forth his excellencies, his praises. God has called us to be a light. Many of you, most of you have a place of employment. And probably most of the people you work around are lost. They're not the people of God. God wants you to be at light. And all of you live somewhere. It might be in a neighborhood. It might be a development. It might be an apartment building. And most of the people who live around you are lost. God wants you to be lights. God wants people to see something of his glory in you. He wants them to see who he is. His compassion, his love, his holiness, his grace. He wants them to see that in your lifestyle. God has called us to be part of the most significant group of people the world has ever known. And so we need to live in light of our identity. This week we need to remember who we are, not just this week, but every week and every day we are followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let us walk as children of light. Let's close in prayer. Father In heaven, how desperately we need your help. How we come short of our position in Christ. I pray that you would take what has been said this morning and use it for your purposes. I pray that we would relish, embrace, and rejoice. in our identity as the people of God, as part of the Church of Jesus Christ. And I pray, Father, that you would help us to be a bright light wherever we live, wherever we work Wherever we walk, help us, Father, to show people that there is a God. There is a gospel and there is a heaven and there is a hell. Help us, Father, to be faithful in being your witnesses. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.