Give your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Genesis chapter 47? If you're visiting with us this morning, we have been studying the life of Joseph together. We're coming close to the end. We find ourselves in Genesis 47 this morning. Dwight Eisenhower. was the supreme commander of the Allied forces in World War II, and of course would come to be the President of the United States. He once said this about leadership. In order to be a leader, a man must have followers. And have followers, a man must have their confidence. Hence the supreme quality of a leader is unquestionably integrity Without it, no real success is possible. No matter where, whether it's in a section gang or on a football field or in the Army or in an office. If a man's associates find him guilty of phoniness, if they find that he lacks forthright integrity, he will fail. His teachings and actions must square with each other. The first great need, therefore, is integrity and high purpose. Leadership is very popular today There are seminars, podcasts, and a multitude of books that have been written in the last decade or two on this topic. It has become something of a cottage industry. Being a leader is very attractive in our egocentric age. Everyone wants to be the boss. And yet, despite all of the attention and all of the available information about leadership, we have a dearth of leadership in the world and in the church today. And perhaps the problem is because we don't have leaders with integrity. Integrity is an interesting word. The origin of the word has the idea of wholeness or completeness. The idea is that a person with integrity does not divide their life up into different compartments. This is my public persona. This is my private life. This is what I do at work. This is what I do at home. No, they're one person, they're the same person at home that they are at church or anywhere else. They have nothing to hide and nothing to fear. Integrity is to character what health is to the body. And what the world and the church desperately need today are leaders with integrity. This morning As we continue our study of the life of Joseph, we come to a passage that seems strange and perhaps somewhat distressing to us. Indeed, Joseph is a man of integrity. But we're going to see perhaps some things that he does that cause us to scratch our heads. Over the years, I've collected many books on the life of Joseph. I find him a fascinating figure. And as I have been working through them and reading through them, I realize that most of them skipped over this portion of his life. And I understand why. Because it doesn't fit well with our templates, our conservative American templates of what a leader should be In case you're not aware of it, the passage we're going to look at today talks about Joseph's leadership during the famine and how he centralizes the power of the nation of Egypt. In time gathering all the wealth and all the land and making everyone subservient to Pharaoh. And then he relocates them and taxes them at a high rate for generations to come. Now that is not the way we would write the script for an American hero. At least not the kind of hero that we would like to follow. I suspect there might be some people here today who will think less of Joseph after the sermon this morning. I hope that's not the case. You shouldn't feel that way. I want to make a few preliminary remarks about this passage before we dive into it. The first thing I want to say is this passage is not intended to give us a biblical model of governments. This passage is describing what happened, not necessarily what should happen. Secondly, We need to remember that Joseph was dealing with an international crisis. It was truly a matter of life and death. And you've heard the expression drastic times call for drastic measures, and perhaps that to some degree applies here. And it's also important to understand That the people were grateful for what Joseph does here. We're going to see this in the story, and that may be the most surprising thing about it. Is that although they end up losing all of their livestock, all of their land, all of their money, and even their freedom, they're thankful that at least they're alive at the end of the story. And they're grateful to Joseph's leadership. And it's important to remember that the intent of this passage Is not to show us how to run a national government. But it does reveal to us the wisdom, the God-given wisdom that Joseph had in managing a crisis of epic proportions. And it's important for us to remember that this is just one segment in the continuing narrative the story of how God was preserving his people It's easy for us perhaps to criticize Joseph's methods, but one thing I might ask you if you come up to me after the service and say, you know, I think everything that Joseph did was wrong. I might ask you this question, well, what would you have done in his situation? It's easy sometimes to criticize. Sometimes it's far more difficult to come up with a better solution. It was Joseph's capable leadership that not only saved the people of God from famine, but it rescued a whole region of the world from starvation. And I want us to see in our text this morning that God delights to use godly leaders to accomplish his purposes in the world. And I want us to look at some of the characteristics of godly leaders that are found here in this paragraph of Scripture. First of all, I want you to realize that godly leaders are providentially prepared to do difficult tasks. Look with me at verse 13 of chapter forty-seven. And there was no bread or no food in all the land, for the famine was very sore. So that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine. This was A huge disaster. Unless the most capable leader rises to the occasion, hundreds of thousands of people would starve to death. And I think that the most capable man in the world, perhaps the only man who could truly manage This large of a problem was the man that God had prepared for the task, a man named Joseph. The Lord had Joseph in a crisis management course now for several years. I want to have you turn back with me to some ground we've already covered in previous months. Turn with me to Genesis 39, please. Genesis 39. I want to begin reading at verse 1. Genesis 39, verse 1. And Joseph was brought down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, brought him, bought him of the hands of the Ishmaelites, which had brought him down thither And the Lord was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man, and he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian, and his master saw that the Lord was with him, and that the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand. And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him, and made him overseer over his house, and all that he had, and put into his hand. And it came to pass After that time that he had made him overseer in his house, and over all that he had, that the Lord blessed the Egyptians' house for Joseph's sake, and the blessing of the Lord was upon all that he had in the house. And in the field. And he left all that he had in Joseph's hand, and he knew not aught he had, save the bread which he did eat. And Joseph was a goodly person and well favored. It's likely that Joseph started working out on the grounds of Potiphar's household because that's where slaves would begin at the lowest and most menial task. But he was quickly promoted to work in the house itself. This is what we find in verse 2, and he was in the house of his master. In verse 3, we read that he gains the attention and favor of Potter. Undoubtedly, there were many slaves in Potiphar's household, but Joseph was quickly rising to the top. Potiphar was impressed with him. Everything that he did, he did with excellence. In time Joseph became Potiphar's personal attendant. This is reflected in verse 4 when it says, and he that is Joseph served him. Finally, Joseph is made the head of the household. He is now managing All the slaves, all those who work inside and out on this large estate. Verse 5 refers to his comprehensive authority. He was such a capable leader and manager of affairs and people that Potiphar put everything, every decision in his hands except for what he was going to eat for his meals. Joseph, as I've said before, was the kind of man that owners and managers dream of. A man who is so capable that they only have to come by, as it were, and pick up the check. Because they take care of everything and do it better than you would yourself. There was something unique, even supernatural, about Joseph's advancement. It was, of course, the presence of the Lord. But this advancement came to an abrupt end when Potipur's wife accused him of attacking her, and he was thrown into prison. When we went through this passage, I mentioned how easily Joseph could have been discouraged and quit and given up because all of his years of hard work and promotion We're dashed in an instant, but that's not what he did. He starts all over again. Look with me at Genesis 39 and verse 20 And Joseph's master took him and put him into the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were bound, and he was there in the prison. But the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison, and the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners that were in the prison. And whatsoever they did there, he was the doer of it. And the keeper of the prison looked not to anything that was under his hand, because the Lord was with them, and that which he did the Lord made it to prosper. This sounds familiar to us. It should. It's basically the same thing that happened in Potiphar's household. Now it happens in the prison. Joseph had already managed a large staff of servants and Potiphar's household, and that was difficult, but now he was managing criminals. That was a true challenge. But Joseph rose to that occasion by the grace of God. So, what skills did Joseph learn during these experiences? I think he learned, first of all, how to manage time and resources. There were a lot of moving parts in Pharaoh's household and in the prison. A lot of things to track. And to take control of. And Joseph was able in an orderly way to keep track of all of those things. Some people have this gift of administration, and they are very valuable. But he knew more than just how to manage time and resources. He knew how to manage people. That is a skill that sometimes administrators do not have. He understood human nature. He knew how to motivate people. He knew how to correct people. He knew how to inspire people and lead people He was able to do it in whatever avenue he found himself, whether it was in Potiphar's household, and you can imagine that those other slaves there were not so happy with how quickly Joseph had risen to the pinnacle. But he was still able to manage them. And how difficult would it be to deal with prisoners who were angry, who did not want to be there and to manage them well. And yet he was able to accomplish this. He also learned to work under authority. In all of these cases, whether it was in Potiphar's household or in the prison or running the nation virtually, he was still under authority. And in each case, he made the man over top of him, as it were, look good. He made his life easy. He was always working for their approval and not for his own glory. And he also learned that any success that he enjoyed was due to the Lord. It was the presence of the Lord. One of the things that we see in the life of Joseph is his humility. It wasn't about exalting himself. He knew it was the Lord, the presence of the Lord, God's covenantal promises that were resting in his life. This was part of why he was able to accomplish what he was able to do. And so when Joseph first stood before Pharaoh and he interpreted his dream and he made a proposal to prepare for the coming famine, Pharaoh was blown away. That this man was able to diagnose the problem and he had a step-by-step plan on how to deal with this major catastrophe. And he knew that he was the man for the job. And so he gave him this great undertaking. We read in Genesis chapter 41 And verse 46 it says, and Joseph was 30 years old when he stood before Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh. and went throughout all the land of Egypt, and in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth by handfuls. And he gathered up all the food of the seven years which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food And the cities, the food of the field, which was roundabout every city, laid he up in the same. And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much until he left numbering, for it was without number And then we read a little later in this chapter, verse 53, and the seven years of plenteousness that was in the land of Egypt were ended, and the seven years of dearth began began to come according as Joseph had said. And the dearth was in all the lands, but in the land of Egypt there was bread. And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread, and Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians, Go unto Joseph. What he saith to you, do. And the famine was over all the face of the earth, and Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold unto the Egyptians. And the famine waxed sore in the land of Egypt. And all the countries came into Egypt to Joseph to buy corn, because that the famine was so sore in all the lands. Joseph was providentially prepared for this very, very difficult task. For thirteen years he was in training To manage a great crisis. And this is not something that's unique with Joseph. God still uses our experiences in our life to prepare us. For other avenues of ministry. I always think in this regard of Mary Slesser, maybe a name that some of you know. She was a pioneer missionary to Nigeria in the late 1800s. She grew up in Scotland. And she didn't come from a Christian home. Her father was an alcoholic And he made their home a place of turmoil. In fact, he sold everything that he could get his hands on to buy more drink She writes that their home like had no furniture virtually because he would sell the furniture just to get another drink. She grew up in abject poverty. She had to work in the mills as a girl just to support herself and her mom. Not the kind of training you would think that would make for a promising missionary. But when finally she grew up as an adult and went to Calabar , She went to a tribe of people where there was rampant alcoholism and abject poverty. And they told her that when she was first shown to her hut, that there was no furniture there. And she was not dismayed because she said, I feel right at home. God had been preparing her For this kind of ministry. And God does that to people still today. God prepares his leaders for difficult tasks. And secondly, would you notice with me that godly leaders are individuals who serve others not themselves? Turn back with me, please, to Genesis 47. Genesis 47. I want to begin reading now. At verse 11. And Joseph placed his father and his brethren and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Ramses, as Pharaoh had commanded. And Joseph nourished his father and his brethren and all his father's household with bread according to their families, and there was no bread in all the land For the famine was very sore, so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine. And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan. For the corn which they bought, and Joseph brought the money unto Pharaoh's house. Reading the first two verses of how Joseph provided for his family in Egypt. This should not be a surprise to us because Joseph was a gracious and generous man. There is abundant evidence in the biblical narrative to confirm this statement. When Joseph placed money in his brother's grain sacks, it was not to frame them, but to bless them. And when they returned to Canaan to their father to tell them the news that Joseph was yet alive and a ruler in Egypt, He sent them back with royal wagons loaded with provisions. And when they returned to Egypt, he met them and told them of his plan to resettle them in the fields of Goshen. And he even gave them the words to say before Pharaoh. And he executed this plan perfectly, planning the idea in Pharaoh's mind, and then presenting his brothers and father before Pharaoh. They didn't just remain in the land as nomads, but they, like they did in Canaan, they were given the best land, and Joseph, we read in verse 12, continued to provide for them. He nourished them. And everything that they needed, he gave to them. In the very next verse, there's a contrast there. It says that he nourished them with bread in verse 12, but in verse 13, there was no bread in all the land. Now, that is apart from what was given to them by Joseph, the idea is that Joseph took good care of his family. But let me remind you that they did not deserve this kind of treatment. His brothers had treated him horribly. But he did not repay them in kind. No, he had forgiven them and now he wanted to be a blessing to them. Sometimes people will come to me and ask how they should treat. someone whom they've had a strained relationship with and perhaps they're meeting uh to try to get things reconciled which was a good thing and my advice always to them is this Treat them better than they deserve. Because that's the way God has treated you. Treat them better than they deserve. And that is exactly what Joseph did to his brothers. And his family. But Joseph was not just faithful in serving his family, he was faithful in serving Pharaoh. In verses 13 and 14, we read about the escalation of the famine. And how Joseph allowed the people to come to all of these different stations where they had the grain supplies and purchase their grain with their money. And as the years roll on, the people end up spending all the monetary resources they have. This must have been quite a haul. Egypt was one of the wealthiest nations in the world at this time, if not the most wealthy. We know something of this from the tombs of the kings. From like the the tomb of King Tot that was filled with all of these gold treasures Just imagine these storehouses that Joseph was responsible for as people brought in their silver and their gold. There must have been heats of money That were brought in there, it must have been dazzling to behold. It would have been very easy for Joseph to take some for himself. And the fact is that we know in the ancient world it was very common for leaders to help themselves. It was considered one of the perks of the job. It's still like that in some places in the world. So often when people become powerful, they use that position to serve themselves. They use it to feather their nest. A lot of the abuse allegations and things that we have heard about leaders in recent years are people who are powerful and so often they become intoxicated with their authority and their power and they think that the rules do not apply to them. They can do whatever they want because they can hire the best lawyers. They're virtually unimpeachable. They're so powerful that they can buy justice. It would have been easy for Joseph to fall into that trap, but he did not. Joseph was a man of integrity. He used his position not to serve himself, but to serve others, to serve his family and then the people of Egypt and the other nations of the world. that came to him. And this, of course, is exactly compatible with the example of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I want to invite you to turn with me please to Matthew chapter 20. Matthew chapter 20. This is also found in Mark chapter 10, one of the great passages on leadership. In Scripture, but with me in Matthew 20, verse 20. And there came to him the mother of Zebedee's children with her sons, worshiping him, or bowing down to him, and desiring a certain thing of him. And he said unto her, What wilt thou? And she said unto him, Grant that these my two sons may sit the one on thy right hand and the other on thy left in the kingdom. This was very likely our Lord's aunt that was coming to him. And because of her family connection, she felt free to make this bold request. She only wanted the very best for her sons. And so she asked that as he's rapidly approaching what they assumed was going to be the beginning of his kingdom, that they would have. These prominent roles in his right hand and his left, because they had been his faithful disciples. And you'll notice that this angered the other disciples. Verse 24. And when the ten heard it, they were moved with indignation against the two brethren. This happens every day where people boldly go and ask for promotion or request a raise, and how do other people in the office respond? They're infuriated. And then Jesus sees this as a teachable moment. And he said, You know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority upon them. But it shall not be so among you. He's saying when he speaks to the Gentiles, he's not really talking about racial things. He's talking here about the world. He says, this is the way it works in the world. People use their power and their privilege to gain more power and privilege. That's the way it's always been in the world. But he says it doesn't work that way in the kingdom of God. He says, whosoever will be great among you. Let him be your minister or your servant. And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant, even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life. a ransom for many. And these were not empty words. Jesus' walk matched his talk the night before he was crucified. Jesus wrapped a towel, the towel of a servant around his waist and washed the disciples' dusty feet. He said unto them, The servant is not greater than his Lord, neither he that is sent greater than he that sent him, if you know these things Happy are ye if you do with them. The world teaches us that happiness is getting other people to serve you. But Jesus taught that serving others. is the path of blessing. Christian leaders are servant leaders. And that brings me to my third point. Would you turn with me back to Genesis 37, please, or 47? Genesis 47, please. I want you to see here that godly leaders make difficult decisions in times of crisis. This was indeed a time of crisis because just when people thought it could never get worse, it just continued on. We read of this in verses 15 and following. Look with me. at this escalation here. And when the money failed in the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph and said, Give us bread, for why should we die in thy presence, for the money faileth? And Joseph said, Give your cattle, and I will give you for your cattle, if money fail. And they brought their cattle unto Joseph, and Joseph gave them bread in exchange for horses. and for the flocks and for the cattle of the herds and for the asses, and he fed them with bread for all their cattle for that year, and when the year was ended. They came unto him the second year and said unto him, We will not hide it from my Lord, how that our money is spent. My Lord also hath our herds of cattle. There is not aught left in the sight of my Lord but our bodies and our lands. Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes, both we and our land? Buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants unto Pharaoh, and give us seed that we may live and not die. that the land be not desolate. And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh, for the Egyptians sold every man his field because the land prevailed over them, so the land became Pharaoh's. And as for the people, he removed them to cities from one end of the border of Egypt unto the other end thereof. The intensity of this famine is reflected in the desperation of the people. In verses 13 and 14, they exchange all their money for grain, all their savings. All the little secret stashes and family heirlooms and things that they have swirled away, they end up emptying and spending it all just to stay alive. But the famine didn't end. And so now they sold their animal stock for grain in verses 16 and 17. That held them for another year. But the drought continued. And so finally in desperation they sold their land and themselves as servants to Pharaoh. Now I strongly suspect That many people are thinking right now, I would never do that. I would only say this, spoken like an American who has never gone a day without food. The fact is that starvation is a foreign concept to almost all of us. There's no one here that lives in fear of starvation. We have packed pantries and overloaded refrigerators. Our communities are full of grocery stores and restaurants. But I have taught to people of third world countries, and I did live in a third world country for four years And I remember when some of the men that we worked with came to this country, the thing that was most amazing to them was not our cars and our skyscrapers. and our incredibly smooth roads, although they commented on those, it was our grocery stores. They could not believe that you could walk in and you had all of this food available to you and all of these varieties and they were these stores everywhere in our country. Because they had never seen anything like this. There was nothing in any way comparable to that in their communities or in their entire country. But we take it for granted. And so let us not think for even a moment that we are made of better stuff than these ancient Egyptians who were just trying to stay alive. The fact is that you would give up all your money and everything you possessed to fight off the gnawing pains of hunger and to relieve the suffering of your family. But I want you to consider the dangers that Joseph faced in this. A crisis like this of starvation and desperation comes, brings with it many inherent dangers. First of all, if Joseph didn't have the right leaders in key positions, there could be widespread corruption, which often occurs during famine relief. It's sad to say, but many of the food supplies that we send to third world countries never reach the starving people it was intended for because of corruption. Secondly, there was also the great danger of rioting and violence when the food was distributed because the people were so desperate. This is something that maybe you've seen footage of before. But in some countries of the world, the people are starving to death literally. When they do go to those places where they get food supplies, the people are like uncontrollable. They riot. There's violence. Because they they lose a sense of rationale in trying to get food for their family But Joseph had established a multitude of distribution centers that were centrally located to avoid this type of disaster. In verse 21, we read of people being relocated to cities. This probably occurred so that food could be effectively distributed to the starving people of Egypt. Let's remember they didn't have automobiles, they didn't have trucks, they didn't have trains. The only way that they could keep the people alive is they had to move to the urban centers. That's the only way they could effectively distribute. The needed food. And there, of course, is a great danger of civil unrest and revolution when people are facing a severe crisis like this. It would have been very easy for the whole nation to be plunged into an absolute anarchy and chaos. But because of Joseph's capable leadership, he held everything together. And rather than Pharaoh losing control of the nation, he actually gained more control. And by the way. There is archaeological evidence and historical evidence that shows at about the same time in this history of Egypt The nation went from having local men who ruled small areas to all of a sudden it became centralized to one man. And the secular historians aren't sure how that happened, but the Bible tells us how it happened. It happened through the leadership of Joseph. There was a great opportunity for there to be unrest. I mean, think about it. He took their money, their land, and their freedom. I think if he tried that in Carroll County, there would be some resistance. So why did the people agree to this? Number one, I would say, because Joseph was trusted by everyone. Remember, he had already been in charge for the seven years of plenty, and people saw that he was a wise man, that he was a man of unassailable character, that he was a man of integrity. They had confidence in him. And secondly, let me say that Joseph did not just give them grain. They had to buy the grain one way or another. He didn't just say, just come and get it for free. They had to give something in exchange for it. This was not a government handout. And everyone had a sense that everyone was making extreme sacrifices for survival And so that kept the people united. And notice that Joseph gave them work to do for their survival. Look with me at verse 23. And Joseph said unto the people, Behold, I have bought you this day and your land for Pharaoh. Lo, here is seed for you, and ye shall sow the land. This was essentially a feudal system, like took place throughout all of Europe in the Middle Ages, where there was a Lord who owned a large tract of land and the people uh raised crops and then gave a portion of it back. to the owner of the land. That was essentially the system, and it was widespread throughout the ancient worlds. But notice he gave them something to do. They had to work. They had to cultivate the fields for their survival. Giving money to people for free may seem compassionate, but it often robs them of dignity and tends to make them forever dependent on someone else to support them. And so Joseph was wise in the way he gave people responsibility for their own survival. We see here that the greatest leaders shine in the darkest days. Think of Abraham Lincoln and Winston Churchill. Men who also faced great days of crisis. And here we see Joseph exhibiting great wisdom and responsibility in the management of this crisis. But fourthly, I want you to notice that godly leaders are a blessing to the world and the people of God. Look with me at verses 24 and following, and it came to pass in the increase that ye shall give the fifth part unto Pharaoh, and four parts shall be yours for seed of the field and for your food and for them of your households and for food. for your little ones. And he said, Thou hast saved our lives. Let us find grace in thy sight, O my Lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants. And Joseph made it the law over the land of Egypt unto this day, that Pharaoh should have the fifth part, except the land of the priest only, which came not Pharaoh's, and Israel dwelleth in the land of Egypt, in the country of Goshem. And they had possessions therein and grew and multiplied exceedingly. In verse 27, we read of the prosperity and growth of the people of God and Goshen. And that prosperity said in contrast to the poverty of the Egyptians. And the rapid growth of the Israelites is a foreshadowing of what will open up the book of Exodus. The stage is being set for yet another rescue of the people of God. But I want to ask a question or answer a question that may have occurred to you. Why did Joseph work so diligently to spare the lives of these pagan Egyptians. Let's remember that the Egyptians believed that the Hebrews were inferior both culturally and racially. And the Egyptians were thoroughly pagan. Idolatry permeated their culture. And in not too many years, they would begin to persecute the people of God. And we know that God would judge them eventually with ten plagues, and yet Joseph does everything in his power to spare them from this famine. Why is that? Well, first of all, partly because their survival was part of God's plan for his people. Remember, Egypt was the incubator for the young nation of Israel. And Egypt, in those four hundred and thirty years, they would grow from a clan of seventy into a strong nation. But I think secondly we need to realize because God cares for even pagan people. Even lost people are made in the image of God. The prophet Jeremiah wrote to the exiles in Babylon and said, and seek the peace of the city whither I have caused you to be carried away captives, and pray unto the Lord for it, for in the peace thereof ye shall have peace. We see here that we should pray and try to be a blessing in all the communities in which we live. It is true that we have been called to be different from the world, but not disinterested in what's happening in the world. Jesus calls every believer to let our light shine in our dark days. But thirdly The reason why Joseph was a blessing to the Egyptians is because God was blessing them through Joseph and Jacob. In Genesis chapter 12 and verse 3. God says to Abraham, and these shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. And this was fulfilled in multiple ways, ultimately, of course, in Christ. But remember how God blessed Laban because of Jacob. And God blessed Potiphar because Joseph was there. And now God is blessing the entire nation of Israel and the surrounding nations because of his people and his covenantal promises to them. Last week I mentioned this opening scene in Genesis 47. You remember when the ancient patriarch Jacob comes before Pharaoh? What an interesting scene that was. Quite a c contrast. And you remember I brought out that Jacob blesses Pharaoh And how remarkable that is. Many Bible scholars see that there's a connection between his blessing there and the incredible blessings that Pharaoh would experience in the remainder of this chapter as he gained all of the wealth, all of the animals, all of the land, and the subservience of all the people. How did that happen? That happened through the blessing of Jacob and of Jacob's God upon Pharaoh, where the people of God were now housed. Now I want to make some concluding applications as we conclude this morning. Once again I think if we look carefully, we see in Joseph's life glimpses of our glorious Savior. Just as Joseph graciously saved the lives of the Egyptians, So the Lord has graciously saved our souls from eternal death. Look with me at verse 25 of Genesis 47. And they said, that is the people, thou hast saved our lives. Let us find grace in the sight of my Lord, and we will be Pharaoh 's servants. They were undeserving of this dramatic rescue by Joseph. And all of the redeemed are also undeserving of our salvation. We have all sinned And come short of the glory of God. But Jesus is so much greater than Joseph. He didn't just manage a crisis. He died for our sins. The Bible says, and while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And it's all due to the grace of God. The question I have for you is, have you come To the only Savior that God has provided. Just think about it. What if those Egyptians said, I don't like Joseph? I'm not going to go to Joseph and get those grain from him. I'm going to try to make it on my own. Or I'm going to try to find some other savior. They would have perished because there was only one man that Pharaoh provided to give out the needed food supplies, and there's only one Savior. That God has provided his son. Jesus said, I am the bread of life. If any man eat of this bread, he shall live forever. Let me ask you this morning, have you tasted and seen that the Lord is good? And would you notice that those who have been saved will desire to serve the king. These ancient Egyptians said, we will be Pharaoh's servants, but our master is not like this Egyptian Pharaoh. His yoke is easy and his burden is light. Paul writes that since Christ has died for us, we should not henceforth live for ourselves, but for him. And he also would write, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice wholly, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. This is the only way to live as a grateful servant of Jesus Christ. This is the path of blessing. Love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all. Sometimes when I conclude a service, I will say, it just could be that there are people here this morning that are lost. Of course I cannot see people's hearts, but I want you to know, I feel certain that there are many people here that are lost in a group this size. And the fact is there are some people here this morning who would say, I'm not a Christian. It's not just my evaluation of you. It's your evaluation of yourself. The question is, have you come To the Savior. Have you come to the only one who has what you need, the forgiveness of sins? Come to Christ today, and he will save you. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you that it is filled with wonderful truths for us to behold. We thank you most of all for all that it tells us of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that you would work in our midst today and that those who are yet lost in their sins. who have never seen their desperate state would today come to the Savior, the only Savior you've provided, and be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.