Give your Bibles, please. You can turn to the passage that we read a moment ago, Luke chapter 9. Luke chapter 9. Robert Moffat was one of the very first missionaries to go to the continent of Africa. He realized early on that he was facing a task that was far greater than he could accomplish, trying to reach an entire continent with the gospel. And so he began to spend a great deal of time trying to recruit other missionaries to join him in his evangelism. One night he went to Scotland and there he preached to a group of people and he told the story Of one time when he was in Africa and rising early in the morning, climbing up to the top of a mountain and looking out over a vast distance as the sun was rising. And he said that he could see the smoke of a thousand villages from that mountain peak. And that of those thousand villages, not one of them have ever heard the name of Jesus Christ. And he shared that truth. with the young people that night and one man felt the call of God to be a missionary. His name was David Livingston He would grow up and he would marry Robert Moffat's daughter, and he would take the gospel to the interior of Africa. He never got over that imagery of a thousand villages that had never heard the name of Christ. The fact is that one experience, one glimpse, can change a life forever. That was true certainly in the life of Peter, the man whose life we've been studying now for a couple months. We come this morning to a very unusual and astounding event when Peter comes face to face with the glory of Christ. He sees him in a way that he has never seen him before. We refer to this as the transfiguration of Christ. It's recorded in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, and it was witnessed by Peter and two other disciples, James and John. The Lord, of course, could have gone alone to that mountain as he did on many occasions when he prayed. But he wanted to take these leaders with them because he wanted them to witness something that they would never get over. You may recall from our two previous sermons the Lord has taken his disciples on a little spiritual retreat, if you will. They've gone far to the north, to the very border of Israel, in a region called Caesarea Philippi. And in this pagan territory, he has revealed to them some marvelous things. We have first of all the confession of Peter. He asked him, Who do men say that I am? And Peter gives a very good answer. He says, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living Gods. And then he reveals to them that he is about to inaugurate a new community of people known as the church. And then he also shares with them that in the days ahead he is going to be murdered, but that he will rise again from the dead. And this news shook the disciples. Peter responds As we saw in Matthew's gospel by saying, it shall not be unto thee, Lord. This is not going to happen. I'm going to do everything I can to keep this from occurring. And then the Lord rebukes Peter. Peter's thinking was all wrong. He needed to learn that to be a follower of a Christ involves not just wearing the crown, but taking up the cross. The Lord gives those very memorable words on this occasion of if a man will come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. And then we read that after this very momentous revelation The Lord takes Peter and these other two disciples up on a mountain in Luke chapter 9 it says in verse 28, and it came to pass about an eight days after these sayings He took Peter and John and James and went up into a mountain to pray. Now, if you carefully compare Matthew, Mark, and Luke, you might find what you think is a discrepancy because Matthew and Mark say that it took place six days later. Luke here says eight days later. How do we account for that? Well very simply. They were writing to different audiences who counted days and measured chronology differently. And Luke's account he's calling the Day of the Saints. And all the time in between, and also counting the day of the transfiguration, while Matthew and Mark are just counting the six days in between One's inclusive, one's exclusive. There's just not a discrepancy at all. So this happened about a week earlier. And the Lord laid down some very stringent requirements for being a disciple. He said unto them in verse 23, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, but whosoever will lose his life for my sake the same shall save. But for what is a man advantaged? if he gained the whole world and lose himself or be cast away. And I think that week in between when he said these words, when he revealed his coming death , And the transfiguration were a week of low morale. He has essentially said, I'm going to die, and I'm calling you to follow in my footsteps. And all their dreams of building a kingdom and being at the Lord's right and left hand and being important and prominent and powerful and part of a movement of revolution that would cast off Rome. All of that came crumbling down. And so they are discouraged. They may even wonder, why am I doing this? Why am I following the Lord if it's only going to lead to death? And so the Lord takes the leaders of the twelve, these three men, Peter, James, and John. And he gives them a very unique experience to lift their sagging spirits. He gives them a glorious vision that they would never forget. And the fact is that the Lord desires all of his disciples to catch a glimpse of his glory, that this is a very important way that we continue on through life despite the hardships and the difficulties that we face. I want you to notice in this passage this morning that the glory of Christ should inspire disciples to follow the Lord. But that raises the question of how can we today see the glory of Christ? And I believe this passage gives us four ways that we can see the glory of Christ. Would you notice with me, first of all, that we can see the glory of Christ by seeking communion with Him? Peter, James, and John were the inner circle of the disciples. We find these three together on several occasions in the Gospels. When the Lord raised the 12-year-old girl from the dead, he brought these three men along because he wanted them to see that he had the power over death. He wanted them to see that with their own eyes And you remember at the end of our Lord's life when his soul was greatly troubled He went in the Garden of Gethsemane and he took these three disciples with him and he asked them to pray with him. And they failed him miserably by falling asleep. But he brought them with him, these three, these three disciples that he was the closest to. And in between these two instances, we see the Lord bringing them with him up on the mountain. People want to know why the Lord brought these three, I would suggest it's because they were the three disciples that were closest to him, that had developed a relationship with him. Peter did really have a fervent love for Christ. He was the only one of the twelve who put up a fight when they came to arrest him. And we see more conversations between the Lord and Peter than any of the other disciples. John, of course, was more reflective. More affectionate. We see him with the Lord next to him in the upper room. He was a disciple whom Jesus loved. That's the way he's described. And James, who we don't know that much about, we do know this, he was the first of the twelve to give his life for the Lord. It's recorded in Acts chapter 12. He truly loved the Lord as well. So how does the Lord reward these men Who have developed a close relationship with them. Well, he gives them glimpses of his glory. Now let's think about this. probably spent the entire day climbing this mountain. Most scholars think this was Mount Hermon, the tallest mountain in Israel. It's over 9,000 feet tall. And from the top of that mountain, you can almost see on a clear day all of Israel. These men climbed this mountain. They probably arrived in the late afternoon. They're very tired. And the Lord says, we've come up here to pray. The Lord loved to pray on mountains. They are natural altars. And he goes up there, and these men, as we see in the Garden of Gethsemane, they're tired, they're worn out, and perhaps the oxygen at 9,000 feet is pretty thin. They're exhausted, and as the Lord is praying, they fall asleep. But when they awake They see the glory of Christ. Look at verse 32. But Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep. And when they were awake, they saw his glory. And the two men that stood with him. This was an amazing experience In verse 29, Luke says, and as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment was white and glistering. We don't use the word glistering today anymore. describes blinding brightness. If you look at the three Gospels and put their descriptions together, this is what you'll find. They compare his brightness to the shining of the sun, or to a flash of lightning, or to snow that's reflecting sunlight. You ever seen snow? And we call it snow blindness that's so bright? You can't see. You have to wear sunglasses because the snow is so bright. That's the way his appearance was. And it extended to his very clothing. The gospel writers talk about his clothing. Mark says quaintly, and his clothing was whiter than any fuller could whiten. We don't use the term fuller anymore. That's a person who does laundry. Mark is saying, and I say this respectfully, that his clothing, the brightness of it, was not because of any laundry detergent. I mean that's that couldn't explain the brightness and radiance that they saw that day. And two of the gospel writers use the term metamorphosized to describe what happened. It's used only four times this word. in the New Testament describes a radical change that comes from the inside out, that changes the very character of the way something looks. We use it, of course, for when a caterpillar is changed into a butterfly. They don't look anything alike. It's a radical change, and that's the word that's used here. So it's not that God showed a light down onto that mountain peak and it kind of irradiated the Lord kind of like these spotlights here. It wasn't like that. It was a light that came from inside And here in Luke, it describes in verse 29 that his very appearance, his very face was somehow altered and changed. What were they seeing? They were seeing Christ in his natural glory. The way they saw him. And knew him for three years was in a sense a veiled look of him. They didn't see him in his glory, but now they caught a glimpse of his glory. And it was something that they would never forget. Two of them who would write for us will refer to it in their writings, Peter and John. You see, God delights to reveal his glory to those who seek to walk closely with him We see this promise in the Word of God in the upper room. Jesus said something that has always struck me He talks about him manifesting himself to the one who walks with him and who seeks him. And John chapter 14, I'm not going to take the time to look at those various references. But how can we see the glory of God today? How does he reveal his glory to us? He reveals his glory to us in our communion with him, in our relationship with him, when we see him answer our prayers in amazing ways, when we see him use our feeble efforts to minister to others and bring them to Christ. And we see it in the way he walks close with us and we can commune with him in the word. Have you ever had, and I don't want to sound like a mystic or someone who's got a strange experience, you know, I've I've talked to some Christians who have told me some pretty bizarre things before, and I sometimes don't know quite how to respond. Maybe you've had that experience as well. But have you ever had the Lord just as it were really reveal his glory to you and in the Word, in a time of quietness, in a time when you've gotten away? and you've gotten alone with the Lord and tears have come to your eyes because you've caught a glimpse of the glory of God. You can go throughout Christian biography and you can read all about individuals. From Jonathan Edwards and David Brainerd out in the woods seeking the Lords to Dwight L. Moody and others. Who call it a glimpse of the glory of the Lord? He does that to those who seek him and who want that close relationship with him. He at times will give us a glimpse of his glory. that will inspire us and encourage us to go on in our walk with Him. But would you note with me secondly that we can see the glory of Christ in our redemption? Now we read of two visitors on the mountain. These were Moses and Elias, it says, or we would say Elijah. who it says in verse 31, appeared in glory and spake of his decease, which he should accomplish at Jerusalem. Now the word decease here is very interesting. It's a rare word. It's literally the word Exodus. It's where we get the name of the second book of our Bible. It describes a departure. It's reference to the Lord's death, resurrection, and ascension. And that's what Moses and Elijah were talking to the Lord about. When Peter came to, that's what he heard their discussion was about. Of all the things they could be talking about, they were talking about God's plan of redemption. Because in God's plan of redemption we see the glory of God's. It's the most glorious plan that the universe has ever known. In fact, in 1 Peter chapter 1, we read that the angels desire to look into it. Old Testament saints, angels want to know about God's plan of redemption. It's the most glorious plan the universe has ever known. The cross reveals the glory of God. One of the things we're talking about when we talk about the glory of God is that it reveals the person of God, the attributes of God And this is on incredible display at the cross. We see the wrath of God against sin. We see something of the justice of God and of the holiness of God and of the love of God and the mercy of God The glory of God was on rare display at the cross. And then the resurrection reveals the glory of God. We see our Saviors triumph over death. In the empty tomb, we see clear evidence that the Lord has defeated the devil and the host of darkness. We see in the resurrection of Christ the Father's glorious vindication of his beloved Son. He is saying symbolically, this is my beloved son, and who I am well pleased. And I believe, although I can't prove it, I believe That when those three disciples on resurrection morning saw the risen Lord come into their appearance, And they saw him, I think it reminded them something of the radiance they saw that night on the mountain. And the ascension of Christ reveals the glory of God. In Acts chapter 1, Luke records really the best account that we have of the resurrection. It says in verse 9, and when he had sp spoken these things while they beheld he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight, and while they looked steadfastly towards heaven, As he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus which is taken up from you into heaven. shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. God's work of redemption from beginning to end is full of glory. This is why John, writing many decades later, would reflect on the life of Christ, and he would say of this incident, And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. And scholars believe he is referring specifically to that night on the Mount of Transfiguration. Now maybe you're here this morning and you would say, you know, all this talk about Jesus dying on a cross and rising from the dead To be honest with you, I think it's nonsense. It just seems like ancient mythology to me The way you think about this is of no minor importance. Paul writes in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 18, he says, for the preaching of the cross is to them that perish. foolishness. But unto us which are saved it is the power of God's Those who are in the process of perishing hear the gospel and it's foolishness to them. It's not glorious. It's nonsense. It has no relevance to them. They smile at it as they think about people living before the scientific era and not understanding these things and being superstitious, and they just dismiss it as nothing. But the Bible gives another explanation for that viewpoint. It is that those people are perishing. They are blind. The Bible speaks in 2 Corinthians chapter 4 of the God of this world blinding their minds. It's kind of like taking a blind person to a beautiful museum where there's all kinds of exquisite works of art and taking them from one gallery to another and saying, what do you think? And they don't think anything because they can't see anything. It has absolutely no impact on them You could take them to the greatest works of art the world has ever known, and it still will have zero impact on them because they're blind. They can't see. And so you can preach the gospel earnestly. But if they're blind, it will mean nothing to them So this is no minor question. How do you think of the cross? But to those who have responded in faith to the glorious message of redemption, they will say with Paul, God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. So how do we see the glory of Christ? Well we can see it by seeking to walk close with Him. We can see it In the cross, in redemption. And we can see the glory of Christ also thirdly in the Word of God. Look with me Again at Luke chapter 9, I want you to look with me at verses 33 through 36. It says, and it came to pass as they departed from him, that is, as Moses and Elijah departed, Peter said unto Jesus, Master , Is it good for us to be here? Let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, one for Moses, and one for Elias, not knowing what he said. And while he thus spake, there came a cloud and overshadowed them. And they feared as they entered into the cloud, and there came a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved son. Hear him. And when the voice was passed, Jesus was found alone And they kept it close and told no man in those days any of those things which they had seen. Peter is always the first to speak. And he recognizes that this is an unusual experience. He's elated. He's exuberant. He's just. Woken up out of his nap. He's a little startled, a little confused. He sees Moses and Elijah. He sees the Lord and his glorified states. And so he proposes that they make three tabernacles or three booths. He wanted to have a celebration like the Jews did at the Feast of Tabernacles, where they would remember what God has done in the past. And he wanted He wanted to this moment, this experience of glory not to end, not to quickly dissipate. He wanted to keep these two distinguished Old Testament guests there. And so he proposes that they make these boos that they might remain and worship and talk and reflect. And I love the way Luke puts it here, not knowing what he said. He was once again speaking before he was thinking. Inadvertently, he had put Peter, Peter had put Christ on the same level as Moses and Elijah. And while he said these unfortunate words, right away there was a cloud that came, was coming towards them as they're on the mountain. That must have been a fearful experience. He must have felt, uh oh, what have I done? And he hears the voice of God. We have something, some idea of what the voice of God sounds like From the descriptions we have in Exodus chapter 19 and 20, and in John chapter 12 The people told Moses, please don't let God speak to us anymore. It was terrifying. It sounded like thunder. And in John chapter 12, when the Lord spoke, it says the people around said, that must have been thunder. It was a deep, powerful voice that said, This is my beloved son, hear him. This is one of three times that we read in the life of Christ where there was an audible voice from heaven. Remember, there was first at his baptism. When the Lord says, this is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. And at the end of this ministry, as I mentioned just a moment ago in John chapter 12, Verses 27 and 28, there was a voice from heaven that said, I have both glorified it, referring to Christ's name, and will glorify it yet again. And now on the mountain, Mark Matthew gives us the full statement. He said, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear ye him. He's saying, Peter, you don't need to listen to Moses. You don't need to hear from Elijah. You need to hear from my beloved son. Because his words are glorious. Now, why is it that Moses and Elijah were the two Old Testament saints that came to the mountain? People want to know that. And there's some different ideas that people had Both of these men, interestingly enough, had incredible revelations of God on a mountain. Did you know that? Both Moses and Elijah experienced that. And there's some Jewish tradition that says that Moses did not actually die but was assumed up in the heaven, but that seems to contradict what is clearly stated in Scripture. Of course, Elijah was taken up in a whirlwind. But the vast majority of Bible scholars throughout the centuries have always explained this in this way. Moses and Elijah represent the totality of the Old Testament. Moses, the writer of the first five books of the Bible, the giver of the law. represented that section of Scripture, and Elijah, the most spectacular of all the prophets, represented the other division of the Old Testament. The prophets, the law and the prophets, a shorthand way of saying the Old Testament. And these two representatives and the Lord's response to Peter's statement indicate and illustrate for us That the entire Old Testament points to Christ. And it all leads to the cross. That's what they were talking to the Lord about. And so we can see the glory of Christ in His words. And we should not relegate that to just the words that Jesus said. Some of you have, I have one up here this morning, a red letter edition of the Bible. I have mixed feelings about that because it's really nice in some ways to see those red letters, but you should never think that the red letters are somehow more authoritative or more powerful or more the Word of God than the black letters are because they're not. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. This is all, in a very real sense, the words of Christ. And the Bible tells us that the words of Christ can change us. as we read it. I want you to turn with me, if you would, to the book of 2 Corinthians, chapter 3. 2 Corinthians chapter 3. This is one of the most important verses in the Bible on the doctrine of sanctification is so much condensed into this one verse. 2 Corinthians chapter 3 verse 18 the last verse in this chapter Paul writes, but we all with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord's. It says that we all, it is all believers, we come and we look into the glass or the mirror of the word of God And in the Word of God, we see the glory of the Lord. We see the Lord Jesus Christ in his glory. And when we really see his glory, we are changed. And the word changed there Is that rare word that I mentioned earlier that is found, only place it's found is in the transfiguration account of Christ. We are metamorphosized, we are changed from the inside out. You see, being a Christian is not about cutting your hair or putting on a suit or anything like that. It's about an internal change that transpires by the Spirit of God using the Word of God. And this verse is saying that as we look into God's word, we see the glory of God, and the more we explain Expose ourselves to the glory of God, the more we are changed from the inside out. It says from glory to glory, that is from one degree to another. It doesn't happen overnight. It's a gradual change. But the more we expose ourselves to the Word of God with an open heart, the more that change will take place. and it takes place by the empowering work of the Spirit of God in our hearts. I told you there's an awful lot in this verse. This is how disciples are made. This is why on our literature here at church we have making Christ like disciples by the word of God for the glory of God. God's word transforms us. This is why we put a huge emphasis on the Bible here at our church. I've had visitors say to me before, you know, coming to your church is kind of like going to school. I mean, I went to Sunday school class and they just taught and talked all about the Bible. Then I went to the morning service, they talked all about the Bible. I went to the evening service, they talked all about the Bible. You guys really have a lot of Bible here. What's up with that? And I will say to them, because it's the word of God That changes us. That's what we need to hear. People don't need to hear my opinion or someone else's opinion. They need to hear from God's. And this is why we preach the word and teach the word and memorize the word and meditate on the word. It says that we are changed, it says in this verse, into the same image. What's that image there? It's the image of Christ. We become more like Christ. And that's what sanctification, that's what our Christian lives are all about. Now perhaps you would say, yeah, you know, but I would still much rather Have an experience like Peter did that night on the mountain and see the glory of Christ, the blazing radiance of his presence. I can understand that, but you know what? If Peter were here this morning, he would disagree with you about that. And I can prove that because he writes about in his epistle. Turn with me to the last book that he wrote, 2 Peter chapter 1. This is right towards the end of your New Testament, 2 Peter 1, and verse 14. He says this, knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ. Hath showed me. Moreover, I will endeavor that ye may be able after my decease To have these things always in remembrance, and I think it's interesting the word decease here is the other time that term Exodus is used, the one speaking of Christ's death and resurrection. His departure. He uses that same word here. He says, I want you to remember what I've said. He says, I'm an old man, I'm about to die. Lord has revealed how I'm going to die. That's found in John chapter 21, where he's going to be. He's going to die by crucifixion. He knows that day is coming soon. The persecution is growing. He says in verse 16. For we have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. But we're, look at this, eyewitnesses of his majesty. And you know what Peter's talking about there? He's talking about what he saw on the Mount of Transfiguration. For he received from God the Father honor and glory when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, this is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And this voice which came from heaven we heard when we were with him in the holy mounts. That's incredible. Now look at the next verse. This is the reason I had you turned here. Look at verse 19. We have also a more sure word of prophecy. Whereunto you do well that you take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, unto the day dawn and the dark day star arise in your hearts. Peter is saying to his writers, who were all saying, oh boy, it must have been something to be up there on that mountain. He says, you know what? You're not disadvantaged. You have a more sure word of prophecy. Did you know that the word of God is more certain than our subjective experiences? Did you know that? It is. There is a whole branch of the Christian church that places a premium on sensational spiritual experiences. And when they seem to contradict the word of God, well then experience has got to win out because that's what I know, that's what I feel, that's what I have experienced. But how is it that the Word of God is in some way more certain than our experiences? Because our experiences can be forgotten Our experiences have been embellished. Did you know that your human memory is faulty? Has it ever occurred, has it ever happened to you that you remember something that happened years and years ago and you were absolutely certain that's the way it happened But then there was some evidence, maybe a picture, maybe a video or something that you saw that actual event and it didn't happen the way you remembered it Human memory we think is like, you know, incredibly objective, but it's not Our mind plays tricks on us. We remember things differently than they actually happen in many occasions. This is why eyewitness testimony is very unreliable in a court of law. People say they saw all kinds of different things. Because our experiences and things that happen very quickly so often we perceive in a flawed way. And so if our word of if if our whole spiritual standing, our whole assurance, our whole relationship with God is based on how we feel or something that happened 22 years ago. We're in trouble because your mind might go that you can't remember that experience anymore. But the Word of God's not like that. It liveth and abideth forever. Does not change. This is our rock. This is our fortress. This is what we can build our spiritual life upon, not upon the shifting sand of our subjective experiences or feelings, but on the unchanging Word of God. But there's a fourth way that we can see the glory of Christ, and that is in his coming kingdom. I would invite you to turn with me back to where we started, Luke chapter 9. And I want to make a connection that I have not made previously, although it's very significant and important. In Luke chapter 9, I told you about the fact that a week earlier the Lord had revealed his coming death. And he tries to assure them, and he says something that puzzles scholars and Bible readers. Look at verse 27. This is found, by the way, in all three synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Verse 27, Luke chapter 9, but I tell you of a truth, there shall be some standing here which shall not taste of death till they see the kingdom of God's. And I am sure the disciples thought, wow. There we've got it. Verification. It's going to happen soon. The Lord's going to establish his kingdom really soon in our lifetimes. Unbelieving scholars look at this and they say, well, Jesus got it wrong. You know? What can you say? But it's interesting to note that in every One of the three gospels that record this, the very next thing that happens, and notice how the how it's uh the chronology is laid out here, verse 28, and it came to pass about eight days after these sayings, what What he said in verse 27, he took Peter, John, and James and went up into a mountain to pray, and we have the transfiguration. So how do we understand this prediction? Most Christians throughout the ages have understood it this way. What he was talking about there was the transfiguration. It was a preview of the kingdom. It was a preview of the glory of the kingdom, of the glory of heaven, of our future as the redeemed. This was a preview that Peter, James, and John were able to experience. You see, Jesus promised that he would return to the earth with power and great glory. And he says that we will be forever with the Lord in glory. And you know what the Lord prayed? What's known as the great high priestly prayer in John chapter 17? He has a number of petitions there that he prays for his disciples And for those who would believe on him through their word, that's referring to us. The epitome, the last of those requests that the Lord prays for is this. John 17, 24. Father, I will that they also whom thou hast given me be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory which thou hast given me. That is the essence of heaven. The essence of the kingdom to behold the king and his beauty, to see the unveiled glory of the Son of God. That'll be the greatest experience that you or I ever have in eternity when we see the glory of Christ. And that prospect of our future and glory should change the way we face our suffering here and now. This is where I want to bring this down to where we live because you may be listening all about this. It sounds somewhat esoteric. Jesus shining brightly on top of a mountain. What does it have to do with me living in 21st century America? Well, it has a lot to do with you. Remember the main reason that Peter and the disciples were struggling so much and their spirits were so low is because they heard of their Lord's coming death, they heard of his suffering, and they heard of the suffering that they must face. They must take up their cross and follow him. And that wasn't very inviting. And so the Lord is going to reveal to them that the path of the cross leads to glory. That after our suffering we have glory of with the Lord. And Peter, decades later, would write an epistle, an entire epistle about suffering. I want to invite you to turn with me. to the book of 1 Peter. Okay? Can you turn with me to the book of 1 Peter? We're going to look at just a few verses here, one right after another. This book begins by talking about the greatness of our salvation. Look with me at a verse I've referred to earlier, verse 11, 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 11. It says, searching what? or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify when it testified beforehand the suffering of Christ and the glory that should follow. And that pattern, that prediction, that prophecy is found all throughout the Old Testament. Suffering and then glory. And now look with me at chapter two of First Peter and verse twenty-one. Peter writes For even hereunto were you called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow his steps. We have been called to follow in our Lord's example of suffering. We have not been exempt from that. This is the exact opposite. of the prosperity gospel that says because God loves you you won't have to suffer. No, this passage says you are to follow Christ and you will have to suffer. And then look with me ahead now to chapter 4, 1 Peter chapter 4, verses 12 and 13 It says, beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial, which is to try you as though some strange thing happened unto you. But rejoice in as much as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye shall be glad also with exceeding joy. It says when fiery trials come into your life, you should not be shocked and say, How could this happen to me? The Lord says it would happen to his children. And it says that our response, which is so counterintuitive to us, should be that of rejoicing, because if we suffer with them, we're also going to be glory and glory with him. And then look with me how he concludes this epistle in chapter 5, verses 10 and 11. Beautiful words From a man who has been changed by the grace of God. 1 Peter 5, verse 10. But the God of all grace who have called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus after ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. This is Peter's closing words to his writers, his readers. He's saying, yes, there's going to be some suffering in your life. That's part of what it means to be a Christian. And he was, of course, writing to the persecuted church. But don't be dismayed, because this is the path to glory. You know what? We don't think enough about heaven. We don't consider often enough the glory that awaits us. We are so busy trying to find our paradise on earth. We are trying to feather our nest and make a better life for the here and the now. And so often in our pursuits of this we find suffering, grief, and disappointments. Because this is not your home. We must adopt the perspective of Paul who said, For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. If you're a child of God, you're suffering here this morning, I want you to know this is the path that a multitude of pilgrims have gone before you, the path of suffering that leads to glory. There is no other route. There's no way to go through life with no suffering. That's not what God promised. That's not what he wants for you. That was not the plan for his beloved son. This desire is that you would go through the suffering and you would bring him glory and that someday you will see the king in his beauty. You will be in glory, and you will be like him. This is the truth. This is the doctrine that should strengthen us and establish our feet so that we can run the race that God has given to all of us. Let's close in prayer. Our Father, how desperately we need these words. Our flesh and the world in which we live seeks to focus our attention on the here and the now. And makes our perspective so earthbound. Help us, Father, to cast our gaze upon the glories ahead. Help us to remember that you have not promised us an easy path. And that if we would wear the cross, wear the crown, we must first take up the cross. And so I pray that you would help us to be those. who are willing to suffer in this life will suffer for Christ. Because we know it will be worth it all, and we will see the Lord in his glory, and we will be glorified, and we will rejoice. Help us, Father, to have this eternal perspective. That changes the way we view our problems, our afflictions in the time that we live on this earth. Help us, Father. to have this gaze of the glory of Christ before us and recognize That when we see Christ, all of these afflictions, all of this suffering will seem trivial in comparison. Father, strengthen your people with this truth. Force in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.