If you have your Bibles, please would you join with me in John chapter 9? If you're visiting with us, we've been making our way, paragraph by paragraph, through the Gospel of John. Many years ago, a Chinese farmer made his way to a Christian medical clinic in the interior of China. This man was essentially blind because of his cataracts. But after the missionary surgeon operated on his eyes, his sight was fully restored, and the farmer was overjoyed. He went back to his little village. And several days later, the surgeon looked out the window of his clinic and he saw this man with a rope And behind him holding the rope were twelve other blind people from his village that were coming to receive their sight. This morning we are reading the account of a man who was born blind and then healed And then what takes place after that. In verses 1 through 7, we have the brief record of this miracle on the Sabbath day, and then we have the response of people about it in the paragraph after that. And then We have the interrogation by the religious officials about the validity of this miracle. First They interrogate the man who was born blind, but they don't really get anywhere with him. They're trying to discredit his claim. And so next they turn to his parents, and they question his parents, and his parents confirmed that indeed he was born blind, congenital blindness. And that he was their son, and that now he could see, but they will not say how he came to see because they were afraid of being cast out of the synagogue because of claiming or seeming to be a follower of Christ. And so these religious leaders are frustrated and so they go to interrogate the man who was born blind who is now seeing, they go to interrogate again to discredit his testimony. But he reveals in this very interesting exchange that he is more than equal to their questions. They go to entrap him in his words, and instead he entraps them. He does not give them the confession they are looking for. In fact, he runs rhetorical circles around these learned men, though he is uneducated and a former beggar. He may have been born blind, but his mouth worked just fine. He is witty, logical, and sarcastic in this paragraph. This is one of the more amusing instances recorded in Scripture. But John has not included this here to be funny or for its entertainment value. But because it deals with the core issue of this gospel, which is the identity of Jesus Christ. All throughout the Gospel of John, we find confessions to the person of Christ, witnesses who stand up and say, this is who he is. And that's what this man is essentially going to do in this questioning. And an interesting thing takes place during this questioning. This man seems to come to a more settled conviction as to who Jesus is. It's like their questions help to bring into focus what really happened and who this man must be that healed him. And what we have here is a remarkable testimony of an almost believer Because he doesn't really know who Jesus is until Jesus comes a second time and reveals himself to him at the end of this chapter. And it says that he believes in him and he worships him. So at this point, he's on his way to being a believer, but he's not quite there yet. But although he is not at this point in the text a believer, he still gives testimony to Christ in a remarkable way. What is his testimony? First of all, that Jesus is a man who radically changed my life. Look with me at verse 24. So for the second time they called the man who had been born, who had been blind, and said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. When it says they called him, this means that they legally summoned him to come before their council and answer questions. And then we read something that may sound odd to you, and I have to confess to you that I did not understand exactly what was happening here until this week when I studied this passage. And that is, they say to him, give glory to God. Now what does that mean? Does that mean they want him to sing or something? Give glory to God Well, they were essentially putting him under oath. Just like today when you go to a court of law and you put your hand your right hand raise your right hand and put your hand on the Bible and you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. That's what they are doing with these words. Give glory to God. But it also conveys the conduct the idea that we know you're not telling the truth. And so we want you to come clean and confess what the truth is. We find this formula one other time in the Bible. It's in Joshua chapter 7 and verse 19. You don't need to turn there, but you may recall this is when Joshua questions Achan. Do you remember Achan? Achan was an Israelite that was part of when Jericho was toppled and destroyed, and they were all strictly told they were not to take any of the spoils. But Achan saw a very expensive Babylonian garment. And a wedge of gold, and he takes these things and he buries them under his tent. And then when Israel goes to battle against Ai , They are defeated by this little village, and God reveals it's because there's sin in the camp. And that sin was the sin of Achan. And so when Joshua puts him under oath and he says, give glory to God, in other words, you are in the presence of God, tell the truth. And of course, Achan did. So this is what they're doing. They're asking him under oath to tell the truth. But this man will soon discover they're not really after the truth. They're trying to intimidate the witness. They're trying to get him to say what they want him to say. They are frustrated. They have been dealing with this case and they can't get the confession. They can't discredit Jesus in this miracle the way they desire. So now they're going to try to intimidate this man into saying what they want to say. The reality is that in the history of the world, there have been many people who have confessed the crimes they did not commit. I am a supporter of law enforcement. But there have been times in the history of the world where very powerful, intimidating men have gotten confessions out of people. And they weren't true, but they were under such psychological pressure that they said things that they didn't even do. This has happened thousands of times in the history of the world. That's what these men are trying to do to this blind man. After all, he was just a beggar. He's not much of a man. They should be able to intimidate him into offering up a confession. For this man is an uncooperative witness. He doesn't do what they want him to do. I've often told you that John often uses language that has sort of a double meaning. For the discerning reader, and we find that here. They call on him to give glory to God. And you know what? This man is going to give glory to God, but not in the way that these men thought that he would Now the key word, notice they they refer to this man as a sinner Throughout this passage, you'll notice that they refer to him contemptuously in this way. They won't mention his name. They won't say it was Jesus of Nazareth. They say this man. This man is a sinner. This is one thing we know. And they are undoubtedly referring to his supposed breaking of the Sabbath. Let me clarify again, Jesus never broke the fourth commandments. But he did break the hedge of man-made rules that they had created over the centuries around the Sabbath. Now the key word in this paragraph, I have it marked in my Bible, is the word no K-N-O-W. It is one specific Greek word. There are several different Greek words for no, and there's only one that's used in this text. Let me point this out to you. See, verse 24, we know this man is a sinner. Verse 25, the healed man says, whether he is a sinner, I do not know. Verse 25, again, one thing I do know. Verse 29, we know that God has spoken to Moses. Again, in verse 29, we do not know where he comes from. And then you do not know where he comes from, yet he opened my eyes. Verse 30, and then verse 31. We know that God does not listen to sinners. So you see here, this term is used again and again It's all about what they know. Now what we find here is that often what people think they know, they don't know. These religious leaders think they know the situation. They feel absolutely 100% comfortable in saying that Jesus is a lawbreaker, that he broke the Sabbath, but they are in fact wrong about that. We see here that the only way we can truly know God is when he reveals himself to us. Now look with me at verse 25. They said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open? Excuse me, that's verse 26, verse 25. He answered, whether he is a sinner. I do not know. One thing I do know that though I was blind, now I see. This man is not going to weigh into this theological controversy about the sinlessness of Christ. Now John expects his readers to know that Jesus is sinless. He's mentioned this several times in the Gospel of John already. This man doesn't really know Jesus well. And he's not going to get into the domain of these theologians and argue with them and debate with them about the law. He says, I don't know anything about that stuff. But there is one thing I do know. Once I was blind, and now I see. This is his testimony. My life is radically different because I met this man. He was no longer a beggar. He was no longer the object of pity. But now he is a cause of wonder and amazement. Now the change he's talking about in this verse is his physical sights that now he can see. But this phrase is a very apt description of salvation or conversion. And John undoubtedly expects the reader to make that connection. And throughout the history of the church, many preachers Many people have given this as a summary of their own testimony. Once I was blind, now I can see. What we see here is that salvation changes everything. Salvation is not A simple exchange of information. Where someone says, oh, okay, I guess Jesus is the Son of God and he died for my sins and he rose again. Sure, I guess I believe that. They must believe those things. But the Bible reveals in many different places and in many different ways that the gospel involves a radical internal change, a new birth. In John chapter 5 and verse 24, Jesus describes this change of conversion as passing from death unto life. That's a pretty big change. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 5. 17 that a Christian is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. Let me ask you this question this morning. Has there been a turning point in your life? I used to be like this, but now I'm like this. Sometimes people say that every Christian's biography is like in two volumes. There's the person they were before they were saved, and then there's the person they are after they are saved. The fact is that Jesus changes everything. Now the second indirect and implicit confession of this man is that Jesus Is a man worth following? Look with me please at verse 26. They said to him, what did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? And verse 27, he answered them, I have told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples? They want him to tell his story again. They're hoping to find a contradiction. Often when people are interrogated by law enforcement personnel, they ask them to tell the story over again and again and again and again. And they're looking for inconsistencies. They're trying to establish, is this really a credible story or is this made up? And when people make up stories, it's very hard for them to stay and get all the details right again and again and again. They've already asked this man about the story. We read about it in verse 15. Now they ask him again. And this man is getting tired of playing their games. He can tell that they're not really searching for facts. They're not looking for the truth. He has come to realize that what these religious men have is a willful ignorance. They don't want to really know the truth. And so he says with some biting sarcasm, why do you want to hear again? Do you also want to become his disciples? He didn't really think this was the case. He didn't think they were interested in becoming his disciples He is enjoying their outrage. I'm not suggesting you do this, but do you know people like this? They like to get a rise out of people They like to poke a little bit and see them get all flustered and upset. They enjoy it. They love enjoy seeing someone getting triggered And that's what he is doing here right now. And they respond exactly the way he thinks they will respond It says they reviled him in verse 28. It means they used abusive and intense language with him. Their faces are red. Their countenances changed. They are angry. They are furious with him. that he would make such a suggestion. And so they say to him , You are his disciples. And what's emphatic in the text is the word you, you are his disciples. But we are disciples of Moses. I want you to notice that this man does not Object to what they have said. He doesn't say, no, no, no, no. I'm not his disciple. I'm not his follower. He's not my rabbi. I think this man was beginning to think that maybe I should be his disciple. Maybe I should follow him. Maybe I should listen to him. And we know that by the end of this chapter. When Jesus reveals himself to him again, he will come to believe and worship him. He will become a disciple. Now all of the rabbis proudly claimed that they were disciples of Moses. That was their founder, because Moses was what? The giver of the law. We are disciples of Moses. And what they're doing is they're contrasting This statement with Jesus. In other words, it's so much better to be a disciple of Moses than to be a disciple of Jesus. And in verse 29, they give the reason for this. They say, we know that God has spoken to Moses. And they are right that God did speak to Moses in Numbers chapter 12 and verse 8. It says with him that is Moses, I speak mouth to mouth, clearly, and not in riddles. And at the death of Moses in Deuteronomy chapter 34 and verse 10, it says And there has not arisen a prophet since in Israel like Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face. And then they say in contrast of Jesus, but as for this man, we do not know where he has come from. And notice again the contempt. This man, they won't even mention his name. We don't even know where he has come from I think again they excuse me. They're saying more than they know. Because Jesus came from the Father. His ultimate source, and they are ignorant of this truth. The Gospel of John again and again represents Jesus as being sent by the Father. And so when they say, we don't know where he's come from, they are actually speaking the truth. It's true that God spoke through Moses, that Moses was a great man, but he was just a man. But God would finally and forever speak through his son. The Bible says at the beginning of this gospel and the word became flesh. The word became flesh and dwelt among us. He is the ultimate revelation of God. And John has already brought out the superiority of Christ. to Moses. In John chapter 1 and verse 17 it says, for law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. And then during this exchange with the religious leaders in chapter 5 of John, verses 45 and 46, we read, There is one who accuses you, Moses. on whom you have set your hope. For if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote of me. John, throughout his gospel, is intentionally recording conversations to reveal the superiority of Jesus. In his exchange with the woman at the well in John chapter 4, she is finding great hope in the patriarch Jacob. Who does this well and what Jesus what John reveals through Jesus' words is that a greater than Jacob is here And then in chapter 8, Jesus says to the religious leaders, before Abraham was, I am, and John is revealing a greater than Abraham. Is Jesus. And here we see that Jesus is greater than Moses He is the one who is worthy of your trust. He is worth following. But there is a third confession by this blind man. And that is that Jesus is a man who comes from God. Look with me at verse 30. The man answered, why this is an amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes. This blind man is going to continue to have fun exposing these religious leaders. They are the experts in all things theological. And yet, they can't give a plausible explanation for his healing because they cannot confess that Jesus did this. Because this miracle could only really be done by the power of God. This man is going to logically demonstrate the foolishness of their position He's going to talk about how God has answered the prayer of Jesus in the healing. He says, verse 31, we know that God does not listen to sinners But if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him. And so he says, this man Must not be a sinner because God doesn't hear the prayer of sinners like a prayer to heal, and yet this man has healed me, therefore this man must not be a sinner, not in the sense that they're describing him And he must be one who worships God, that is, who fears God, and one who is obedient, who does his will But I want to come back to something he says here. I want to focus in a little bit. He says, God does not listen to sinners I don't want to get sidetracked here, but I want to ask you, is that statement categorically true? God does not listen to sinners. Let me try to unpack this in just a couple minutes. There are at least 14 passages in the Old Testament. where it is either stated or implied that God will not answer the prayer of the wicked or of the unbelieving. We have a bunch of references in Job and the book of Psalms, and Ezekiel and Micah and Zechariah and Proverbs Isaiah and Jeremiah. Perhaps the most famous is Psalm 66, verse 18. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Now the problem is, is that we have examples in Scripture of either lost people Or people outside of the covenant of God who seem to have their prayers answered. Let me give you just two examples. We have Ishmael. Who cried out with Hagar in his extreme thirst, and the Bible says that God heard the voice of the boy, Genesis 21, 17. But Ishmael was not part of the covenant people. And perhaps even a more striking example is King Manasseh. What do you know about King Manasseh? There are two important facts about him. He had the longest reign of any king, and he was the most wicked king. But then we find at the end of his life this incredible statement. Let me mention this from 2 Chronicles chapter 33, verse 13. It says that he cried out to God, and the Lord was moved by his humble plea, and delivered him from his Assyrian captors and restored him to his kingdom in Jerusalem. This is an amazing demonstration of the mercy and grace of God. This wicked king who all of his life was steeped in idolatry and led the people of God astray. For 50 years. But at the end of his life, he turns to God humbly and sincerely, and God restores him and delivers him. You know, if we were in the position of a judge and someone for 50 years had been doing wicked things, I doubt we would answer that prayer. But God did. And so I would uh explain this theological conundrum this way God does not normally answer the prayers of lost people, but on occasion he does answer their humble cry. To accomplish his ultimate purpose. And often this is a prayer for salvation. God will answer the prayer when it sincerely said, God, be merciful to me a sinner. God hears that prayer. But the point this man is making is a logical one. God has obviously answered the prayer of this man Jesus who healed me. So Jesus cannot be the wicked man that you contend that he is, this awful Sabbath breaker, but he is in fact one who worships and does God's will And then he repeats his argument. God listens to him. And again, this man was understating the case. God always hears the prayer of his son and answers it This formally blind man is arguing that Jesus is a godly man, but he will soon discover that Jesus is the God man. That he is the sinless Son of God who has always done what pleases his father. Now notice how he describes his own healing. and verse 32. Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind. Now you might think that this is just hyperbole, but it's not. It's actually factually true. In the Old Testament, we don't read of anybody with congenital blindness being healed. None of the prophets, not Elijah or Elisha, performed this miracle. And in the New Testament, we don't see any of the apostles Healing people who had congenital blindness. We do read about Paul and Ananias healing him, removing the scales. That was a temporary blindness that Paul had in that blinding light that he saw on the road to Damascus But this was a unique and a notable miracle that fulfilled the prophecies of Isaiah of what the Messiah would do, and of what only God can do. So this miracle pointed to Jesus' true identity And so this man's point, his argument is, how else could such a notable miracle have been accomplished except by the power of God? Now look with me at verse 33. If this man were not of God, he could do nothing. This man's conclusion is that Jesus must be from God. He is correct, of course, but he doesn't go far enough Now look at the response by these religious authorities in verse 34. They answered him, you were born in utter sin, and you would teach us And they cast him out. These religious men cannot answer his logic, his arguments. And often when people cannot really answer the arguments in a debate, they use what's technically called an ad hominem argument. Which means they attack the man. They start calling names because they've run out of answers. And they say to him, you were born in utter sin. They're saying, how dare you talk to holy powerful officials like us and try to teach us and try to instruct us But when they make this accusation, they are kind of like showing their cards. Because throughout these interrogations, they've been trying to demonstrate, we don't think this guy was really born blind. We think this is all hoax. We don't think there was really a great miracle here. But now they say that you were born in sin, which means they do know that he was born a blind man. Because they're making the same connection that the disciples did at the beginning of this chapter when they said, who did sin this man or his parents? Because in their culture they were taught that if someone had some horrible deformity, it was because either in in when the baby was still in the womb, which is ridiculous, or the parents sinned and this is God's judgment on them. So horribly in every in their minds and in the mind of that culture, every person with any kind of a birth defect or deformity, it was because of the curse of God upon that individual. So they say to him, Who do you think you are to stand as an equal with us and to argue with us? You were born in utter sin. Which means they knew that he was born a blind man. And since they are so frustrated with this man, it says that they cast him out Now there's a little bit of debate about what that means. Some people think that means that they just showed him the door and said, get out of here. We're done talking to you But I think a better explanation is that in verse 22 of this chapter, John provides this explanatory comment. After his parents were interrogated, it says his parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. And I think John has included that there to alert the reader as a foreshadowing that this is going to happen. And I believe that's exactly what happened to this blind man. He was put out of the Jewish community. Now for us it may not seem it was that big of a punishment. But this was a huge punishment. Probably the only people that this blind man knew were Jewish individuals. He was a Jew. He had Jewish parents. He lived in a Jewish community. And now he would be like an untouchable. He would be someone that no Jewish person would want to associate with. or talk to or do any business with because he was like a heretic. He was unclean. And people would stay away from him because they were afraid that they might have the same faith. They might be accused of being a disciple of Christ, and they might be put out of the synagogue as well. So this poor man who all of his life has lived with this deformity in a sense that God was against him And with a sense of shame and dishonor, the lowest of the low. And now he finally has his sight restored to him And now he's cast out of the community of the faithful, and he has no friends, and he's relegated to a position of shame and dishonor once more. But Christ will come to him. We'll discuss that next week. But this is an amazing thing. That this man, though he knew the identity of Christ imperfectly, yet he still is a powerful testimony in this interrogation. I want now to just make just a few points of application before we conclude. The first one is this, no amount of evidence or argumentation Will convince those who are willfully blind to the truth. These religious men who question this man this day would be complicit in the murder of Jesus in about six months. And yet they are men who had more direct contact and revelation with Jesus than just about any human beings who have ever lived. They saw his miracles, they heard his words. But they would not believe. And here they see that he has completely changed a person's life. And it infuriates them. Jesus said to them in John 5 verse 40, You refuse to come to me that you might have life. The second point I want to make from this is for all believers, and that is you don't have to be a great theologian to speak for Christ. Don't misunderstand me. It's good to know your Bible. It's good to have some answers to common questions that people have. I encourage you to study and to learn. But you should not think that someday, when I have amassed all of this learning, then I will speak for Christ. This man is not even a true believer yet. And yet he says what he knows. And he gives a compelling and remarkable testimony to the person of Christ. You may not have memorized any verses. You may not have answers to objections that people make. But if you're truly a born-again believer, there is one thing that you can say, and that is you can share your testimony. I'm not who I used to be. I used to be like this, but now I'm like this. I used to think like this, but now I think like this. I used to have a heart for these things, but now I have a heart for these things. Once I was blind, but now I can see. We see here thirdly that following Christ is often costly. This man is put out of the synagogue. He is one of the very first people that we encounter in Scripture that suffered any persecution for following Jesus. Persecution has been the norm in the history of the church for about 2,000 years in just about every place Except for the situation that we live in. It's hard for us to realize how unusual that is because this is all that we've ever known. No one came here this morning saying, I hope our pastor doesn't get arrested. I hope officials don't come in and take down everyone's name and address. And now we're on some list and we can lose our jobs. And we're going to be watched and surveilled for the rest of our days. No one came in here thinking that way. But there are people in other parts of the world today who did go to church with those thoughts in their minds. But we need to recognize it doesn't mean that it will always be this way in our nation. And the question is, if things change Will you stand for Jesus no matter what the cost? Will you speak the truth? Or will you be like this man's parents who just Quietly give no answer. And finally, I want to ask you this question. Has your life been changed by Jesus. This the most famous verse in this paragraph is, once I was blind, but now I can see. Has your life changed because the grace of God has been at work in your heart? Now let me add this caveat. Many of you here, I suspect, came to Christ as a young person or as a child. That was true of me. I came to Christ when I was nine years old After hearing my dad preach a sermon. So the analogy I used of the two volumes of your life, you know, for many of you, the first volume would have like four pages, right? It was it's not very long. And if you got saved at a really, really young age , there probably wasn't like all of these addictions and sin problems in your life that had developed over the years. So sometimes when I make comments like, has your life really changed? Those who have been saved at a really young age are troubled and they doubt their salvation because they can't even remember what it was like before they were saved. Because they got saved at such a young age. So let me ask it this way. Is there spiritual signs of life in you? How do you tell if someone is alive? It's not by asking them if they remember their birthday. It's by ask by noticing, are they breathing? Do they have a pulse? Is there any warmth? Is there any movements? Are there signs of life? So let me ask you, are there spiritual signs of life in you? Do you have a heart for God? Do you love the Lord? Do you pray to God? Do you enjoy the preaching of the Word? Do you enjoy reading the Word of God? Even though you might say you don't do as much as you should or as faithfully as you should, do you have an appetite for these things? Do you find that the world has nothing to offer you? Do you like to tell other people when you have opportunity that God has changed my life? These are all signs of spiritual life. When someone in our church makes a profession of faith , I feel funny saying about this. I don't want to make them feel weird about this, but I like, I start looking. Do I see any signs of life? Do I see any changes? Is their countenance different? Do they have the joy of the Lord? Are they consistent in coming to church? And are they eager to read their Bible and to pray and to learn more about who God is? And have they have they shared with anybody? In any way that they are now a child of God. These are all signs of life. And I would ask you to examine your heart to see if there's any of these life signs in you that reveal That there was a day when you passed from death unto life, from the darkness to the light. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you can use even the words of people who don't know the whole truth for your glory. We thank you that you can use weak and fragile people like us. To do your great work. I pray that you'd help us to be faithful. I pray that you would help us to be a people who love to tell the story, who love to share with others what God has done in our lives. For it in Jesus' name we pray, Amen.