Genesis chapter 45, The Ravensbrook Concentration Camp was unique among the concentration camps of Nazi Germany. First it was the only camp exclusively for women And secondly, most of the inmates were not Jewish. Some of you will recognize that name. This was the camp that Kori Tenboom was held. When the camp was liberated in 1945, a prayer was found scrawled on a piece of paper. In the clothing of a dead lady. It says, O Lord, remember not only the men and women of good will, but also those of ill will. But do not remember all of the suffering they have inflicted upon us. Instead, remember the fruits we have borne because of this suffering. Our fellowship, our loyalty to one another, our humility, our courage, our generosity, the greatness of heart that has grown from this trouble. When our persecutors come to be judged by you, let all of these fruits that we have borne be their forgiveness. I think all of us admire people who can forgive others. And the reason for this is that most of us know that forgiving people who have truly hurt us is very difficult. It often seems unnatural, unjust, or perhaps dishonest This is what many Christians have told me over the years in the privacy of my office Many people think to forgive is basically like saying the person who has wronged you, what you did to me, was no big deal. When in fact it was a really big deal. It was painful, disruptive, and in some cases soul-crushing. And yet the Bible is filled with commands and warnings concerning forgiveness. This is one of the many aspects that separates Christianity from all other religions. Christianity puts a great emphasis on forgiveness. Jesus said, of course, in what is known commonly as the Lord's Prayer, forgive us our debts. As we forgive our debtors. And then he adds this explanation after the prayer because he wants the reader to understand how significant this is He says, But if we forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. And Jesus said in Mark 11, 25, when you stand praying, forgive, if you have aught against any, that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses. He said in Luke 6. 37, forgive and ye shall be forgiven. And then in Ephesians 4:32, Paul says, Be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. And in Colossians 3:13 we read, forbearing one another and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. And there are many other verses in the New Testament, that I will not quote, but say similar things about the importance of forgiveness. Jesus Practice what he preached. We read that one of his sayings from the cross was, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. But perhaps the most powerful example of forgiveness in the Bible, besides our Lord and Savior, is found in the life of Joseph. This morning, as we return to our study of Joseph, we come to that dramatic scene where Joseph reveals his identity to his brothers, and there's a reunion there. Let me remind you that the Lord used the famine in the land to bring about this reconciliation between the sons of Jacob. And apart from God's gracious intervention, these brothers would have carried their troubling secret to the grave. But God providentially brought Joseph's brothers to Egypt so that they would find forgiveness and restoration. But how was it that Joseph was able to forgive the horrible things that his brothers did to him? What truths empowered him to do what seems to many to be impossible? That's what I want us to explore this morning. As we look at this first section of Genesis chapter 45, I want us to consider some key truths that empower believers to forgive others. The first thing I want you to recognize is that forgiveness can occur only , excuse me, can occur even after you have been seriously wronged by others. Let me remind you of some of the ground we've covered in the past months as we have studied the life of Joseph. The Bible takes up the life of Joseph when he was 17 years old. It was at this time that Joseph had two dreams that indicated that someday his family would bow down to him. But it seemed to his family that these dreams were nothing more than the arrogant ambitions of an egocentric child. But in fact they were a prophecy from God. And one day Joseph went, sent by his father to check on his brothers, who were feeding their herds in a distant pasture. And they saw him coming in the distance and they plotted to kill him. They threw him into a dry pit And as he was there crying for mercy, they saw merchants traveling in the distance, and so they decided to change their plan and to sell him into slavery. Joseph was eventually purchased by a man named Potiphar, who was the chief executioner. You can imagine that he was a man with a hard and difficult personality. But Joseph's faithful work impressed this man, and soon he oversaw virtually everything in the household. The only problem was that Potiphar's wife kept trying to seduce him. But Joseph steadfastly refused, citing his loyalty to both his master and to God. Finally, she had been rejected one too many times, and she accused him of attacking her. And so Potiphar threw him into prison, and in time Joseph would meet two other prisoners, a butler and a baker. He would interpret their dreams, and the butler would be restored to his position in the royal court. And although the butler promised to put in a good word for Joseph, he forgot all about him. And so for several years, Joseph remained in prison. For all he knew, this would be his home for the rest of his life. But Pharaoh one night had a dream that no one could decipher, and the butler remembered Joseph And he calls for this man to come from prison who can interpret dreams by the power of God. And so Joseph interprets the dream, gives him some advice, and Pharaoh is so impressed that he makes him his second in command and oversees the management. Of the food items during this famine. Joseph in one day went from being a slave in prison to the second most powerful man in the most powerful nation on the earth. His life was a record of wrongs. His father wronged him by showing favoritism for him that he should have known would cause his brothers to hate him. Potiphar was disloyal to him. Potiphar's wife falsely accused him. The butler forgot him. But what was most painful to him was the way that his own flesh and blood treated him, his brothers. They sold him into slavery. But now Joseph is in a position to destroy all those who have wronged him in the past. If anyone had a right to be bitter, it was Joseph. If anyone had a license to get revenge, it was this man. This is the type of scenario that bitter people dream about. Yes, they do. They rehearse these scenarios in their minds. of how they're just going to set someone in straits and tell them off and let the whole world know how this person has hurt them Joseph had the power and the authority to do this. He was second in command. Providentially, nine years after his promotion, he comes face to face with the very brothers who had sold him into slavery. He could have interpreted God's providence as an opportunity to seek revenge, but he didn't. Because God had done a work in his heart and he had forgiven them in his heart long ago. I want you to consider with me some of the ways that Joseph was wronged by his brothers. First of all, his brothers misjudged him. They viewed him as a tattletale when he alerted his father, their father, of their sinful actions. But in fact, he was concerned, I believe, for his father's reputation in the community. They thought that his dreams were nothing more than manifestations of arrogance, but they were actually revelations from God that would be fulfilled. The Bible says on four occasions that they hated him. And this was due primarily to their father's unwise favoritism. Thirdly, they intended to murder him. He was coming to bring them provisions, the Bible says, and yet they plotted to murder him. We read that they assaulted him. They stripped off that coat of many colors and they threw him into that pits. And they showed no compassion for him. We read later in the story that he was crying out to them, pleading for his life. And they sat there callously and ate their lunches while he went hungry. They sold him into slavery. They treated him like he was a commodity. They must have assumed that when they sold him to those merchants headed for Egypt That he would have a life of hard labor and would come to an early death. But another way that they wronged him was that they had the ability, after doing this heinous thing, to make things right. What if they had gone back home? And with their heads bowed and broken, explain to their fathers of the horrible thing that had happened. Their father Jacob was a wealthy and powerful man. He could have he would have come to Egypt, but he would have paid whatever he needed to to buy his favored son out of slavery. There's a sense in which they could have made things right But they didn't. They tried to cover it up and bury it. Their shameful secret. In Jacob's symbolic prophecy of Joseph in Genesis 49, he says, the archers have sorely grieved him and shot at him and hated him. That is a reference certainly to his brothers. Joseph was horribly wrong and painfully wounded. But he overcame all this adversity by the grace of God. What a stunning picture of forgiveness. Now the whole reason I've rehearsed all of this for you is to make this point. Some people, I think, and my conversations with them think this way, forgiveness is something you can do when someone has sinned against you in a minor way. When they've wronged you just a little bit. But when someone has done something that has completely altered the whole course of your life and has brought to you greats Misery, difficulty, and pain, that's something that really can't be forgiven. Well, the story of Joseph says otherwise. Because his brothers treated him horribly and completely altered the course of his life. But Joseph was able, by the grace of God, to forgive them That's the power of his example. No one can look at Joseph's life and say, yeah, well, he didn't face anything like I faced, any difficulty like I've encountered in my life. No, he was wronged by multiple people in very grievous ways. The second point I want to make is this: forgiveness occurs When we truly love those who have wronged us. When we truly love those who have wronged us. In Genesis chapters 42 through 44, we have a record of Joseph testing his brothers. At first glance, the reader might assume that Joseph is getting his revenge. He speaks harshly to them, accuses them of being spies, he has them thrown into prison, and on two occasions he has evidence planted on them But all of this was actually an act of love. Joseph wanted to be reunited with his brothers, but he had to discover if they had truly repented of their sin, if their hearts had truly changed. True reconciliation takes two parties. Sometimes people, well-meaning people, get this confused and they think that someone who has horribly sinned against them and wronged them that they can just go and and extend favor them and and just pretend like everything's great. When if that person does not admit that they have sinned and will not acknowledge their wrong, there can be no real relationship. Relationships must be based on truth. And Joseph wants to have a real relationship with his brother, not kind of a phony kind of a relationship like people sometimes have at family gatherings where they smile. And nod to one another, and as soon as they walk away, they say, I can't stand that guy. J Joseph didn't want to have that kind of relationship. He wanted a real relationship And you see, when you love someone, you want what is best for them, and what is best for everyone is to repent of their sins. Now look with me at the first four verses of Genesis 45. Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that stood by him, and he cried, Cause every man to go out from me. And there stood no man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto his brethren, and he wept aloud. And the Egyptians in the house of Pharaoh heard. And Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph, doth my father yet live? And his brethren could not answer him, for they were troubled at his presence. And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near. And he said, I am Joseph, your brother, whom you sold into Egypt. When Joseph becomes convinced that his brothers have truly changed He no longer conceals his identity from him. And what really was the clincher in this persuasion was the way his brother Judah stepped up and offered His life in place of Joseph's, that he would remain in Egypt as a slave. In place of Benjamin, excuse me. And Joseph knew That something had changed in the heart of his brothers. His words melted his heart When Joseph heard these words, he knew that God had done a work of grace in their hearts. And we see here the third time recorded in the story of Joseph that he weeps. We read about this back in Genesis 42. You might want to look at this. Genesis 42, verse 21. 42, 21. Joseph's brothers said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning our brother, and that we saw the anguish of his soul when he besought us, and we would not hear. Therefore is this distress come upon us. And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto you, saying, Do not sin against the child, and ye would not hear. Therefore, behold , Also his blood is required, and they knew not that Joseph understood them, for he spake unto them by an interpreter. And he turned himself about from them and wept and returned to them again and communed with them And took them from Simeon, bound him before their eyes. Joseph wept here because for the first time he heard But they were troubled about what they did to him. And here some 20 years later, it's still fresh in their minds that they left him in that pit. That they sold him into slavery, that they showed him not one ounce of compassion, and they were troubled by this. And when Joseph saw that God was indeed working in their hearts He couldn't refrain from weeping, both perhaps for sorrow because of the painful memory that he was just reminded of, but also for joy that God was doing something in their heart. Now look with me at chapter 43, Genesis 43, verses 30 and 31. This is the second time. It says, And Joseph made haste, for his bowels did yearn upon his brother, and he sought where to weep, and he entered into his chamber and wept there, and he washed his face and went out and refrained himself. and said, Set on bread. In this incident he is weeping because he has just seen for the first time in many years his little brother Benjamin. And he loved, and perhaps his brother reminded him of home in a way that nothing else did. Perhaps his brother Benjamin looked a little like his mother. And Joseph just can't hold it together, and so he leaves their presence. And then we come to the spur Third occasion in Genesis 45 and verse 2, it says, And he wept alouds. He doesn't go into a private chamber. He does this out in front of them. Tears have been called the windows of the soul because what moves your heart reveals who you are. Joseph's concern through all of this is not his pain. But their well-being. In verse 3, he says to them in his own Hebrew tongue, no interpreter is present now. He says, I am Joseph. And his brothers are so shocked and stunned that they cannot respond. And so he tries a different way to communicate with them. He says, Come near to me. I suspect that at this time he might have taken off his Egyptian headdress so that they might discern his features a little more clearly and see that indeed the face of this man who's about forty years old does look like their brother that they last saw when he was seventeen. But then he says this, whom you sold into slavery. Now you may have read that and thought that he was getting a dig in at them. That he was trying to make them feel guilty, but I don't think that's the case at all. The fact is, there were only 12 people in the world who knew what happened. And that was the brothers and Joseph. This confirmed his identity. Only Joseph would have known that they had sold him into slavery because they had told no one. this secret, not even their father. And then he graciously seeks to relieve their fears. And this is really the heart of our passage and the most amazing Reflection of forgiveness. Look at verse 5. He says, Now therefore be not grieved nor angry with yourselves. that you sold me hither, for God did send me before you to preserve life. But these two years hath the famine been in the land, and yet there are five years in which there shall be neither earring nor harvest. And God sent me before you to preserve you of posterity in the earth and to save your lives by a great deliverance. So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God. And he hath made me a father to Pharaoh and Lord of all his house and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. Joseph here is graciously seeking to relieve their fears. I suspect that he saw in their eyes surprise and fear. Because the man that they had wronged so horribly 23 years earlier now has the power to execute them on the spots. So this was a little bit of a nervous situation for them. And so Joseph relieves that tension by speaking kindly and graciously to them. Joseph is not seeking revenge. He is seeking restoration. And notice secondly how Joseph sympathizes with them. He says, be not grieved or angry with yourselves. This is amazing. This is an amazing thing to say. Don't be upset with yourself for what you did 23 years ago when you sold me as if I was a commodity, a worthless Item that you didn't need? Don't feel bad about that. What an amazing thing to say. What an amazing demonstration. That God had worked in his heart over those 23 years, that there was no bitterness boiling under the surface that just vented itself at this point. But instead there was kindness and compassion and sympathy. One of the most difficult things to do when someone has really hurt you, but one of the most helpful things you can do is try to put yourself in their shoes. Why would that person treat me that way? Why would they do something so despicable, so painful to me? Many reasons could be given. It could be that you've done something to them and they're responding in kind. It could be that they have a complete misunderstanding of something that occurred and they are reacting poorly to that. I think that Joseph was able to put himself in their shoes and to recognize how difficult it was for them all those years when their Father doted on him and treated him as if he was better than the rest of them. They felt rejected and unloved. And over the years, as he thought about this and he had plenty of time to reflect He was able to put himself in their shoes and realize the way they responded to him the way they did. Not that that was excusable or was right or appropriate. It was wicked and horrible. But there was still some some reasoning behind it, and he began to see them not as people who were predators, who were evil to the core, but as people who were broken and flawed just like him This is one of the great keys to being able to forgive others, being able to put yourself in the shoes of others. There's a researcher by the name of Stephen Stephen Sandich, who did research on forgiveness, this massive research project, and what he discovered is the number one predictor of people who were able to forgive horrible things that have been done to them is that they were able to empathize and put themselves in the shoes of their offender. They were able to go down that road and think that way and realize that the person that was hurting them had been hurt by others That is one of the keys to forgiving others. Joseph didn't excuse their sin, but he came to understand how they could respond this way. Number three, he's making it very easy for them to be reconciled with him. He's trying to reassure them that he has forgiven them completely, that there's no animosity in his heart, that he's not about to strike out at them. And fourthly, he's treating them the way he would want to be treated if he were the offender. How would you want people to treat you when you had wronged them and you had been greatly troubled about it for 23 years? You know how you would want to be treated? You'd want to be treated just the way Joseph treated them here. What we desire is for someone to with open arms welcome you and be ready to receive you and forgive you. You see, the most loving thing you can do for anyone is to forgive them. And that's what we see illustrated here in the life of Joseph. Thirdly, would you notice with me that forgiveness occurs when we have learned to trust in our sovereign God? The sovereignty, or sometimes called providence of God in the life of a believer, is the primary lesson from the life of Joseph. The truth that God had a purpose and a plan for every circumstance in his life was the foundation that enabled him to withstand the storms of life. Notice what he says here in verses 5 through 8. He makes three different references to God's sovereign hand in his life Three times he says that God had sent him to Egypt like he was a missionary or an apostle, a sent one. He says in verse 5, notice this, for God did send me before you to preserve life. Yeah. He sent him. Notice how Joseph is not making a great deal of the fact of how he was sent. He was sent probably on the back of a camel. On his way to Egypt because they sold him into slavery. Number two, in verse 7, he says, God sent me before you to preserve you. And in verse 8, he says, For it was not you that sent me. But God. These are the words of a man who truly believes that God is in control. Joseph was not fixated on how his brothers had hurt him That's not where his mind was going. No, his mind was on what God was accomplishing through their wicked deeds. Now this is this is really hard to do. I'm not going to kid you about this. This is an advanced test of your faith. That Joseph could forgive these horrible actions that forever altered his life. And I want you to know that it's not just because now he was second in command and things were good. What's clear in the biblical narrative is that Joseph had already come to this position before he was exalted. Now sometimes people struggle with this because they say it kind of like it means like you're excusing their sin, or you're saying that God was somehow the author of their sin. That is not what this passage teaches, or the word of God reveals anywhere. But the Bible does teach that God can take the wicked actions of man and And use them to accomplish his ultimate goods. He's that great of a God, he has that much control and understanding of the big picture. And the great illustration of this is the cross. In Acts chapter 2 and verse 23, Peter says at that Pentecostal sermon, him that is Jesus being delivered by the determinate counsel. and foreknowledge of God ye have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain. Yes, what those religious leaders did in demanding the execution of Christ was wicked. And they would have to answer to God for that, but what they did was all part of God's great plan of redemption. They were fulfilling the prophecies unknowingly. You see, the Lord can turn the hateful actions of others to ultimately bring him praise That's what he did in the lives of Joseph's brothers. Their envy, their hatred, their bitterness was used by God to send Joseph to Egypt so that he in time would preserve their life and the life of his chosen people. Nobody but God could come up with that plan. But Joseph was able to understand and grasp this wonderful truth. Now you might object and say, but I can't see anything good coming out of the suffering that I am facing right now. You know, perhaps you never will in this life. But God's plans are not limited by our perceptions. It's enough for you to know that all things work together for good to them who love God, to them who are called according to his purpose. And so when you take your focus off of what others have done to you and place it on what God is doing in you, it will make all the difference in the world. You should not think that Joseph had like some superhuman ability to forgive, that he was like some super saint who walked. on a level that we can't even imagine. That's not true. He was a man of flesh and blood just like you and I I want you to turn with me, if you would, to Genesis 41. I want to go back to something we covered many weeks ago. Genesis 41. Look with me at verses 51 and 52. It says, and Joseph called the name Of the firstborn Manasseh, for God said He hath made me forget all my toil and all my father's house. And the name of the second he called Ephraim, for God hath made me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction. The naming of these boys provides a window into Joseph's heart and how he was processing what had occurred to him. When he says that God has made me forget, he's not saying that somehow his memory was erased. It means that every time his mind went back to that pit and what his brothers had done, he quickly reminded himself of the goodness of God and how God used that to exalt him. It means that every time Joseph replayed the indignity of being thrown into a prison, he remembered how the Lord had brought him out. Joseph refused to be a victim of his circumstances. He says, God has made me fruitful. Joseph consciously determined that he would focus on the good that God had brought into his life, not the pain that others had brought into his life. So much of your perspective in life depends on what you choose to focus on. on what you choose to highlight and emphasize. If you focus your mind, if you allow your mental energies to be focused on the wrongs that people have done to you and you replay them again and again and you tell people about them again and again. They assume enormous proportions in the history of your life. And they will distort anything good that has occurred in your life. They become the defining moments of your life, the wrong that people have done to you. And sometimes people think, look at what these individuals have done to me. No, they didn't do that to you. You did that to you. By the way, you kept thinking about it, meditating on it, highlighting it, talking about it, analyzing it again and again and again. Instead, you need to put your mind away from that and put it on what God is seeking to do in your life. He says, God has made me fruitful. Now, fourthly, I want you to see in our passage that forgiveness is essential for the restoration of relationships. Joseph wants to have a continuing relationship with his brothers and father. He wasn't just looking to take get something off his chest or Seeking closure with his brother so he could go on with his life. No, he wanted to function as a family again You see, the goal of forgiveness is restoration or reconciliation of the relationship. And there are two things that must occur for there to be reconciliation of a broken relationship. Number one, There must be repentance or confession of sin on the part of those who have sinned. You can't really be reconciled to someone who won't admit that they ever did anything wrong in the first place. Because your relationship's not based on truth. Joseph didn't announce that he was Joseph the instant he saw them and throw his arms around them and say, I forgive you. And move on like that. Maybe many people think he should have done that, but but he could not have a restored relationship until they recognized and he knew how much they Had changed and they had come to a place of repentance. So often, in a strained relationship that's been that way for some time. There needs to be confession on both parties. So often when there has been a major clash between two people, someone might have instigated. Some wrong and sin horribly against a person, but then that person who is so hurt and angered, they also sin against that person. Maybe not to the same degree, maybe to a greater degree. And people get stuck in this situation sometimes for years where they say, Well, I'm all ready to be reconciled. When they come to me and come to my needs and admit their sin, then we can talk. I don't have time to turn to the passages so that the Bible is clear whether you are the offender or the offense, you have a responsibility to try to seek restoration and reconciliation. What I always say to people when they come to me about these situations is you humble yourself, you go first, you admit that you were wrong to whatever you did that was wrong. And then let God work. And you know what so often happens? Your repentance, your humility Stirs their hearts and then they come clean with their confession and their sin. That's the way it's supposed to work There must be repentance on the part of those who have wronged you, and there must be a full granting of forgiveness on your part. They can't say, well, let's wait and see how things turn out in the next couple years. Maybe I'll get around to forgiving you. I'm not sure about that right now There is something to bringing forth the fruits of repentance, the evidences that you have changed. That's what Joseph was looking for in Genesis 42 through 44. But notice that's not the kind of spirit that Joseph has here when he reveals himself to them. He is eager to be reconciled. He wants reconciliation much more than he ever wanted revenge. And healthy relationships. These two responses of forgiveness and repentance will occur frequently. I was wrong, will you forgive me? And the offended party will respond, you are forgiven. That's the way the Bible teaches our fractured relationships are to be healed. But we rarely do that. We go to our own separate camps and we tell everybody how this person has horribly offended us and wronged us and kind of try to influence them to stay away from them too and let's try to isolate them and make them feel like a pariah and then they get their friends and they do the same thing. This is what we do, but this is what God tells us to do. Let me quickly examine the results of this family reunion. Look with me at verse 9. Joseph says to his brothers, Haste ye, go up to my father and say unto him, Thus saith thy son Joseph, God hath made me Lord of all Egypt. Come down unto me, tarry not. He wasn't saying, go and tell my father, look at what I've done, but look at what God has done. You see, Jacob was in a spiritual slump, and Joseph was trying to remind him of God's promises that were given to him in a dream over 20 years earlier. The fact is that God often uses our children to remind us of his goodness and faithfulness And then Joseph provides many incentives for his fathers to make the journey to Egypt. He knew that his father was naturally stubborn, and he also knew that elderly people do not like change. And so he has to sweeten the pot with all of these incentives to come to Egypt. First of all, he says in verse 10, essentially, I have a choice piece of pasture picked out for you. And then he says at the end of verse 10, you will live near me. You can live really close to me. Number three, I will provide for you and your family during this continual famine, verse 11. And then you can witness how God has graciously promoted me in verses 12 and 13, because he knows that every parent wants to see their children doing well. And then we come to the climax of this reunion in verses 14 and 15. And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck and wept. And Benjamin wept upon his neck. Moreover, he kissed all his brethren. And wept upon them. And after that, his brethren talked with him. I love the way that said. And after that, they talked with him. And you know what? I think they talked a long time. I suspect I can't prove it, but I think that at this point Joseph's brothers unburden their heart and say, Joseph, we were so wrong to treat you that way, to throw you into that pit, to sell you into slavery. Will you please forgive us? And I think Joseph said to them, you know, I forgave you long ago. Yes, of course. And then they had about twenty-three years to catch up on. Joseph had to tell them the whole story that we've been reading about. How he was sold to Potiphar and how And all of that. What a fascinating for them to hear. And they had to tell them all of what had happened back in Canaan the last 23 years. I think they probably talked for days. People in the ancient world and in many cultures don't have the same sense of time that we do. They weren't worried about meeting some deadline or going to work on time. They just talked and talked. And talked. This was the first real conversation this family had had in 23 years. And we know that a true reunion like this is a beautiful thing. And it is a wonderful thing for us to consider. This should be the goal of every fractured family. Sometimes reconciliation is not possible because there are two components that must be present. And sometimes there can be one party that really wants reconciliation. But the other doesn't want it. And you can't force reconciliation because of the very nature of it. But it should be the goal. Of every fractured relationship you have, whether it be a family member or whether it be a brother and sister in Christ, that your earnest desire is that there would be full reconciliation, a full restoration of that relationship. That's what God wants for his people. I want to make some concluding applications very quickly This touching reunion reminds us in many points of our Savior's relationship with us. This is worthy of a whole sermon. I'm just going to give you the points and you can think about it. Number one Just as Joseph revealed himself to his brothers, so Jesus has revealed himself to us. The scripture says, and the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Secondly, just as Joseph was gracious to his brothers So Jesus is a friend of sinners. Joseph's words were filled with compassion and kindness. They were winsome and inviting. And that's the kind of invitation that Jesus says to broken sinners. Throughout time. Come unto me, all you that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And thirdly, just as Joseph forgave his brothers, so Jesus forgives all who repent and believe the gospel. The Bible says if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And finally, and there's many more that could be mentioned, just as Joseph wanted his brothers to draw near to him. So Jesus wants his people to come near to him and fellowship Sometimes Christians seem torn between the world and the Savior, and they want to live in this no man's land, which is a place of misery. You've heard me say many times that a disobedient believer is the most miserable human being in the world because they can't enjoy really The pleasures of the sin and any meaningful way because they have the Spirit of God inside of them convicting them, but they can't enjoy the communion of the Savior either because they're walking away from Him. It's a foolish place to be. The message of the gospel is to draw near, come close. This is what God wants for his people. So let me ask you this morning, have you come near? Do you know that your sins have been forgiven? Do you know the joy that those brothers experienced when they realize that this brother Joseph that they had horribly wronged had actually forgiven them, that he wasn't holding that against them anymore, and that he wanted a relationship with them. What an incredible sense of relief that must have been to their souls. That's the kind of relief that we feel when we know that our sins have been forgiven and that we have a home in heaven. This is the beautiful offer of the gospel. The offer that God can save wicked people who have done horrible things repeatedly. But his grace, as we sang, is greater than all of our sin. is wonderful and matchless. It raises us up. It overcomes all of our wickedness and our opposition. This is the glory of the gospel that is evident in our scriptures today. Let's close in prayer. Father, we pray that you would help us to be a people not only who have been forgiven, but a people who forgive. I pray that you would use these words for good in our lives for those who are not reconciled to family members or brothers or sisters in Christ, I pray that they would be proud of to do so. And for those, Father, who are here who have yet to know that their sins have been forgiven, I pray that they would draw near to the Savior today and be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.