If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Romans chapter 12 on January the 29th 1948, a junior in Bible college wrote these words in his private journal. He wrote, God, I pray thee, light these idol sticks of my life, my God, for it is thine. I seek not a long life, but a full one like yours, Lord Jesus. The man who penned these words, as some of you know, was Jim Elliott These were not the empty words of an impressionable college student, but the convictions of someone who would act on this commitment On January the 6th, 1956, Jim Elliott and four other missionaries would give their lives for the Lord trying to reach the Alka Indians with the gospel. I wonder what you think of those words. And of course there are many other similar declarations made by Christians over the centuries. I wonder if you think of them as the words of a religious fanatic. Or do you believe that every Christian should yield their lives as a sacrifice to Christ. I want to begin by reading These very familiar verses that begin Romans chapter 12. Paul writes, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. I'd like to begin a series of messages from this chapter, Romans chapter 12. It is a very rich and instructive passage of Scripture for us to consider together. I suspect that it will take up a good portion of the Sunday nights in this upcoming year. Of course, we do not uh I do not preach every Sunday night. We have Pastor Steve preach and we have missionaries preach and guest speakers, and so when that's taken into consideration. Um we will probably be most of the year, when I'm preaching at least in this passage of Scripture. These words are very familiar to us. I'm sure that many of us here, perhaps the majority of people here tonight, have actually memorized these verses. And I hope the familiarity of this text is not dull our senses so that the message is no longer making an impact in our lives. This is the opening of the second half of the book of Romans. The key word of the book of Romans is the word righteousness. The first 11 chapters of Romans deal with how a person can be righteous before God. And beginning here in chapter 12 to the end of the book, chapter 16, We read about how a Christian can live a righteous life. Almost all of Paul's epistles can be divided up into two parts. You have doctrine and you have practice. And this is the beginning of the section that deals with practice, but of course it also includes doctrine and is rooted in the doctrine that is found earlier in the book Often, Paul, in the second half of his epistles, when he transfers from the doctrinal to the practical, will give a summary statement of the Christian life like he does here. He does this in the book of Ephesians in chapter 4 , in verse 1, he says, I therefore the prisoner of the Lord beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called, with all lowliness and meekness with long suffering, forbearing one another in love. And he does something, of course, like this in the book of Colossians as well, in chapter 3 and verse 1, he says, if ye then be risen with Christ Seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth, on the right hand of God. Set your affections on things above and not on things of the earth. These great summary passages help us to better understand the essence of the Christian life. I wonder how you would describe the Christian life if an unbeliever were to ask you. This is an important question because This word Christian is used very broadly in our society, and it means almost nothing to many people. To some it means a Christian is simply someone who attends church occasionally, or it's a person who doesn't do certain things. Or even more broadly, it's a Christian or it's an American who believes in God but isn't a Hindu, Buddhist, or Muslim. But the Bible teaches something much different from this. The Bible teaches us that a Christian is radically different from a Christian. from those who are lost, that a Christian has been born again, that a Christian has the Spirit of God living within them. That a Christian is one who has put their faith and trust, their life into the hands of Christ. Who died in their place. And the Bible teaches, therefore, that our lifestyle, our perspective is to be very different from that of an unbeliever. That's why the Bible describes us as salt and lights. Christians are essentially different from the world, and therefore we should be different in our motives, in our goals, in our values, and in our perspective of life. So I wonder if you are living the Christian life as God intends it to be lived. I think we find here in verse 1 of chapter 12, we're not going to look at verse 2 tonight. But verse 1, I think we see the essential guidelines of the Christian life. And I want to bring out three essential truths about living the Christian life. The first one is this that the Christian life should be motivated by gratitude. Every single one of these words is significant, so let's look at them carefully. He begins by saying, I beseech you, therefore, brethren. Paul here begins by saying, I beseech you. He's not giving orders. But he's pleading for Christians to listen to these instructions. He's like a father pleading with his child. He's encouraging believers to adopt his perspective on Christian living. Notice we have the word therefore here as well , because his exhortation is based on what comes before. He often uses this when he is making a pivotal statement, a transition from one section of Scripture to another For instance, in chapter 3 and verse 20 of Romans, he says, Therefore, by the deeds of the law, there shall no flesh be justified in his sight. And in chapter 5 and verse 1, he says, therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And in chapter 8 and verse 1 he says, there is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. And so now he uses this term again, which signifies both a transition and also something very significant that he's going to say. He says, I beseech ye therefore, brethren. I think we understand that this includes the sisters as well. This includes all believers. But notice that these instructions are given only to Christians. Because it's only a Christian who can live the Christian life. What I want you to focus in on is the motivation that is given in verse 1. He says, by the mercies, of God. The word by has the idea of because of, because of the mercies of God, I exhort you, I encourage you, I beseech you to do this. Now the Greek word that's used here for mercy is not the common New Testament word for mercy. It's a particular word. It has more the idea of pity. And all but one of his occurrences is found in the plural like this. The idea is that God has been merciful to us again and again and again. He has poured out his pity upon us. Now, what exactly is Paul referring to when he refers, when he mentions the mercies of God? The answer, of course, is found. In the first 11 chapters of the book of Romans, I want to backtrack a little bit and just read a few verses for you. Romans chapter 1. And verse 18. He says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold or suppress the truth. in unrighteousness. Paul here is referring to the fact that the Gentile world was under the just condemnation of God. In chapter two, he's going to look at those who have are religious, the Jews particularly. And he goes through and he concludes That section of condemnation with chapter 3 and verse 20, where he says, Therefore by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. And in summary, he says in chapter 3 and verse 19, for we know that whatsoever things the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law that every mouth may be stopped and all the world may become guilty before God. He is talking here about the fact that In our own state, our own natural state, we are all, whether we are Jew or Gentile, we are under the just wrath of God. We have been condemned. And that's where we would all remain if it were not for the mercy of God. And we experience God's mercy in that we have been justified. We have been declared not guilty, but righteous in Jesus Christ. That's what is taught in that last paragraph in chapter 3 of Romans, one of the most significant chapters of Scripture. And he goes on to show that we have not only been justified, but we have been sanctified. We are in the process of being sanctified, and that we are no longer under the bondage of sin. And this is what he deals with in chapters 6 through 8. And then he goes on to show that we will never be separated from the love of Christ. And then he goes kind of a little bit on an excursion in chapters 9, 10, and 11 and talks about God's gracious purposes with Israel. And he shows that the same God who made these immutable promises to Israel will also keep his promises to us. So what should be our response to this amazing grace? Well, let me show you how the first half of the book of Romans ends in chapter 11. And verse 33, he says, O the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments. and his ways past finding out. For who hath known the mind of the Lord, or who hath been his counselor, or who hath first given to him that it should be recompensed unto him again? For of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory forever. Amen. It is on this note of climactic worship. That Paul then pleads for Christians to live for Christ. You see, our motivation for loving him and serving him is very important. What you do for the Lord is at least as important as why you do what you do for the Lord. Because it's impossible to effectively live the Christian life with the wrong motive. Now many Christians are Christians and they live with with not the best motives, but you can't effectively live the Christian life that way. So let me try to clarify what I mean by that. Number one, I want to start with this, which is probably the biggest problem that Christians have that I encounter all the time. And that is that Paul is not calling on us to consecrate our lives to Christ in order that we can earn his favor. So many Christians live the Christian life not out of a sense of gratitude, not by the grace of God, but out of a sense of guilt. And so they come to church primarily because they don't want to feel guilty. They read their Bibles because they don't want to feel guilty. They pray for a few minutes because they don't want to feel guilty. And so to them, the Christian life is all about quieting a nagging sense of guilt. Now, don't misunderstand me. We should feel guilty when we do wrong. God does intend for us to at times feel guilt. And if preaching and teaching and Bible reading and ministry never ever elicits in you a sense of conviction or guilt, then it's not really biblically based. Because you cannot really accurately understand the Word of God as a believer and read it without feeling a sense of conviction at times where the Holy Spirit of God is putting his finger on some area in your life that you need to yield to him. However, this is not to be our motive for living the Christian life. It is a terrible way to live. It is a miserable way. Again, if you compare this to other relationships, if your husband-wife relationship and the wife was saying, why are you so good to me? And if the husband were to say, because I don't want to feel guilty, or because I don't want you to be nagging me all the time, and that's why I do what I do. That's not a very good motive. That's not a very good answer. And it's not going to be a very happy relationship. So what is the solution for Christians who are driven not by gratitude, but by guilt? The answer is that we need desperately to go back to the cross and remember that our acceptance is not based on our performance. Our acceptance is not based on how well you did today. God's not at the end of the day saying, you know Your devotional time was a little sketchy this morning. It wasn't very fruitful. You didn't seem like you really had your mind in it. So, you know, you're kind of on my blacklist now. Because it really wasn't very impressive. It wasn't very effective or very conducive for your spiritual growth. Now don't misunderstand me. Our sin, our lack of walking with the Lord, can create a barrier so that we really are not in fellowship with the Lord. But our acceptance before him is not based on that. It's not based on our performance. It's based on Christ's performance. It's based on what he has done for us. And so it's difficult, but it's very important for us to keep this balance. side of the cliff, if you will, if you can picture truth like a a a road on a ridge. You know, this is ridge road out there. So just picture a road on a ridge and there's a cliff on either side. One edge of the cliff says, you know, the Lord died for me. He paid for all of my sins. So I'm not going to sweat it. I'm just going to Live my life however I want because I don't have to worry about it because Christ has done all for me. That's obviously not a right approach. And many scriptures condemn that. But on the other side of the road, you have another cliff, and that cliff that says, God will only accept me and love me if I really measure up to what I'm supposed to be every day. And so if I really don't measure up, then he's going to shun me. He's not going to really love me as as I would like. And the frustration is, is that every day I find I come up a little short. I've said this before, and this can be misunderstood and misconstrued, but when rightly understood it is the truth. If you are a child of God, there is nothing you can do to make God love you more. Because his love for you is not based on you, it's based on his son And he loves his son with an everlasting love, and so he will love you with an everlasting love, because you are in Christ. And so the basis of our Christian walk and our life has to be rooted in the gospel, in our acceptance before God's. And if we don't have that foundational truth right, then it never will work effectively, and we will always be trying to do a little bit better so that God loves us. And that's not good in any relationship. We also should not live for Christ primarily because we are afraid that God will get us if we don't. I've run into Christians who who feel this way. They feel, you know, if I don't uh come to church and if I don't read my Bible and pray, then then God always brings something horrible into my life and and and uh he really punishes me for my sin. So I've got to keep this up. Let me use the analogy I used before. The wife says to her husband, why do you love me? And he says, because I value my life. Because you you can make my life miserable and and and you could end my life if you wanted to. Again, that's not a very good basis of a relationship. That's not a healthy relationship. It is true that because we are the children of God, if we go astray, he will chasten us. Hebrews chapter 12 tells us that. But that should not be the primary motive that drives us in our Christian life. And of course, we should not live the Christian life because this is our ritual or a cultural tradition. No, we are to live our lives for Him because we are overwhelmed. By the love and mercy and grace that He has shown unto us. 2 Corinthians 5. 14 says the love of Christ constrains us. It motivates us. Literally, the idea of that term is it boxes us in so that we don't want to stray. We want to follow him because he loves us so. Now the second great truth of the Christian life that comes out of verse 1 is obviously that the Christian life should be lived as a sacrifice. He says here, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. Now this sounds bizarre to us today, but it would not have to Paul's original readers. Whether they were Jews or Greeks, they would have been very familiar with the concept of an animal sacrifice being offered to some God. Because they would have seen this on a regular basis. It was part of their Jewish culture. It was part of the Gentile culture. It's just the way things were done back then. You were always trying to offer a sacrifice. as it were to appease the gods. And so when Paul calls on his hearers here, both Jews and Gentiles, to present their bodies a living sacrifice that would have registered with them. I know what he's talking about, they would say. Now, what does this mean to present your body as a sacrifice? Let me get specific. Does it mean that Christians are required at some time after they are saved to make a decision or come forward in the service and dedicate their life to Christ. I know there are many people who who understand this passage that way. They have been, they're from a church tradition which views kind of justification and sanctification as kind of like two crisis events in the Christian life. And so you get saved, and then sometime in the future you decide to yield your life to God. Um I don't think that's what Paul has in mind. Not that it would be wrong, and if you've If you've done that, if you've there was a time where God moved in your heart and you you felt like you needed to yield your life to to Christ, I'm not at all uh denigrating that or saying that there's no value in that. But I don't think that's specifically and exactly what Paul is demanding here. I think he's not talking about a crisis events, but he's talking about that the entirety of our Christian lives are to be lived this way. The word present here, present your bodies a living sacrifice, is often translated with the English word yield. For instance, earlier in this book in chapter 6 and verse 13, Paul says that we are yield ourselves unto God. It is a word that causes us to voluntarily place ourselves at God's disposal. Paul is saying that our perpetual attitude should be that of dedication to God. That we should think of our lives as not our own, but as something that belongs to God because He has purchased it with His own blood. Now, Paul uses three words. to describe this sacrifice. He says, first of all, it is a living sacrifice. And what he's doing here is he's contrasting this sacrifice with the other sacrifices that Paul's readers would have been familiar with, those dead sacrifices. He's saying, not like the Old Testament sacrifices where the animal was slain on the altar. No, this is a living sacrifice. That is, that our sacrifice is to last for a lifetime. That is the point that he is making here. 2 Corinthians 5 and verse 15, Paul says that we should not henceforth live for ourselves, but unto him that died for us and rose again. In 1 Corinthians 6. 19, he says, you're not your own. You're bought with a price. In 1 Peter chapter 1, he says, that we have been redeemed by the precious blood of Christ. So let me ask you, do you live your life as if it belongs to God? Do you ever consider him in any of your plans? Do you consider him and your career path or whom you will marry or how you will spend your money? Do you begin your day thinking about and saying, Lord, I give my day to you. My life is yours. Take me, use me, guide me. Let my words minister to others. Let my hands labor for you. Bring people into my path that I can be a witness to, a testimony to, an encouragement to. You may say, what about my freedom? Well, the Bible says that you have been freed from the bondage of sin, so that now you may serve Christ. With all your heart. And notice secondly how this sacrifice is described. It's described not only as a living sacrifice, but as a holy sacrifice, that it is set apart To God and free of defilement. You know that in the Old Testament sacrifices he demanded the best. They were to be without blemish or without spots. And God desires that our lifestyle indicate that we are also set apart to God and free from the defilement of the world. And then he goes on to say that this sacrifice is to be acceptable. Now let me explain to you what this is saying. We often think of the word acceptable as kind of meaning just barely okay. Such as a kid comes home from school with a report card and they have a C and their parents say, you know, that's not acceptable. And so the boy tries harder and he gets a B and they say, all right, that's acceptable. But what really please them is if their child came home with A plus. Then they would be well pleased. That's the idea of this term that's translated acceptable. It is well pleasing to God 's. We order our lives in such a way that the choices that we make indicate that our life has been yielded to him and that we want it to be well-pleasing to him. Now, I think the third wonderful truth that we find about the Christian life in chapter 12 and verse 1 is that the Christian's life should be characterized. Notice the last phrase in verse 1. He says, which is your reasonable service? This phrase helps to qualify or explain Paul's whole exhortation in this verse. Now the Greek word that it's translated reasonable is difficult. to translate into English because there's evidence that would point to it being reasonable as it's translated here, because it has a root of it that is actually the root of our word for logic. But on the other hand, many times this particular term or words in that family of words is used in a different sense. And many scholars, in fact most Bible scholars think because of its connection with the word that follows it that it has probably the idea of spiritual, your spiritual service It's as if someone were saying to Paul, what do you mean by presenting my body as a living sacrifice? And he says, it's like this What I mean is that your whole life is to be an act of worship Just as the offering of a sacrifice was an act of worship, so the believer's life should be an act of worship. The idea being that our life of worship does not consist of outward rituals, but inner devotion. Now the Greek word that is rendered service in our text. is the word that we get our English word liturgy from. A liturgy is an order of activities designed for worship. And in the Greek New Testament, it was used to describe the work of priests In the tabernacle or in the temple. It's a word that's most often found, as you might imagine, in the book of Hebrews. So you see, Paul is calling us to a radically different approach to living. The entirety of our Christian lives should be devoted. to worshiping the God who has saved us from our sins. This is exactly what the scriptures teach. I want to Turn to some other passages where the Apostle Paul makes an aside comment that gives us an insight into the Christian life. He says in Philippians chapter 3 and verse 3, for we are the circumcision Which worship God in spirit and rejoice in Christ Jesus and have no confidence in the flesh. And in this context, he is contrasting true believers with Judaizers. who saw the entirety of the Christian life as keeping the law. And he is saying that is not the gospel. That is not what the Christian life is. It's not about keeping a bunch of rules, external rituals. He says, no, it is worshiping God from your hearts. But when he says that we worship God in spirit and rejoice in Christ Jesus, he's not saying now you do that, of course, once a week. No, he's saying the entirety of the Christian's life is an act of worship. It could be characterized as spiritual worship. There's something similar to this found in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 and verse 9. Where he's talking about how the gospel made a dramatic difference to the believers at Thessalonica He says in verse 9, For they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had unto you, how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true Gods. And the language that is used there again speaks of worship. They turned their lives to God away from the idolatry. That was really permeating their lives. Or another way of putting it is in the familiar verse, 1 Corinthians 10, 31. Whether therefore ye eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. You see, the entirety of the Christian life. Is an act of worship. It is to be lived for his glory. This is what separates real worship from simply religious activity. In all man-made forms of religion, worship is externalized. It's equated with certain times, places, and rituals. And this can be a trap that even true believers fall into. There are many people, many people who think that being a Christian means that you come to church on Sunday, and I'm certainly not opposed to that That is an important part of the Christian life. You cannot be a healthy Christian if you do not worship the Lord on a regular basis with the people of God. But the corporate worship of the people of God is kind of the culmination and the climax of our private worship that continues through all of our waking hours throughout the week. But unfortunately for many people that is not at all the case. For many people, they believe that they can come to church on Sunday, they can attend a service, and now the rest of the week is theirs And they can go out and they can live like the devil. And then it's all okay, and God's okay with it as long as they come back to church on Sunday. And as it were, make amends for whatever they've done that previous week. This is not what Christianity is all about. That's paganism. That's the way people who don't really know God operates. That is a form of hypocrisy This is why it is dangerous to, as parents, bring your children to church And to tell them, you know, we're going to church now, so we need to behave. And there's certain words that we don't say when we're in church and and things of that nature. Now, there obviously I'm all for decorum in church. And uh Don't misunderstand what I'm trying to say, but what what what I'm trying to say is that if parents tell their kids, you know, when we go to church We kind of put on a front and we put on a face and we use religious talk. But then when we go home, it's completely different. And our vocabulary is different, and our behavior is the exact opposite of the way we behave in church and the way we behave around the Christian people that we see at church. And the principles that were taught in our Sunday school classes and in our church services, they bear no relevance to the ordinary decisions that we make day by day throughout the week. Let me just put it this way, parents, if you want a recipe to really encourage your children to rebel and to abandon their faith, there's no better recipe than that. Where your children, when they come of age, say, you know, what mom and dad have is really just a front. They don't really believe this stuff. They don't live by this stuff. They just putting on a mask when they go to church. You see, we can't say now this is the way we do things when we go to the church building, but outside is different. Guess what? God is in both places. He doesn't want one hour of you your week or ten percent of your money. He wants all of you God desires that you yield your life entirely to Him. Your mind, your heart, your will, your talents, your money. That's what he requires. But notice It's presented here as I beseech you. I urge you. This is a voluntary thing that the believer is to do. It's not talking about a one-time event. But it's talking about a perpetual attitude that we need to renew in our hearts and in our minds, Lord. I yield this day to you. Or your Lord, I yield this problem to you. Oh Lord, I need you to forgive me of this sin. It's the entirety of our Christian lives. Christian lives are an act of worship. They are to be motivated by gratitude. We are overwhelmed by God's amazing grace We are to view our life as a living sacrifice. It is given to God, and all of our time is to be part of an act of worship to Him. This is what the Christian life is all about. We sang this evening when I surveyed the wondrous cross. In that last verse it says, were the whole realm of nature mine, that were a present far too small, love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all. That is what Paul is saying in this passage. That is what he calls on us to do. May God God help us to yield our lives to Him. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word We thank you that it's timeless. We thank you that it's always relevant. We thank you, Lord For the great sacrifice you made at Calvary, that we might be saved. I pray that you would help us to gladly and joyfully yield our lives to you. that you may be glorified for it's in Jesus' name we pray amen