If your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Hebrews chapter 6? This morning we'll be considering just the final two verses of this chapter. Many years ago, off the coast of Massachusetts, there was a submarine disaster An S-4 submarine was inadvertently rammed by a ship and quickly began to take on water. In a few minutes, the vessel was at the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean. The technology of the time made the feasibility of rescue virtually impossible. But after several hours, a ivor was dispatched to the doomed vessel. He saw little signs of life, but as he drew close, he could hear a faint tapping noise. He listened carefully and he recognized that it was Morse Code And over and over again, there was a haunting question that was being tapped out from the other side. And it was this question, is there any hope? Is there any hope? In a very real sense, that is the great question of all humanity. Is there any hope? And the Bible answers that question with a resounding yes. There is hope in Christ. This morning, as we return to our study of Hebrews, we are concluding matters In this very lengthy digression. To properly understand where we are, I need to do a little bit of review and remind you because Verses 19 and 20 are not a discrete unit. They are like part of a flowing river. And we can only understand it as we understand the flow of that river. The digression begins in chapter five and verse eleven. Notice what he says, of whom we have many things to say and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing. And that is the beginning of a stern rebuke and a solemn warning. And then a passage of comfort and assurance that follows, all part of a lengthy digression away from his topic. of Christ who is a Melchizedekian high priest. Notice in chapter 6 and verse 1 He says, let us go on unto perfection, or we would say maturities, calling on them to grow up. And then we have some of the most famous, or perhaps I should say Infamous verses in the book of Hebrews. Hebrews chapter six and verse four. For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Ghost, and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the world to come, if they shall fall away to renew them again unto repentance Sing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame His point is that it's impossible to bring to repentance someone who has truly committed apostasy. But after this stern warning in verse 9, he has these reassuring words. But beloved. We are persuaded better things of you and things that accomp accompany salvation, though we thus speak. But why does this pastor believe that they are born again? Verse 10, for God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love which ye have showed forth toward his name and that ye have ministered to the saints and do minister. He's not saying that in some way they have earned their salvation, but he's saying their selfless acts of sacrifice for one another reveal that their hearts have been transformed by the grace of God. And then in verses 11 and 12 He says this, and we desire that every one of you do show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end. Notice the word hope there. Verse 12, that you be not slothful, but followers of them who through faith and patience inherit the promises. And that is the conclusion of the warning passage. But that's not the end of this digression. Because beginning in verses thirteen, going through verse twenty , He's going to provide the basis for the Christian's assurance of salvation. He realizes that this stern warning Might very well cause some in his audience who truly are born again to doubt their salvation and question their standing in Christ. And so now he is going to provide this wonderful passage right after the warning passage. To show them the basis, the ultimate basis of the believer's assurance. In verse 12, he speaks of inheriting the promises. And it's like he's anticipating an objection that his reader might have of how can we be certain that God will fulfill his promises to his people? And so the writer of Hebrews reminds them of an historic event when God kept his promise, fulfilled his promise that he gave to Abraham. And specifically the amazing fact that on the occasion of rescuing his son Isaac in Genesis 22, he reconfirmed that covenant with an oath. And the writer goes on to say it's not because God's promise could not be trusted, but because of the feebleness of our faith and our tendency to question and doubts. And to fear, God made it as it were doubly secure by adding to his promise an oath that he swore by himself because there's no higher name than God. To testify to your truth. That is the two immutable things that are mentioned in verse 18: the promise and the oath of God. You can see how this can bring great assurance to the people of God. But why does the author go to such an effort to remind us that God keeps his promises? Well, according to the end of verse 18, it's so that we might have strong consolation, or we could say that we would have strong encouragement Why do the people of God need not just encouragement, but strong encouragement? The answer is because we face strong temptations and strong doubts and intense fears. And so we need the strong consolation of the Word of God These precious promises are given to those who have fled for refuge from the world and have by God's grace come to hold fast the hope that is set before us. Now in verses 19 and 20, this spirit-filled pastor is going to explain the certainty of the hope that is set before us. Christians should find assurance in our certain hope of salvation. But why should we find this assurance? How is it that hope gives us assurance? Notice first of all our hope is certain because it's like an anchor for our souls. Look at verse 19. Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast, and which entereth into that within the veil Here we come to one of the most beautiful images in all of Scripture. It may surprise you to know that this is the only place where we have this analogy of the anchor. Three times in the book of Acts we read of a literal anchor in Paul's missionary travels. But here it is symbolic. We know from ancient literature of the time that the symbolism of an anchor was very common in this part of the world. The Mediterranean Sea connected the Roman and Greek worlds. And so everyone in this culture knew the meaning of this imagery. Greek philosophers use this metaphor to denote a person with stability. And we know that the Christian community would come to use this symbol as well. Underneath of Rome, there are a vast network of catacombs or tunnels. That date from ancient times. It's estimated that there are some six million tombs in the catacombs. And some of these ancient graves are clearly by the markings the graves of Christians. Some of them were Christian martyrs who gave their life for their faith. And one of the most common symbols found on these Christian tombs is that of an anchor. That popular symbol comes from this verse, Hebrews 6. 19. Perhaps it's even possible that some of the people, because many scholars believe this church, this Jewish church was actually in Rome. that heard this read for the first time, gave their lives for Christ, and on their tomb requested that there be an anchor because of the words that we have in our text this morning. But now we must answer this question. What is this anchor? Now many people are quick to answer Jesus. Perhaps that's what came to your minds. I sympathize with this identification. We have songs and poems and sermons that make this identification. And there's sort of an indirect reality of that. But let me show you that our text says the anchor is hope. There's no doubt about it. So if we're going to be true to the text, the anchor is our hope. This happens to be the key word in our text. We encounter the word hope in verse 11. Notice at the very end, to the full assurance of hope until the end. We encounter again here now in verse 18 to lay hold upon the hope that is set before us. Verse 19, which hope we have as an anchor of the soul. Now, biblical hope, I've said to you before in previous messages, is the believer's confident expectation based on the promises of God. This hope is not subjective. And this is one of the things that's difficult for us when you go from one language to another. If you have never studied or learned a foreign language, it may surprise you to know that it's not like a one-for-one equivalence in every word. In other words, there are many concepts in one language that do not have an exact equivalent in the other language. You can describe that concept in a sentence or two, but there isn't a one-to-one correspondence. That's true of this Greek word hope. Because when we think of hope, what do we think for? In English. We think of like a wish, a dream, an aspiration I know there's some guys here that like football. And I know that every year in September when the season begins, you say, I really hope my team goes to the Super Bowl this year. That is your hope. But almost every year your hope is disappointed. That is not a certain hope. It's a fond wish, perhaps. That's not what the Bible means by hope. The biblical concept of hope is of a confident expectation that God is going to do this because it's based on what God has revealed. On the promises of Scripture. Now, here in Hebrews It's even a little more specific. It doesn't have the idea of the subjective nature, that is, the hopefulness that we should have. But the objective basis of our hope or our confident assurance So let's talk about the symbolism of the anchor for a second. An anchor can hold a ship in place by one of two ways, or perhaps even a combination of the two. One is by sheer weight. That weight thrown over the side can keep even a small vessel in place, provided the seas are relatively calm and there's not a great deal of wind. It that that weight just holds it in place. But for ocean going vessels That are quite large, those they have first of all multiple anchors, and those anchors have something on them called flukes. And those flukes are extension that go down all the way to the depths of the seafloor, and they gouge into these crevices, and they hold the ship in place. So here the picture is not so much a focus on the anchor But on what the anchor is gripping, on where those teeth have gone and have been bound strongly And that is, according to this text, as we will see today, God 's promise God 's provision of salvation and God's power. These are the ground of our faith, the ground of our hope Now, in verses 13 through 18 that we looked at last time, the focus, if you may recall this, is on the promises of God. The promises of God to change the analogy slightly are like these crazy people, forgive me if you do this, who climb up the side of a cliff. And they they they they use um ropes that they anchor in place and I know there's a tactical term for it and they hammer these things in and all of their weight Is controlled and dependent on that one pin going into the rock. Well, the promises of God that are sprinkled through the Word are like anchor points. That can sustain us and hold us and can really save our lives, as it were, because we can trust in them And so we see this wonderful, assuring image here. Now, why was this given to these people? Well, remember the context, these early Jewish believers. are about to face a new wave of persecution more severe than what they have encountered before. He says in chapter twelve, you have not yet resisted unto blood. No one has had their blood shed because they were a follower of Christ. But Within a few years of the writing of this book, that would change. And there would be Christian martyrs. So just imagine you're in their situation. All right? Nobody here Came to church this morning and thought, I wonder if gathering with the people of God is going to cost me my life. Probably didn't occur to you But imagine that you were in a context and in a culture where there was this great um hostility from your own ethnicity because you were considered a traitor to the faith of your fathers. That's the way these Jewish believers felt. And then the overall Roman culture was becoming more and more intolerant and suspicious of you and was about to crack down with brutal persecution. You might very well say, you know, I'm not sure I signed up for this But the author here writes this book to people in just this situation to encourage them that they must not consider for a moment going back to their old ways of Judaism and playing it safe. And here he tells them that God has provided strength for them to face the greatest storms that life can bring, including the storm of persecution. Now in verses thirteen through eighteen, the thing that secures our hope And makes us, gives us assurance is the promises of God. Promises like, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee, which is found in the final chapter of this book. Or how about this astounding promise? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Romans 8:32. You think the Lord is going to give up on you if you're trusting in his son when he gave his son to die for your sins? Or perhaps you need to hear this word of assurance, being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work and you will perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ. Philippians 1:6. Or Titus 1, 2, in hope of eternal life, which God that cannot lie promised before the world began. That's an anchor point that you can rest in. So when you are plagued with doubts and troubled with fears, you must replace the lies of Satan with the promises of God. But these promises, of course, are only for those who have embraced the gospel by faith. Notice how he describes this anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast. That is, in our hope. Is undisturbed by external influences. It's never moved by the storms of life. That rock will never give way. That was beautifully brought out in that gospel hymn that we sang this morning, My Anchor Holds. It's not that your faith is so incredibly strong that nothing could ever touch it. It's what your faith is grasping. It's not that you have this incredible grip on God. It's that God has his grip on you. That's where our security lies. Secondly, we see that our hope is certain because we have access to the very presence of God. Look with me now at the last phrase. of verse 19, and which entereth into that within the veil. Now those words sound a little awkward and you might wonder exactly what it's saying. It literally reads, inside behind the curtain. And it's a reference to the Day of Atonement. On the Day of Atonement, the high priest would enter the Holy of Holies, this sacred room that measured 15 feet by 15 feet. Contained the Ark of the Covenant. This room was separated from the other part of the tabernacle or temple where the priest would minister on a daily basis. And it was separated by a thick curtain that historical records say was the thickness of a man's hand. And this curtain restricted access to God. But you may remember that when Jesus died on the cross That this massive curtain was torn in two, signifying that access to God was now open in a new way because of the death of Christ. This sacred place, the Holy of Holies, represented the presence of God. But it's important to understand that in the book of Hebrews, and we will encounter this often in chapters ahead. The references to the Holy of Holies is a type that is fulfilled in the heavenly sanctuary. Let me explain it this way. Listen to the words of the great Puritan theologian, this man who wrote seven thick volumes on the book of Hebrews. Listen to how he explains this truth. And what is it that is within this veil? Not an ark and a mercy seat. Not tables of stone and cherubim, the work of men's hands, but the things signified by them. God Himself on a throne of grace, and the Lord Christ as the high priest of the church standing at his right hand. Here, hope fixes itself to hold the soul steadfast in all the storms and tempests that may befall it. You see, our anchor of hope, as it were, doesn't go down into the depths of the sea. It goes up into the heavens, as it were, and latches hold of the very presence of God. What does this mean for us? I want you to notice that the term here at the end of verse 19, entereth. is in the present tense, not the past or the future. And that detail makes a difference In other words, this is not a reference to Christ entering the veil for us. We'll read about that in a moment Nor is it saying that someday, when we are in heaven, we will be able to enjoy the presence of God. That is true, but that's not what this phrase is saying. It's saying that believers can have access to the presence of God today. This is a truth that is beautifully brought out in the book of Hebrews. Turn with me back to a familiar passage, Hebrews chapter 4, verse 14. Hebrews 4. 14 Seeing then that we have a great high priest that has passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. That we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Because we have a great high priest who is sympathetic to our needs, we can come to him in prayer. We can come into the immediate presence of God. We can go, as it were, into the Holy of Holies today through the avenue of prayer. Now turn with me to another passage later in this book, Hebrews chapter 10, verses 19 through 23. Hebrews 10, 19 through 23. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest, that's the holy of holies. by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which he has consecrated for us through the veil that is to say his flesh. And having a high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith. having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water, let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful. That promised. You see, one of the God given means for the perseverance of our faith is to come regularly before God in prayer. I'm going to say more about this later, but in the book of Hebrews we have this balance that people are often troubled with. Because we have wonderful passages like we're considering today, and it talks about the eternal security of a child of God. But then we have all these other passages that says that warn us and tell us we must persevere in our faith. We must not turn back to our old life. We must not walk away. And people have great difficulty balancing those two And I've showed you before that one of the explanations that I find most convincing is that these warning passages are intended to be a means by which God perseveres, causes us to , God preserves his people. And motivates us to perseverance of our faith. And one of the means that God has given to us, a means of grace, of persevering, is to reaching out to God in prayer. And unfortunately, what happens when we are weak in our faith and we're drifting away from God, what do we tend to do? We tend not to pray much at all. So I often tell people, when you go day after day after day after day and you say, you know, I just don't really feel like praying, that's when you need to pray. Because you're in danger. You may say, well, wouldn't that be kind of like hypocritical to pray when you don't feel like praying? Listen, you get down on your knees and you cry out to God and you ask him to change your heart, and in a few minutes, you know what? I believe that you will feel like you want to pray. But you have to break through that barrier, as it were. This is so important for us. This is prayer is God 's antidote For our fear and our anxiety and our panic and our discouragement and our depression. God wants us to come to the Holy of Holies through the name of His Son. And find grace to help in time of need. And so often we don't do that. But thirdly, Would you notice in our text that our hope is certain? Because Jesus has gone before us as a Melchizedekian high priest. Look with me now, please, at verse 20. It says, whither or where the forerunner is for us entered. And I will stop with that first phrase. Here we find Our Savior identified by the title Jesus. The author of Hebrews is a very interesting writer, profound thinker. In the book of Hebrews, we have the most exalted descriptions of the deity of Christ, but we also have an emphasis on his real humanity. And one of the ways the author does that is by using his earthly name, Jesus. Doesn't use a title He uses his name Jesus. And so often I think we forget the meaning of that name. Do you know what the name Jesus means? Well, in Matthew 1:21, the angel says to Joseph, Thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. So the very mention of our Savior's name should remind us that his plan of redemption will not be stopped by all the persecution and opposition of the world. God 's great plan of redemption will be fulfilled. Now I want us to consider this term here, forerunner. The Greek word that's translated for wonder is found only here in the New Testament, so it's a unique word. However, the meaning is not difficult to understand. The word has the idea of simply the first in a series. In other words, there's more to come. It was used in the ancient world of a runner who would lead a pack of runners. If you describe a pioneer or scout who went to survey unknown territory, it was used of a guide who would lead people and show them the path to take. Although this word is unique, the concept is found a couple other times in the book of Hebrews. Let me show this to you. Look with me. At Hebrews chapter two and verse ten Speaking of Jesus, I'll begin reading in verse 9, but we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor. that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man, for it became him for whom are all things, and by whom all things and bringing many sons unto glory to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings. He's described here as the captain of our salvation. And the implication here is that if he had to suffer And that was part of God's plan for him that we will encounter suffering and our spiritual journey as well. But then if you look at this familiar passage in Hebrews chapter 12 with me. Look with me at verses 2 and 3. You know this verse. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. For consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself. lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds. He is the author. He is the leader Again, the same idea with a different term. Christ has gone before us, for that gives us assurance that we will follow after him because he has gone before us. That is what is being brought out in this text. Now notice, if you would, that Jesus turned back with me to Hebrews 6. 20. Notice that Jesus' entrance into the heavenly sanctuary is described in the past tense. We talked about the present tense. And verse 19, that entereth in a present participle there. But here it says, the forerunner for us entered. Past tense. What does this minor detail have any significance for us? Well, it reveals the superiority of Christ's priestly ministry Because the Levitical priest had to continually offer sacrifices. And in the Day of Atonement, every year, the high priest entered the Holy of Holies and offered sacrifice for all the people. Because of their they were not coming and getting taking care of their sin in the way prescribed by the law. And that was good until next Yom Kippur, when the high priest had to do it again. One of the things that the author of Hebrews makes mention of is that there was no chair And the temple or the tabernacle, because the priest never had a chance to sit down. He was always at work offering sacrifices. But Hebrews tells us that Jesus, when he's finished his work, he sat down. It says in Hebrews 9. 12 That he entered once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. And in Hebrews chapter seven Verses twenty-six it says, For such a high priest became us who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens, who needeth not daily as those high priests to offer up sacrifice First for his own sins and then for the peoples. For this he did once when he offered up himself. And so this detail is intended to remind us that the efficacy of his sacrifice will not expire. It's not good until next time I mess up. No, he obtained eternal redemption for us And then we see in our text this wonderful two words for You see that in verse 20? Whither the forerunner is for us entered. Jesus' priestly work was on our behalf. The whole reason that we have access to the presence of God, the throne of grace, is due to the atoning work of Christ on our behalf What does Christ do for his people as our high priest? The book of Hebrews brings out three primary functions. Number one , He intercedes for us. In Hebrews 7, 25 it says, wherefore he is able also to enter To save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him seeing that he ever liveth to make intercession for them And then we read that he represents us before God. In Hebrews 9. 24, it says, For God is not entered into the holy place made with hands which are figures of the true, but into heaven itself now to appear in the presence of God for us What a wonderful thought this is. He is the representative of all his people. The high priest in his vestments had twelve stones that represented the twelve tribes of Israel, represented the people of God, and when he brought a sacrifice, when he went into Place to offer sacrifice, he wore this, representing the people before God. There he stands for us in the presence of God. We have in one of our hymns, in our black hymnal, this this line from one of the verses, I know that while in heaven he stands No tongue can bid me thence departs. In other words, that our security, our assurance is based on the fact that we have a representative in heaven who stands there representing our cause. And of course, Hebrews reminds us again and again of the once-for-all sacrifice that Christ has made for us. It says in Hebrews 10, 12, but this man after he had offered one sacrifice for sin forever, sat down on the right hand of God. From henceforth expecting till his enemies be made his footstool, for by one offering he hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified What a wonderful, assuring truth this is. You see, the fact that Jesus has entered the heavenly sanctuary. Should bring great comfort and assurance to our souls. This is the ultimate rock on which our anchor, as it were, can grasp hold of and will never let go. And here the mo the the idea of Christ going before us reminds us that he is preparing a place for us. This is precisely what Jesus said the night before his crucifixion. I go and prepare a place for you. I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. His ascension and session at the Father's right hand should encourage us that we will follow him to glory, because he is there preparing a place For us, Jesus is our forerunner into the heavenly presence of God. And because he has gone before us, we can be certain. That there is a place for us. Peter describes salvation this way: to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven. For you. But now I want you to notice how this chapter and this verse concludes. Look with Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 20. We read made a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. What the author is expressing here is that we should find greater confidence of hope in the fact that the one who serves as our high priest is not a Levitical high priest. but is of the order of Melchizedek. This is one of the main points of the book of Hebrews. This truth is first touched on in Hebrews chapter 5. You may recall this. Look with me at Hebrews chapter 5 and verse 6. As he saith also in another place, thou art a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. And then again in verse 10 of this chapter, called of God and high priest after the order of Melchizedek. The author of Hebrews was about to launch into an exposition of this theme, but first he felt constrained to offer them a rebuke and admonishment. Now in verse 20 of chapter 6, the author is signaling that he's now coming back to what he was talking about. Christ and his Melchizedekian high priest. Now we're going to hear a lot about this mysterious man Melchizedek in the weeks ahead. In fact, you may get tired of hearing about Melchizedek. Because from chapter 7 and verse 1 all the way into chapter 10 and verse 18, the author of Hebrews is going to be showing his readers that because Jesus is of the line of Melchizedek and not Levi, he is a better high priest. But how is Jesus a better high priest? Well, the full answer to that will come in the months ahead. But let me show you one hint that's embedded in verse 20. Do you see this word forever? Levitical high priest Was required to retire at the age of fifty. And some of them died before they reached the age of fifty. And then, of course, their duties would be assigned to someone else. And not all high priests were created equal. Some would be more sympathetic Some would be more merciful, some would be more diligent, some would be more faithful, some would be more holy than others. So you never knew what the next high priest would be like But just imagine if your access to God, in a sense, depended on this man and his character and his credentials. Well, our great high priest is unchanging. And he will be our high priest forever. His term of service will not come to an end. He will not be replaced by someone else. And because he is our great high priest, we can enjoy a confident expectation that we were saved by his grace and we will never fall away. Now I'd like to conclude with a few points of application. My first point is this. Christians should expect to encounter great storms in this life So often, when great difficulties confront us in life, we are shocked and dismayed. And sometimes even Christian people feel that God somehow has failed them and not been faithful. But the Bible doesn't teach that the Christian life is a bed of roses. It teaches just the opposite. Jesus said to his disciples right before his crucifixion, in the world you will have Tribulation. But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Paul said to the new believers that we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God. Storms of agonizing sorrow, financial difficulties, health issues, and family dysfunction are to be expected on this fallen planet. And Christians are not exempt from these. In fact, as followers of Christ, we have an additional burden that is the suffering that might come with following Christ. This is what the first readers of this book were facing. Following Christ was about to become very costly for this Jewish church. How comforting it must have been for them to remember the words of this book. And that God has provided an anchor for our souls. And that anchor grips the rock. A second point is related to the first. Christians should possess a stability that the world does not have. If indeed we have an anchor for our souls, this fact should make a tremendous difference in how we respond to the storms of life. We should possess a supernatural peace. In the midst of the storm. I always think of John Wesley when I think of this truth. He was he went to the to South Carolina, actually to Savannah, Georgia, and there he ministered For a time as a missionary for a couple years. And although he was a clergyman ordained in the Church of England and a missionary, he was yet unconverted. He knew, he says, that Jesus was the Savior of the world, but he didn't know that he was his savior. And when he was aboard a ship in the Atlantic Ocean and they faced a great storm, and it looked very likely that they would all perish, he was absolutely terrified. Out of his mind with panic. But down in the hole of that ship there was a Moravian family that was calmly singing hymns. Man, a wife, and many children. And he couldn't understand why they weren't alarmed and afraid like everyone else. And they said, Because we know that if we die, we will go into the presence of the Lord. And that testimony would lead to his conversion within a few months. We should be people that experience that peace that passes all understanding because our anchor grips the rock. Thirdly, Christians should enjoy the assurance of salvation without becoming lazy, arrogant, and presumptuous. In chapter 6, we have two sections that at first glance might appear to be contradictory. The first is a very serious warning given to those who are spiritually lazy, warning them that if they apostasize, they can never come back to Christ. And then we have this final section in chapter 6 that speaks of the Christians' full assurances resting in the unchangeable promises of God and the redemptive work of Jesus Christ. Now Christians, and even those who are not Christians, when they think of salvation, they tend to gravitate to one side or the other. They tend to think, well, I guess it's all up to me. I guess I've got to work really hard and I've got to try to live a good moral life and I've got to try to earn my way to heaven. And of course that has never worked. By the way, if that's what you're thinking this morning You're lost. You can't impress God with your good deeds. He's not going to be fooled like other people. But on the other hand, we have many good Christian people in gospel preaching churches. Who have either heard or they've assumed in their own perception of things That a Christian who makes a profession of faith doesn't ever have to give any concern to their spiritual standing before God ever again. Because once saved, always saved. And so you can live like the devil. You can respond just like your unbelieving friends to every circumstance in life. But the preacher said to me that if I prayed this prayer, I'd go to heaven someday. Remember, we looked in the earlier part of chapter 6 about people who have some type of conversion experience, and the author says that cannot be the ground of your assurance. In many of our churches, and it's not an evil, wicked thing. People want to remember the date they prayed to Christ and they'll write it in the front of their Bible. And indeed, there is a time, the Bible says in John 5. 24, where you pass from death unto life. It's true of every child of God. But your hope must not rest in that date that's in the front of your Bible. It must rest in Christ. He is your only hope. The question is, what are you trusting in today? What are you resting in today? Jesus said, My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life. We see here that Christ is our forerunner. And I told you that word means that there is more that will follow after. God did not intend that those who are not following the shepherd have this assurance that they are followers of Christ. Doesn't mean we earn our way to heaven, but it means that we must fight against spiritual lethargy and apathy by the grace of God. And finally, Christians must find assurance of salvation not by looking to what we have done, but to what Christ has done for us. You'll never find assurance by examining your heart. Those who tend to doubt their salvation the most are people who are naturally introspective. An introspection can be a very good thing. Most people don't examine their own lives and their own hearts enough. But Satan can use your strength and make it a weakness so that you are completely captive To his fiery darts of doubt, because you keep looking at your heart and you don't like what you see. You still see corruption. You still see self-love. You still see all of these besetting sins and struggles that are yet within you And you say to yourself, How can I have any assurance that I'm truly a child of God? Friend, you will never find it by looking within. You must look up You must look to what Christ has done for you. You must see him at the right hand of the Father. You must see him as your intercessor, your representative, and your redeemer. One great godly preacher of the past would say to his people, For every look at self, take ten looks at Christ. And I think that's a pretty good proportion. Look to Christ. Look at his righteous life. Look at his sacrifice on your behalf. Look at that work of redemption that was begun before the world began. Find your confidence and assurance in that, not in anything that you find in here. I think that every true child of God has an instinctive sense that their hope Is in Christ alone. We're going to sing a hymn in just a moment that I hope will resonate with your hearts. It says, My hope is built on nothing less. Then Jesus' blood and righteousness. In other words, it's not that part of my hope is built on what Jesus did and Part of my hope is building on what I'm doing. No, no, no. All of my hope, my only hope, my only confidence Is resting in Christ, my great high priest. That is the heartfelt confession of all true believers. I trust it is yours today. If it's not, would you seek the Lord today? I'd be happy to speak to you afterwards, many others as well. We will make time for you. This is a matter of eternal significance. May you find your hope and trust in Christ alone. Let's pray, Father. We thank you for your word. We thank you that its promises are true. And they bring assurance to our souls. I pray that you'd remind us that all the promises of God find their yes or their fulfillment or their answer in Christ. He has done all for us. May our assurance be in him and him alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.