If you have your Bibles, please, this morning, would you please join me in Luke chapter 18? Encourage you to follow along just like you would in church. Give the Word of God the attention that it deserves. One of the preachers of the past that has had most impact on my life would be A man named Robert Murray McShane. He lived from 1813 to 1843 in Scotland. Pastored a Presbyterian church in Dundee. He was a powerful preacher, a faithful shepherd, but he was primarily known for his godliness. Everyone who knew him expressed the fact that he just exuded a sense of the presence of God wherever he went. When people visited him, they often found him praying. And so it's not surprising that McShane once said A man is what he is on his knees before God and nothing more. Came across that when I was just a young man. And found it a very convicting quote, because I believe it is true. A person's prayers Reveal a great deal about what they believe about God and about their own identity. Some people pray to God only in a bargain, in a crisis, and they seek to make bargains with him. Others pray on a regular basis Some people pray in a very selfish way only about their own immediate needs. Others intercede for others. Some people pray to God as if he is a servant to meet their needs. Others pray to him as a sovereign who is worthy of their adoration and praise. Our prayers not only reveal our theology, they reveal our biography, they reveal who we are, what we fear. what we value, what we worry about, what we hope for. If you could analyze a person's prayers over a lifetime, You could write not only a theology of what that person believes, but a biography of who they are. Because your prayers say volumes. About you. This morning we return to our study of our Lord's parables, and we come to a brief parable that is a contrast between two men. And apart from their identity as the publican and the Pharisee, everything else that we know about them is revealed in their prayers. That is all that we see about these two men. Now, when we were last studying the parables together, we study the parable of the unjust judge that is found in the opening paragraph of Luke chapter 18 and that parable was all about continuing Persevering in prayer, that believers should not lose hearts when our answers do not come immediately, but we must persevere in our prayers. Now, this parable that follows, of course, also touches on prayer. But here in this parable, we are reminded that how we come before God, God is very significant. And so this parable reminds us that the basis of our prayers The relationship that we have with God must be first and foremost in our minds. Did you know it's possible for a person to pray in a way that is utterly wicked. This is a counter-cultural idea. We tend to think that everyone's prayers, no matter what faith they may ascribe to, is certainly something that is sacred and should never be criticized, questioned, or challenged because we all pray to the same God. That is the acknowledged truth that pervades much of Western culture today. But the scriptures reveal something different. It reveals that a person can sin against God even in their prayers. And we have an example of that in this parable this morning. We also have the example that a very wicked person That is broken over their sin can be, can come to Christ and be saved through a very simple, heartfelt prayer. Now we don't need to wonder why Jesus told this parable because the opening verse of this parable gives us the purpose. Look with me please at verse 9. It says of Jesus, and he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others. This brief parable is primarily a warning to self-righteous people who think they are better than others. Now, when you read that, I think the immediate reaction that we have is that, well, this parable is for Pharisees. So that has nothing to do with me. So I can listen to this sermon or read this passage in a very detached way because I'm not a Pharisee. This is for somebody else. But I want you to notice that it doesn't say specifically that this is written to parables, excuse me, to Pharisees, but it says it's written To those who are righteous, or we would say self-righteous and despised others And so that goes beyond this religious sect of early Judaism to people in all times, in all places. The sad reality is That as conservative religious people, we are very prone to fall into the same sins as the Pharisees. When Jesus uttered these words, the Pharisees were there, and indeed it was in many respects aimed at them, but so were his disciples there. And the Lord was instructing his disciples, and in this instruction, speaking to us as well, in essence saying that we need to beware lest we easily fall in the trap of thinking like a Pharisee. And there are two two sides to that coin of that error, and that is of thinking that somehow you can earn your righteous standing before God, and therefore also be proud of the fact that you are better than others. And those two things almost always go together. And these two viewpoints, these two attitudes must never be the way we as Christian people think. So I'm going to speak to you on Jesus' warning to self-righteous people. We really have a tale of two prayers in this parable. I want to begin by working our way down through this parable. Let's look at verse 10. It says, Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee. and the other a publican. Like many of our Lord's parables, this is a parable of contrast. We have a Pharisee and a publican. The Pharisees were admired, and the publicans were abhorred. The Pharisees were honored by the people, and the tax collectors or publicans were hated by all. This parable is very familiar to most of us, and we read this without any sense of being disturbed when we read of these two men going up into the temple. And the reason why we're not bothered by that is because we don't live in the first century. But when Jesus told this parable, like many of his parables, The very framework of this parable would have been disturbing to people. It would be like if I were telling the story about a pastor and a pedophile going into the church to pray. instantly it would evoke an emotional response, something that's distasteful to you. Wait a minute, these two men Going to church to pray? I don't like that picture. Something's not right here. That's exactly what our Lord's original audience Would have thought when he spoke these words. These two men, although they were very different, had some things in common. They were, first of all, both going to the temple to pray. They were both sinners, as we will see. One knew he was a sinner, and the other did not know that he was a sinner, although he was. And they thirdly are both revealed in their prayers. We don't have any other conversation about from these men. All that we have is their prayers that reveal who they are and what they think about God. Now, although there are two individuals, the focal points in many respects is really on the Pharisee, because remember, this is a parable that warns against self-righteousness. And so there's more verses given to the Pharisee, and his sin is revealed by way of contrast here. Let's talk about this Pharisee. Now, the term Pharisee in our culture has a very negative connotation. It has become a synonym for a religious hypocrites. But it was not so in the days of our Lord. I do think it's important that we do not think of all Pharisees in a monolithic way, that they were all wicked, self-righteous hypocrites. That was not the case. We read of some Pharisees who seem to be earnest in seeking the truth like Nicodemus. Who later became a follower of Christ, and there are other examples that could be given. So we should not stereotype and think that all Pharisees were exactly the same. They weren't, but they tended to be this way. And they were admired by nearly everyone. The Jews, of course, had a very religious culture, and they were religious people. They were respectable. They were traditional. They believed in the old-fashioned values of loving God and country of hard work and personal responsibilities. The Pharisees were model citizens. They were the ultimate Jews, and they were the constant enemies of our Lord. Look with me at verses 11 and 12 at this Pharisee's prayer. It says the Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself. God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all that I possess. Pious Jews in Jerusalem went to the temple to pray. And the fact is they still do today I have been to the wailing wall in Jerusalem, and I've seen the faithful standing and praying with their faces against that ancient stone. The typical Jewish posture for prayer was standing. And they usually did not pray silently But out loud, at least muttering something to themselves. And sometimes louder than that, we read about our Lord's uh condemning the Pharisees' prayer in Matthew chapter 6. where they stood in very prominent places and prayed to impress the people. Well, that meant that implies they were praying out loud. And so I suggest to you that this man is praying out loud. You may have always read this parable and thought that he was praying silently to himself. No, he was praying in a way so that the public could hear what he was saying. And I think that that was intentional. Now I want to point out four characteristics of this man's prayer that made it wicked in the sight of God. First of all, would you notice with me that his prayer was self-absorbed? Did you notice all the personal pronouns in this prayer? There are five of them. 2 in verse 11 and 3 in verse 12. This man wasn't praising God in his prayer. He was praising himself. He wasn't worshiping the Lord essentially. He was worshiping himself. He wasn't looking upward, he was looking inward. The reality is it's very easy to become self-focused in our prayers. So often our prayers are filled with our burdens, our problems, our health concerns, our job situation, our children, and we barely mention anything else But let me be clear, it is certainly not wrong for us to pray for these things. Indeed, we should pray for these things. We are exhorted to bring our burdens to the Lord in prayer. But if we're not careful, that's all we will pray about. We will not worship the Lord. We will not adore Him We will not bring our thanksgiving to him, and we will not intercede for others as we should. We will not have a balanced prayer. Just like we have and need a balanced diet with different types of foods, so we need a balanced prayer life. where we have different types of prayers or portions of prayers within our larger prayer It's so easy for us to become microscopic in our focus in prayer, and that we live in a universe of one, and all of our prayers and all of our wrestling with the Lord is just all about us. And our struggles, and we forget how our Lord taught us to pray, our Father, which art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. We are to remind ourselves of the big picture that we are but a small part of what God is doing in the worlds To bring glory to himself and for his purpose is to be fulfilled. So often our prayers are confined to that fourth petition, give us this day our daily bread. And all of those material and physical concerns that we have. This man's prayer was self-absorbed, and we need to be careful lest our prayers Become self-absorbed. Secondly, his prayer expressed no need for God. Did you notice that there was something missing in his prayer? There is no petition. He does not make a single request. And the reason he doesn't make any request is because he doesn't think he needs God. He doesn't need God to protect him or to provide for him or to pardon him. He's got it all covered. He can take care of it all himself. We have put a value in our nation on personal responsibility. That is a good thing. We should not live in such a way that we think, well, somebody else will take care of me and of my needs and of my family. We should not impose on others or assume that others will do what we can do for ourselves. The Bible teaches personal responsibility. And that is something that is very much a part of our culture that you don't necessarily see in every culture in the world. But that so easily can drift into I can take care of everything myself. I don't really need the Lord's. Or maybe we think, I need the Lord for the really, really big stuff. But everything else I can handle myself. We must never think that way. We need the Lord for everything. We need God for every breath we take. Without Him, we can do nothing. We must not think that somehow we can earn our way into God's presence, that we can earn his favor, his merit. on our own. This is the lie behind this self-righteous sinner's prayer. Thirdly, the third thing that makes his prayer wicked is that it's filled with contempt for others. He says very blatantly, I thank thee that I am not as other men are. What's he talking about here? He's saying he sees himself as a Pharisee. That's where he finds his identity, and he views everyone who is not a Pharisee As he says, extortioners, unjust, and adulterers. That's pretty stark. That's pretty harsh. Except for me and my friends and our club, everyone else in the world is really, really bad. And he paints them in this very dark light. This is a textbook definition of a holier than thou attitude. that people find repulsive and all too often shows up in the lives of conservative religious people He truly believes that he is morally superior to just about everyone. And notice how he cannot fail to bring up This other man who is praying in the vicinity of the temple, the publicans. He says, or even as this publicans. In other words, he couldn't just keep his prayer general. He had to get specific about this man who he catches out of the side of his eye who's over there praying And perhaps by the clothing that this man is wearing, he can tell that man is a tax collector, and he instantly makes this judgment about him. And he compares that man and himself. And he is righteous, and that man is unrighteous. He is holy and that man is unholy. He is good and that man is evil. Now, when we read this prayer, I think our reaction is that it's almost humorous or a little over the top, perhaps a parody. of what would actually happen. We might think that no one would pray like this We might accuse the Lord of being a little unrealistic here, but the reality is, and what I've been telling you in these parables, is that they are real to life. And believe it or not, this prayer is really in line with the way a Pharisee would pray in the early centuries of Judaism. I have some samples of rabbinical prayers from the time. Let me read some of these to you. This one says, Lord, judge me not as those who dwell in the big towns among whom there is robbing and uncleanness and vain and false swearing. That prayer could have been prayed by somebody in Carroll County. Lord, I'm so glad that I live out in the country and not in the inner city where all the wicked people are. Or how about this prayer? I thank thee, O Lord God, that thou hast given me my lot with those who sit in the house of Torah And not with those who sit in the street corners. I run to the life of the age to come, they run to the pit of destruction. But my favorite rabbinical prayer is this one. Lord, if the saved are only one, or are only a hundred, I and my son are among them. And if the saved are only two, I and my son are the two. And Lord, if the righteous be only one, it is I. I suspect when the Pharisee heard the Lord rehearsing this prayer in his parable, they said to themselves, you know what? That's a pretty good prayer. That's the way I pray. Let me bring to you the fourth element of his prayer that was wicked. His prayer is filled with self-righteousness. Look with me at verse 12. He mentions just two things. I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all that I possess. We should not think that these were the only two religious disciplines in his life. They are simply a sample to represent a whole host of things that this man was very careful to observe. Look at his fasting. Now the law only required fasting once a year on the Day of Atonement. Later rabbinical leaders instituted more and more fast days until the time of the Pharisees. when they encouraged their people to fast twice a week. They fasted on Mondays and they fasted on Thursdays. It was taught that Moses Ascended Mount Sinai on a Thursday and then returned on a Monday. And so these must be holy days, and they are worthy of our fasting. Then it mentions his tithing. Most Jews gave 10% of their income to the Lord. But this Pharisee Tithe, not only what he received, but what he possessed and what he gave away, even when other Jews had already paid a tithe on a commodity. Essentially, he is saying here, I pay a double tithe. And certainly this man also strictly observed the Sabbath. He attended all synagogue services, and he prayed daily in the temple. He was the epitome of a religious Jew. Except there was one problem. He didn't love God, and he didn't love others, which are the essence. of all of God's law. He trusted in himself, and he despised others. What a revolting picture. The Lord intends that this be a revolting picture for us to consider. Because if we are serious And honest, we know that it would be very easy for us to slip into that mindset, to look at the wicked world in which we live and to think and Pat ourselves on the back and congratulate ourselves that we are so much better than everyone else around us. Next we must turn to the publican. The publicans were tax collectors who were hated by virtually everyone. They're usually listed in the New Testament with prostitutes and drunkards. And they comprised the outcast of society. They were hated for several reasons. Number one, first and foremost, they were considered traitors to their own people. The Jews, of course were being oppressed by the Romans. They were controlled by them at this time, occupied by them. And the the Romans employed Jewish tax collectors. to collect the taxes that they would then take to perpetuate this oppression. And so they were hated as traitors to their own people. They were also hated because they were crooks. They gathered more taxes than the Romans required and lined their pockets with the excess. Rome didn't care as long as they got their own. And they were not religious. They lived in a people who were known for their religion. But they could not go to the synagogue or the temple because they were considered ceremonially unclean. They didn't feel welcome at religious services because they weren't welcome at religious services. Now I want you to notice three aspects. of this publican's prayer. Look with me at verse 13. It's just found here And the publican standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me A sinner, I want you to notice the posture of his prayer. Jesus emphasizes here more of how he prayed than what he prayed. It says that he was standing afar off. Unlike the Pharisee, this man didn't feel like he belonged in this holy place. He didn't come all the way in because he felt uneasy. He felt unworthy. The Pharisee implied in his prayer That the publican didn't really deserve to be in the temple. And the publican's posture said to that Pharisee, you're right, I don't deserve to be here. Notice the passion of his prayer. It's reflected in this odd phrase to us. He smote upon his breast. This was a culturally appropriate way of expressing deep emotion, the kind of emotion that would be exhibited at a funeral. Professional mourners would often repeatedly strike their chest to show that they were profoundly sorrowful. But this was no performance but the sincere expression of a broken man. Then we have the petition of his prayer. I want to remind you that the Pharisee never made a request in his prayer, but this man has a very definite need. His prayer is very short. It's only seven words in English, six words in Greek. He doesn't feel right about offering some flowery prayer to God, and so he makes one simple request. God, be merciful to me, a sinner. This unnamed publican is quoting from David's great psalm of repentance that he perhaps learned as a boy. After David's adultery with Bathsheba, And the murder of her husband Uriah. He wrote Psalm 51, which begins with these words, Have mercy upon me, O God. And now a thousand years later, a tax collector who has a powerful sense of shame and of guilt just like David echoes these words and cries out for mercy and pardon. It's interesting that in the Greek text It literally reads, God, be merciful to me, the sinner. This man saw himself as the chief of sinners I want you to think about this contrast. The Pharisee prayed, I am better than other men. And the publicans prayed, I am worse than other men. He was overwhelmed with guilt. And so he comes seeking God 's forgiveness. The Pharisee never asked for God to forgive him because he didn't think he needed to be forgiven. And indeed, he was not forgiven. So how did God respond to the tax collector's desperate plea? We don't have to wonder because Jesus tells us He says in verse 14, I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other For everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted Remember, I've told you many times in my study of the parables that Jesus often had a shocking element. in his parables. Surprise ending. I've already mentioned that there was the disturbing element at the beginning of this parable when these two men One revered as a holy man and the other hated as a wicked man. Both go before God in a temple. There was just something that wasn't right about that But this final verse of the parable is even more disturbing because we find here That the man who was wicked, who was sinful, who was hated by everyone, leaves the temple justified before God, while the Pharisee, whom everyone admires as a good man, the implication is he leaves condemned by God, because it says rather than the other. There's a contrast being made. He doesn't fill out that phrase, but the reader knows what he's saying is that one was justified and the other remains condemned. Jesus has just turned the world upside down for his Jewish hears. Because over time their whole system of religion was predicated upon the fact that through discipline Through law-keeping, through hard work, a person can earn a respectable standing before God. And Jesus has just destroyed that whole notion in this parable. And so one wonders, how can this be? And Jesus is going to answer that with a phrase that he mentioned several times. In his earthly teaching. He says, notice at the end of verse 14, for everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased. And he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. This is rooted, this phrase is rooted in the Old Testament scriptures. We could go and look at many passages that bring out this exact truth that the way to God is always on our knees. It is in humility before God. And that when we think that we've got it all figured out and we can stand on our own two feet before God and He is pleased to receive us because we're so good that when we have that mindset, we are actually going to be condemned by God. Now with that brief exposition, I want to turn now to application. This parable has some beautiful implications of the gospel. And I will get there, but we should not miss the main purpose of this parable The main purpose of this parable was to warn against self-righteousness. of saying, I can trust in myself. I can do it myself. And then the accompanying disease of feeling better than others. And so my first application might be a little uncomfortable. But it would be this, that we as conservative Christians need to be constantly on guard against adopting a self-righteous attitude. It is so easy to fall into the mindset of a Pharisee, to think that you are morally superior to others. I read this week of a man who was in college with his good friend, and they were having a Bible study. And he asked his friend to open up their Bible study in prayer, and he said, Lord, we thank you that we're not out partying tonight, getting drunk, and being immoral, but instead we are studying your holy words. Now this man may have prayed that prayer with a pure and sincere heart. I don't know. Or it may be a subtle revelation of a holier than thou attitude. You see, the spirit of a Pharisee enters so quickly and so subtly into our hearts. It's very easy for us to become so filled with pride over your conservative religious orthodoxy. That you think that every church, every group, every organization that differs from you in any way in doctrine or in practice is of the devil. I've heard many people make statements like that. There's us and our little group and our way of doing things and our way of worship. And we are the ones that God's just really pleased with. And then there's everyone else who is who is really just despised by him. They are obviously violating Scripture and what the Bible clearly teaches. And only us and our little group were the only ones who've got it right. And I know people think this way because I've thought that way before. And I've encountered many people who think that way. Beware of thinking like that. It's so easy for the devil to take a strength, and that is a desire for us to be disciplined and to be faithful and to be biblical and to take our own fallen nature and to twist that into something that is repulsive to the eyes of God's. You see, that mindset's exactly the way the Pharisees felt. It's so easy to become impressed with your own external acts of religious discipline. that you fail to see that you're thinking more like the Pharisees and less like the Savior. It's difficult For Christians to fast without thinking they're better than people who do not fast. I'm not against fasting. It's in Scripture. We have a Bible study that's going to be discussing this tomorrow evening with our ladies But I have found over the years in my own life and the life of others that it's hard for people to fast without telling other people that they're fasting. And just feeling a little bit of spiritual superiority. Because people look at you differently and they think you wow, did you hear about that? What a spiritual person he must be. I've never done anything like that And that sense of satisfaction that we receive from that kind of thinking and words is exactly what fueled the Pharisees. If you pray very consistently and very earnestly for very long periods of time Like an hour or two, and you encounter other people who go days without praying at all, or maybe they put in two minutes here or there. It's going to be very hard for you not to pat yourself on the back and say, I'm a spiritual giant. God must be incredibly impressed. with what I do as compared with most people. Or if you attend church, every time the doors are open. You might be tempted to think that God loves you much more than those slackers who attend only once a week. I know people think like that because I've heard them say things like that to me. But that's completely wrong. God doesn't love you because you attend church. God doesn't love you because you pray a long time or because you fast or because you read your Bible His relationship with you is rooted in what Christ has done for you, not what you do for yourself. And so this parable is primarily a powerful warning that we must not adopt the mindset of a Pharisee. You might be impressed with your acts of devotion, but God is not. In fact, the very things that you Feel so good about what you're doing before the Lord may be things that are actually a spiritual hindrance in your life because of the attitude that is feeding inside your soul. May God keep us from the leaven of the Pharisees. But now I want to turn to the gospel. that is more apparent in this parable than almost any other. This little parable has two very significant words in it that touch on the very core of the gospel. One of them is the word justified And the other is the word that's translated merciful in our text. I want you to notice that God, first of all, only saves those who know they are sinners. This desperate tax collector comes before God acknowledging that he is wicked. The Bible tells us that this is what all sinners must do if they are going to be reconciled to God. The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short. of the glory of God. The first step to finding forgiveness with God is to admit that you desperately need the forgiveness of God. The fact is you can never be lost You can never be found until you recognize that you are lost. And you can never be forgiven until you confess that you are a sinner who needs to be forgiven. Thirdly, God only saves those who are broken or repentant over their sins. Both the posture and the prayer of this tax collector points unmistakably to his sincere repentance. We see here that repentance is not a work of reformation, but a change of mind, a change of heart that is accomplished by the Spirit of God. This tax collector was plagued with guilt and desperately desired to know that his sins were forgiven. Maybe that's how you feel this morning. Perhaps you don't feel comfortable coming to church. Talk to many people like this over the years. If I came to church, everyone's going to look down at me. They're going to think horrible things to me. They'll probably shun me. And the vast majority of that is just in their own head. They won't see that. People will be friendly and welcoming to them, very likely. But it's very hard for people to get past that objection in their mind because they project on the responses of others their own feeling of shame and guilt. And often they're blind to that projection. But maybe you're listening this morning On live stream and you've never attended church here. In fact, you haven't attended church for years because you fear that you would not be welcome, that you would be mistreated. That's the way this man felt. He was just on the periphery of the temple. Couldn't bring himself to coming all the way in. But he was profoundly aware of his shame and his sin and his guilt and his need for pardon. And I want to say that if that is the way you feel this morning, that's a good thing. That's a wonderful sign that the Spirit of God is working in your hearts. And that is a strong indication that you must seek the Lord today. That you must come to Him like this man. This tax collector came before the Lord because Jesus delights to save broken sinners. He delights to bind up those who are very aware of their sin and their uncleanness. He decides to wash away those who feel defiled. And so your shame and your sin do not disqualify you from coming to God. They qualify you to come and be saved. Let me also mention that God only saves those who come by grace through faith. Did you notice that this man, this tax collector, did nothing to earn his forgiveness? He didn't have an impressive religious resume Like the Pharisee. And yet Jesus said that this man went down to his house justified. He didn't earn his salvation. It was a gift that was freely given to him. The Bible says that justification is the declaration of God, the judge of all the earth, that you are not guilty. But righteous in Christ. It's kind of like a judge at a court hearing who makes a legally binding declaration. That's what's implied, and that's what is further explained in the epistles about this significant word justification that goes right to the heart of the gospel. Have you been justified? When I was a boy, every preacher would say that justification meant just as if I had never sinned. That is an astounding thought. But actually the gospel goes even beyond that concept. Because not only have we, not only have the standing of not having ever sinned, but we have the perfect righteousness of Christ. We have that standing before God that Christ achieved through his years of living in perfect compliance to his Father's will. All that this tax collector did was call on the Lord to save him. The Bible says that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Romans 10, 13. This desperate call for salvation is an expression of saving faith that God is indeed at work in the hearts. This doesn't mean that if we mouth a few words and something magical happens But it means that when God has truly stirred our hearts so that we cry out In our desperation, in our repentant spirit, that God would forgive us, that he delights to answer that prayer. And it's all unearned. It's an act of grace. The Bible says, For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And finally, I would like you to notice in this parable that God only saves those who come through the atoning sacrifice of Christ. I mentioned a moment ago that this word merciful is significant in the publican's prayer. It's not the normal Greek word that's translated mercy. It's a word that speaks Of satisfying the wrath of God. It could be rendered, God be propitious to me, a sinner. The doctrine of propitiation Teaches that God, through Jesus Christ, that when Christ died on the cross, he absorbed God's holy wrath for our sin. And because of Christ's propitiatory work on the cross, we can be reconciled to God. This is how a holy God can forgive wicked people like this tax collector. and wicked people like you and me. And it's because someone paid the penalty for our sin. And the only person that could possibly pay the penalty for our sin is the sinless Son of God, Jesus. When Jesus died on the cross, he absorbed all of God's wrath that you and I have erred over a lifetime of sin. Jesus paid the debt that we could never pay. And therefore the Father can declare us to be justified, that is, not guilty, but righteous. There's a passage of Scripture that beautifully explains the gospel and it brings together both of these truths of justification and propitiation. Romans chapter 3, verses 24 through 26 says, being justified freely by his grace, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God has set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God to declare, I say, at this time his righteousness, that he might be just and the justifier of him which believeth. in Jesus. This is the gospel. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever come to a point in your life Like this tax collector, where you were overwhelmed with your guilt and with your shame and with your sin before God, so that you came before him. And you begged of him to forgive you because Jesus Christ died in your place. Have you ever prayed a prayer like we find in this parable? If you have. then you were saved. You can be saved. Now your confidence is not in your prayer or saying the right words. But your confidence is in Christ and in the work that God has done in your heart to bring you to a sincere sense of your need of a Savior. Have you experienced the joy of knowing that your sins are forgiven? When our text says that he went down to his house justified I think it's indicating , not only legally that he no longer had the wrath of God abiding on him, but there was a sense of relief that he experienced that day as he went home, that there was joy on his face. That there was a burden that fell off of his back because he knew that God had forgiven him and that his shame and his guilt had been washed away. This is the essence of the gospel, that poor, undeserving, wicked people can come to God. and find forgiveness, not because of what we have done, but because of what Christ has done in our place. Have you come to that place of repentance and faith Have you uttered a prayer like this and experienced the joy of knowing that your sins are forgiven? If you have not , I would encourage you to seek the Lord. And you can do that by reading his word. You can do that by following up with us We will have on our screen in just a moment a phone number, a website that you can go to. We would be happy to deal with you personally, to answer your questions, and help you come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. May God help you to seek Him today with all of your hearts. Let's close in prayer. Father We thank you for your word. We thank you that it points us to Christ, reminds us of your grace. And it reveals to us our need of salvation. I pray that you'd use your word today to draw us closer to you and to bring sinners to the Savior, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen