Would you please turn your Bibles to John chapter one John chapter 1. On October the 7th, 1857, the great British preacher Charles Spurgeon. Preached a sermon to over 23,000 people at the Crystal Palace in London. This would be the largest crowd that he ever addressed in his life. The occasion was that Queen Victoria had called for a day of national repentance in England due to the brutal British response to a mutiny in India. In which many people, innocent people, were killed. And so before this big event, Charles Spurgeon went into the Crystal Palace. to test out the acoustics because this of course was before the days of microphones and amplification. And so he went and stood on the platform of this empty building. And he said, Behold the Lamb of God taketh away the sin of the world. And up in one of the galleries, a man was working and heard this voice. He couldn't see who was speaking. It was as if God had personally spoken to him. He had heard the gospel before, and he was convicted, and he couldn't escape that conviction later that night. He put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Today we're going to consider this marvelous text And the verses that surround it, which is all part of the testimony of John the Baptist to Jesus. The author of this fourth gospel of John likes the number seven. Throughout this series, I will be mentioning groups of sevens again and again. You find that as well, of course, in another book he wrote known as Revelation. John has in his gospel seven witnesses to the identity of Christ. And the first one is John the Baptist. This term witness has the idea of an eyewitness in a court of law, someone who is giving their view of exactly what they saw. The opening narrative in this Gospel of John after the prologue is a transition from the ministry of John the Baptist to the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. These first seven days are meant to remind the reader of the first seven days of creation. Because this was a new beginning. The ministry of Jesus was a new epoch in the history of mankind. Now on the first day that we looked at, last Lord's Day, there was a contingent of representatives from the Sanhedrin that came to visit John the Baptist in the wilderness. And they came to ask him questions about his identity. There was quite a stirring. Thousands of people were going out to hear this man who was dressed like a prophet of old. And these religious leaders wanted to know exactly who he was and what his plans were. He responds by telling them that he is not the Messiah, he is not Elijah come back from the dead, and he's not the prophet that was promised by Moses. He says that he's just a voice preparing the way for the coming of the Messiah. And then the Pharisees ask him about his authority. And he really doesn't answer that question, but instead he says that they should be focused on one who is much greater than him who is about to come. He says in essence, don't look at me, don't worry about me, look to him. And the very next day John the Baptist sees Jesus coming in the distance to see him. Now that may raise the question of where was Jesus on the previous day? We can't say for certain, but most scholars believe that it was the end of his forty days of testing in the wilderness. The gospel writers present the beginning of Jesus' ministry, began with the baptism. Immediately after the baptism, you have him spending 40 days being tempted of the devil And immediately after that, we have him returning to John the Baptist here in the Jordan and Judea. And so it's very likely that on that day one, Jesus was in his final day of the testing by the devil in the wilderness. Now The very next thing that we read here is of Jesus coming to John the Baptist, and John the Baptist is once again going to bear witness to him. Now, why what was the purpose of John the Baptist bearing witness? Well, this is found in the prologue Which says in verse 6, There was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness to bear witness about the light that all might believe through him He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light. John the Baptist's ministry was all about turning people's attention to Jesus so that they might believe in him. And every time a person reads one of the four Gospels, at the beginning of that gospel, they will encounter the testimony of John the Baptist to Jesus instructing the reader to look. to Christ to behold the Lamb. You see, a person cannot truly believe And someone they do not know. You have to know the identity of a person to really trust that person. We tend not to trust people we don't know. We tend to assume the worst of people that we don't know. But when you really know a person and you've come to see the character of that person, then you can trust in that person. So John the Baptist here in this paragraph we're considering this morning is going to give to us the identity of Jesus Christ, so that his readers might come to trust in him. Jesus is worthy of our trust because of who he is. The first point I want you to see is that Jesus is worthy of our trust because he is the Lamb of God. Look with me at verses 29 and 30 of chapter 1. The next day he that is John the Baptist saw Jesus coming toward him and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. This is one of the most famous verses in the Gospel of John , especially in the passages that dealing with Christ. Now let me remind you of the context. John the Baptist is out in the Judean wilderness and he's baptizing. And when he sees Jesus coming in the distance , Now, in many parts of the world, you can see people coming from a long distance away because the land is flat and there's not many trees. That's true in Israel. It's not true here in Maryland. We have lots of trees and we have rolling hills and you can't see in most vantage points for a very long distance. But he sees Jesus off in the distance coming to him. We don't know how many people were with John the Baptist at this time. Perhaps There were hundreds, perhaps thousands of people. And John the Baptist says, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, and how everyone's attention must be Turn to this individual walking out in the wilderness towards him. What a powerful thing that was. The word behold, of course, means to look. He wants everyone to look away from him and look to Jesus. And why is it that they should look to this man in the distance? Because he is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Now this title is very familiar to us, the Lamb of God. We just heard a song sung with that, the Lamb of God. There are many songs that have that wonderful expression in it. You might have assumed that it's found in many places in Scripture, but the phrase the Lamb of God is only found here in John chapter 1, verses 29, and again in verse 35. Now what does it mean that Jesus is the Lamb of God? It means that Jesus is the Lamb provided by God. And very likely John has in mind Genesis chapter 22. Do you remember that occurrence? When Abraham is instructed to take Isaac up on Mount Moriah and offer him as a sacrifice. And we read That Isaac asked his father as they're ascending the mountain, Where is the lamb for the burnt offering? And Abraham replies, God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering. And what will this lamb do? According to our text, he will take away the sin of the world. This Lamb of God would bear or remove away the sin of the people. This is a concept that John the Baptist's Jewish audience would have readily understood because They often had sacrifices in the temple. That was part of their heritage and their tradition. And it's likely that The Passover was soon at hand because in chapter two and verse thirteen we read the Passover of the Jew was Jews was at hand. And so perhaps it was just a few weeks away. People were making plans, making preparations. And so when he said, behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world, they would have thought about, oh yes, the Passover lamb, that lamb whose blood was applied to the doorframe. so that the firstborn son would not die. This may well have been, again, a reference to Exodus chapter 12. But surely the most significant passage that speaks of the Lamb of God is Isaiah chapter 53 and verse 6. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Now to whom is this incredible offer made? What says that Jesus takes away the sin of the world? What does this mean? Let me first of all say what it does not mean. Okay? It does not mean that everyone will go to heaven. This position is known as universalism. It has been around for a long time, and it's a wonderfully fond dream that people have. That they can live life however they want, and it doesn't matter what they believe, they will end up going to heaven because they might say the Lamb of God takes away the sin of the world. But the Bible teaches, and Jesus taught, that the gate that leads to destruction is wide and well traveled. And in this very book of John, we will see numerous references to those perishing who do not believe. So this is not what John the Baptist was saying. This is often taught today. One of the things I'm alarmed about Is that so often when I go to funerals that are even conducted by men I know who believe the gospel , They tend to preach everyone who dies as if they're going to heaven. They may not say that explicitly. But a lost person coming there would walk away with that inference that everyone who dies goes to heaven. That is not what the Bible teaches anywhere. And it's important for you to understand that Well, then what does it mean that Jesus takes away the sin of the world? Well, it certainly means that both Jews and Gentiles will be saved. When John's Jewish audience would have heard the sins of the world, they instantly would have thought of the Gentiles, of the nations that surrounded them. Because the Messiah that they were anticipating and looking for was a Jewish Messiah who would come for the Jewish people And he would come to punish and to destroy the Gentile, idolatrous nations that surrounded them. So I suspect, I can't prove it because it's not recorded here, but I suspect that when John the Baptist said that the Lamb of God would take away the sin of the world, that they weren't entirely pleased with that. Because it seemed a little too broad. They certainly aren't implying that these pagan Gentiles could be saved as well. I think it also means that the offer of the gospel is to be made to all people. We must never think that there are certain types of people that will not be saved, or that they have gone too far, or they're too wicked, or they're too filled with unbelief. I'm not even going to bother sharing the gospel with that person. No one should ever preach to them because they are just too far gone. We should never think that way. There's a common theme in John's Gospel, and that is that the gospel is to be offered to all In John chapter 1 and verse 7, it says that all might believe through him. In John 3. 15, it says, whoever believes in him may have eternal life. And John 3. 16, that famous verse, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life In John 3. 18, whoever believes in him is not condemned. And in John 4. 42, Jesus is described as the Savior of the world. Not that everyone in the world will be saved, but he is the only savior that God has provided for the world. The sacrifice of Christ is sufficient to save all, but it is efficient to save only those who believe. Now look with me at verse 30. John the Baptist says, this is he of whom I said, After me comes a man who ranks before me because he was before me. Now, if this verse sounds familiar to you, it's because it's exactly what we find in verse 15 of chapter 1, which we have covered before, and it's very similar to what we find in verse 27. This is something that John the Baptist said again and again. There's coming one after me who is superior to me. He was before me. That is, he's the eternal Son of God. He's the one that I am not worthy to stoop down and untie his sandals. Because he is the one that my entire ministry has been pointing to. He is the one I've been telling you about. He is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He's saying, I know who he is, and he is worthy of your trust. The second point I want you to notice in our text is that Jesus is worthy of our trust. because he is the Spirit-empowered Messiah. Look with me at verse 31, please. John the Baptist says, I myself did not know him. But for this purpose I came baptizing with water, that he might be revealed to Israel. And John bore witness. I saw the spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it remained. on him. Perhaps John the Baptist is anticipating people objecting and saying to him, how do you really know that this man is the promised Messiah? And so John the Baptist is going to answer that question. The answer he says in verse 31 is first of all, he says, I myself did not know him. And he's going to repeat that same thing in verse 33 again. Look at the first line, you'll see it there. Now what does he mean by this? We have to define this because if you've been listening carefully, you probably heard me say several weeks ago that John the Baptist was the cousin of Jesus. That's what Luke chapter 1 indicates. So how could you say, how could he say that he didn't know him? What he means, of course, is that he didn't know him until his baptism as the Messiah. He didn't have that absolute conviction that this man is the Messiah until he baptizes. This is very interesting. I want to make two observations from this John, obviously, John the Baptist would have known of Jesus growing up because they were in a family community. They were living close by. They would have known one another. I think this would indicate that there was nothing in Jesus' physical appearance that would make people think he was the Messiah. Let me bring up that observation. Sometimes you have an old master paintings of like a halo over Jesus and a radiance on his face. There was nothing that anyone saw in him as a child growing up that would make people in that village of Nazareth say, I think he's the Messiah. I mean, just look at him. He just looked like another Jewish boy. I want to also say that there are many legends out there that Jesus performed all sorts of miracles as a child. And I think that that is very, very unlikely because surely if he had performed spectacular miracles, people would have said, This one is going to be the Messiah. But according to John chapter 2, The first miracle was at the wedding feast at Cana. So it really wasn't until the baptism of Christ when John the Baptist baptized Jesus that he knew for certain the identity of him as the Messiah. But how did that come about? Look with me now at verse 32 And John bore witness, I saw the spirit descend from heaven like a dove, and it remained on him. I myself did not know him, but he who sent me, that is God To baptize with water, said to me, He on whom you see the Spirit descend to remain, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirits John here is explaining how he knew this. Now, all the gospel writers record the baptism of Jesus and the fact that the Holy Spirit came down upon him. In Matthew chapter 3 and verse 16, we read And when Jesus was baptized immediately, he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were open to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest. on him. Mark chapter 1 and verse 10 says, And when he came up out of the water, immediately he saw the heaven being tore open and the spirit descending on him. like a dove. And in Luke 3, 21, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the heavens were opened and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove. This is one of the few monumental events that's recorded in all four Gospels. Now let me make some observations about the coming of the Spirit upon Jesus. Number one, Jesus didn't become the Son of God or the Messiah with this event. He already was the Son of God. He already was the promised Messiah. There was an early heresy in the church known as adoptionism. And it taught that at Jesus' baptism. He became the Messiah. He became the Son of God. That the Father looked down and he saw this exemplary Jewish man and he said, you know what? I think he'd make a great Messiah. And so at his baptism the Spirit came upon him, and at that instant he became the Son of God and the Messiah. That is not what this passage is teaching. The Bible clearly teaches he already was the Messiah. He already was the Son of God. Number two, it wasn't a real dove that came upon Jesus. I know in many movies and things you'll see this dove come fluttering down and everything. And I've heard many people say that, you know, it was a dove that came down. It says in all the Gospels, like a dove. Notice that's an important word. That word like is an important word. Like a dove. It wasn't a dove. And thirdly, the coming of the Spirit upon Jesus was a permanent abiding, not a temporary enabling. Throughout the Old Testament, we read of the Spirit of God coming upon certain individuals for a specific task and then leaving them. I think especially of Samson as a very dramatic example of that. But in John chapter 3 and verse 34, we read, the Spirit come upon Jesus without measure, that is, without limits. At the beginning of his ministry at this baptism, the Spirit of God came and filled Jesus and empowered him throughout his ministry. It was a permanent abiding And this empowering by the Spirit was predicted of the Messiah in the Old Testament. In Isaiah chapter 11 in verse 1 it says, There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, and a branch from his roots shall bear fruit. That is, the Messiah would be the Vedic. And then it says, and the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him. And this is obviously speaking of in an unusual way. In Isaiah chapter 42 and verse 1, it says, Behold my servant, whom I have uphold my chosen, and whom my soul delights, I have put my spirit upon him. And in Isaiah chapter 61 and verse 1, we have the words of the Messiah, the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. And in Luke chapter 4 and verse 18, when Jesus went into the synagogue at Nazareth, he read from the scroll, he read that text, and he said, as every eye was upon him, this day, this prophecy has been fulfilled. on that very day. So the Messiah was specially empowered by the Spirit of God throughout his ministry. So one way that John the Baptist should have known that Jesus was the Messiah was because this was fulfilled He was the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies. But the Lord gave John the Baptist an unmistakable sign that Jesus was indeed the Messiah. Look with me at verse 33. He says, I myself did not know, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, He on whom you see the Spirit descend and remain, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit. The Lord gave him an unmistakable sign. Now we don't know when Jesus, when the Father told him this. We don't know if it was years earlier or if it was just moments before he baptized Jesus. But the Lord told him, revealed to him, you will see a physical manifestation of the Spirit of God coming upon this man, and you will know that that man is the promised. Messiah. And that's exactly what occurred. And so John the Baptist is bearing testimony. I saw this happen. I know this is the promised Messiah. Now we don't know, as I said, when exactly the Lord said this to him. Some have speculated That throughout John the Baptist's ministry, as he baptized individuals, he may have wondered, is this one the Messiah? And he was waiting to see if there was any demonstration. We can't say that for certain, but what we do know is that he knew that Jesus was the Messiah. Now notice the contrast that is made here. John the Baptist baptized people with water, but the Messiah would come and baptize people with the Holy Spirit. There's a contrast here. John 's ministry was symbolic of salvation. But the ministry of Jesus would result in true spiritual rebirth and cleansing. There is a wonderful text in Ezekiel chapter 36 speaking of the new covenant. And it says God says, I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh And give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. He's talking about an outpouring of the Spirit. And according to John chapter 7 and verse 39, this would be fulfilled on the day of Pentecost. When the Spirit would come upon all believers, when they trust in Christ, they are baptized by the Spirit. And that we will explain explore further when we come to John chapter 7. John the Baptist is declaring that Jesus is the Spirit-annointed Messiah, and he is worthy of your trust. Now there's one other identification he gives in the final verse, verse 34. Jesus is worthy of our trust because he is the Son of God. This verse is a summary of John the Baptist's testimony. And I have seen and have borne witness that this is the Son of God. John the Baptist's statement here is like someone giving testimony under a vow in a court of law. The tense of the verb indicates this is a settled conclusion. He says, I have seen. He says, and have borne witness. John the Baptist says, I saw this confirmation with my own eyes. And he could have added, and I have heard, because In Matthew, Mark, and Luke, we read that at Jesus' baptism there was an audible voice from heaven that said, This is my beloved Son with whom I am well pleased. You see, the author of this gospel is wanting the reader to see that there is good evidence to believe that Jesus is who he claimed to be. John the Baptist is giving his testimony. He saw this physical manifestation from the heavens come upon Jesus. He was told by God that this would occur. This is prophesied in the Old Testament. Then there was a voice from heaven. There are many lines of evidence that point to the fact that Jesus is the promised Messiah, the Lamb of God, the Son of God. Now, what is conveyed in this title, the Son of God? There are many cultists. such as Mormons and Jehovah's Witnesses, who will try to make a distinction between God and the Son of God And they will say, see, he wasn't exactly God. He was a little less than God. He's one step removed. He's like the son of God. And some will say he's a created being. But that is not at all how this term is used in Scripture , especially by the writer of the Gospel of John. He is God the Son. Jesus did not become the Son of God at his birth. or at his baptism. The Bible teaches that the second person of the Trinity existed in the relationship with his father as the Son from eternity past. The Bible teaches the eternal sonship of of Christ. He is not less than God. He is God. John chapter 1 and verse 18 describes him as the only begotten God. This title, Son of God, unmistakably reveals the triune nature of God He is also, of course, the promised Messiah a little bit further down in this first chapter in verse 49 Nathaniel answered him, Rabbi, you are the Son of God, you are the King of Israel, which is a reference to the Messiah. The fact is that if Jesus is not God in flesh, we can never depend on him as our Savior. The deity of Christ is a fundamental theological truth of Christianity. The Bible reveals that the Son of God will have all judgment of all humanity. In John chapter 5, we'll get to there in time. But every person, believer and unbeliever, must give an account before Christ, the Son of God. And he is the only Savior that God has provided. In John chapter 3, we have some of the most famous verses in the Bible. In verse 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already because he's not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And in the concluding verse of this chapter 3, he says, whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. And whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. Do you recall how the Gospel of John ends? It ends with this title, The Son of God. And John chapter twenty and verse thirty. Which is the essential end of this book, the last chapter being like a postscript. It says, now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written so that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, that is the Messiah, the anointed one, the Son of God. And that by believing you might have life in his name. So let me ask you this morning, do you believe that Jesus is the Son of God? If you don't believe that, then you're not a believer. You're not a Christian. You're not headed to heaven Only those who are trusting in Christ as their Savior and believe Him to be God in flesh can be born again. Now I want to conclude with just two applications. The first one is this Christians should never waver or question the doctrine of the Trinity. In the baptism of Jesus, you see one of the clearest expressions of the Trinity in the Bible. You hear the declaration, This is my beloved Son from the heavens, the Father speaking You read of Jesus being baptized by John the Baptist, and you see this Holy Spirit coming to abide upon him. All three persons of the Godhead are present at this momentous events. Just because the Trinity is difficult to understand or explain does not mean it's not true. One of the dangers of the internet is that it gives a megaphone to a lot of false teachers. In the past, pastors would be able to warn their people, don't go to that church. That's a false church. They don't preach the true gospel. And their people would never hear that false doctrine. But today, all false doctrine, every wild, irrational, unbiblical idea is found on the internet. And so it's actually more difficult for a pastor to guard his people from false teachers than it ever has been. Because they're just a click away. And you don't have to go down the road or go into some building. You can just look it up on your phone. I want you to know that the Trinity is not some esoteric truth, but basic Christian theology. To deny the Trinity is to reject God's revelation concerning himself and to demonstrate that you do not truly know him. The second point I want to make is this. Jesus is the only Lamb of God who can take away your sins. It's fascinating to me that this word, the verb take away is in the present tense, that is, that the Lamb of God is even yet today taking away the sins of the world. People are still being saved today. Today, as the gospel is preached around the world, there will be people who come to faith in Jesus Christ because The blood of the Lamb is still effective, and it's still saving sinners. But if you do not trust in Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, the Savior of the world, then you must bear the penalty for your sin. Which is eternal death in the lake of fire. One of the reasons that people don't come to Christ is because they think that they're too far gone, that they've committed too many sins , that they're too enslaved. They've messed up too many times. And they might look at their Christian neighbors or family members and they say, these are good people. These are people of integrity and character. They're not like me. I can't be saved. I'm too sinful. I'm too wicked. I cannot turn away from my sin. And so this gospel is not for me. But the offer of the gospel is made to all. And he's died for the sins of the world. He's died for your sins. And he's died for all kinds of sins. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. There isn't different categories where you can say, well, his blood can cleanse that kind of sin, but not this kind of sin. That would be wrong thinking. But those who come by the Spirit of God to see their sin and to see the Lamb of God and all of his beauty , Are those who will say that the precious blood of Christ is like a lamb without blemish and without spot? His blood will be precious to them. 1 Peter 2. 24 says, He himself bore our sins and his body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By the Spirit of God, through the work of Christ, you can die to sin and have victory over sin. But it's only those who come to believe and to trust in Christ alone. There are people here this morning under the sound of my voice that know that you're not saved. You may say, how do you know that, Pastor? Because they've told me. Some are undoubtedly here who think you're saved and you're not. There's been no change in your life. But I want to address those of you who know that you're not saved What keep you from trusting in the Lamb of God You may never hear the gospel again. You might die. You might grow bored and no longer ever come to church. You might never hear this truth again. You might never be convicted about it. You might never be disturbed and worried that you're going to go to hell someday. Why would you not seek him today? Everyone who rejects the gospel will someday reject it for the last time. Don't let that be you. Come and trust him today. Read the story once of a man who was working on a church roof in Scotland It was a very steep roof. It was a slate roof. And he was up on the top trying to repair it, but he lost his grip and he was sliding down the side of that roof. And it was a very high church. And he fell off the edge thinking he was falling to his death, but he landed on a lamb because a shepherd was leading a group of sheep. by the churchyard out into the pasture and he landed right on this woolly lamb and he crushed that lamb and killed it but it saved his life This is a picture of the gospel. Jesus Christ is the Lamb of God who is crushed under the wrath of God for our sin. And all those who put their trust in him will be saved. Won't you trust in him today? Let's close in prayer. Father , pray that you would open the eyes of those who are blind. You would unstop the ears of those who are deaf to the good news of the gospel. That this great Truth would penetrate their hard hearts, and that by your spirit they would come to understand and believe And seek in Christ alone. Father, for those who are yet lost in their sins, like that man who heard The gospel inadvertently from Spurgeon and could not rest at home until he came to put his faith and trust in Christ. I pray that would be true of everyone here today. who is yet lost in their sins, that they would find no rest, no peace from your convicting spirit until they come to rest in Christ alone. Oh Father, would you use your word to bring new life to sinners for your glory? For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.