Could you turn in your Bibles, please, to Genesis chapter 4. Genesis chapter 4. Children have a very keen sense of fairness or justice. One reason for this is because they are made in the image of God and therefore to some degree reflect. His justice. But another reason is that they are sensitive to any perceived injustice is because they are fallen creatures. who are selfish and therefore quickly spot any inequity. This is especially the case when children with their siblings Every parent has heard, perhaps at some time, the cry from their children, that's not fair. If you don't give your ki children equal amounts of presents or equal amounts of birthday cake, they will spot it right away. I suspect that there was something of this rivalry and contention with the very first brothers in the history of the world, Cain and Abel. We read about them in Genesis chapter 4. Look with me at verse 1. And Adam knew his wife, and she conceived, and bare Cain. And said, I have gotten a man from the Lord. Cain was the first child that was born into the world. And he was born probably not that long after the fall, and also after the giving of the first good news. Which we explored not that long ago. In Genesis 3. 15, I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. So it would seem in verse 1, most scholars read Eve's statements, I have gotten a man from the Lord. To be an affirmation that she believed that this was the promised Messiah. Because God said that He would give her a child. That would crush the serpents. And so when the miracle of birth, as it were, took place, she assumed that this was The one who would come and rescue her from her problems. But he was not a savior. He was instead a murderer. Perhaps it was only after the slaughter of Abel that Adam and Eve understood how deep were the effects of the fall upon humanity. Look with me at verse 2, and she again bare his brother Abel, and Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. We don't know how much time passed between the birth of these two boys, but I suspect it wasn't too long, a year or two, because They seem to be rivals, and often children that are born very close to each other become rivals. They were brothers from the same family, but they were very different. A key distinctive is found in verse 2. Abel was a herdsman, while Cain was a farmer. Cain seems to be a typical firstborn child. He's the leader who takes the initiative. We read of him as the one who would First to bring the offering before the Lord while Abel followed the lead of his brother. And this is ref and that this was reflected in the sacrifices they brought before the Lord. Notice what it says In the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord, and Abel he also brought of the firstlings of his flock, and of the fat thereof. When it says in verse 3, in the process of time, it means after they have grown up and become men, adults, they bring these offerings. But then we read something that puzzles the reader because it seems unfair. It says at the end of verse 4: And the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering. But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respects. Have you ever felt sorry for Cain when you read those words? Have you thought to yourself, well, I would be angry like he was if that happened to me, because it doesn't seem fair. One could argue at least he brought an offering, and as we often say, it's the thought that counts Shouldn't God have been delighted to receive his sacrifice? This was a noble and good thing. He's bringing an offering before the Lord I suspect, although I cannot prove it , that Cain brought the best produce that he had Remember, brothers tend to compete, and so I think he would want to bring the very best to show that he was skillful and effective and resourceful at what he was doing for a living. As just as I believe that Abel brought the best lamb from his flock. But the Bible is clear that God was pleased with one sacrifice, but not the other. Why is that? Bible scholars have debated this question for literally thousands of years. So let me give you six of these suggestions. An ancient Greek translation of the Old Testament that predates the New Testament says that Cain didn't properly divide his offering. Another ancient commentary says that Abel's offering was more valuable. The idea is that Cain was cheap That the lamb that Abel brought was much more valuable than the fruits and vegetables that Cain produced. Josephus, the first century historian, says that God was more honored by what would grow spontaneously, that is, a lamb, and not by the labor-intensive cultivation of fruits and vegetables. Another writer says that God loved the aroma of a roasted lamb. We read in the Old Testament in connection with the sacrifices that God smelled a sweet-smelling savor and that the the the the roasting of the lamb ha produced a nice aroma, but not really with the fruit and vegetables Another scholar says this passage does not give a reason because there is no reason. God arbitrarily decided to receive Abel's sacrifice because he wanted to. One of the most common answers given in sound commentaries is that Abel gave his best While Cain did not. And this view is based on the observation that in Genesis chapter 4 and verse 4 it says that Abel brought the firstlings of his flock And the fat thereof. Now I know that everyone here thinks that a fatty piece of meat is the bad parts. But people throughout the world and throughout all the history of the world would disagree with you. They would say the fat is the good part. That's where the flavor is. And so Abel brought the fatty part of the meat. The firstborn lamb was the most desirable, and the fat was the choice portion. But you'll notice that there is no symmetrical mention of Cain bringing the first fruits of his produce. That doesn't mean that he didn't. But it means it's not specifically stated. It simply says that he brought the fruit of the ground. But I wonder if this is really what the text is communicating: that Cain just brought a common selection of fruit and vegetables while Abel brought his best. Some commentators would say this is an example of tokenism, that is, that Cain just went through the motions and just brought any old thing, but Abel brought his best. But I would say this about this line of thinking, that arguments from silence of the text are never very loud But we do have an inspired commentary on this passage, a verse that sheds a great deal of light. on this mystery. And so I'd invite you now to turn to the other end of your Bibles, to Hebrews chapter 11. And verse 4. We've looked at Genesis 4. 4. Now we want to look at Hebrews 11. 4. It says, by faith, Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. By which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and by it he being dead, yet speaketh. Tonight, as we prepare the Lord's table, I want us to consider Abel 's excellent sacrifice. And I want us to consider this question, why is it that Abel's sacrifice is declared here to be more excellent than Cain's? I think that there are two reasons that are given in this verse that I want us to consider this evening. The first one is this Abel sacrifice was excellent because he came to God by faith. Notice what it says By faith, Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. This is the first of 16 examples of faith that are found in this famous chapter. They are listed in chronological order. We begin with the very first siblings in the history of the world who represent two approaches to God. Ultimately everyone Either comes before God like Cain or Abel, whether they know it or not. These two men had many things in common. They had the same parents, the same environment, right outside of paradise. They both had knowledge of the one true God. They both came to worship the one true God by bringing an offering. And by the way, this story reminds us that human beings are more than just a product of genetics, are environments This is often the way people view humanity that we are who we are simply because of the genetics that we've inherited from our parents and from the environment that we come from. But these two boys had the same environment and the same genetics as it were, the same parents, and yet they are very, very different people who went in two different directions. Now, what do you think it means that Abel offered his sacrifice by faith? You've read this before, undoubtedly. What do you think that means? Does it mean that he just had a feeling in his bones that God wanted him to bring an animal as an offering? I mean, if you were to ask Abel on his way to the altar, why are you bringing a lamb as an offering? Would he say, Well, that's what I believe I should bring? And if you were to ask him, Why he would say, well, that's just the way I believe. I'm using this ridiculous example because this is often what people mean by faith in our culture. It's simply a strong personal feeling that should never be questioned. But this is not what the Bible means by faith. The reason why people think that God was unfair to Cain is because they assume that these two brothers had no idea of what kind of offering they should bring. But that is not the case. God had revealed some timeless truths to their parents. We read of this in Genesis 3. 15 that I read at the beginning of this message. The last time we celebrated communion, we looked at Genesis 3. 21, where God made them coverings. Remember, they tried to make coverings for themselves, it says in Genesis 3. 7, from fig leaves, but they were insufficient, and so God made them suitable coverings. And there are at least four things that Adam and Eve learned from this act. Number one, they learned that sinners need to be covered. Number two, they learned that no covering that humanity can make will do. Number three, they learned that God alone could provide the covering And fourthly, they learned that a covering for sin would require the death of another. Now don't you think That Adam and Eve would pass on this information to their boys, I feel certain that they talked to them about them, about the most horrible day that they ever experienced in their life, the day when they brazenly listened to the serpent. And disobeyed God, and everything in their lives changed. They would tell their boys about paradise, about Eden, and how everything was perfect, how God was so good to them, but they believed the lie rather than the truth, and therefore they were cast out. They told their boys about their profound sense of shame and guilt, something they had never experienced before. And they told them about how God made a covering for them. You see, I think the only way to make any sense out of this conundrum is that these boys did know what kind of sacrifice they should bring. And so what we see here is how God graciously has provided this information to them. And this is implicit in the passage itself in Genesis chapter four, when when God condemns Cain. The Lord said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth, and why is thy countenance fallen? If thou doest well, shalt not thou be accepted? The clear implication of that statement from God is that he knew what was the right thing to do, but he chose not to do it. But Cain didn't do what God had instructed him to do. So how did Abel respond in faith? This is very simple. He obeyed. He obeyed the revelation that God had given to him. He worshipped God according to God's requirements through a blood sacrifice. You see, faith and obedience always go together. We tend to think about faith as some very nebulous subjective experience. That makes no difference in our daily lives, but that is not what the Bible reveals or teaches. The Bible teaches that our faith in God's truth Bears evidence in the way we obey God's truth. The hymn is right when it says that trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. You can never say, I am a person of faith, but I live life on my own terms. I don't obey what God's word says, but I am very much a person of faith. No, those two statements cannot both be true. Genuine faith is always revealed with true obedience, not perfect obedience. But with obedience. Cain, on the other hand, worship God on his own terms. He was the first person who advocated man-centered worship He was going to do things his own way. He proudly ignored God's instructions. This is why he was so angry when his offering was rejected. This is what led to the murder of his brother. He was a proud man who wanted to come to God on his own terms. But we can only come to God, we can only worship God by faith, and that means you must come in the way that He has required. Now the second reason that Abel's sacrifice was excellent is because it pointed to Christ's righteous sacrifice. It says in Hebrews 11:4, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous. It means that God gave clear evidence that his offering was accepted and that therefore he was right with God Now, have you ever stopped to ask yourself, well, how did God show Abel that his offering was accepted? Well, you know what? The Bible doesn't say. There's no mention in Genesis 4 or in Hebrews 11. But most Bible teachers believe that it's very likely that God showed his approval of Abel's sacrifice by sending fire from heaven to consume it. I say that because on at least five occasions in the Old Testament we read of God sending fire upon a sacrifice. as a symbol that he had received and was pleased with that sacrifice. Perhaps the most famous of these examples is when God sent fire to consume the sacrifice that Elijah had prepared at Mount Carmel in that contest with the prophets of Baal. So just imagine, here are two brothers, Cain and Abel. Perhaps Adam and Eve are present. And suddenly, as they offer these sacrifices, fire comes down from heaven and consumes Abel's sacrifice. But nothing happens to Cain's sacrifice. This would have been a powerful witness that God had received Abel's offering, but had rejected Cain's offering. God was symbolically declaring in this act that Abel was righteous. In fact, in Matthew 23, 35, Jesus calls him righteous Abel. The phenomenon here that we read of is very similar to what transpires in Genesis 15, where it speaks of Abraham, and it says that he that is Abraham believed in the Lord. And he that is the Lord counted it unto him for righteousness. This is the essence of the great doctrine known as justification. Justification is by faith alone. Justification means that God declares us to be righteous because we are in Christ. It not only means that we are not guilty, because the judge of all the earth has declared us to be innocent, but it also means that we have been credited with his perfect righteousness. Theologians speak of the active and passive obedience to Christ and double imputation. This is the beauty of the gospel. Not only has Christ paid our debts, And what a debt it is. But he has imputed to us his perfect righteousness. Now I want to make certain that you understand several things about the sacrifice of Abel. The sacrifice was not a work. It was simply an expression of his faith. Abel in no way earned this declaration from God. It was all of grace. God was not impressed with his sacrifice. He did not think that this man deserves to be forgiven. This man is obviously shown by his careful cultivation of this creature. that he has earned my favor. No, God received him on the basis of grace That lamb, you see, did not really cover his sin, but appointed it appointed ahead over 4,000 years the Lamb of God, the Lord Jesus Christ who would take away the sin of the world. When that Lamb was slain, its blood was shed, a picture of its life poured out. Leviticus reminds us that the life of the flesh is in the blood. This is emphasized in the book of Hebrews, the chapters right before Hebrews 11. If you would like to look with me at Hebrews chapter 9, verses 11 through 14. It says, but Christ Being come a high priest of good things to come by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building, neither by the blood of goats. and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us For if the blood of bulls and of goats and the ashes of a heifer sprinkled, the unclean sanctifieth the purifying of the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. And if you look ahead to chapter 9 and verse 22, he writes and says, almost all things are by the law purged with blood, and without shedding of blood. is no remission. And if you look ahead to the next chapter, chapter 10 and verse 4, it says, For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins. And in the book of First Peter chapter one, we read these words, for as much as you know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. who was verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you. Sometimes Christians get confused and speak of faith as the basis of our salvation. We think God saves me because I believe. But that's not really true. The basis of our salvation is always the death of Christ. Our faith is simply the means by which we are saved. There is nothing meritorious in our faith. We are saved through faith, not because of our faith. We see here that salvation has always been by grace through faith. And that the basis of our standing before God is nothing but the blood of Jesus. This is the continuing message of Abel. There's a very curious phrase at the end of Hebrews 11, 4. It says of Abel that he being dead yet speaketh. The interesting thing about Abel is that though he is a well-known Bible character, we have no record in Scripture of him ever saying anything. But it says here in Hebrews 11:4 that he is still speaking to us. Some scholars think that this means that his blood is crying out for vengeance from the earth. Because of what we read later in Genesis chapter 4. But I don't think that is what the author of Hebrews has in mind at all. I think what he says is that the lessons and Abel 's sacrifice are still being revealed to us today. And ironically, through the scriptures that record this very understanding of his sacrifice You see, his excellent sacrifice still speaks volumes. It reminds sinful people like us that we can only come to God on his terms and in the way that he has provided. Tonight, as we come to this table, let us remember that we come in faith. Faith. that is rooted in the finished sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Let's close in prayer. Father I pray that you would bless our time here this evening. Pray that we would come before this table in faith. Because you have called us to do this, I pray that we would do so in a way that would be pleasing to you. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.