If you would turn your Bibles with me to Psalm 117. We'll be looking at Psalm 117 this evening. And I intend to read the entire Psalm in our service As you well know, it is the shortest psalm in the Psalter It is the shortest chapter in the Bible, and it is also the central chapter If you were to open up your Bible and count all the way to the middle on both ends, you'd come to Psalm 117. Let's just read this short psalm together. Praise the Lord. all nations. Extol him all peoples. For great is his steadfast love toward us. And the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever. Praise the Lord. We've all watched a child at Christmas choose the biggest package to unwrap first, and perhaps even chuckle when they discover that the better present is in the smaller package. And as we've gotten older, we've gotten accustomed to saying that good things come in small packages. That's our family motto, actually. And I believe we'll see that to be true in this passage of Scripture as well, is that this passage of Scripture, although a short two verses, the smallest psalm in the Psalter. is a psalm that packs an oversized punch. It is full of great truths about God and about our salvation. that causes us to well up with worship and praise to the God who has redeemed us. We have been going through these six Psalms in our Psalter from Psalm 113 to Psalm 118 that are known as the Egyptian Hallel. And the Egyptian halel were sung at the Passover feast. Every year when Passover was celebrated at the feast of Passover, these six psalms would be sung as part of the service. And they were what the Lord, our Savior, would have sung the night he instituted the Lord's Supper, the night he had celebrated Passover for the last time. with his disciples. And we know in Matthew 26 and in Mark 14 that he sang along with his disciples. Therefore, on the eve of his crucifixion. As we think of this psalm, we know that our Lord had all the peoples, all the Gentiles, all the nations in mind as he went to the cross. that through his work on the cross of redemption, victory over death at the empty tomb, that God would call a people to himself from every tribe and tongue. And this ought to be a cause for all of us to praise the Lord. And so he begins with the word of praise. And really, if I were to give a theme for this message this evening, it is that the steadfast love and faithfulness revealed in Jesus Christ Calls all mankind to praise the Lord. The steadfast love and faithfulness of God that is revealed in Jesus Christ calls all mankind to praise the Lord. We see here right in the beginning that we are commanded, we are called to praise because of Jesus Christ. And all nations are invited into this praise. If you look at this Psalm, it really just has two main divisions. The first verse is the call or the command to praise, and the second verse is the reason. The cause for praise. The command and then the cause for praise. And as we look at it this evening, we're going to be looking at these two elements. First of all, the command to praise. We are commanded to praise. Because of Jesus Christ. This psalm reminds us of the priority of praise, that praise is the utmost priority for believers. It begins with this word. Praise. Praise the Lord all nations. The word that is praise is the word halel, where we get the term the Egyptian halel. They're called the Egyptian halel because This commemorates the release from bondage out of Egypt as they went into the promised land. But the word halel speaks of praise. They get the word Hallelujah from it. It's known in every language where the gospel has ever gone to. The idea of praise to Yahweh, praise to the Lord because of who he is and what he has done. The word halel has the idea of to boast, to make our boast in God, to make God the one that we boast about. The second line is parallel to the first line, and it says, extol him all peoples. And the word extol isn't probably a word that we use on a daily basis in America. But the word here has the idea of to congratulate, to glory in, or to commend. And in this case, we are. We are called to congratulate, to glory in, to commend the Lord because of who he is and what he has done. And it reminds me that praise is a priority. John MacArthur wrote a book on the subject of worship And in that book, the title of the book was entitled The Ultimate Priority. The Ultimate Priority for All People. For all people, every nation, every tribe, every tongue, every race, every ethnicity. is to praise. For every age and every status, the ultimate priority is to praise. The fact is that all of mankind All of us are worshipers. In one way or another, we are worshipers. We will worship something. Mankind is inherently worshippers We will worship something. Either we will worship the one true and living God that the song we just heard played reminded us of, the holy, holy holy God that is merciful and mighty. Either we will worship him, or we will worship a false God. It could be an idol. It could be a false God of a false religion. Or it could be an idol of our heart. Many will worship careers or children or family or money or power or career or respect or sex or education or the praise of men or sports or health, we will find something to worship. Say, well, how do I know what I am worshiping? You know what you worship by what dominates your thoughts. That which dominates your thoughts when you have time to think freely. You know what you worship by what you spend your money on, what you desire to purchase when you have free money. You know what you worship when you turn to it for comfort and for security. This is what secures in my life. You know it's something you worship. If it was taken away, you would say, my life isn't worth living. If this was gone, then I wouldn't have a life that's worth living. You know it's something we worship if it conflicts with obedience to God and his commands. You know it's something we worship if it's your source of identity. I am this. If I am anything, I am this. And if it's taken away, I don't know who I am. That then has become an idol in your heart. Worship of the one true God is the ultimate priority. And when that is the ultimate priority, Everything else in our lives can then become worship. Oftentimes we think of what takes place in this room alone as worship. Or maybe if you have Time in your car when you're all by yourself and you're singing praise to God, that alone is worship. But when we have God as our ultimate priority. Then everything else that we do becomes worship. When worship is the ultimate priority, our work is worship What does the Bible tell us to do? Do it heartily as unto the Lord. So when we are doing our work heartily, because God is the ultimate priority, we are working for his glory, it in itself is worship. When worship is the ultimate priority, our marriage is worship. And how we relate to our spouse is worship. Because How husbands and wives relate to one another pictures Christ in the church. When worship is the ultimate priority, the trials that you and I are called to endure in our lives become worship as we say, God is worthy of worship in the midst of my trial. When worship is the ultimate priority, the raising of our children becomes worship. The conversation we have with our neighbor or with our co-worker becomes worship. Whatever we are doing becomes worship. The Bible tells us whether therefore you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. And if you can do all to the glory of God, then all can be worship. When worship is the ultimate priority. This little psalm commands us to praise It's an express command. It's written here in the form of a command. All nations and all peoples are to praise the Lord. This is why Paul condemns false religions in Romans chapter 1. He says in Romans chapter 1, beginning in verse 21, for although they knew God. They did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish heart was darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the immortal God. for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. Now some people when they hear this command to praise, they balk at that idea. Doesn't that seem kind of self-serving for God to demand that we pray, to command us to pray? I've even heard several people say it sounds like God is being arrogant. Or that God is in need of our worship. God is somehow puffed up by Himself and wants and demands our worship. You and I who know the Lord know that is absolutely false. God is eternal. He is infinite. He is unchanging. And as such, he is in need of nothing. And there is nothing that you and I can give him that would add anything to him. Praise, however, is the proper result of delight and wonder Praise is the proper result of delight and wonder. When you have seen God for who he is and understood the salvation of God in your life for what it is, the natural response Is delight, wonder, and praise. C. S. Lewis wrestled with this idea about God somehow being arrogant for demanding Praise. And he wrote about this in his commentary on the Psalms, the thought from the Psalms. And he said this: the most obvious fact about praise whether of God or anything, strangely escaped me. I thought of it in terms of compliment, approval, or the giving of honor. I had never noticed that all enjoyment spontaneously overflows into praise. unless shyness or the fear of boring others is deliberately brought in to check it. The world rings with praise. Lovers praising their mistresses, readers, their favorite poets, walkers praising the countryside. My wife and I went for a nice long walk yesterday in the countryside. And that's what we did as we weren't walking. I wasn't thinking about this, but today as I was considering this sermon, I realized that's all we did as we walked down the road, we're going. Wow, what a beautiful view. Look at that. Oh, isn't that gorgeous? I love that house over there. Look at the windows there. What are we doing? We're praising it. It's the natural overflow of delight and wonder. He goes on to say Walkers can praise the countryside, players praising their favorite game, praise of weather, wine, dishes, actors, motors, horses, colleges, countries, historical personages, children flowers, mountains, rare stamps, rare beetles, and even sometimes politicians or scholars. He said, I had not noticed how the humblest At the same time, most balanced and capacious minds praised most, while the cranks, misfits, and malcontents praised least. A little further on, Lewis says, I had not noticed either that just as men spontaneously praise whatever they value, so they spontaneously urge us to join them in praising it. Isn't she lovely? Wasn't it glorious? Don't you think that magnificent? The psalmist and telling everyone to praise God are doing what all men do when they speak of what they care about. My whole more general difficulty about the praise of God depended on my absurdly denying to us, as regards the supremely valuable, what we delight to do, what indeed we can't help doing. about everything else we value. We praise all day long, but do we praise the one true God? It should be a spontaneous overflow of wonder and delight. Lewis said, I think we delight to praise what we enjoy, because the praise not only expresses but completes the enjoyment. It is its appointed consummation. When we praise, what was I doing with my wife when I was telling her, look at that countryside, look at that meadow there. It was completing my joy by bringing her into that joy. It was enabling us together to delight in something that I found delightful And when we worship God, we are calling others into it. This is glorious. This is wonderful. Consider our God. The reason God seeks our praise is not because he won't be complete until he gets it. He is seeking our praise because he knows that we won't be happy until we give it. It is actually a mercy of God to command us to praise Him. We are meant to praise. We are meant to praise the Almighty. That's what Psalm 147 says. It says, Praise the Lord, for it is good to sing praises to our God, for it is pleasant. It is pleasant to praise the Lord. Now, when we come to this command, praise the Lord all nations, extol him all peoples. There are some problems with this. There are two problems that come up very quickly, and I think we can look at them briefly this evening. The first is our pollution, and the second is our position. Our pollution makes it impossible for us to properly praise the Lord. The Psalm calls us to praise the Lord and The Lord there is an all-capital letter. It refers to God's covenant name, Yahweh. And we get the word from that, that comes from the word to be. It has the idea that what God will be, he is. And what he is, he will be and has always been. God is the eternal, unchanging fully satisfied, fully perfect God. Chiara played on the flute about that holy, holy, holy. Lord God Almighty, that cherubim and seraphim fall down before him. The Bible tells us the Lord is perfectly holy, that he cannot look on iniquity. The Bible tells us that he dwells in light. which no one can approach unto, to the point where the seraphims shield their faces from looking upon his glory. The Bible tells us that our iniquities have separated between us and our God, and our sins have hid his face from us. The fact is, even our prayers in and of ourselves are polluted. And they prohibit us from coming in before God. We studied this a little bit when we went through Isaiah 64. Where we are told that all our righteous deeds are like polluted garments to the Lord. God, when he is holy, holy, holy, it wasn't just that they ran out of words to say, it means that he is ultimately and perfectly. and unapproachably holy. And yet we are called to praise him. How can the filthy The wretched, the sinful, the rebel, ever bring worship that is acceptable to a holy God such as He is This brings us to another problem. Our position. If you notice, it says, praise the Lord all nations, extol him all peoples. The first verse is a call to all nations and all peoples to praise the Lord. Yet the Lord is the God of Israel. He is the God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. He says here, for great is his steadfast love toward us, toward the nation of Israel. Yes, I know that he is the God of the whole world, but his covenants and his promises were to the nation of Israel. How can you and I who are Gentiles, you may be here and you're not, but how can you and I who are Gentiles ever come before such a God who has not made covenants with us, but yet we're commanded to do so. Ephesians 212 tells us that prior to Christ, we who are Gentiles were separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope. And without God in the world. Prior to Christ, that was you and I who are Gentiles. And yet we're commanded here in Psalm 117 to praise the Lord. But we're separated from Christ, and we have no hope in the world. We are strangers to the covenants of promise The beauty of this psalm is that it anticipates the day when these two dreadful realities, the problem of our pollution and the problem of our position, are entirely done away with in Christ. That because of what Jesus Christ did as he was a sacrifice for us on the cross, we can now approach this holy God, and we are brought into the covenants. Through Jesus Christ. It anticipates today that our pollutions will be washed away and our position will be forever changed. And it calls us to worship the one true and living God, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Because of Jesus Christ. Praise the Lord, all nations. Extol Him, all people. We could go on and talk about the reality that praise is the ultimate aim of missions. But just for time's sake, I'm not going to spend much time With regards to this, but it's been said that missions exist because worship doesn't. What is the goal of evangelizing your neighbor? What is the goal of sending missionaries Around the world it is to bring people into. It is the it is the culmination, you might say, of the delight of worship As we glorify God and we marvel at his salvation, we want to bring others into that worship. One, because it it fulfills us as we bring others into that worship, but also brings glory to God who is worthy of worship. In Revelation chapter 7, we read of this, After this I looked, John says, and behold a great multitude that no one can number. from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. What are they doing? They're praising. They're worshiping the Lord. But the beauty here is that Christ sang this the night he went to the cross. knowing that he would make this possible by his sacrificial death and through his resurrection Christ is the ground of our praise. He is the foundation of the praise we are commanded to give. And he says here in verse 2, for great is his steadfast love toward us, and the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever. Now I don't like to use a lot of very little at all Greek and Hebrew when I speak in sermons, but I think these two words are so well known that that it requires me to say it. The words that are found here, steadfast love and faithfulness, are the words Hesed and Amet. You've probably read about them, you've heard sermons about them. The word Hesed is a Beautiful word. It's a difficult word to translate, and if you read different English translations, you're going to find it translated variously, like loving kindness or mercy or grace or steadfast love. And it wraps up all of these realities into one word. Hesed is one of Yahweh's most treasured characteristics God's steadfast love is his persistent, unconditional tenderness, kindness, mercy, and grace. It's a relationship in which God seeks after man with love and mercy. And has the idea of covenant loyalty. that God is loyal to his promises and to his covenant. And the word amet in different translations is truth. Or faithfulness. It refers to the truthfulness of God that keeps every covenant. The truthfulness of God that keeps his promises, we sang tonight, great is thy faithfulness. When we say God God's faithfulness is great. We are saying God is true to his promises. He keeps every promise he has ever uttered to us. These two terms aren't just chosen at random. Like all the different attributes of God in the psalmist said, I'm going to choose the steadfast love and faithfulness of God. They're two good ones. They're not just chosen at random. These two terms are found throughout the Old Testament linked together, and they complement each other. Turn with me, if you would, to Exodus chapter 34. Exodus chapter 34. And you know when Moses in Exodus 33 He asked the Lord, please show me your glory. And the Lord said to him, I will make all my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim before you my name. the Lord, and I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will show mercy on whom I will show mercy. Then he told him, You cannot see my face, for man shall not see me and live. Then if you turn over to chapter 34, verse 6. Verse 5 says, The Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. Proclaim the name of Yahweh. The Lord passed before him and proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. There it is. Steadfast love, Hesed, and Amet. Keeping steadfast love for thousands. forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generations. We see this beautiful truth of steadfast love and faithfulness when God says, let me tell you about myself. This is who I am. I am the God of steadfast love and faithfulness. In Psalm 57, David declares, I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing praises to you among the nations, for your steadfast love is great to the heavens, your faithfulness. To the clouds. David says, I know how you revealed yourself to Moses. And I will praise you. Because that is who you are. In Lamentations chapter 3, it says, the steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. The steadfast love and faithfulness of God. When we come to the New Testament We don't have obviously those same Hebrew words. We're coming to the New Testament and the translation as they try to grapple with these difficult terms that don't easily translate into one word. But we find them united again, speaking of Christ. In John 1. 14, it says, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth, steadfast love and faithfulness. When it speaks of Jesus Christ as full of grace and truth, he's saying, He is the fullness of all that God is This is a declaration of his deity. A few verses later he says, For from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace. For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the embodiment of the gracious, steadfast love of God and his truthfulness that is faithful to his promises. Grace and truth meld together in the gospel. They meet together in Christ. They meet together at the cross. He says again in Psalm 85, steadfast love and faithfulness meet. Righteousness and peace kiss each other. Where? In Christ, on the cross. His steadfast love and his faithfulness To the promises, his truthfulness to us, righteousness And peace with those who aren't righteous. How? By his steadfast love and faithfulness that meet us at the cross. We are commanded to praise the Lord because his steadfast love is great to us. The word great is a loaded term. When we think of God's love revealed in Jesus Christ, surely it is great. The greatness of God's love is seen in the cost of it. In John 3. 16, he said, For God so loved the world that he gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life I remember speaking to Muslim men one time about God, and they were trying to prove to me that Jesus Christ could not be God. And as we were talking about the love of God, I said, Do you believe that God is love? And they said, Yes. Do you believe whatever God is, he is the greatest of that? Yes. What could be greater than God being man and dying on the cross for sinners And they said, you tricked us. No, this is the glory of the gospel. This is what makes the gospel so beautiful. that you understand that God became a man to die for sinners. What could be greater And for the holy Son of God to become sin for us, to take on our shame and our guilt and the wrath that our sin deserved. And he took it upon himself. He made himself forsaken of God. So that he could save sinners, so that we would not have to be forsaken of God. This is the glory of the gospel. The greatness of God's love is seen also in the depth of it. Romans 5. 8 tells us, but God showed his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. God's love reached out to you and me when we were rebels, when we were undeserving sinners, when we were wretches. And he didn't do it because there was good in us. But in spite of the fact that we were rebels against him. But what's perhaps most exciting to me about this word great is the way that it's most commonly used in the Old Testament. It's a fascinating word. Fourteen of the 25 times it's found in the Old Testament, it's translated prevail. prevail, like when the flood came and the waters prevailed over the highest mountain peaks, or when one army prevails against another army, or one nation against another nation. The fact is, our sins prevailed against us. But the glorious truth is that God's grace prevailed over our sins. In Psalm 65, there's the same word that's used. And listen to this, just listen carefully. He says, when iniquities prevail against me. You atone for our transgression. When iniquities prevail against me, you atone for our transgression. How Through the steadfast love of God that is great in Jesus Christ. He prevailed over our sins. Romans 5 tells us now the law came in to increase the trespass. Not because we needed much help in that area. We were wretched sinners, but to show us just how wretched we were. But where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. The reality is the law is like a line. Someone says, there's this line, don't cross it. I don't know about you, but I'm always like, why? I don't see why I can't cross that line. Do you ever see a sign that says don't touch? What do you want to do? You can't tell me not to touch. Who do you think you are? That's what the law did. It showed us our rebel state when God said that is sin. He said, I don't think that's sin. The law came to show us who we are. In our trespasses, our sin abounded. But where sin abounded, grace superabounded. It overflowed in Jesus Christ. Donald Barnhouse said that sin is measured by multiplying commands times the amount of sinners. Basically, multiply your the commands against us and the sinners that are in the world, and that's what sin is. And sin abounded. But grace is measured by acts of God's grace and the infinitude of God. We multiply the acts of God's grace to us times his infinitude, where sin abounded, grace abounded more. So tonight as we partake of the bread, which represents Christ's broken body for us, and we partake of the juice, which represents his blood that was shed for us, we are acknowledging by faith that his Steadfast love prevailed over my sin. It's greater than my sin, and it made a way for me into the presence of God. God 's steadfast love is great toward us. We're also commanded to praise the Lord because of his faithfulness or his truth, which endures forever. The word faithfulness has the idea of truth or truthfulness. God is faithful because He is truth God's promises are faithful to us because he is truth and he cannot tell a lie. What God has promised to accomplish, he will accomplish. There is no one that can stop him. His word is eternal and unshakable. His promises are the bedrock that we are able to establish our lives on. That's why in Isaiah 40, Isaiah speaks to the Lord saying, the grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. Men grow up and die. Kingdoms rise and fall. But God's word is eternally true and unchanging. John said of Jesus Christ that he is full of grace and truth. He is the embodiment of the promises of God. Think about it. When our Lord came to earth. The promises of God seemed to be at low ebb. 4,000 some years earlier, God had promised the seed of a woman would crush the head of the serpent, and yet sin was running rampant, and Satan was having a heyday. Thousands of years before Christ came, God had promised to Abraham that he would be the source of blessing to all the world. And although Israel had multiplied, they were defeated people living under the boot of Rome, and there didn't seem to be any blessing to all the world. 900 years prior, God promised to give David a greater son. And there wasn't a king on the throne of David. Seven hundred years had transpired since God promised King Ahaz that a virgin would conceive and bear a son who would be called Emmanuel, God with us. Seven hundred years have transpired since God had promised through Isaiah that the Messiah would come, who would be pierced for our transgressions and crushed for our iniquities, and the chastisement that brought us peace. would be upon him, and with his stripes we would be healed. Jesus Christ sang this song that Passover night with his disciples, knowing that he would be the fulfillment of these promises. That he would crush the serpent's head. That he would bring blessing to all the nations of the world. That he would be pierced for our transgressions. That the chastisement that brought us peace would be upon him. All the promises of God find their yes and amen in Jesus Christ. He is faithful, and his faithfulness endures forever. Maybe you're coming here this evening. And it's a little difficult to take the bread and the juice this evening because as you think back through this most recent week and maybe the last month, there's more failures than successes. And you're saying, maybe I shouldn't even be partaking tonight. I want to remind you that what John says in 1 John 1 9, if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. God's faithfulness meets you in Jesus Christ. You can say, well, I don't deserve it. You're right. None of us do. But God is faithful. His word is true. His promise of forgiveness is for you tonight. You say, well, I don't deserve that. I shouldn't be able to enjoy partaking of the communion. This is exactly what God wants you to do. Remember his steadfast love. Remember his faithfulness. Call upon him tonight. Repent and find mercy and worship him. So how do we praise the Lord? Very briefly. First of all, we praise the Lord by receiving the Savior He provided for us. If you're here tonight and you don't know Christ as your Savior, this psalm is a call, it's a command for all nations, all people, everywhere to repent of their sins. And come by faith to Jesus Christ and to praise the Lord. The only way that is possible is through repentance and faith in Jesus Christ. Jesus said at that last Passover, the night that he was betrayed, the night he began and established the Lord's Supper, I am the way. The truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Simply put, no one can offer praise to God that has first not repented of their sins and trusted in Jesus Christ Until you do that, all your worship, all your praise, all your singing, all your prayers are worthless. Come tonight, repent to receive Christ as your Savior. We praise the Lord not only by receiving the Savior He provided, but also by lifting our voice to proclaim his glory. I must say, tonight, you sang well. And I pray and I trust and I believe that it came from a heart of worship, delighting in God whose great is his faithfulness. O God, my Father, there is no shadow of turning with you But we also praise the Lord by boasting in Christ. The word halel has the idea of boasting. It's not just boasting in here, but do we boast of our God? To others? Are we boasting of him to our coworkers and to our neighbors, to our family members? Are we unable to stop talking about him because he is our life? It's like a new father who can't stop telling you about their his son. You know, he shows you the picture. Did I tell you he was the most beautiful child you've ever seen? You know, he looks like a normal baby. No, no, he is the most beautiful baby there's ever been. Some grandparents in here that are like that. I'm not calling names. But do we boast of Christ that way? The salvation that He has given us, His steadfast love, which is greater than our sins, His faithfulness, which is enduring no matter how great our sins are Lastly, we praise the Lord by living in harmony with fellow believers. You're like, what? Where'd you get that from? Well, it's interesting. Pastor Nathan's been preaching on Romans 14 and 15. And the conclusion of Pastor Nathan's series continues into verse eight of Romans fifteen. And I know he wanted to preach on that, but providentially in the Lord's timing he wasn't able to. But this verse, verse 1 of Psalm 117, is quoted in that passage in verse 11. One of the things that would have brought significant disunity to the early church was the cultural differences between Jews and Gentiles that are now in one body. Prejudices would have to be confronted in Jesus Christ. Living in harmony would be very difficult. Remember how he finished. If you were here last week, verse 7. Says, live in harmony so that together with one voice you may glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. And then in verse 8, he continues that same thought. And then in verse 11, he quotes this verse. Psalm 117, verse 1, about all nations praising the Lord. Paul tells us that we are to welcome one another because Christ became a servant to the circumcised to show God's Notice this. Truthfulness in order to confirm the promises given to the patriarchs, and in order that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy. What is that? The steadfast love and faithfulness of God. And he says, God did this. Christ became a servant to the Jews, so that he might show his faithfulness and his steadfast love to the Gentiles Welcome one another. So that with one voice you may glorify God in harmony together. As we come to the Lord's table this evening, I want to encourage you that if you have you're at odds with another brother or sister The gospel commands you to praise the Lord by being right with your brother or sister in Christ. It doesn't give you freedom to go on with a grudge. And in bitterness of heart, it commands you. Because of what Christ has done in his steadfast love and faithfulness on the cross. And if you come to this table tonight and you say, I will not get right with my brother or sister, then I want to urge you do not partake. But if you're here tonight and you say, I want to be right with my brother or sister, I desire that. And I'm willing to forgive Then I want to encourage you to do so in Christ and to be reconciled with them so that in harmony with one voice, you can bring praise and glory to our God. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. We praise you for your steadfast love and faithfulness. It is Great. It has prevailed over our sins. And your faithfulness, Lord, endures forever. You come and pursue us and seek after us and draw us back to yourself, and we thank you. Lord, I pray tonight as we partake of the Lord's Supper that we would remember these truths. And we would worship you as we partake of these elements together. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.