Revelation chapter 1. I think all of you know that names are very significant, especially in Scripture. Many of our Old Testament heroes have a name that has some form of the word God in it and speaks of their character. and the ministry that God had called them to do. And of course, New Testament names have great significance. The German poet Goethe said, a man's name is not like a mantle which merely hangs about him, but a perfectly fitted garment, which like the skin has grown over him. This is certainly true of the names and titles of Jesus Christ. Every one of them is significant. We have names like Emmanuel, Son of Man, Son of God, the Lamb of God, Man of Sorrows, Savior of the world. Recently before a communion service, we looked at this name I am. Some of these names speak more to his humanity while others point to his deity. But all of them are significant and worthy of our careful attention Tonight I want us to look at a name that perhaps you've never thought of in connection with the Lord Jesus Christ. But a name that I think will help prepare our hearts to receive the Lord's table. Turn with me to Revelation 1 and verse 8. And here we read this declaration. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is and which does, and which is to come the Almighty. This is the end of the preface of The book of Revelation. In verse 9, we have John speaking of his visions that he is about to receive. Now I must mention to you that there is Some debate about who is the speaker in verse 8. Is it God the Father or is it God the Son? And there are good arguments on both sides. I'm not going to give you all these arguments or enter into a scholarly discussion about that. Suffice it to say, I'm convinced that this is here a title for the Son of God. And what is correct is that in Revelation 22 and verse 13, there is unquestionably a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so in light of that designation, I think This one as well is really the Lord Jesus Christ speaking. This is a self-designation. It's one thing. when others describe you with a certain title or name, but it's another when you describe yourself by that title or name. Sometimes people will come to this church and They will fill out on the business on their visitor card a certain name. And I like to ask them, but what name do you go by? What do you prefer to be called? And often it's different from their given name. And so it is significant the name that a person calls themselves. And here we have an authorized designation. I think it's interesting that we have this name, Alpha and Omega, at the beginning of this book, in the opening chapter, and we also have it at the very end of this book. as it were paralleling the very name itself. Turn with me to Revelation 22, the last chapter of the Bible And look with me at verse 13. It says, I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first. and the last. Most of you probably know that these are the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet. It would be like an English speaker saying, from A to Z. It doesn't just mean that Jesus Christ is in some way like the beginning and the end. When we say A to Z, we mean what? We mean all the letters in between as well. And so when he says he is the Alpha and Omega, he is essentially saying the same thing. He is everything. He's not just the beginning and the end, but he is the middle as well, everything in between. So I want to speak to you briefly tonight on this truth that Jesus is the Alpha and Omega. And I want to bring three things that come out of this title. The first is that this title reveals that Jesus is fully God and the revelation of God the Father. This is obviously a declaration of deity. You can't imagine your spouse or your best friend saying, I am Alpha and Omega. It would sound ridiculous and blasphemous to you. Because it's such an all-encompassing statement. It's interesting to note that this concept is found in many languages and cultures. But what is clear here is that John is not quoting some pagan author. He's not referring to various cultures that existed in the first century. He is going back to the Old Testament. So I invite you to keep a finger here and turn with me please to the book of Isaiah. And I want to look at Isaiah to begin with chapter 41. Isaiah chapter forty one. In verse 4, we read this, who hath wrought and done it? calling the generations from the beginning. I the Lord, the first with the last, I am He. And I want you to note that the word Lord here is spelled capital L-O-R -D, which is an indication that this is a translation of the sacred tetragrammaton, as scholars call it, the word Jehovah or Yahweh. This is that sacred name that the Israelites Refuse to say lest they break the third commandment. This is the name that scribes would not write as they were copying the Old Testament until they had taken a ritual bath. It's found again in Isaiah 44 and verse 6. Isaiah 44, verse 6. Thus saith the Lord, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts. I am the first and I am the last, and beside me there is no God. You see, once again you have the name capital L-O -R-D. And let me just say that all of these references that we're looking at in this section of Isaiah are all set in a portion of Isaiah where the Lord is contrasting himself with the pagan idols. of Israel's neighbors. And he is contrasting his power, his deity, his might. with them. And he keeps claiming this exclusive claim that there is no God beside him. Turn with me to Isaiah 48. Verses 12 and 13. Isaiah 48, 12 and 13. Hearken unto me, O Jacob. and Israel, my called. I am He. I am the first. I am also the last. My hand also hath laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand have spanned the heavens when I called unto them. They stand up together. We have an astounding declaration of deity here. The one who says he is the first and the last is here described as the creator of the earth, the one who has all of creation at his command. And so when John wrote Alpha and Omega, his readers, especially his Jewish readers, who knew their Old Testaments well, would know. That he was referring to these passages in Isaiah where God Jehovah is said in contrast to the false gods of the nations. So we see here the astounding truth, the unmistakable fact that the Jesus The Son of God, Jesus of Nazareth, who walked on earth, is here in these visions to John revealing himself as the Jehovah of the Old Testament. And there are many other Old Testament passages that make this equation. Turn with me back now, please, to Revelation chapter 1. I want you to look with me now at verse 17. Although this title is not used here, the concept is John who has this vision on the Isle of Patmos says in John in Revelation 1. 17, and when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead And he laid his right hand upon me, saying, Fear not, I am the first and the last. I want you to notice that this truth, that he is the first and the last, is to be reassuring to us. Yes, it's an astounding thing. There's a sense in which it should sober us and strike fear in our hearts, but yet it is to comfort us. So who is Jesus who died on the cross? Was he just a lowly carpenter? Was he an exceptional rabbi? Was he a miracle worker? Was he the greatest example the world has ever known? Yes, he was all of these, but we must never forget that he was and is the great I Am. He is the Alpha and the Omega. This is why Paul says in Colossians 2. 9, in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. And the only way that we can know God the Father is through the revelation of the Son, the God man. Jesus said in the upper room, He that hath seen me hath seen the Father. Jesus was not arguing against the Trinity. He was simply saying that no one can know God except through him. In John chapter 1 and verse 18, he says that he is the only begotten Son, and that he declares or explains the Father. uses a term that is the origin of this word exegete, which is what a preacher is supposed to do. He's supposed to lay open the word of God Well, God the Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, opens the way for us to understand the Father. Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 2 says, God hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son. And then he goes on in the next verse to say that he is the express image of the Father. I have a study. on Hebrews in my library, written by G. Campbell Morgan entitled God's Last Word to Man. And he took that title from these opening verses to Hebrews. God's last words to man is his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. This is why Jesus said, no man cometh unto the Father but by me. There are many people today who are entranced with the revelation of God that is given in nature. There are things that we can learn about God, some very basic truths. We can learn that God is much more powerful than we are. We can learn that God has been around a lot longer than we have been around by observing creation. We can see that He is a God of order, a God of providence, a God of beauty and splendor and majesty. Romans chapter 1 says that we can learn from a creation, his eternal power and Godheads. But we cannot learn from the revelation of creation to truly enter into a relationship with God. Because that avenue is open only through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so in this exalted title, Alpha and Omega, we see that Jesus is fully God, the perfect revelation of the Father. Well, there's something else that I think we see in here. This title reveals that Jesus is the eternal God. For Christ to call himself the Alpha and Omega is to say that he has always been and always will be. He expresses the mind-boggling truth that he is an eternal being. He is the rock of ages, the ancient of days. He has no beginning and he will have no end. He always has been and always will be. This expression reveals that God is not bound by time. And Christ as God the Son has always been. The scriptures teach the eternality of the Son of God. There have been some Christians who get this confused in their minds, and they think that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, had his beginning in Bethlehem. But that was not the beginning of his existence. That was not the beginning of his personhood. That was the beginning of the incarnation. The scriptures teach that he has always been. The scriptures teach that he is the creator of the universe. And there's not just one or two scriptures that teach this. It's found throughout Scriptures, both implicitly and explicitly. The opening of the Gospel of John begins this way. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning. with God. All things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made that was made. And in verse 14 of that chapter, the word is identified when it says, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us, referring to the Lord Jesus Christ. In Colossians chapter 1 and verse 16 we read, For by Him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible. All things were created by Him. and for him. And in Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 3, we read, by whom Christ also He made the worlds. Jesus is the Alpha. He is the beginning. He is the origin of the universe. But he is also the Omega, the God who controls what is yet future. He is the culmination of all that has come into existence. Many people fear the future. They worry about what could be lurking around the horizon. The fact of the matter is we can make our best guesses as to what will occur, but we are often wrong. Only God knows the future. But knowing that God is in control of the future is a very comforting and profound truth Nothing happens to you by chance. It is all under his sovereign control. The Bible teaches that God knows every detail of your life. He knows the number of the hairs on your head. He knows all of your thoughts and worries. He knows the number of your days, how long you will live. And he is also the Alpha and Omega. He is not only in control of the past, but he's in control of the present and of the future. We live in between the two advents, the coming of Christ, the incarnation, and his coming that is yet to come, the second coming. We live between these two. But we can live with confidence because He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. He's not only in control of the past and the future, but he's also in control of the here and now. And what he has started in your life, he will bring to completion Because he is Almighty God, the Alpha and Omega. This title also reveals that Jesus is the sovereign God. I want us to consider the context in which these declarations of deity are found. Turn with me back to Revelation chapter 1. I want you to notice this because it's significant. Look with me at Revelation chapter 1 and verse 7. We read this promise. Behold, he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him, even so, Amen. And right after that we read this, I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is and which was and which is to come, the Almighty. Now what is the connection here? Well, the reader reads this amazing promise That the day is coming when Christ will return in the clouds. He will come in power and great glory, the scriptures tell us. But you know, that seems so amazing to us that I think sometimes we really shrug it off. We doubt whether or not that will really happen. It just seems so stupendous and so amazing and and so supernatural to think that there's coming a day when Christ will return And since God knows the human heart and knows our tendency to doubt, especially that which is beyond our normal experience. He confirms this amazing promise with this statement, I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending. saith the Lord, which is and which was and which is to come the Almighty. He is saying in essence, the reason why this will occur, the reason why there is a day in which this is coming, is because Jesus is sovereign over time. And if that's not enough, consider the fact that he is Almighty God. This term Almighty God here is a special title used in the book of Revelation Is used, I believe, something like nine times to describe the fact that he is omnipotent. There is nothing that can hinder his plans. You see, this title expresses more than the fact that Christ has always been. It reveals that he is providentially in control of all. All of history is his story. This is why the birth of Jesus is described in Galatians 4. 4 as when the fullness of the time was come. All of history, all the passing of time is leading to something. From beginning to end, it is all about Christ. He is the originator of all and the culmination of all. And the culmination of all begins with the return of Christ. I want you to turn with me ahead now to Revelation chapter 21. And I want us to look at verse 7. We have another one of these. Well, let me Back up to verse 6. And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega. The beginning and the end I will give unto him that is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. And then this promise, he that overcometh shall inherit all things and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. You see that this title again is connected in context. to the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, it's intended that we find great comfort and encouragement in this description of our Lord Notice what it goes on to say. Well, let me back up a little earlier. I intended to start earlier. Look at verse 3. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. And God Himself shall be with them and be their God, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write for these words are true and faithful. And he said unto me, it is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. These promises are so open-ended and so incredible that they seem perhaps at times for us to be too good to be true. And so he confirms these wonderful promises. with this declaration. I am Alpha and Omega. I am the God who is control of all time and all things. And because he is the Alpha and Omega, he has the authority to wipe away our tears and silence our crying and stop our pain. He has the sovereign right to open a fountain of life. for his people. Turn with me to the next chapter now to Revelation chapter 22. Revelation chapter 22. Verse 12. Notice this connection between the coming of Christ and this declaration again. And behold, I come quickly. And my reward is with me, to give every man according as his work shall be. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. Did you know that Christ will judge all people? This is what the scripture teaches I want you to notice what it says in the previous verse to what I just read. Look at verse 11. He that is unjust, let him be unjust still. He which is filthy, let him be filthy still. He that is righteous, let him be righteous still. He that is holy, let him be holy still. This could be confusing to us. What is it saying here? This word still is saying that those who continue in habitual patterns of wickedness will tend to continue in them until the Lord's coming and they are destroyed. But those who continue to practice righteousness because they have been born again will be blessed. And so in verse 12, when we come to verse 12 and it says, and my reward is with me, we need to recognize how broad this term is. When we think of the word reward, we only think of something good, right? But this word refers to what we call the rendering of a judgment. It might be good, it might be bad. And it's in that secondary sense that it's being used here. This is why it goes on to say, blessed, verse 14, blessed are they that do his commandments. that they may have right to the tree of life and may enter in through the gates of the city. What about those who do not do his commandments, who do not enter into the city? For without are dogs and sorcerers and whoremongers and murderers and idolaters and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie. This list here of those who will not inherit the kingdom of God is very similar to what we find in the previous chapter. Turn with me to Revelation twenty-one and verse eight. But the fearful and unbelieving And the abominable and murderers and whoremongers and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second Now, what may be a little disconcerting to you is that in both of these texts that I have just read for you, it talks about be us being judged according to our works. And if you've been brought up all your life in an evangelical church, you would say, but we're not going to be judged for our works We're going to be judged for whether or not we have put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ because we're not saved by works. It is true, of course, that we are not saved by works. But these passages reveal the disturbing reality That the only kind of faith that saves is a faith that changes the character of a person and the practice of their life. It's very interesting. I remember reading not too many years ago in a very scholarly book, a man who was looking at all of these passages that refer to any kind of judgment at all, and he mentioned and he showed and demonstrated that in every passage that speaks of judgment in the Bible, we are being judged for our works. Not that we are saved or lost for our works, but we have gone so far into saying that we're not saved by works that we've made our works as something that's completely irrelevant and unimportant. But our works testify and point to who we are and the faith that we possess. And so the way we live our lives is of great significance. Not that we are somehow saving ourselves or keeping ourselves saved. But we are living out the faith that we profess, the faith that we have put in the Lord Jesus Christ. That is why it is absolutely unbiblical for a person to be living a wicked life, a life that's inconsistent with every description in the New Testament, and yet say, oh, but you know, salvation's not of work, so I have absolute confidence that I'm going to heaven because, you know, it's not by what I've done, but it's what Jesus has done for me as they continue to live a life of outward and inward darkness. This is not what the scripture teaches. The scripture teaches that we will all be judged, and this is a truth that we rarely talk about. In modern Christianity. We don't like judgment. Boy, is that a negative word? We say all the time, stop judging me. We don't like the word judgment, and we like to think that God is no longer a judge. He is a benevolent grandfather. But I want you to know that the Bible consistently from cover to cover speaks of God as the judge that we cannot escape. the judge with whom we have to do. And the scriptures teach that the Father has delegated ultimate judgment to the Son. Did you know that? Turn with me to John chapter 5. I want you to see this for yourself with your own eyes. John chapter 5. Look with me at verse 20. John five twenty For the Father loveth the Son. And showeth him all things that Himself doeth, and he will show him greater works than these, that ye may marvel. the Son quickeneth whom he will. For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son. that all men should honor the Son even as they honor the Father. He that honoreth not the Son honoreth not the Father which hath sent him. And then look at this verse 24. A person might say Well, how could I be certain that I am ready to face the judgment of the Son? Verse 24. Verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life. and shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. You see here, salvation is by believing. It is by faith alone in what Christ has done for us And the person who has done this will not come into condemnation. That doesn't mean they won't be judged. They will be judged. Believers will be judged in the beam of judgment for our service. But we won't be condemned. We will not eternally perish because the judge died in our place. So what should be our response to the coming of Christ? Should it be fear? Despair? No. If we know the Lord as our Savior, it should be as we find in the closing words of the book of Revelation, even so come, Lord Jesus. He is coming again. But he's coming not as a lamb, but as a lion. Tonight, as we remember the death of our Lord, Let us remember the coming of our Lord. Remember in this very ceremony. There's a mention of his coming. One of the things we are to reflect on is the coming of the Lord. And let us remember that when he comes. He will come in power and great glory. He will come as the Alpha and Omega, as the one who has begun everything and is now bringing it to culmination. that it may bring glory to his name. So as we examine ourselves, as we prepare our hearts, let's do so with great seriousness. Let us do so soberly because the one who died for us is the one who is coming again, the Alpha and Omega. Let's close in prayer. Father, I pray that you would compose our thoughts, focus our minds, our hearts. that we might partake of these elements in a worthy way. I pray, Father, that you would help us to remember as we think of you on the cross that you were not a victim. That you were not someone who died powerless and helpless, but that you died. As the Alpha and Omega, the Redeemer, the Lamb slain before the foundation of the earth, that this was all part of your great plan of redemption. to bring glory to yourself. Help us, Father, to view it in this light. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.