If you have your Bibles, please would you join me in John chapter eight Fiorella LaGuardia was the mayor of New York City from 1934 until 1945. He was mayor during the Great Depression and World War II. He was a very eccentric character who often did unexpected things. One day he decided that he wanted to serve as judge, and so he dismissed the judge in the court and sat in there in the judge's seat. A woman was brought before him who had stolen a loaf of bread to feed her starving family. The owner of the store refused to drop charges. Because theft had become a real problem in the neighborhood, and he wanted to make an example of her. The mayor had no choice but to find her guilty. And the punishment was ten dollars or ten days in jail. That was back when ten doll was worth a lot more. And so the mayor found her guilty and gave her ten dollars. And then he fined everyone who was in the courtroom fifty cents for not helping out their neighbor. And so this woman who came to court expecting to be condemned to prison left the court free and with $47. 50. The story is a faint picture of the gospel. Today I want us to consider an incident in the life of Jesus known as the woman taken in adultery. But despite the title, I want you to know that the central figure in this story is Jesus. Now before we get into the story, I want to take just a moment to comment on the fact that many of you undoubtedly have either a footnote or an asterisk or something by this passage in your Bible. The Bible that I'm using, the ESV, places this passage in double brackets. Indicating that in the estimation of the editors, this was probably not originally part of John's gospel. I'm referring to a paragraph that goes from John 7. 53, that little phrase, they went each to his house through chapter 8 and verse 11. It is true that the earliest copies of John's gospel do not contain these 12 verses. And this passage is found in several other places in manuscripts. It's found after John 7, verse 36, and John 7, verse 44. And others put it at the end of this gospel in an appendix. It's even found in some manuscripts after Luke 21 verse 38. There are a few words in this paragraph that are not found in the other five books that John wrote. However, it is certainly possible that John wrote this. We can't know with absolute certainty because we don't possess the original Gospel of John that John wrote. I'm eager to preach from these verses. The story is ancient. We have references to it in very early writings going back to around the year 100. This story is, by everyone's estimation, authentic and historical. The setting is right. The characters are right. It's very similar to other things we read in the scriptures. We have The religious leaders trying to trap Jesus. We see Jesus showing compassion to a sinful person, an outcast. We have an unexpected ending to it. We so frequently find this pattern in the Gospels that we read. And a good argument could be made that this paragraph indeed belongs here The story is about Jesus being asked to judge. And within these immediate contexts, we have verses about judgment. In John 7, 24, Jesus says Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment. And then after this passage in John chapter 8 and verse 15, Jesus says to the religious leaders, you judge according to the flesh. I judge no one So this paragraph illustrates both verses within the immediate context, and it also fits many of the themes that we find in the Gospel of John. This passage is, I think, a beautiful picture of the gospel. I want to preach to you on amazing grace given to a condemned sinner. There are three points I want to make from this. There's first of all a revelation in this passage of the sinfulness of humanity In every good story, we have the setting that's first given, and that's what we have here. We read they went each to his own house, but Jesus Went to the Mount of Olives early in the morning. He came again to the temple. All the people came to him, and he sat down and taught them. We see that Jesus was eager to teach in the temple. This undoubtedly is at a feast day when there are tens of thousands of pilgrims that have swelled the population of Jerusalem. He did not go actually in the temple to teach because they were not allowed to do that, but he was outside the temple and crowds would gather and he taught them as the rabbis did. We read that all the people came to him. This should not be pressed to mean that every person in Jerusalem came to him, but a large number of people came to him. And he sat down to teach them. This was the common posture of a rabbi when he taught. This is a very common, tranquil, typical scene in the life of Christ, but then everything in a moment changes. Look with me now at verses 3 through 6, where we have the conflict in this story. We read, The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery. and placing her in the midst, they said to him, Teacher, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery. Now in the law Moses commanded us to stone such women. So what do you say? This they said to test him that they might have some charge to bring against him. We read here, as we often do in the Gospels of the scribes and the Pharisees, this is a phrase reflecting the religious establishment. The scribes were experts in the Old Testament. They're sometimes called lawyers because they would decide on cases about what was right or wrong. And we have the Pharisees, the constant antagonist of our Lord that we find in his life on earth. They were the religious conservatives. Josephus tells us that in the time of Christ there were about 6,000 card-carrying Pharisees in Israel. And the scribes and the Pharisees have combined to try to discredit Jesus. They're trying to trap him. So they can destroy his reputation and so the people will no longer follow him. Apparently they have caught a woman Committing adultery. Nothing is said about the man that was involved in this union. Some have suggested that perhaps he was a fast runner and a dated capture. But I think more likely we see a sad reflection of chauvinism and prejudice here. Historically, women have paid a much higher price for immorality than men Women are still stoned to death today in the world for adultery in certain Muslim countries, in certain contexts. You almost never see a man being stoned to death for that sin, but it's not that uncommon for women to be stoned for that. In the Middle East. This woman is undoubtedly guilty. Jesus assumes her guilt. She does not try to defend herself. She is a picture of the sinfulness of humanity. Here at a festival set aside For special worship of the one true God, this woman breaks the seventh commandment. The word that Jesus used to address her woman is not condescending at all, but it does indicate that she indeed was a married woman. She was not single. So she has been disloyal to her husband and to God. But there are other sinners in this story. That I want you to see, and that is the religious leaders who have brought this woman before Jesus. They are sinners as well. I want you to notice that they don't care at all about this woman. They're just using her to discredit Jesus. They're not seeking justice. They have not bothered to bring the man involved in this adultery. They had no Interest in really following the law. They don't care about this woman's soul, or ultimately, even about the law of Moses. They only care about their power and status in the community. In verse six, we read their motive. It says they said this to test him, that they might have some charge to bring against him. Eight other times in the Gospels, we read of this occurring, of the religious establishment trying to trap Jesus. Perhaps the most closest parallel is when they ask him about paying a tax. And remember, he goes out and there's the coin found in the fish's mouth. And there's many other examples like this. They were constantly trying to trap him to bring disrepute upon him so that he would not be so popular among the people. And let me remind you that it was these religious leaders that would ultimately conspire to murder their Messiah. The greatest crime imaginable. The Son of God, the one who fulfilled all of those Old Testament prophecies about the coming Messiah. These men who were experts in the law should have known. But they didn't want to find that answer. Because it would upend their position in Jewish society. Have you ever thought about the fact That sinful people kind of fall into two broad categories And I take this from the parable of the prodigal's son. There are some people who are sinners like the prodigal. It's all external. Not all external. It's internal as well. But you can see it. It's not hidden at all. They're brazen about their sin. The rebels. They break all the rules. And everybody that knows them knows they have issues. They have problems. Remember how the prodigal brought shame to his father and asked for his inheritance and went to the far country and wasted all of this money on riotous living, nearly starved to death. He was a notorious sinner. Everybody knew in his village about him. And we all know people like this today. They often struggle with addictions. They seem to have no self-control. They're always under the power or influence of some substance. They're almost never sober-minded, right thinking. And their entire life, from the time they come of age until the time they die, is a train wreck One broken relationship after another, one addiction after another, one sent in prison after another, one problem, one major problem after another. And everyone in their family and everybody in their community knows about them. That's the way it was with this woman taken in adultery. She was a notorious sinner. But there's another variety of sinner that is just as wicked. And that is the religious hypocrites This is what we see in the scribes and Pharisees in this paragraph. They are sinners like the older brother in the parable of the prodigal son. That older brother had no heart for his father. And when his brother returned, remember he was out in the field and he hears the music. And the servant boy tells him, but he doesn't want to go in. He's sulking outside. Because he would have preferred if his brother died in the far country. And he didn't want to honor his father and show up at this party as was required of his society. Because all along, though he's been working hard in the fields, he had no heart for serving his father. He was just waiting for his father to die to get the money, this large inheritance. He wanted to party just like his younger brother. It was just more discreet and hidden. Not like his foolish brother who just had no self-control. So we have discreet sinners and we have prodigal sinners, but they are just as wicked in the eyes of God. And all of us here, all of us are sinners. The Bible says we have all sinned and come short of the glory of God. So we are all like this woman and like these men that surrounded her, judging her, we are all condemned sinners. Well, there's a second revelation in this familiar story, and that is a revelation of the condemnation of the law. Now the trap that these religious leaders had set for Jesus seemed like it was certain to work. Look with me at verse 5. Now they say in the law Moses commanded us to stone Such women notice their contempt they have for her. So what do you say? They are correct The penalty for adultery in the Old Testament was death. Leviticus 20 and verse 10 says, if a man commits adultery with the wife of his neighbor, both the adulterer and the adulteress, shall surely be put to death. Deuteronomy 22, verse 22 says essentially the same thing. These men seem to have forgotten the part about the man involved in the adultery. But the law of Moses was clear that both deserved death. Now I must add that By the first century, this sentence was rarely carried out, especially not in a sophisticated city like Jerusalem. Usually the husband just divorced his wife If she was unfaithful and that was that. But from God's perspective The marriage covenant is so sacred and so important that the punishment for violating that was worthy of death. So do you see the trap they have set for Jesus? If he says, no, we're not going to stone her, we're not going to follow the law of Moses, they can say, you're disobeying God's word. You're not following what Moses told us to do. But if he says, okay, let's go ahead and stone this woman, they could say to him, but I thought that you were a friend of sinners. I thought that you were a man moved with compassion. And they could have got the Romans involved because no Jew in in this context had the right. to execute someone else because the Romans had taken that authority away from the Jewish leaders. And so they could set him up as an insurrectionist. So you can see they think how he they have him trapped because whatever answer he gives, he's going to be in trouble. Either he's violating the law of man or the law of God's. So they think they have him trapped. So how does Jesus respond? Look at the end of verse 6. Jesus bent down and wrote with his finger on the ground. Now everyone who has ever read this passage wants to know what he wrote on the ground. I have heard many suggestions over the years. And I want you first of all to know that the word for rote Could just refer to him doodling on the ground or drawing on the ground. It doesn't necessarily mean that he was writing a message. So there's an ancient tradition that Jesus wrote Jeremiah 17, 13 on the ground that says, All who forsake you shall be put to shame. Those who turn away from you shall be written in the earth, for they have forsaken the Lord, the fountain of living waters. I think that's highly unlikely because try writing that in the dust. Others have suggested it was Exodus 23 and verse 1. You shall not spread a false report. You shall not join hands with a wicked man to be a malicious witness. This assumes that indeed she was innocent, which I think is not true. Perhaps the most famous suggestion is that Jesus bent down and wrote the Ten Commandments to bring them to conviction. But I want you to know that all of this speculation is worthless and a waste of time Because if God wanted us to know what Jesus wrote, he would have recorded it. It is not essential that we know that in order to understand what's going on. So let's try to look at this passage with fresh eyes and kind of imagine what this must have felt like When they came and they asked him this question, what do you say And then Jesus stoops down and begins doodling or drawing or writing or whatever he did in the ground. It must have really stopped them in their tracks because he was essentially ignoring them Just imagine the scenario. They come eager and ready to trap him. There's passion, there's energy. They have this woman. They they they want to see Vengeance poured out on her. She is there quaking and fearful, crying out And they come and they ask this question, and Jesus doesn't give them an answer. Notice verse 7 says, and they continued to ask him. That's reflecting the fact that they didn't just ask this question once. They asked the question repeatedly. So he bends down and starts writing. And they kind of awkwardly ask after a little time, so what is your answer, Rabbi? Do we stone her or not? And they wait, and he just continues down there drawing in the ground, and they say, So what is your answer? And Jesus is still silent. And so finally he stands up and he says, Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her. Now Jesus here is turning them back to the law. In Deuteronomy 13 and verse 9, and in chapter 17 and verse 7. It says that the witnesses of this crime had to be the first ones to throw the stone My experience as a pastor has taught me that a lot of people who want to get people in trouble have no interest in confronting them about it. They would like other people to do that for them. These men are not interested in stoning this woman. Now this verse, in case you did not know, is very popular today. It's often used to deflect any criticism of a person's wicked behavior. This verse and Matthew 7 1 that says, judge not, lest you be judged, are quoted all the time. And so a person who is living a very wicked, destructive lifestyle can say to anybody who challenges them or confronts them, hey, listen. Let him who is without sin cast the first stone. You're not perfect either, so you have no right to judge me. That is not what Jesus is communicating here. If that were the case, then we could have no court of law. We could have nothing because every judge and every jury and every prosecuting attorney and everyone else in our judicial system or in church discipline or anything else, we're all sinners. And so if sinless perfection is necessary for anybody to confront anybody about their sin, then no one can confront anyone. That's clearly not what Jesus was saying. In context, Jesus is challenging these men on something very, very personal. He's saying if if none of you men have ever committed adultery, then you go ahead and throw the first stone. But no one steps forward. I don't think this suggests that every single one of these men had committed adultery, but they all knew in their hearts that they were sexual sinners. And then in verse 8, we read that Jesus went back to drawing or writing on the ground. What was their response? Look with me at verse 9. But when they heard it, they went away one by one, beginning with the older ones. And Jesus was left alone with the woman standing before him. I want you to notice, by the way, it's not what Jesus wrote that convicted them, it says, but what they heard, what he said. Jesus stoops down again and he's giving them a chance to stop and reflect on what he's just said and to think about it. We often picture this perhaps with just Jesus and the woman and these accusers, however many there were. But remember, they interrupted Jesus' teaching, so there were probably hundreds of people watching this take place. And then we read that the men slowly walked away from the oldest to the youngest. What do you make of that? That interesting detail Why did he include that? And and and what's the import of it from the oldest to the youngest? Perhaps It's suggesting that the older, more mature men had the wisdom to know when they had been beaten, and they're like, we're out of here. And the younger, more passionate men followed their lead. Or perhaps it's saying that the older men Had a better sense of who they were and of their own sinful shortcomings And so they left first, and in their society, the elder had status, and so the younger men were not going to stand there. They were going to follow their lead. We can't know for certain. But those are two suggestions. But what I want you to see in the bigger picture Is that both the sinful woman and these religious leaders both stood condemned by the law These men who claimed to uphold the law could not claim that they had not violated in spirit at least the seventh commandments. And they had not followed the law and bringing the man as well to justice. And so what we see in Scripture consistently is that there is no hope of redemption or salvation or forgiveness in the law. No one has ever been saved by keeping the law. Or to put it in our context of the 21st century. No one has been good enough to save themselves, not even close In Romans chapter 1, Paul condemns the Gentiles, especially for their idolatry and their immorality. But then in chapters 2 and 3, he condemns the Jews. For their hypocrisy. He says, those who say thou shalt that teach thou shalt not steal, do you steal? And he has a series of those rhetorical questions that are intended to convict them and condemn them. And then he summarizes everything at the end of chapter 3, and he says, now we know that whatever the law says It speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped and the whole world may be held accountable to God. For by the works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight. Since through the law comes the knowledge of sin. The only thing the law can do is condemn you and expose your sinfulness and your shame, but it cannot save you. It cannot set you straight. It cannot redeem you. This is what Paul says again in Galatians 3. He says, For all who rely on the works of the law are under a curse, for it is written, Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all the things written in the book of the law to do them. In other words, if you want to go down that route and you want to depend on the law, then you have to do everything in the law and you have to do it perfectly for the rest of your life. Do you really want to follow that route? It's impossible. But this is the way people naturally think. They tend to think that they're pretty good. In fact, most people think that morally they're better than average. If you visit people in a detention center and you share the gospel with them, they'll say, you need to go to that cell over there. That guy really needs it, let me tell you. Now I was set up. I'm a I'm a good guy. But that guy, I can't vouch for him. We tend to think we're better than average. We tend to think our sins are not that serious. We tend to underestimate our depravity and overestimate our ability to do what's right. And man naturally has no sense of God's holiness, and that his measure is perfection. Most people, when ask about the gospel, at least in America, will say they do think they're going to heaven And if you ask them why, they will say because they think they're a pretty good person. They think that God is going to let them in because they'll know their heart. Yes, they mess up. They've they've had some trouble chapters in their life story, but they they generally have a good heart and like to help people and their good is going to outweigh their bad and God's going to take all of that into consideration and He's going to let them in And then I always ask him, how good do you have to be? You know, wouldn't it be awful if you were like just like one cent over the limits? Oh man. That would be horrible. Oh, if I just hadn't told that one lie, I could have gone to heaven. And when you tell people that, you can tell they start their head mind starts thinking, oh yeah, that is a bad scenario. And then I say, I got news for you. God's standard for getting in is perfection. And even if right now you could somehow live perfectly for the next 34 years of your life, what about the early years? You can 't go back and make up for all those sinful, selfish choices that you made You see, we have no hope in trying to keep the law and trying to do what's right and trying to earn our own way. In John chapter 1 and verse 17 it says, For the law came by Moses, but grace and truth through Jesus Christ. No one has ever earned salvation by keeping the law or by being a good person or by acts of charity No, the law only exposes our sinfulness and condemns us to eternal death But now I want to look at a revelation of the grace of God and salvation. We have the conclusion, the resolution of the story. Verse 10, Jesus stood up and said to the woman, For the first time looking her in the eyes, woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you? And she said, No one, Lord. This is the only time we hear her speak. And Jesus said, neither do I condemn you. Go from now on, sin no more. Now Jesus' words to this woman should not be interpreted to mean in any way that Jesus was soft on adultery. Nothing could be furthered from the truth. In his various addresses and sermons, we see Jesus condemning adultery and warning about adultery. And going beyond just it being a physical thing, but pointing out that it starts in the hearts. He condemns lust. And he gives a radical solution that would have shocked people. If your eye offend thee, pluck it out. That's pretty intense. No, Jesus is not being soft on adultery here, and Jesus is the one who is a great defender of the sacred covenant of marriage. And he said, What God has joined together, let not man put us under. He's not, whatever he's saying here, he's not being soft on her sin. Now, one explanation why he does not condemn her is because in the first Advent he did not come to condemn We see this right after the most famous verse in this book. We have John 3. 16, and John 3. 17 says, For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world. But in order that the world might be saved through him. In the second coming, Jesus will come, and he will be the judge of all people. But that was not true in the first coming. But that is not the ultimate answer to this question. You see, Jesus' response points to a deeper theological issue that is foundational to this passage. And that is simply this: how can a holy God save sinful people like us? We are all sinners. We have all broken God's law. We all deserve eternal death. So how can God be holy and merciful? How can he be just and gracious? How can he be just and justify the sinner? I want you to know that no other religion has an answer to this big question. Islam has no answer. I know Pastor Aaron has shared with me that in his interactions with Muslims in Africa, he would often ask them this question, how does a holy God forgive sin? And they had no good answer for that. Judaism has no resolution to this theological problem. The cults have no solution to man's sin problem. And secular atheism has no anecdote for man's Guilt and shame. The only answer is found in the gospel Why is it that Jesus did not ultimately condemn this woman? The answer is because in a short time he would be condemned for her on the cross. This is the gospel. Galatians 3. 13 says Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who's hanged on a tree. 1 Peter 2. 24 says, He himself, that is Jesus, bore our sins and his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed. And Romans 5. 8 says, but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. I believe that Jesus' words to this woman indicate that she had repented of her sins, and so Jesus is forgiving her in this exchange. And he concludes by saying, from now on, sin no more. You see, forgiveness should always lead to sanctification. A change of heart will always lead to a change of life. God's forgiveness does not provide for us a license to sin, but a powerful motive to live for God. So my only application that I have this morning as I conclude is this. Have your sins been forgiven? Have you come to the place in your life where you recognize that you were a condemned sinner? That you were like this adulterous woman or these hypocritical Pharisees, that you had broken God's holy law. And you had no way of making it right, and that you stood condemned for your sins. And have you come to see that your only hope is found in Christ who died in your place on the cross, taking all of your sin upon him and paying the penalty for your sin? This is the great exchange. We give him our sin, and he gives us his righteousness. We give him our shame and our guilt and our curse and our condemnation. And he gives us his righteousness and a right standing before God. This is the only way that sinful condemned people like us can be right with a holy God, and that is we must have A perfect substitute die in our place. And there's only one person that fits that bill, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. So have you repented of your sins and have you trusted in Christ? And if someone were to ask you Would you go to heaven when you die? Is the answer that immediately comes to your mind, yes, because Jesus Christ died in my place. He took all of my sins that I have ever committed or ever will commit, and he paid a just recompense sacrifice for my transgressions. And therefore, God can be just and holy and yet admit someone like me who has broken his law hundreds and thousands of times, and he can still declare me to be righteous in Christ. Because there's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. This is the good news of the gospel. This is our only hope of salvation. Are you trusting in this gospel today? Are you resting in what Christ has done for you? Or supposedly on what you think you can do to impress God. My friend, your only hope is found in Christ alone. Let's close in prayer. Father. Thank you for the gospel. Thank you that it's the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes. I pray, Father, that there might be Someone here who is yet lost in their sins and perhaps their eyes have opened and they've heard the truth for the first time in a way that's resonated with their hearts and they recognize that at this moment they stand condemned. I pray that even now they would put their faith and trust in you. And that they would have the joy of knowing that they are no longer condemned, but that they have been justified. Oh Father, I pray that you would do this for your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.