1 Thessalonians chapter 1, we'll be looking at verse 10, which deals with the coming of the Lord waiting for his return. So if you have your Bibles, you can turn to 1 Thessalonians. We'll be looking at our new memory verse If you remember last month we've been examining and trying to put to memory 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verses 1 and 2. We're moving on to verses three and four. And the goal is, as we do this, to progressively put to heart memory and put it to our heart. uh this entire passage. First Thessalonians chapter five as is a very encouraging and helpful passage for us. But we'll be looking at Verses three and four tonight. So this is our first time that we have tried to put this to memory. Some of you are very familiar with these verses, and so it may be very easy. to do so. But would you join me in standing as we say this through two times? We'll say the reference and then the verse, then the reference and the verse again. 1 Thessalonians 5, 3 through 4. While people are saying there is peace and security. Then sudden destruction will come upon them. The veins come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. 1 Thessalonians 5, 3 through 4. While people are saying there is peace and security, then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you as a thief. Thank you may be seated. I won't ask for anybody to try to quote it tonight. This is our first attempt at it But we're now going back to First Thessalonians chapter one and those that are laboring to memorize along with the passage as we look through it and study it. On Wednesday nights I said that Lord willing this week we'd be looking at verse ten all the way to chapter two, verse three. That's not happening We are going to be looking at verse 10. Only verse 10. But there's a lot in verse 10, and I believe it'll be an encouragement. So that means we should be getting out of here earlier because it's only one verse. Should be should be easier. The message tonight, the focus of the message is on an expectant hope. That we have a hope that is a sure hope, and it is an expectant hope as we wait for the return of the Lord. The theme of the book or the structure of the book of 1 Thessalonians is a very simple structure. It has two basic parts to it. The first three chapters are looking back. Paul is writing looking back at what God has done among them. bringing them out of idolatry and paganism into the worship of the one true and living God, but also how he lived among them and he and the missionary team Paul and Silas and Timothy, how they lived among them as an example. And he's using that not only as an example, but as a defense of their ministry. Remember how we lived, the things you are hearing about us are not true. Look at the example that we set for you. And then in chapters 4 and 5, it's a look forward, and it's a look forward to the return of Christ. and how we ought to live because of the fact that Christ is coming again. And he will address a number of issues of how we ought to live in light of that, but also do a further explanation of of the doctrine of the return of Christ, as we will see in in the weeks and months ahead. The theme of the book of 1 Thessalonians is to continue to grow in faith, hope, and love in light of Christ's imminent return. And because he is coming again, this ought to impact the way we live. And it ought to impact that in a very tangible way. So as we look at these verses here, just we'll start back a little bit in verse 8 just to get a running start, but we'll be spending our time in verse 10. He says, For not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaia, but your faith in God has gone forth everywhere, so that we need not say anything. For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. and to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come. So we see here the message is clearly a message on the commending them for the fact that they are living expectantly. They are living waiting for the return of the Son of God. And the fact is that the Christian faith teaches us to live with this expectancy, an expectancy for the return of Christ. So not only did their faith cause them to turn away from what they were following, they were worshiping idols. They were living in paganism. They were doing all the things that the typical pagans would do. And they turned from those things and they turned to worship the living and true God. But it also created an expectancy that they live in hope waiting for the return of Jesus Christ So the Christian faith really is characterized by this waiting. I think if if we were to be asked, do we believe that Christ could come again at any moment, we'd say yes. But the next question I would want to ask is, how often do we think about that? How often is that part of the reality of our day influencing the way we live? and how we go about our day. The fact that Christ is coming again. So this is this is what Paul is describing, that they are living expectancy expectantly waiting for the Son of God from heaven who was raised from the dead. This is an interesting word here, though, for the word wait. It's the only time it's found in the New Testament. But the reality of waiting is found throughout the New Testament and other words for wait are used throughout. But it's not a waiting that is like an inactivity, like you're sitting at the doctor's office and you're waiting for the doctor to come and you're kind of twiddling your thumbs. Maybe that's how we picture waiting. I'm just Waiting with nothing going on. That's not the idea here of waiting. It is a an eager anticipation and expectancy. In fact, this same word is, you know, the Old Testament is written in Hebrew. But when they translate it into Greek, which is known as the Septuagint, they used this very word in the Old Testament, in Greek, in the book of Job, in chapter seven and verse two. And Job uses this word to describe The waiting of a laborer, of a hired man, waiting for his paycheck, waiting for his his wages. Now I don't know how you might be if you were waiting for your boss to give you your money at the Friday's payday and you've got things to do. Probably not just sitting there twiddling your thumb There's an eager expectancy, a longing for, because you have things to do with that money And that's the word that is used here, that eager expectancy. But this truth of the waiting, the eager anticipation is found throughout the New Testament. We are to be living expectantly for the return of Christ. We can think of what Jesus said in John 14. These famous verses, let not your heart be troubled. Actually I think I have these on our slide. Let's do it. Let not your heart be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself. that where I am you may be also. Jesus says, I am going. I am preparing a place. But I am going to come again and I'm going to take you to that place that I am preparing. I am doing this. So live expectantly Remember when Peter denied the Lord, and then the Lord restores Peter after his resurrection, and the Lord tells Peter. that when he gets old someone's going to take him to a place he doesn't want to go to and describes basically the fact that he would be crucified for his faith. And you remember in that scene Peter looks over and sees John. And he goes, What about him, Lord? How's he gonna go? Is he gonna go in a similar way? And remember what what Jesus said, I shall have that my slides. He said, If it's my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? Then he says, Follow me, Peter. I'm the boss. I am the master. If it's my will that he remains till I come, that's my prerogative. That has nothing to do with your responsibility to follow me. But you see again, until I come. The expectancy of Christ's coming again. So we do see here, Peter was probably the only first century saint that knew for a fact that he wouldn't be there for the return of Christ. Because Jesus had already told him, You will die. You will die for your faith. You will not see that. There were obviously all of them died for their fa or died before they saw the return of Christ. But Peter knew. Even though he spoke much about the return of Christ in 1 and 2 Peter, he knew he himself would not experience it Because of what the Lord had told him. So Jesus taught it. The epistles taught it. We have in 1 Corinthians, we have this unique fit reality. That the very beginning of the book and the very end of the book highlight this fact that Christ is coming again and we ought to be waiting for that. In verse chapter 1, verse 7 it says, so that you are not lacking in any gift. as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now up there is a Middle Ages script that says, Maranasha. Meaning our Lord comes, and that comes from the latter part of the book in chapter 16, verse 22, where he says, If anyone has no love for the Lord, let him be accursed. Our Lord comes. That's the Greek Maranatha, that our Lord comes. And that became a watch phrase for believers to greet one another. Anasa, our Lord comes, our Lord comes. And they would say that as a way to remind each other, our Lord is coming. And they were to live expectantly. The Book of Corinthians bookends this reality in the very beginning of that first chapter, in the very end of the last chapter, waiting expectantly for the coming of our Lord. We also see this in Philippians chapter 3, where he says, but our citizenship is in heaven. From it we await a savior. From heaven, we await a savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body. by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. So there's this eager expectancy because our Lord is in heaven. He is coming from heaven. And when he does, he's going to bring a transformation that will have radical impact upon our very bodies. We also have in 2 Timothy 4, verse 8, henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness. This is Paul's last letter. There's later for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but also to all who love his appearing. So there's a reward to all who love his appearing and long for his appearing and live expectantly. They live in anticipation of it. Their lives are impacted by the fact that Christ is coming again. In Titus chapter 2, we read this, For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age. waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. So it's found throughout. And he says that the the waiting for the return of the Lord should impact our lives So that we live godly. We renounce ungodliness. We renounce worldly passions. We live self-controlled, upright lives in anticipation that the Lord is coming, and I want to be found looking and prepared in that day. It's kind of like the idea as children, if they're left at home and they're given responsibilities to do before mom and dad get back. And they want to be found faithful to the tasks they've been given. And so they are about the work that they've been given so that when mom and dad come back, they will be found having done what they were to do and have the approval of mom and dad. That's the attitude that we are called to have, but to a much higher degree. The anticipation of the return of Christ actually seems to be a part of the preaching that Paul did when he founded the church in Thessalonica. In Acts chapter 17, you remember the riot that happened? They went and they found Jason and they drug him out of the house and they brought him before the council. They're trying to find Paul and Silas and Timothy, but they couldn't find him. So they got Jason. And one of the things that was said is, and Jason has received them, and they are all acting against the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus. What were they saying about this other king Jesus? Well, they were saying that he's coming again. And so the thought in the mind of these folks is that This is in violation of the king that rules over our empire, which is Caesar. So they're saying these people are actually treasonous. They are involved in treason looking for serving another king who is coming. And so therefore that's the charge that they brought against them. in an attempt to try to get them into significant trouble. So Christ teaches it, the epistles teach it, the Bible as a whole teaches this reality that Christ is coming again. And it ought to be a regular part of our thinking, a regular part of our lives. The Bible teaches that the return of Christ is imminent. The word wait here in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 verse 10 is in the present tense, which means that this was their continuing attitude. They were at that moment. Waiting. It wasn't something that they would do in the future, that they will wait, but they were waiting. They even at that moment they were waiting. They were looking for the return of Christ. So the idea of immanence is that The return of Christ could take place at any moment. This means that there's nothing that has to transpire before Jesus Christ will come again. It could be tonight. And wouldn't that be awesome? If he came tonight. So it could be tonight, and we need to be living expectantly to that end. We do not have to wait for Any event to take place before the Lord could return. We don't have to wait for the seven-year tribulation to take place before the Lord returns. It could be at any moment There is nothing on the prophetic calendar, you might say, that has to happen before Christ comes back. F. F. Bruce, who is a Greek scholar. said about this verse that the Thessalonians viewed the return of Christ not simply as the consummating event due to take place in the indefinite end time but as something to be actively expected in the near future. The Thessalonian believers are thinking this could be any moment. We are going to live as if it could be any moment. He said, it is assumed rather than asserted in these early letters that Christians of that generation may hope to witness it. Christians may hope to witness it. And so you read in the New Testament, and the apostles are writing as if I may see this in my lifetime. The only one who didn't write that way was Peter, because Peter knew he would not see it in his lifetime. But they wrote as in, it's possible. This could happen to me. Where did they where did the Thessalonians get that idea? Well, they got it from Paul. Paul taught them this. This was what he preached when he came to them. This was they had a significant even though they probably was only there for six months in Thessalonica, he spent a significant amount of time teaching them the doctrine of the coming of Christ. What are some of the implications for the imminent return of Christ? Well, it has a lot of implications. We could spend a great deal of time on this, but it is good for us to be excited about the return of Christ. We ought to be living, eager, thinking, hey, as I look at the events of the world around me, you know, there's a lot of things that maybe it could be any time. I'm not a date setter. I don't know. But I look and I go, you know what? It could be very soon. And that thrills me to think that Christ will come again and he will be magnified and glorified. And so I long for that. The imminent return of Christ should change the things we value in this life. It should impact what we live our lives for. Amassing treasures in this world loses significance. If you go over to Philippians chapter 3, we already looked at verses 20 and 21, but just prior to that, he describes the The mindset of the unbelieving world. Their end is destruction, their God is their belly, and they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we wait a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. So they live for earthly things. They think about earthly things. Their God is their belly, their passions, their desires, but not us. Because we live waiting for our Savior who is coming again for us. And so our hope is in heaven. Our citizenship is in heaven, not here. So it should change the way we value things in this life. It's not that things are evil, but they're not the goal. They're not the ultimate focus. It's also a motivation for evangelism. The Bible says that knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade men. And what comes after the Lord returns is a great day of wrath. and knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade men. So this should motivate us to evangelize. It's an encouragement to persevere in trials. In James 5 Verses 7 and 8, he says, Be patient, therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. They're going through trials. Be patient. The Lord is coming. Then he says, establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. It could happen at any moment. So live faithfully under trials, anticipating that Christ could come at any moment. And so it ought to encourage perseverance in trials. And also it's a motivation for holiness, as we've already seen. We know that our Lord could return at any moment, and we want to be found faithful when he does. Now he gives a couple of assurances in verse 10. He says, and to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead. Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. So we see a couple assurances of Christ return. The first assurance is the assurance of His sonship, that the one who's returning is the Son of God. It's not just another man. It's not even an angel. It is the Son of God who has a unique relationship with the God that they serve. It says here just a moment, just a line before this, that they've turned to God from idols to s to worship and serve the living and true God. And the one that they're waiting for is the very Son of God. This reality means that nothing is able to stop Jesus from returning to rescue them before the wrath that is coming. They don't need to fear the wrath that is coming. They don't need to fear what is going to take place on this earth because the one who is coming is unstoppable. He is the Son of God. In Romans 5, we have this truth brought out about the Son of God and the um and how important that is. He says, since therefore we have now been justified by his blood. Much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, Much more now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life. The one who died for us, the one who rose again, is the very Son of God. He will bring to completion what he has promised. Jesus as the Son of God bore the full fury of the wrath of God for us. There's nothing for us to do, and there's nothing that can stop him from returning. But another reality that's emphasized by this reference to Christ as his son is that the Son is the one who will rule as king over Israel. We could spend a lot of time looking in Psalm 2, but just to kind of hit this briefly, he starts off in Psalm 2, this great messianic psalm saying, I have set my King on Zion, my holy hill. I will tell of the decree the Lord said to me, You are my son, today I have begotten you. So we have the king and is the son. So the Father speaks, calls in the king, the son speaks, and he says, He is the Son. Today you are my son, today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage. and the ends of the earth your possession, you shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Then he warns the kings of the earth Now therefore, O kings, be wise. Be warned, O rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in him. This Psalm, amongst other things, teaches us that the King is the Son. And so when we see this brought together that he's described here kind of surprisingly to wait for his son. He doesn't say to wait for Jesus, to wait for our Lord. He says to wait for his son. Why is he doing that? He's saying because the one who is coming is the Son. He is the king. He is the one who will rule over all the earth. In John chapter 1, if you remember when Jesus was calling his disciples And he speaks , and he called Nathaniel and he revealed to him that he had seen him under the fig tree. What did Nathanael say to the Lord at the time? He says, Rabbi, you are the Son of God. You are the king of Israel. You see the connection of son and king. You are the son of God. You are the king of Israel. Where did he get that? Why did he say that? Why would he put those things together? Psalm 2. Because he knew his Old Testament well. And he's saying, the Son of God is the king of Israel. You are that king. And so Paul in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 he says, we're waiting for his son. And the Son is the King. And when he comes, he will come as a ruler over all creation. So the sonship is a significant assurance because he is the Son of God in that unique relationship and he is the king of Israel. We also have the assurance of his ascension into heaven. He says here that to wait for his son from heaven The fact that Jesus is currently in heaven indicates that he is in the position of being accepted by God. He is at the Father's right hand, and he has ascended to the abode of God, and he is approved by God. And so what Even now he is seated at the right hand of the Father, and there is again nothing that can interfere or keep him from accomplishing what he has said he will do. Ephesians chapter 1 tells us about the working of God's great might, that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in heavenly places. that it was God's great might that raised him from the dead. He ascended into heaven, and by God's great might he is seated there at the right hand of God. So that mighty power that raised the mangled, lifeless corpse. To life again. And then brought him into heaven and seated him at the right hand of the Father. It is that power that gives us the confidence and the assurance that he is coming again. And his plan hasn't been thwarted. It hasn't been delayed. It is on schedule. And he is going to come just as he said. We also have the assurance of his resurrection, which he mentions here, whom he raised from the dead. They were waiting for the return of Jesus. We could spend a lot of time on this, but this is brought out even in Acts chapter 13. If you go back to Psalm 2, in Acts 13, he references Psalm 2. Saying that that declaration of his sonship was declared in the very resurrection of Jesus Christ. When God raised Jesus from the dead, it was a declaration that you are my son. In Romans chapter 1, we have this verse. He says, Concerning his son, who was descended from David according to the flesh, and was declared to be the Son of God in power. according to the Spirit of Holiness, by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord. So you see, the sonship Declared in power through the resurrection from the dead. The resurrection is what gives that assurance that God received his sacrifice and he was approved by the Father, and therefore His promise to come again is true. This reality is brought out. If you turn in 1 Thessalonians, if you're in 1 Thessalonians 1, look at 1 Thessalonians 4. This reality is connected again in verse 14. The Apostle Paul highlights the resurrection as a crucial proof of the return of Jesus Christ. And he does this in the middle of a larger section on the return of Christ. In verse 14 of chapter 4. He says, for since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. We believe Jesus died and rose again. Since we believe that, even so, we know that he will bring with him those who died have fallen asleep in him. So this reality of the coming again and being taken together with him is linked intricately with the fact that he rose from the dead. So Paul's assuring these Thessalonian believers this reality that we are waiting for his son, the king, from heaven, who was raised from the dead. He is coming again. And it is this Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. So maybe as you're leading reading this, you're going, what is he talking about? What is this wrath to come that Paul is talking about? Well the Christian faith teaches us That Christ will come for the purpose of delivering us from coming wrath. So what is wrath? When you think of wrath, I don't know what you think of. We may think of a person who is unhinged in anger. Have you ever had been in an office where someone's just like unhinged and you're like, whoa. Maybe that's the mind when you think of wrath, you think of a guy whose face is red and he's screaming. That's the wrath of man. That's maybe what we think of when we think of this word wrath. The word here, however, conveys a little lot different idea. It's a settled opposition. A deep anger, but it's not an out-of-control anger. It's not right to think of the wrath of God as some explosive outburst of irrational anger. God 's wrath is very rational, and it is very patient until it is the time to bring it about. It is God's fixed, controlled, passionate feeling against sin, which leads to its inevitable punishment. The wrath that's described here is the wrath of God. He says, he doesn't declare what type of wrath it is, but he says, Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. Is he talking about the wrath of man? Is he talking about the wrath of God? He's talking about the wrath of God in this passage, as other verses will make clear as we go on. But this is the holy revulsion of God's being against everything that is opposed to his holiness. Sometimes as Christians and even unsaved people, reasoning through things, they say, How is the wrath of God compatible with the love of God? They seem to be complete opposites. They can't actually be almost like they're in opposition to each other. They can't actually be uh in agreement with one another. But it's important to remember that God's wrath is actually an expression of his love. It is an expression of his love and of his justice. For God to allow sin to flourish unchecked and unpunished would not be love It would be apathy. God loves, therefore he has wrath It's been said that the wrath of God in its deepest ground is love. Love itself becomes a consuming fire to whatever is opposed to the nature of goodness. So God's wrath is opposed to anything that stands in opposition to goodness, which is his character So God's love and God's wrath are not at odds with one another. The wrath of God is actually part of God's love. It's an expression of love to those who are hurt by the wrath of man. What is this wrath that's described here? I mean, what is he talking about? Delivers us from the wrath to come. What wrath are we talking about when we read this verse? How how does he deliver us from what wrath? Well the Bible talks about all different types of wrath. The wrath of God is various in different ways. There's the past wrath. You can think of examples of the past wrath of God. For example, you can think of the flood. The flood is an example of the wrath of God on the world. Though that the flood passage doesn't use that term, it's clearly an example of the wrath of God. You can think of the Babylonian exile. And the Bible does use the word wrath to describe what happened. God's wrath poured out on the nation of Judah. because of their idolatry and their wickedness in the Babylonian exile. So there's the past wrath There's also present wrath. If you have your Bibles, turn to Romans chapter 1, verse 18. So turn back a little bit or turn left in your Bibles Romans chapter one Romans chapter one, verse eighteen And here in Romans 1, Paul expresses this reality that the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness. and unrighteousness of men who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. So you notice it is the wrath of God is revealed. It is presently being revealed even now. the wrath of God is being revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. And if you continue on and you follow this the the argument that's being made here, one of the the demonstrations of the wrath of God is the fact that God gave them up in the lust of their heart to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves. Verse 24 says, For God gave them up. That phrase, God gave them up, comes up again as well in verse 26. For this reason, God gave them up to dishonorable passions. For their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature. Then verse twenty eight, similarly, and since they did not see fit to acknowledge God God in his wrath gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. So the wrath of God is actually revealed presently In a culture that loves and approves of self-destructive behavior, specifically what's being described here. Largely is homosexuality, but other sins are also mentioned, like slander, hate haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil. But when God gives over a culture to approve of that which is Irrational and doesn't make sense, that is actually the wrath of God presently being poured out on a people So that's one aspect of the wrath. We have the past wrath of God poured out in specific judgments. We have present wrath being poured out on a nation, on a culture, on a people to do that which doesn't even make sense, where God gives them over to a depraved mind. The Bible also speaks in many places of a future eternal wrath. Revelation 14, 10, the word wrath is used to describe hell An eternal fiery torment where the wrath of God has poured full strength on those who reject Jesus Christ. That's in Revelation 14, verse 10. We went through John 3 in our study on Sunday mornings in the Gospel of John. And this passage says, whoever believes in verse 36 of John 3, whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. And this is referring to the fact that the wrath of God is above him and will one day be unleashed on him in eternal judgment. But is being withheld until that time. It's about this eternal wrath that is abiding over sinners that Jonathan Edwards spoke about in his famous sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. I think I have a yeah, here's a little picture or a snippet of what he said there. He said the wrath of God is like great waters that are damned for the present. They increase more and more and rise higher and higher till an outlet is given. And the longer the stream is stopped, the more rapid and mighty is its course when once it is let loose. It is true that judgment against your evil works has not been executed hitherto. The floods of God's vengeance have been withheld. But your guilt in the meantime is constantly increasing, and you are every day treasuring up more wrath. The waters are constantly rising and waxing more and more mighty. And there is nothing but the mere pleasure of God that holds the waters back, that are unwilling to be stopped, and press hard to go forward, if God should only withdraw withdraw his hand from the floodgate. It would immediately fly open, and the fiery floods of the fierceness of the wrath of God would rush forth with inconceivable fury and would come upon you with omnipotent power. It's a powerful statement. It's a powerful reality about the eternal wrath of God. Romans 2 speaks about the fact that Unbelievers are even now, every day, every moment, storing up wrath against the day of wrath. This is what Jonathan Edwards is talking about That is like a flood that is being withheld by a dam, and the waters continue to grow and grow and grow until at once they are unleashed, and the wrath of God comes pouring out. And that is a fearful reality. But the beautiful thing is that he says here that Jesus who is coming delivers us from the wrath to come. That this wrath doesn't have to be For anyone. That all who will come by faith in Christ will be delivered from this wrath. But there is another aspect of the wrath of God that could be being referred to here, and I want to bring this up. And it speaks of the wrath of the day of the Lord. When he speaks about who delivers us from the wrath to come, it could be referring to the the wrath of the day of the Lord. When we think of the word day of the Lord, it's not a technical term. The Bible uses it for all a variety of different judgments. from judgments that were past to judgments that are future. It uses it to refer to the tribulation period as well as the final judgment after the millennium. It uses it for a large host of different judgments. In the book of 1 Thessalonians and 2 Thessalonians, when he speaks of the day of the Lord, it seems to be in reference to the tribulation period. The seven-year period, what some people call Daniel's seventieth week, or the day of Jacob's trouble It's a period of time when God's wrath is poured out on this unbelieving earth in an unprecedented way. In the very real sense, God unleashes hell on earth. Like never before, a judgment like has never come on the face of this earth, even though the world has been judged by a flood In First Thessalonians five, verse two, one of the the last verses or last chapter of this of this book, he says For you yourselves, we've already looked at this, are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. And here I believe what he's talking about here, the day of the Lord is in reference to the seven-year tribulation period where God unleashes wrath on the world. While people are saying there is peace and security, then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. I believe this is being described more fully in Revelation chapter 6, which we don't have time to read fully, but in Revelation chapter 6 we have the opening of the seven seals. And the Lamb of God, Jesus Christ, is found worthy to open the seals. And he opens one seal after another. And when he opens those seals, each one brings on a judgment, a pouring out of the wrath of God. The first one comes and the Antichrist conquers with a false peace. The second seal, a red horse and a warrior bringing bloodshed. The third seal brings famine on a black horse. The fourth seal is death. From violence and hunger, and a quarter of the world's population is destroyed as the unleashing of that seal. If that were to be today, it'd be over two billion people. Imagine that reality. That is a horrifying thing to think of. And the one who unleashes that on the world is Jesus, the Lamb. The fifth seal speaks of the souls under the altar crying out for justice. And the sixth seal, cosmic disturbances, a earthquake like has never happened before, a darkened sun and a blood-red moon. And after the sixth seal The men of the earth hide themselves in caves and in the rocks. And they say to the mountains and the rocks, Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who is seated on the throne, God, and from the wrath of the Lamb, for the great day of their wrath has come, and who can stand? The wrath that is being described here in all of Revelation chapter 6 is the wrath of God unleashed on the world, although there are human factors involved, it is the Lamb who unleashes them. And it is described as the wrath of the Lamb, for the great day of their wrath has come. So which of the aspects of the wrath of God is Paul referring to here? I think it's pretty clear to say Paul's not talking about past wrath Because he calls it the wrath to come. That's pretty easy. I don't believe he's talking about present aspects of wrath, again, because it's the wrath to come. The two possibilities are future eternal wrath. or the wrath of the day of the Lord, and they're not entirely separate. Good Christian Bible students disagree over which one is being spoken of here. So you can disagree with me. If you do, that's fine. There are very good Christian Bible students who disagree with me on this matter. But I believe because of the context here of waiting for his son from heaven. And because of the way Paul uses this in the rest of 1 Thessalonians as a whole, the whole context with the description of the tribulation period in chapter 4 and in chapter 5. I believe what is being described here is actually the specific wrath of God. poured out on the earth during that seven-year tribulation period that we read just the very beginnings of in Revelation chapter 6 Later in this book, he spends considerable space writing about the outpouring of God's wrath in the tribulation, from chapter 4 to the end, all the way to chapter 5, verse 11. And it seems that this is the first reference to that wrath that will be poured out on the earth that is found in this epistle. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. He speaks of the coming tribulation period, and we're memorizing these verses. And he says in verse 9, For God has not destined us for wrath. Believers, God is not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. And in that context, it seems clear that he's talking about the wrath of the day of the Lord, the tribulation period. Regardless of what you take, it is only in Jesus Christ that the wrath of God is avoided. It is only if you are in Christ, by faith, through repentance, that the wrath of God is able to be avoided. And so it is very important For every believer to recognize, or every person to recognize that and to run to the Lamb to find protection, to be found in him, so that you will be shielded, you will be safe. from the wrath that is to come. So just very quickly here in application this evening, first of all, the wrath of God is a fearful reality. It is not something to be taken lightly. Jonathan Edwards paints a picture that is powerful and hard to forget. Because it is so fearful, we should come to God in faith and repentance in Jesus, his son, who died on the cross and rose from the dead. Because it is so fearful, we ought to persuade all people to repent and trust the Lord. It ought to be our highest priority more than anything else that we do because what could be more important than helping someone avoid The wrath of the Lamb. And then lastly, we ought to live with a sense of the imminent return of Christ in our thoughts and in our hopes. It ought to be a daily part of the life of the believer. But the question is, do we? If it is, it'll change the things we value in this life. It'll be a motivation for our evangelism. It will encourage us to persevere in trial And it will motivate us towards holiness. It ought to be something that we think about every day. When you wake up in the morning, it could be today. How then should I live if it is if it could be today? I want to be found faithful this day. It ought to be something we think about throughout the day. Is this something that I want to be found doing? When the Lord comes, well then I shouldn't be doing it, if not. May the Lord help us. To live with an expectation of his return at any moment. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. I thank you for the fact that Jesus Christ, the Son Who was raised from the dead is coming again. And he delivers us from the wrath that is to come. Lord, I pray for those that may not know Christ as their Savior. Lord, would you today Stir in their hearts. Cause them to fear the wrath of God because it is fearful. And Lord, I pray that they would run to Christ and they would put aside everything else until they have got this settled with you. And Lord, would you help us to live expectantly? For he could come today. And we pray, come, Lord Jesus, come quickly. Amen.