Hebrew Bibles, please, would you join me in John chapter 12? John chapter 12. Solomon Ginsburg. was the son of a Jewish rabbi who intended to become a rabbi himself But one day when he read a note in the margin of an old Hebrew Bible, which changed his life forever, young Solomon was in his dad's Study and there was an old Hebrew Bible and he had turned to Isaiah 53 and in the margin of the Bi of that chapter someone had written long ago To whom does the prophet refer? And so the young boy read this question out loud to his father and said, To whom does the prophet refer? And his father slapped him across the face. The boy did not understand why his father reacted this way. Years later, when he was 14, he encountered a Jewish missionary who invited him to come and hear him preach from Isaiah 53. And so he did. He went to that meeting and he heard and understood that the prophet was referring to Jesus Christ. And a few days later, he became a believer. In time, he became an evangelist to the Jewish people. He did much of his missionary work in the country of Brazil. And although he did not see many people come to faith in Christ, he was faithful in what God called him to do. In his accounts of this, he talks about much opposition, even violent opposition. that he experienced from his countrymen as he shared the gospel with them. This raises a question That John seeks to answer at the very close of this first half of his book. And that is, if Jesus was truly the promised Messiah, If the Old Testament prophets predicted the details of his life, why is it That in large part the Jewish people rejected him? Why is it they didn't follow him? Why is it that the religious experts, experts in the Old Testament scriptures, Did not endorse him. As John concludes the first half of this gospel, he feels compelled to answer a question. That may have come to your mind as well. Why was Jesus rejected in unbelief? John is already Told the reader in the preface of this gospel to anticipate this response. He says in John chapter 1 and verse 11, he came unto his own, and his own people did not receive him. But why did they reject him? Well, there are many answers given in Scripture. One answer that we've already looked at in a previous message is because they were not looking for the type of Messiah that he was. They were looking for a reigning Messiah, a majestic Messiah, a glorious Messiah. who would be a political leader who would cast off the yoke and oppression of Rome, would bring back the glory of David and Solomon. And would give them a life of peace and prosperity. That's what people always want from their leaders. A life of peace and prosperity. But Jesus was talking about his coming death. And that didn't make sense with them because they had verses in the Bible That said that the Messiah would reign forever, and this man's talking about his approaching death. So how can these both be true? This was one reason. They didn't expect this kind of Messiah, although they should have, because it was clearly revealed in Scripture that first he must suffer, and then would come the glory. But the reasons that the Jewish people rejected Jesus in large part are not unique to them. They are often some of the same reasons that people still respond in unbelief today, even after they have repeatedly heard the gospel. So I'm going to preach to you this morning from this passage on why do people respond in unbelief to Christ? There are three reasons I think that are found in our text this morning that I want to bring to your attention. Number one, people often respond in unbelief. Because they do not want to believe in Jesus. Look with me at verse 37. This is John 's one word concise, one verse concise. survey of Jesus' public ministry. Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him If you've been with us through our study of the Gospel of John, then perhaps you remember that John structures the first half of this Gospel, chapters 1 through 12, around seven signs. seven miracles that point to the identity of Jesus Christ as the promised Messiah. I'm not going to give you a quiz to see if you can name all seven of them. We started out in chapter 2 with the turning of the water into wine. And then the healing of the official's son at the end of chapter 4. And then we have the healing of the lame man at the pole of Bethesda in chapter 5. And then in chapter 6 we have two of them, the feeding of the 5,000. And then Jesus walking on the water. And then the healing of the man born blind in chapter 9. And finally, the ultimate miracle, the raising of Lazarus from the dead after he had been deceased for four days. These seven signs were intended to point the reader to the conclusion that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. But this is only a small sampling of Jesus' miracles. You notice what it says in verse 37. Though he had done so many signs. If you were to look at the four Gospels and count up our Lord's miracles and throw out the duplicates, because of course Matthew, Mark, and Luke often record the same events. you would come up with 37 different miracles that are specifically recorded in Scripture. But you should not think that those 37 miracles are the only miracles that Jesus performed. Because we have several summary statements. Where it says something like this. And Jesus went throughout the towns and villages, healing all that were sick and diseased and oppressed of demons. And if you look at it, this was all day ministry. So how many people did Jesus heal in just one of those days? Perhaps hundreds. We know that people from nearby villages would come and bring the lame and the blind and the deaf to these places for Jesus to heal them. So most scholars believe that it's probably safe in assuming that Jesus healed thousands of people during his earthly ministry. John concludes this gospel by saying that if everything that Jesus did were written, the world itself could not contain the books. That is a hyperbolic saying. John's way of concluding that saying, listen, I just gave you some highlights. There's a whole lot more. You should not take that literally and try to calculate, as I've heard some people do, like, well, if you covered the earth in about three deep of books, how many books would that be? And how many that's nonsense. That's not what John is trying to communicate. He's intentionally exaggerating to say there's a whole lot more that Jesus did than what I've recorded in this gospel, including these miracles. And what's also impressive about Jesus' miracles is the variety of the miracles. It's not like Jesus just did one kind of miracle. We have miracles over nature. Like him calming the sea. Like him walking on the water. We have miracles that reveal his power as a creator. When he took that little boy's lunch and from that five loaves and two fishes, he fed probably around 15,000 people. Because 5,000 was just the number of the head of the household. And then we have his his knowledge of people's thoughts and his knowledge of events that occurred elsewhere. Like when people died, and he knew of it. We read of him casting out demons on numerous occasions. We read of him turning water into wine. We read of him knowing exactly where a school of fish were, so he could tell his disciples to cast their nets over there, and they would catch a great number of fish. And of course, he healed the blind and the deaf, and he healed the lame and the paralyzed, and he raised the dead on at least three occasions. If I can put it this way, his resume of miracles is not equal, is not commensurate with The miracles that supposed faith healers have accomplished. They're far, far greater. They're in a different magnitude. What is John trying to express here? Though Jesus performed all these miracles and gave all this teaching The people still did not believe. What he is communicating is this. Their unbelief was not due to a lack of evidence. Many times in my life I've talked to people, these tend to be more intellectual people, and they will say things like this, you know what you say is interesting? But I just don't find there to be enough evidence that there's really a God, or that the Bible is true, or that Jesus is truly the Son of God Sometimes they'll even say, I would like to believe. I'd like to have the certainty that you do, but I just don't think there is enough evidence. If God were to give me more evidence I would believe. But that is not true. They may actually believe that But if they do, they're being deceived by their own hearts. It's not a lack of evidence. It's that they don't want to believe. And this was not something that was unique with these people in Jerusalem at the time of Christ. We read in the Old Testament of the wilderness generation, those people who saw the ten plagues, those incredible miracles that God used to bring them out of Egypt They saw God part the waters of the Red Sea so that they could walk across and then bring them back together to destroy the Egyptian army. They saw him provide food from heaven with manna. They saw the pillar of fire by night and the cloud by day, visible manifestations of the presence of God. And yet how did that wilderness generation, that Exodus generation, how did they respond ultimately? They responded in unbelief. Even though they saw these spectacular demonstrations of the power of God. And what about during the prophets? The prophets, some of whom performed miracles, others were more writers. These men who spoke for God, how did the people in large part respond to the prophets and their warnings? I'll tell you how they responded. They killed them. That's what Jesus said. Especially the people of Jerusalem. This is stubborn unbelief. John here is communicating that their unbelief was culpable, irrational, and willful. And as bad as the wilderness generation was, and the generations that experienced the ministry of the prophets, this generation was the worst of all, because they had the Son of God in their very midst. So why is it that they didn't believe? Let me give you a very deep theological answer. Because they didn't want to. Have you ever invited someone to church and they say something like this, I'd really like to come. But I I can't get off work. And maybe you work the same place and you say, I'll get someone to take your shift. And they say, okay And they say, um, my my car is run out of gas. I 'm not going to be able to come. And you say, well, I'll come and pick you up. And they say, um, I'm not really feeling that great today. What do you start to gather? Despite what they say, they don't really want to come. They don't want to admit the truth. I just really don't want to come. So why is it that a person would not want to come to Christ? John chapter 3, Jesus gives an answer. It is that people love the darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. If they come to Christ, they instinctively know things have to change. They instinctively know that there's sins in their life that they must turn from. Not even that any preachers told them that, but they just sort of know. They instinctively know you can't really be with God. You can't really be a follower of Christ and live that lifestyle and hold on to those things. But they they love the darkness. They love their idols. So often this manifests itself, to be frank with you, with sexual sins. So often when people come of age and they may have been brought up in a Christian home. And maybe they're confused and they're trying to find themselves and they have and they they can't square like their new lifestyle with what it means to be a Christian, so they abandon their faith. But the issue that brought about that was this idol of some type of sexual immorality or perversion. And they chose this, not that. It could be the idol of intellectual status. If you're an intelligent person and you live in the scientific field and you're around really brainy people and you tell them that you're a Christian, you're a follower of Jesus Christ, they're generally going to think lower of you. They're going to think something's wrong with you. And for some people, intellectual respectability is an idol. They always want to be thought of as the smartest guy in the room. And if they can't follow Christ and be that person, then they're going to have to abandon Christ. There can be many idols. And many times people refuse to come to Christ because they will cling to their idols. John's going to demonstrate that this rejection was predicted in the Old Testament. Look with me at verse 38, so that the words spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled. Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? This is the first verse from Isaiah 53, that very famous chapter that I spoke to you about earlier. This question has been given by the collective voice of the prophets, and it reveals that most often their message was not received. What they heard from God and proclaimed to people was rejected in large part. And even the miracles that they performed, the arm of the Lord, a symbol of his power being revealed, even that. was dismissed And although the people heard God's word and saw his power, they responded in stubborn unbelief. Because they wanted to. And they wanted to continue in sin. So the first reason that people respond in unbelief is because they don't want to believe. This may be the most common reason. That we encounter. But there's a second reason. Number two, people may respond in unbelief because God is judging Their persistent unbelief. Now we come to verse 39, which is a verse that might trouble you. It says, Therefore they could not believe. For again Isaiah said, He hath blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, lest they see with their ears and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them. This verse contains startling words to our ears. It says they could not believe. It speaks of ability. This is not the way we naturally think as 21st century evangelical believers in America. I pass a church sign on the way to church, one of these marquee signs that often makes me cringe when I read what they have on it. Do you know the type? And this one at first glance doesn't seem too bad. It said this, it's never too late to turn to the Lord. And I often make comments on these signs to my wife as I'm passing by. And on this occasion I would say something like, perhaps, except when it is Except when it is. Now I know what they're trying to do. They have good intentions. And they're thinking that maybe someone will drive by and they'll be thinking to themselves, you know, God would never receive me. I'm so wicked. I'm so sinful. And he would never forgive me. And this sign would be a good sign from them. It's never too late. No, he will still take you. And that's true. That's wonderful. But what about the person who's driving by on his way to commit adultery and he says, that's great, it's never too late. So I can live this lifestyle. and wait to the very end, and then I can trust in Christ and I'll have the best of both worlds. That's great. Thanks for that tip The Bible says here, in case you didn't know, there is a time when it's too late. There is a time when it's too late John backs up this statement with a quotation from Isaiah 6 and verse 10 that he quotes here in verse 40. I want to invite you to turn back with me to this famous chapter because I want you to see it in context. So please turn back with me to Isaiah chapter 6. I'd like us to spend just a few minutes here. Isaiah chapter 6. Very famous passage that's often used by missionaries and rightfully so. It begins in the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up And the train of his robe filled the temple, and above him stood the seraphim. Each had six wings, with two he covered his face. And with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew, and one called to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. And the foundations of the threshold shook at the voice of him who called. And the house was filled with smoke. And I said, Woe is me! For I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. What a spectacular vision. Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal that he had taken with tongs from the altar, and he touched my mouth and said, Behold! This hath touched your lips, your guilt is taken away, and your sin is atoned for. And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? And then I said, Here am I, send me And that's where the missionary sermon ends. But there's more. Verse 9, and he said, Go and say to this people. Keep on hearing but do not understand, keep on seeing, but do not perceive. Make the heart of this people dull and their eyes heavy, and blind their eyes. lest they see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their hearts and turn and be healed. And that is the verse that is quoted here. What a difficult ministry God had called Isaiah to. Can you imagine? He calls them to serve and he says, now listen, Isaiah, the people are not going to listen to you. That's okay. You be faithful. You preach my message. You're going to harden their hearts. You're going to make them even more resistant to the truth. And my judgment will come upon them. Your ministry is a ministry of judgment for stubborn unbelief. This was not just true of Isaiah's ministry. Every preacher of the gospel is a messenger of life to some and a messenger of death to others. This is what we read in the New Testament. The same sun that melts the wax hardens the clay. Did you know that Isaiah chapter 6 and verse 10 is one of the most quoted verses in the New Testament. It may be the most quoted, depending on how you count. And yet I never see it on anyone's refrigerator, on a magnet or something. That's a joke, by the way. There's a reason for that. You can look at the verse. This verse is quoted in Matthew, Mark, and Luke in connection with the Lord's beginning of telling parables. We often think of parables as wonderful stories that help us understand the truth. That's partially true. But the Bible says expressly, and it quotes this verse, that the reason that Jesus started teaching in parables is so that his superficial followers who were just there for miracles and free food Would scratch their heads and go away and say, I can't make any sense of what he's saying, and they would leave. It was judgment upon them That's what it says in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. And then at the end of the book of Acts, when Paul is ministering to the Jews in Rome, and they in large part reject his ministry, this verse, Isaiah 6. 10, is quoted again. That his ministry was a judgment upon them. And here we see it at the end of our Lord's public ministry as well. Let me provide some theological explanation very briefly. There's so much more that could be said, but let me say just a few things. Number one God's sovereignty and man's responsibility do not contradict each other. We may not always be able to understand how they both work together. But they are both taught in Scripture, and therefore we must believe it. They are compatible with one another Number two, God's judicial hardening, which is what Isaiah 6. 10 is talking about and what's spoken of here in John chapter 12. God's Judicial, that is like the act of a judge, hardening is just God is giving people, guilty people, exactly what they want. You should not think that there were people who heard Jesus and desperately wanted to repent and believe, but God would not let them. No. They did not want to believe. And so God hardened their hearts. And theologians and preachers over the centuries have often expressed it this way. They would not believe And God judged them so that they could not believe. Pharaoh is presented in Romans chapter 9 as a great example of judicial hardening. Ten times we read that Pharaoh hardened his heart. He saw these spectacular miracles. He knew that the God of the Hebrews was the true and living God. But he still would not relent. And there were times you may recall where he would soften his heart. His heart would be softened for a little bit, and he would talk about maybe letting them go. And then he would change his mind. No, I'm not going to let them go. And he would harden his heart. And then even a more devastating miracle would come, and judgment of God would come, and he would harden his heart more. And so the more he hardened his heart, the more we read that God hardened his heart. Ten times we read that he hardened his heart, and ten times we read that God hardened his heart. God hardened his heart to the place that even when the final miracle came and the death of his firstborn son, he still would not relent. And the Bible says he could not, because God had hardened his heart and he had set him up to take this proud, righteous man and destroy him, because he responded. And stubborn unbelief. Let me also say that God often judges sin with sin This is something we don't like to talk about. It's not pleasant to think of. But what God often does with people who continue to sin despite conviction, despite what they know to be wrong, God will judge them by removing restraints that are naturally there so that they will continue headlong into sin and ultimate destruction. This is what we read of in Romans chapter 1 Of God giving people up to a reprobate mind that is a mind that is no longer sensitive to what is good and what is right, but has become callous and hard. It's no longer convicted. It's speaking there in that chapter specifically of homosexuality, that if a person persists in this sin, God will remove their restraints so that they will go headlong into perversion, and then God will judge them for their perversion. I know this is not popular, but this is what the Word of God teaches. God judges sin with sin. He gives people, oh you you you want unlimited drugs I'm going to remove in time restraints from you so that you go headlong into that to your own destruction if you continue to go in that direction. This is the judgment of God and is just he's giving people exactly what they want in their depraved minds. What does this look like in real life? Look with me back, if you're not already, in John chapter 12, where he quotes Isaiah 6. 10. He is blind to their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them. People who have been judicially hardened will no longer hear the warnings of God. You can take them to a hundred gospel preachers and it will have no impact on their life. By the way, I believe that this is the essentially the same thing as the unpardonable sin. People are often frightened by this, and rightfully so, the unpardonable sin. What is an unpardonable sin? It's when you send away your day of grace. And so the Spirit of God will no longer convict you and draw you and convince you that the gospel is true and that you are a sinner who needs the gospel. And the reality is that no one will be saved apart from the work of the Spirit. And so if the spirit is no longer at work, then you are doomed, my friend. This is what the Bible teaches. It's a troubling reality, but we must not ignore it. So he says he will blind their eyes and harden their hearts. Their hearts will become even more resistant. They will become even more angry. And they will not see the glory of the gospel. They will not see the glory of Jesus Christ. They will become blind to that. And then in verse 41, he's going to connect what Isaiah says with the ministry of Christ. Look at this. Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory and spoke of him. That's a reference to Jesus. Isaiah, when he saw the Lord high and lifted up, he saw the Lord Jesus Christ, a preincarnate manifestation of him. And so this is John's way of saying what Isaiah said about the hardening, that 's precisely has to do with the ministry of our Lord while he was on earth. He spake of his glory. And so this prophecy of God's judicial hardening is a clear prediction of what would occur during Jesus' ministry. There's a third reason that people might respond in unbelief, and this one is a little different. You may not have thought about it People may respond in unbelief because they feel that confessing Christ would be too costly. We have some unexpected verses that generate that are intended by John to generate some thought in your mind. Look at verses 42 and 43. Nevertheless, many even of the authorities believed in him. That sounds like great news. But then we keep reading, but for fear of the Pharisees they did not confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue, for they love the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God. These verses seem designed to encourage the reader that not all is lost. Yes, there were many people who were hardened, there were many people who responded in unbelief, but nevertheless, there were some people who did respond in faith. And notice the words that follow. It says that many of them, wasn't just a few, not a handful, but many people believed. And then this, even the authorities, which is probably a reference. to leaders like members of the Sanhedrin or priest or other religious religious authorities. They would be the last people in the world you would expect to believe. The problem is the last part of verse 42 and all of verse 43 cast doubt on the validity of their faith. We read that these leaders did not confess that they believed that Jesus was, did did not confess they believed that Jesus was the Messiah because of the fear of the Pharisees. The Pharisees were the conservative arm of the Sanhedrin. They wielded great power. And if a member of the Sanhedrin said, hey guys, there were 70 of them by the way. Just want you to know I'm a follower of Jesus Christ. That would not go well. The Pharisees would probably violently assault that person right then and there. And they had this great fear of being excommunicated from the Jewish community. That's what it talks about here, being cast out of the synagogue. Why would that be such a big deal? Well, to be cast out of the synagogue was to be cut off from the community where they found their religious identity, their family heritage, and their social standing. They lived in the Jewish community. Everybody knew everyone. And if you were cast out of that, it would be like you were starting your life over. Like You would lose your job. You might lose your business. No one would talk to you in the Jewish community. They would shun you. Your wife, your spouse would probably leave you, your parents would disown you. You would have nothing, and you would be cast out into the Gentile world defend for yourself. This was a fate worse than most people could even imagine. And so what they're referring to here is what you might call secret disciples. And why was it they remained quiet? John gets to the heart of it. Look at his commentary, verse 43. They love the glory that comes from man. more than the glory that comes from God. The term glory can have the idea of to have a good opinion of someone. We all understand the power of wanting to have a good opinion by others, right? This can have a tremendous impact on our behavior. This is a big reason why we don't witness the way we should, right? We don't want to be thought of as a religious fanatic. And so we can all understand why they wanted to remain undercover Christians. So let me ask you, do you think they were truly born again? It's difficult to answer this question. Let me give you some reasons why people would say yes. Number one Because of the contrast, it says, nevertheless, all these people responded in unbelief. Nevertheless, there were some who believed. This is very similar to what we find in the beginning of the gospel in John 1. 11. It says, his own people did not receive him. But then verse 12 says, But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become the children of God. And this is very similar, a contrast, a similar kind of construction. And then John uses this phrase that's characteristic of him, to believe in him, that is in Christ. He uses that here of these people. And that usually describes genuine faith. But what are some reasons that a person might think that these people were not truly born again? At least not at this time. Well, John often uses this famous word, believe. Remember, 98 times in this gospel, he often uses it for a false faith. In John chapter 2 and verse 23 it says, Many believed in his name when they saw the signs that he was doing, but Jesus did not entrust himself to them because he knew all people. And we are not going to take the time to look at it, but we find similar examples in chapter 7, and chapter 8, and chapter 10, and chapter 11. Because not all faith is saving faith. And so the context seems to suggest that these were not genuine believers, at least not at this time. It says that they would not confess. that they were followers of Christ. I want you to note, remember what Jesus said earlier in his ministry. In Luke chapter 12, verses 8 and 9, he said, everyone who acknowledges me before man, the Son of God, will acknowledge For the one who denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. This is speaking of an ultimate denial, because you can probably think of someone who denied his Savior, right? We call him Peter, but he repented, and he came back to be a bold preacher of the gospel. And in Romans chapter 2 and verse 29 it says, but a Jew is one inwardly, that is, spiritually. His praise is not from man, but from God's. This is one of those questions that's not easy to answer. And then we have the example, and many commentators think he's referring to this. We have this man named Joseph of Arimathea. In John chapter 19 and verse 38, it says that he was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus. He was a secret disciple. And he was a very wealthy man, and he buried Jesus in his tomb. And it seems that he became a well-known figure in the early church. And then what about this man Nicodemus who came to Jesus by night? He was a member of the Sanhedrin. He was a ruler of the Jews, it says And it seems that he becomes a follower of Jesus Christ and was well known in the early church. Perhaps what we can say is that there were some of these people who were not yet truly converted, but later they would become and Acts chapter 6 and verse 7, we read of a great many of the priests became obedient to the faith. This would have been some five years later. So let me ask you this question. Why has John left this ambiguous where we've got reasons for and reasons against, and it's really hard, and we scratch our heads and say, I'm not sure. I'll tell you why, because he wants the reader to ask themselves, am I a secret disciple? What is clear is that God does not want his disciples to be secret disciples It is not a good plan to be an undercover Christian. Because the very nature of what it means to follow Christ is that you confess that he is Lord, that you are baptized where you make a public profession that I am a follower of Christ, where you witness to others and said, I cannot help but tell what is what God has done to me. This is all how the Bible describes being a disciple of Christ, so being a secret disciple is kind of a contradiction in terms. So let me ask you, would your friends and co-workers be shocked to discover that you are Christian? What, that guy? He's a Christian? Are you kidding me? Or I never would have known. I never would have thought that she was a believer. I mean, I've worked with her for twelve years, but I never heard a peep out of her. Anything that would indicate that she's a follower of Christ. Or how about your neighbors? Would they know? Would everyone in your neighbor would have your number and say, oh yeah, that guy down there, stay away from him. Because he is going to share the gospel with you. God has called us to be his witnesses, not to be secret disciples. But now I'm going to conclude with just two applications. I feel like I need to make this clarification for for believing people. We should not, although this doctrine of judicial hardening is clearly taught in Scripture, we should not presume to think that we know who those people are. You should not think, you know, I think my next door neighbor has been judicially hardened. So I'm never going to share the gospel with them. I'm never going to pray for them. I mean, they're too far gone. You can't know who's too far gone. Only God knows that. You have to be faithful in being a witness for Him And my final application is for those who are here and would profess that they are not believers. I quote to you Isaiah 55 and verse 6, Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is needed. What is the implication of that verse? You could wait so long that you could seek him and not find him. And this does not mean, again, that someone would literally be crying out to God and God would turn a deaf ear to them. What it means Is that their hearts would become so callous and so hardened and so self-sufficient and so careless that they would not even think ever about calling out to God. It would be amusing to them. There was a time in their life when perhaps they entered a service and they were convicted and the Spirit of God was was was showing them these things are true and and and and they can't believe that that's the case and and and they resisted but now they've come to a place where they can listen to the same sermon and it would not bother them at all. In fact they would mock what they heard because their heart has become rock hard and the Spirit of God is no longer involved in their situation And so it's a dangerous thing. If you're here this morning, and maybe your heart you sense is harder than it used to be. But there's still some concern. There's still some level of discomfort and fear that you may be lost eternally. My friend, I urge you to seek the Lord today. and to repent of your sins and trust in Him. Let's close in prayer. Father. We thank you that you've given us a great Savior. We thank you that in your word we find wonderful, assuring promises and we find warnings that are disturbing to us. I pray that you'd help us to believe both of them. I pray that you'd help us to not be secret disciples. But to be bright lights wherever you place us. And I pray, Father. For those who are here who have heard the gospel repeatedly, but have turned aside from it and resisted, rejected, I pray. that today they would confess, they would repent, and they would believe. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.