Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to the book of Hebrews? One of the books that has influenced me the most in pastoral ministry was a book written by Paul Tripp entitled dangerous calling confronting the unique challenges of pastoral ministry. This excellent book was published ten years ago. And on the back cover, it has five endorsements from prominent evangelical pastors. Each of those men at the time pastored large congregations and wrote popular books. But three of the five men Who endorsed that book are no longer in the ministry because of scandal in their personal lives. And at least one of those famous pastors no longer calls himself a Christian. I wonder if you've ever met a former Christian. It's a little bit of an awkward conversation. We are all familiar with those who profess to follow Christ and have since walked away. I think that giving up on the Christian life and going back to the world is a larger problem than we would like to acknowledge. I don't recall ever hearing a sermon on this topic when I was a boy growing up. Perhaps I just wasn't paying attention, but I suspect that it was an inconvenient truth. We've all seen young people grow up in Christian families who've come to church every Sunday, and then suddenly, when they come of age, walk away from all that they once believed. And we have seen active, professing Christians who've walked with the Lord, it would seem, for years, and were very active in ministry, and in many ways seem to be model Christians. Who have just decided they were going to go another direction and renounce their faith. This is not a new problem. The Lord confronted this in his own earthly ministry. We read the parable the sowers that talks about those who seem to receive the word. But they did not truly believe, and in time they fell away. We need to be reminded that of our Lord's twelve disciples, one was an imposter. And Jesus said, he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved. Perseverance is a theme that is particularly brought out. In the later writings of our New Testament, especially in the general epistles. We do find it referred to in the writings of Paul, but It certainly comes out in 2 Peter and in 1 John and in the little book of James. But the book that speaks of this topic far more than any other is the book of Hebrews. In the first century, many Jewish People heard that Jesus Christ was their promised Messiah, and some believed. This was new and novel and exciting. But those who believed soon encountered hardship. Some were kicked out of the synagogue and which was the center of their Jewish social life and identity. Many of them lost their jobs and their friends. Some of them were disowned by their families. They were treated in their community as traitors. And some of those who initially professed faith in Christ gave up and went back to their old life. The pressure was just too great. They essentially said, I can't take this. I didn't realize that following Christ would be this hard. And so they went back to their families. They went back to the synagogue. They went back to the law and the priest and the sacrifices. And they renounced their faith in Christ. But some remained despite the hardship. They continued to faithfully follow the Lord. And the book of Hebrews was written to exhort these persecuted followers of Jesus not to abandon their faith. This morning I would like to begin a series of expositional messages from the book of Hebrews. I've been thinking about this for a long time, but my hesitancy in preaching through this book has been primarily for two reasons. Number one, it's a relatively long book. The author says in the closing chapter that it was only a few words. But it does comprise 13 chapters and 290 verses. And you know that I tend to move fairly slowly through a passage. The last time I preached through a long book, it was actually the longest book in your New Testament, the Gospel of Luke. I started in 2004 and I ended in 2007. Ever since then, I've preached shorter books like James or Philippians or Colossians or key chapters in the Bible. Now, I do expect to go through Hebrews in less time than we went through Luke, but I feel certain it will take longer than a year. The book of Hebrews speaks of perseverance, and so I ask you to persevere with me as we study it together. The other reason that I was somewhat reluctant to preach through the book of Hebrews is because it's complex and very doctrinal. Now I love doctrine. But most people unfortunately find doctrine to be somewhat boring And when you go through long involved explanations of passages, you lose people 's attention. And so preachers are always kind of drawn to preach passages and books and chapters. that are that seem very relevant, that seem very easy to apply. But we need to remember that all of God's word is profitable. And that the book of Hebrews has a very important lesson for us. And so by God's grace, I'd like to begin our study of Hebrews this morning. And whenever I start a study like this, it's kind of like A train starting that's connected with all with three hundred cars. It is slow going at first Because we have to get some momentum going before we reach top speed. So I want to just very briefly cover some of the background of this book. First of all, who wrote this book? Now, if you've been a Christian for any length of time and you know your Bible well, you know that the book of Hebrews is the most disputed book in our New Testament concerning the authorship. Over the years, many s many ideas have been suggested. John Calvin thought it may have been Luke, the man who wrote our third gospel in the book of Acts. Martin Luther was a strong opponent of Apollos. Because we know from Scripture that Apollos was very eloquent, and this book is very eloquent. Another idea was that it was Barnabas. Tertullian, one of the early church fathers, thought it was Barnabas because he was a Levite, and the person who wrote this knew a great deal about the Levitical system. But certainly the name that has been most often given would be the Apostle Paul. This was the position of Jerome and Augustine, and it became sort of the official position of the Western Church. And many fundamental preachers over the years that I heard growing up would say that the Apostle Paul wrote the book of Hebrews, and some of them would be very dogmatic about it. But I think that that's very unlikely for the following reasons. Number one All of the other 13 books that Paul wrote bear his name right at the beginning. And no one yet has been able to give a convincing reason why if Paul wrote this, why he didn't put his name to it. That would have given it instant apostolic authority, but the person who wrote it did not give their name. Secondly, the style of the Greek language that is used here has a different tone than any of the writings of the Apostle Paul. It's very polished. It's filled with rhetoric. This person was educated like Paul, but in a different school and with a different emphasis. But the strongest reason to reject Paul's authorship of this book is found in chapter 2, verses 3 and 4. Turn with me to verse 3 of chapter 2. The writer says, how shall we escape? If we neglect so great salvation, which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him. Now notice he's making a reference to himself in that last phrase and was confirmed unto us. by them that heard him. So those who heard him would have been the apostles. My point is This last phrase, if you analyze it, the writer is saying, I'm not an apostle, but I heard about our Lord from an apostle. But if you know the Apostle Paul, you know that he vigorously defended his apostolic calling And he would say that indeed he did see and hear our Lord because of the vision that he had on the road to Damascus. So the very clear implication is that the person who wrote this book was not an apostle, but he heard the message of the gospel from an apostle. So for this reason, I cannot see how Paul could be the writer. So I think we must conclude with the early church father Origen that only God knows who wrote Hebrews. When was this book written? Well, this book had to have been written before the Romans destroyed Jerusalem in A. D. 70. Because this book speaks of a functioning temple where pe where sacrifices were still being uh performed. And we know that all of that came to an end in A. D. 70. There's also a reference at the very end of this book to Timothy. Who we know was very active in ministry in the 60s. In fact, Paul writes to him in the pastoral epistles during that same time period. So most scholars would say that this was written in the mid-60s, 64, 65, 66, somewhere in there, just a few years, before Jerusalem would be destroyed by the Romans. Now to whom was this book written? This book was written to Jewish professing believers. The author assumes that his readers are very familiar with the Old Testament. There are no explanations given for Gentile readers. And there's no mention of Gentiles really in this book. Just take to take a step further, these were Jews outside of Israel, and most New Testament scholars believe that at the end of this book in Hebrews 13, 24, where it says, They of Italy salute you. It is indicating that with the writer at that time, there were people with him who were from this church in Italy, and they were writing back to their home church saying, say hi for me in your letter. And so most scholars think that it was probably a Jewish house church in the city of Rome that received this letter in the mid-60s. Why was this book written? It was written because the author had heard discouraging reports of professing followers of Christ. abandoning their faith and going back to their old Jewish traditions. And nearly every scholar agrees that the key word in this book is the word better. I will say more about this later in our message. The author wants these beleaguered believers to know that Christ is better than anything they can possibly compare to him, and so they must keep following Christ. Now, earlier I gave you two reasons why I was hesitant to preach through this book. But now I want to give you four good reasons why we are going to study the book. The first reason is this. We are going to study Hebrews because it is a uniquely significant New Testament book. There is no other book in the New Testament that's similar to the book of Hebrews. One writer says that it be it begins like a treatise, it continues like a sermon, and it ends like an epistle. Indeed, it is a unique hybrid in structure and form. It has some of the features of an epistle, but it's also very different from all the other epistles that we possess in the New Testament. It is probably the most complete example we have in the New Testament of what early Christian preaching was like. What would it be like to be in the first century and to hear a message preached to you? You know what it would be like? It would be very much like the book of Hebrews. I think the book of Hebrews is very much like a sermon. Good preaching has been described as logic on fire. And I think that is true. And I think the book of Hebrews has this wonderful combination of Christ-centered doctrine with fiery rhetoric. There's nothing else like it in our New Testaments. It is also a very significant book for its doctrinal teaching Every book in the Bible, of course, contains doctrine. Doctrine simply means teaching propositional truth. But there are three New Testament books that are heavily doctrinal. You can picture them like three great pillars that support Christian teaching. So what do you think those three books are? Let's think about this for a second. Let's think about our four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Which one of those books is most theological? I see many of you saying it, and you're right. It is the Gospel of John, the last one that was written. The Gospel of John has been told has been described this way That it's shallow enough for a child to wait in, but it's deep enough to drown an elephant. Okay? The Gospel of John, at first glance, we have John 3. 16 and all kinds of very well-known verses. It seems to be very accessible and very shallow, but you get into it, it's incredibly deep. John is one of those great pillars. Well, of the writings of the Apostle Paul of his 13 epistles, which one of those books is a theological giant? It is the book of Romans. The doctrine of our salvation is more clearly brought out in that book than anywhere else, in anything ever written, especially the doctrine of justification. And you probably guessed by now, the third book that is a great pillar of truth, that is heavily doctrinal, is the book of Hebrews, that we are beginning our study. this morning. Now the problem, as I said earlier with doctrine, is that people often think it is boring and unimportant. And to be honest with you, sometimes we just don't want to force our brains to think about abstract things that are hard to understand. But God has revealed these things to us for us to know them. And part of what it means to love God with all your mind. Is that we really give it our very best effort to listen and to study and to think and to compare with other scriptures so that we know what God has taught us. We can't approach the Word of God like a buffet where we go through and we take what is very appetizing to us and what we think is good for us, perhaps. And leave everything else behind because God has given us his word so that we would know it. And all of it is profitable. All of it deserves our full attention. But there's something else that's unique and significant about Hebrews, and that is it helps us to better understand the Old Testament and therefore the grand narrative of Scripture. This is something that Pastor Nick has been talking a lot about in recent weeks in his Sunday school class. The Bible is not just a collection of 66 books that have very real relationship to one another. No, it is all part of one grand narrative of redemption. And if we didn't have the book of Hebrews, there would be a lot of things in the Old Testament that we would have to scratch our head about and say, I think maybe it's talking about this. The book of Hebrews is so important in helping us to understand how everything fits together. Through the book of Hebrews, we have a much better understanding of the meaning and purpose of all of those Old Testament sacrifices And by studying Hebrews, we will have a better understanding of how the old covenant relates to the new covenant. This is a very significant connection between the two halves of our Bible. And what we're going to see in the days to come is that the new covenant promises are realized in Christ You see, the book of Hebrews fills a huge void in our understanding of God's great plan of redemption. There's a second reason that we're going to be studying the book of Hebrews, and that is because it warns us of a false faith and provides for us an example of a living faith. Now, these warning passages are not something that I am eager to preach. I'd much rather believe preach on the believer's eternal security. You know, several months ago I preached through Romans chapter 8. I don't know if you enjoyed it, but I really enjoyed preaching through Romans chapter 8. That there's no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. That really thrills my soul, and it's wonderful to bring out all the assurance that a Christian can enjoy. I love preaching on that, but I have been called to preach the whole counsel of God. And the scripture also tells us that just because a person has made a profession of faith does not mean that they are truly born again. Now most Baptist churches are very dogmatic about eternal security. That is, that a truly born-again believer can never lose his or her salvation. And they should be. But most of those same churches are very silent about the perseverance of the saints. I can remember when we would come to warning passages or allusions to this, it would all be always be interpreted as a loss of rewards. Where on the judgment day you just won't get as many rewards because you walked away from Christ and went back to the world. Is that really what the New Testament is teaching? I don't think so. But another reason why many Baptist churches, and perhaps churches that you've come from, have never talked about perseverance of the faith. faith is because they believe that to teach that you must persevere in your faith is to teach a works salvation. And they want to predict that salvation is by grace alone, which of course is true. But they believe to say that you must continue to follow the Lord is to add works to grace and therefore untrue. Now let me be clear. I believe that the Bible teaches both the preservation of the saints and the perseverance of the saints. That is, to those whom God has graciously saved will never finally abandon their faith because they are kept by the power of God and will therefore keep following Christ. Now, in case you didn't know, the book of Hebrews is famous for warning passages. There are five such warning passages. That have caused a lot of people to scratch their heads and a lot of Christians, true Christians, to doubt their salvation. And we're going to get to these in time, but I want to just introduce them to you right now very briefly. Let me just show you where they are for now. Look with me at chapter 2 Notice he's going to exhort his congregation here. Chapter 2, verse 1. Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard lest at any lest at any time we should let them slip. For if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense a reward. How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? Which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord and was confirmed unto them by them that heard him. God also bearing them witness both with signs and wonders and with diverse miracles and gifts of the Holy Ghost according to his own will. Now turn with me to chapter three Now chapter 3, beginning at verse 12, there's a extended warning passage that goes all the way through chapter 4 and verse 13. I'm not going to read all of that. But I'm going to read the first two verses in chapter 3, chapter 3, verses 12 and 13. The writer says, Take heed, brethren. Lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing from the living God. But exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. And then in chapter six, which is perhaps the most famous of these, beginning my reading at verse four, verses four through eight. For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift and were made partakers of the Holy Ghost. and have tasted the good word of God and of the powers of the world to come, if they shall fall away to renew them again unto repentance, seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh. And put him to an open shame, for the earth which drinketh in the rain that cometh oft upon it and bringeth forth herbs meat for them by whom it is dressed receiveth blessing from God. But that which beareth thorns and briars is rejected, and is nigh unto cursing, whose end is to be burned. And then we find the next one in chapter 10. Chapter 10, verse 26. Hebrews 10, 26, For if we sin willfully, after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins, but a certain fearful looking for of judgment and of fiery indignation which shall devour the adversaries. He that despised Moses 's law died without mercy under two or three witnesses. Of how much sore punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy, who hath trodden underfoot the Son of God, and hath counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified an unholy thing, and hath done despot unto the spirit of grace. For we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongs unto me, I will recompense that the Lord, and again the Lord shall judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. And then chapter 12, verse 25, the last of the warning passages. Verse 25, see that refuse not him that speaketh, for if they escape not, who refused him that spake on earth Much more shall not we escape if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven, whose voice then shook the earth But now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven, and this word yet once more signifieth the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken may remain. Wherefore we receive a kingdom which cannot be moved. Let us have grace whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear, for our God is a consuming fire. Now you know why these passages are called warning passages because they have very serious warnings. To those who I would submit to you have a head knowledge, but not a heart knowledge I'm going to give detailed explanations of these passages in weeks and months to come. But I do want you to understand some of the context here. These individuals were ethnically Jewish and they were very religious. They knew their Bibles well. But like every community of believers, they were a mixed multitude. There were those there who had a knowledge of these things. And most writers think that the church here at this time was comprised primarily of second-generation believers. That is, that they were not the ones who heard Christ or the apostles necessarily preach to them at first, but they heard from those who heard from the apostles. And perhaps for many of them they heard from their parents. They were brought up in Christian homes, perhaps. And so Hebrews demonstrates that it's very possible for an individual to be accepted in the community of believers and yet only have a head knowledge. of Christ. But when the stakes become more costly, they will walk away from Christ. And go to the world because they were never truly born again. Now the third reason I want to study the book of Hebrews is because it teaches us how we should face suffering and persecution while following Christ. And now I'd like you to turn to the passage that we read together this morning, Hebrews chapter 10, which is really like A hinge in the book that moves really from the exposition of doctrine to exhortation. And in this hinge, we find really the interpretive key to understand what this book is all about. Look with me at Hebrews 10 verse 32. But call to remembrance the former days In which after ye were illuminated, ye endured a great fight of affliction. The writer here is calling on his readers, his hearers to remember a time in the past when they endured fierce persecution. The expression fight of afflictions was wording that was used in the day for athletic competitions. For a really hard struggle, like a game that took everything out of you Well what did this persecution look like? Look with me at verse 33. Partly while she were made a gazing stock both by reproaches and afflictions, and partly while ye became companions of them that were so used. So what he's saying here is that some of Christ's followers were verbally insulted and publicly disgraced. That is, within the community in which they live, people openly mock them and ridiculed them. There was hatred for them. And there were all kinds of rumors swirling about them and horrible things that they were supposedly doing But then there were those believers who were not the targets of this discrimination, but they stood up for their Christian brothers and sisters and said, I'm one of them. They took that dangerous move and supported them. Now look with me at verse 34. For ye had compassion of me and my bonds. This speaks of leading Christians who were imprisoned. And it speaks of the fact that the whole Christian community rallied around them. Now look at the second part of verse 34. and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods. Some Christians were imprisoned, and other Christians had their property destroyed or confiscated. And these spirit-filled Christians endured this persecution joyfully. Now the writer here is talking about a period of persecution. That had occurred in the past. This is very likely the persecution that we know that it took place historically under the Emperor Claudius. We have an ancient document from A. D. 49 that talks about riots in Rome in the Jewish community. Because of these new followers, and the the spelling there is wrong, but it's a reference to Christ in this document. The Jewish people felt that these new followers of Christ were ruining their religion, and so they were in an uproar, so the authorities took action. And they became like public enemy number one. Some leaders were imprisoned, others were expelled from the city. And that was probably about 15 years before the writing of this book. So this author is saying, you remember what it was like 15 years ago? Many of you were new believers, and you really had to pay dearly for your faith, but you rose with courage. You stood by your Christian brothers and sisters, and you endured this persecution joyfully. Now it's about 15 years later And a new emperor is on the scene. His name is Nero. And Nero Right about this time there was a great fire in Rome, and Nero knew the Christians were unpopular, and so he found them a very convenient scapegoat, and he said, It's the Christians who have done this. And so there was a new wave of persecution that had begun in the believers at Rome. And so the author makes this kind of exhortation. Look with me at verse 35. These are some of the key verses of the book. Cast not away therefore your confidence, which hath great recompense of reward. For you have need of patience, or we would say endurance. That after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise for yet a little while, and he that shall come will come and will not tarry. Now the just shall live by faith. But if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him But we are not of them who draw back unto perdition, but of them that believe to the saving of the soul. So the writer here is exhorting them to hold fast their faith in Christ. Because just as the Lord has sustained them in the past, he will do it again in the future. This is the message that we need to remember. We are growing more and more into a post-Christian society. Where people who believe the way we believe will be targeted, will be discriminated against, will face opposition from the world. And we need to remember that much of our Bibles was written to address this issue and people in this situation. We live in a nation where a high percentage of people claim to be followers of Christ. But how many people would claim to be followers of Christ if it was very costly? If it meant you lost your job And you lost your home, and you were separated from your family. I think there would be a winnowing process. I think there would be many people who would say, you know what, that's uh that's just I I wish you all well, but that's just too much for me. I I can't do that That's what was happening in this Jewish community. The Lord was winnowing out his church, his true believers from those who did not truly know the Lord. But finally, I want you to see that we are going to study Hebrews because it reminds us that Christ is better than anything else. I must confess that the main reason I wanted to preach the book of Hebrews is because this book is filled with Christ. And I love to preach Christ. Now I've already mentioned in our introduction, and I know you've heard Pastor Nick say this in his survey of this book as well in Sunday school, that the key word Is the word better? It is found some 13 times in this book. Now, before we look at some of these passages, I'd like to answer an objection that may have come into your mind. And that is, why doesn't it say that Christ is best? I mean, saying that Christ is best seems like a stronger statement than that he is better. But the author of Hebrews doesn't use the superlative Instead, he uses the comparative form. Why is that? That might be something that's come to your mind. The answer is that rhetorically it's more powerful to repeatedly use the comparative form than to just make one statement that Christ is best. Because when someone makes a comparative, you unconsciously or perhaps consciously make that comparison in your mind. It forces you to think. And of course, to say that Christ is better than anything or anyone is the equivalent of saying that Christ is best. So it's this theme that Christ is better that provides the basic structure of the book. This is what we find in what is like the doctrinal section of it, chapters 1 through 10. It's all about the fact that Christ is better. And then in chapters 11 and following, we're exhorted to live as if Christ is better based on the truths found in those first ten chapters. So the first thing in the first two chapters, the main point the author is making is that Christ is better than angels. Now it's more complex than that, and I'll get into more details in the future, but just for now, I'm just speaking in very big with very big concepts. Christ is better than angels. Look with me at Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 4. Being made so much better than the angels. As he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. And then in chapters three and four We're going to see that Christ is better than Moses. All the Jews had great reverence for Moses, the lawgiver. And the author of this book is going to say, Christ is better than Moses. Now, he doesn't use the specific term better, but the language is unmistakable. Look with me at chapter 3. Verse 1. Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and high priest of our profession, Christ Jesus. who was faithful to him that appointed him, even as Moses was faithful in all his house, for this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he who hath built the house hath more honor than the house. For every house is built by some man, but he that built all things is God. And Moses verily was faithful in all his house as a servant. for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken after. But Christ as a son over his own house, whose house we are if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm until the end. And then we come The chapters five through seven, and here we find that Christ is a better high priest. Did you know that the book of Hebrews is the only book in our New Testament that tells us that Christ is our high priest? If we didn't have this book, we wouldn't know that truth. But it's brought out again and again. We find that he's better than all of those priests who were descended from Aaron. And he's a better high priest even than Melchizedek because Jesus is the ultimate priest king. And then finally, in chapters 8 through 10, we see that Christ has provided a better covenant based on a better sacrifice. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 8. And verse six. But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry By how much also is he the mediator of a better covenant, which was established upon better promises. And then about towards the end of chapter 10, the exhortation and the application, the second half of this book begins. So let me wrap this up. Why is it that some of these professed followers of Christ were thinking about playing it safe in their minds and going back to their cultural Judaism? The answer is simply this. They did not believe that Jesus was better. If they thought that Jesus was better than all of those old ways. They never would have abandoned him. So let me make application from this one truth, the major truth of this book, this morning. The reason why people walk away from Christ and abandon their supposed faith is because they have found something they think is better than Christ. Something that they think will bring them a better life, make them happier, give them better direction And they simply want to follow that. You say, you see, you will always choose what you think is best. What you suppose will bring you the most happiness. Nobody chooses to do something saying, you know, this is going to make me miserable the whole rest of my life. But I guess this is what I'm going to choose. God didn't make us that way. We choose what we think will bring us happiness. And whatever you put in place of Christ Becomes your idol. You see, those who abandon Christ don't think of it as an evil decision. No, it seems like the only logical choice to them For some, it could be that they want to be respected by the world. They want to be an elite company. They want to be considered the smartest person in the room. And if that is your goal, if that is your purpose, you're probably going to need to abandon your faith in Christ because in very high intellectual circles, that's not respected. Although It is the most logical and most intellectually defensible position there is. But really, really supposed brainy people don't like to talk about Jesus. And followers of Christ and Jesus bearing the wrath of God. That's repulsive and archaic and primitive in their way of thinking Or it could be that you find the constraints of following Christ too restrictive because you can't imagine living without your sexual freedom. We live in a culture today that thinks that sexual freedom is like a sacred thing. You can never question anyone's sexual sexuality or any choice they make. In fact, you're all supposed to be support of us. That's great. I'm so I I'm so happy for you. I think that's wonderful. Even though often people go behind their back and say, I think I think it's ridiculous what they're doing. But their public faces, this is wonderful. Because the world has told us we have to be supportive of whatever sexual choices a person makes. That is completely contrary to what the Word of God teaches. The Bible says that if you're a follower of Christ, that all of your life is brought under His Lordship and authority. And that includes your sexuality. And it's often for young people, when they walk away from Christ at a young age, it's often this issue. I will not do and live my life within the confines of what the Word of God says. I'm going to live life on my own terms, and they walk away. Or perhaps you would say that you want to amass wealth. You want to live a comfortable life. And you know that being a Christian will get in the way. It will hurt your business. It will be a real hindrance to what you're trying to accomplish in your life, your ultimate goal. And so you abandon your Christianity. And you go out to live as an unbeliever, even though you might in some ways identify yourself as a Christian, a cultural Christian. But your life is no different from anyone who's never heard the name of Jesus Christ. Hebrews tells us that those who love the world and go back to the world are essentially walking over the body of Christ, considering the blood of the Savior to be a worthless thing. You've heard parents sometimes use an expression to their kids, perhaps, over my dead body. You know? I'm gonna fight you tooth and that you're gonna have to walk over me as a dead person to do that. And there's very much a sense when everyone who is professed to know know Christ, who knows the truth, who knows the gospel, who can give it to you, but has decided to reject it, they've walked over and trampled over his precious blood to go their own way. But on the other hand, after all the severe warnings, we're going to see that often in these warning passages The writer says something like this, but I am persuaded better things of you, brethren. He tenderly entreats them. Because those who know the Savior would rather have Jesus than anything this world affords. So what's the theme of this book? I'm going to wrap it up with this sentence. True believers will persevere in their faith because they know that Christ is better than anything. Let me ask you this morning, is that your conviction? Is that at the very core of your being, at the center of your soul? that Jesus Christ is more important and more valuable, that he is my treasure, and I will do whatever it takes to follow him because he is my life. That is what true born-again Christians profess, and that's how they live their lives, even in the face of growing opposition. May God give us grace as we embark on the study of this blessed book. Let's close in prayer. Father, I pray that you would work in our hearts. I pray that those who are here today, who are considering abandoning you or have already, I pray, Lord, that you would quicken them and convict them. That they would seek you, they would examine their hearts, that they would really think about the life choices that they're making. And before they walk over the sacrifice of Christ and insult it and mock it, I pray, Father, that you would bring them to repent. And that they would fear, Father, to fall into the hands of a living God. Pray that you would use our study of this book, Father. to give us a better understanding of our atonements and a better appreciation for what it takes to live the Christian life. life. Give us, Father, that spiritual stamina that we desperately need in these days. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.