Give your Bibles, please, would you join me in John chapter 4? John chapter 4. There was once a young man who came from a godly Christian home. Decided to join the military. His first night in basic training, he was in the barracks with 15 other men And he did what he always did before he went to bed. He knelt by his bed and spent some time in silent prayer. The other men began to mock him and laugh at him, and some even cursed at him. Next day he went to the army chaplain and told him of what had happened. The chaplain explained to him that he wasn't at home anymore, and so he needed to adjust to his new surroundings, and he reminded him. That God could hear him if he was laying in bed or kneeling by his bed. And so he suggested that he discontinue that practice. And the young man took the chaplain's advice for two nights, but he felt disobedient. And so on the third night he knelt by his bed again and once again. the abuse returned, but only for a time as the days went on, it became less and less. And in a short time several men would come up to him and talk to him privately about spiritual matters. And eventually three of them were saved. And by the end of their training, nearly everyone was kneeling by their bed before they went to bed, and they had established a prayer meeting. All because one man was a bold witness for Christ. In recent weeks, we have been considering John chapter 4 and our Lord's interaction with the woman at the well. This is a wonderful example of the power of the gospel. The Lord Let me remind you, has intentionally traveled through Samaria in order to meet this woman and share the good news of the gospel with her. He's come there at this time, at this place, in order to seek and to save her soul. This woman was an outcast in her Samaritan village. It probably explains why she came to the well at noon. This was not a typical time. It seems that she was trying to avoid other women in the village. She was a woman without any status or standing from the world's perspective. She lived among a group of people who were outcast, and she was an outcast among the outcast. But Jesus came to rescue her from her sins. Jesus initiates their conversation by asking her for a drink of water. She is surprised that a Jewish man would speak to her. But then Jesus quickly offers her living water. She thinks of it in terms of only physical water. But then in verse 16, the conversation becomes more personal. Jesus gently exposes her sin, revealing that she has had five husbands And the man that she is now living with is not her husband. And she responds in verse 19 by saying, Sir, I perceive that you are prophets. She turns the conversation to worship and expresses the age-old divide between the Jews and the Samaritans about the place of worship. The Jews said it should take place on the Temple Mount and The Samaritan said on Mount Gerizim. And Jesus responds saying that this debate was essentially irrelevance. Because a new age had dawned with his coming, and soon people would worship the one true God in spirit and in truth. It would no longer be a matter of the location that you worship at. And in fact, he reveals to her that the Father is seeking such people to worship him, individuals like the Samaritan woman. End this conversation, Jesus has revealed to her who she is. She is a thirsty sinner. Who God is. He is a spiritual being that must be worshipped spiritually. That is from the heart. And who he is, that he is the Messiah, the Savior of the world. We read of his revelation to her in verse 25. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. And at that precise moment, the disciples returned from buying food in the village, and the woman. After a brief pause, returns to share what she has learned about the identity of this man. Now we have in this story a beautiful picture of the transforming power of the gospel. Not only does this notoriously sinful woman become a worshiper of the one true God, she becomes a witness for God. She is perhaps the most unlikely missionary that we find in Scripture. That's what I want to preach to you about this morning, an unlikely witness for Christ. God desires that every believer be a witness for him. And there are no exceptions to that. I want you to notice first of all that this woman became a witness for Christ despite The disciples' reaction to her. Look with me, please, at verse 27 of John chapter 4. Just then his disciples came back. They marveled that he was talking with a woman, but no one said, What do you seek? Or why are you talking with her? Let me just say that this was not the disciples' finest hour. At the very moment that Jesus has disclosed his identity as the Messiah to this woman, the disciples arrive back from the village with the food they have purchased. I want to remind you that the Lord was in control of every detail of this encounter. He has come on this day at this time to this well in this village. for the specific purpose of witnessing to this woman. This was a divine appointment. And in keeping with that, he has sent all of the disciples. They didn't need all of them to go, but he sent all of them to the village to buy food. so that he could have an uninterrupted conversation with this woman. Because as I mentioned before, when you witness to people and their family members or friends or others present, it changes the entire dynamic. They're embarrassed. They're guarded. They're careful. So he talks to this woman. And it's also providentially under his control that the disciples arrived when she was still there. The Lord wanted this to be a teachable moment. He wanted his disciples to know that he did not share their disdain for her and the Samaritans. And that she had a soul that was worth seeking after. Now in an early message that I shared with you, that nearly all ancient cultures felt That women were inferior to men. Unfortunately, this was true even among the Jewish rabbis who should have known better, because that's not what the Bible or the Old Testament teaches. The Old Testament reveals that both man and woman are made in the image of God 's. They might have different functions and different gifts, but they are equal in the sight of God. They are of equal value. But unfortunately, that was not the prevailing view, and it's not the way the disciples thought, and it's not the way people thought in their Jewish culture. I'm going to read some rabbinical comments. from ancient times. One writer says, a man should not be alone with a woman in an end, not even his sister or his daughter on account of what men might think. A man shall not talk with a woman in the street, not even his own wife, and especially not another woman. on account of what men might say. You'll notice the great concern is not what God thinks, but what people might think. Another rabbi says, he that talks much with a woman brings evil upon himself and neglects the study of the law and will at last inherit Gehenna. I want you to know that Jesus smashed those cultural taboos and he spoke to this woman. Now I want you to notice that verse 27 records two unspoken questions that the disciples had at this moment. And you might be wondering, Well, how does John know this is what the disciples were thinking? The answer is because he was one of them. He was there. This is what he was thinking. The first unspoken question was, what do you see? This question was what the disciples wanted to address to the Samaritan woman. You may not be able to tell this from the text, but that's the case. How would we put this today? We would put it this way today. What do you want? The idea is that they wanted to get rid of her. They're probably hungry. They've come back from the village. They have food. They want to eat. And now Jesus is talking with the Samaritan woman. They want her gone. They see her as a hindrance, as a waste of time. They're frankly shocked that Jesus was talking with her. And they went to get rid of her And the second question that they were thinking was, why are you talking with her? I suspect that at that moment in their hearts they were disappointed with Jesus. Because every rabbi that they'd ever known or ever heard of would not have done this. He would not have spoken with a woman, first of all. He would not have spoken with a Samaritan woman, certainly, and he would not have spoken with a Samaritan woman with an immoral reputation. And yet their master is doing this. But we also read that no one dared to ask these questions. And there could be several reasons. One is because they respected him and they didn't want to raise this question at this time, but perhaps also because the woman was still there and it would have been awkward, obviously, to discuss that with her standing there. I suspect that as John was recording this event under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, he was a little embarrassed to put this down. It doesn't put the disciples in a good light. It doesn't put himself in a good light at this time. They were filled with prejudice. Let me remind you that in Luke chapter 9, we read That Christ and his disciples were out ministering in Samaria and they came to a certain village and they weren't welcomed into the village. And John, the man who wrote this book, and his brother James, the sons of Zebedee, they said, Lord, do you want us to call down fire from heaven? Let's just incinerate all of them. That's what they thought about the Samaritans. They had no concern for them. We think about, and rightfully so, that this woman was a missionary to the Samaritans. But did you know that other people who knew the truth of the identity of Christ had already been in that village? It was the disciples. Remember? They just went to that village sidecar to buy food. Did any of them see the people in that village as a mission field? As people who needed to hear about Christ. No, they didn't. They just wanted to get their food and get out of there before they were contaminated by such a wicked people. Probably murmuring, why did Jesus even want us to come through here? But Jesus cared for them. And Jesus was about to do something amazing through her witness. Now let me ask you an important question. Do you suppose this woman at the well knew how the disciples were thinking about her? I think she does. I think she knew exactly how they thought about her. I think they knew that they wanted her to get lost and that they had no concern for her at all. One reason I say this is that women tend to be more intuitive than men. Have you ever picked up on that husband's? Have you? Yeah. It's true of me. There's been times like that we've I've met somebody and talked to them and they they were exchanging pleasantries and everything. And I'll say to my wife, I think that went well. And she'll say, he wasn't happy with you at all And I'll say, what? She'll say, Well w well, didn't you see his body language? Didn't you see his facial expressions? Didn't you hear the tone of his voice? No, I was just listening to what he said. I think this woman knew the disciples disdained her. Now let's think about this for a second. That was not a very good introduction of her To the disciples of Christ was it? Do you think she was thinking, man, this is the group I want to be a part of? I want to be a follower of this man and all these guys that are following him. And yet She still went back to her village and with great enthusiasm told everyone about this man who knew all about my life, who's the Messiah. How easily she could have said and could have responded, like many people would, well, this is what the followers of Jesus are like. I want nothing to do with them. I'm not going to witness for this man. He's surrounded by a bunch of prejudiced people. I want nothing to do with them. How many people I've met in my life who claim to know Christ, who can recite John 3. 16 to you, can give you the gospel. They haven't been to church in ages And if you talk to them about it, it's because way back when they had a bad experience at church and somebody or some pastor or some deacon or somebody mistreated them and misjudged them and didn't handle the situation right. And they were hurt and they're bitter about it, and so they're never ever going to go to church again. And it's completely stunted their spiritual growth if indeed they are a child of God And those individuals will certainly not be a witness for Christ. But this woman despite this awful introduction to the followers of Christ, still goes to the village with great enthusiasm. This is why I say she's such an unlikely witness. This woman became a witness for Christ despite the way she was treated by the disciples. Number two, this woman became a witness for Christ and demonstrated a real change. In her life. Look with me, please, now at verse 28. We have to think deeply about this. So the woman left her water jar and went away into town. And said to the people, come see a man who told me all that ever I did. I want to go back to the first part of verse 28 and her leaving the water jar. This is a very condensed or compressed account. All right? Sometimes people think That every episode that you read of in the Gospels, that every single word that was said and every event that's happened was recorded. That's not true. We do have the words of our Savior, and the words that were spoken are accurately represented, but it's edited, it's been compressed, it's been condensed. to make a point that the author, under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, wants to make. So why does John Include this detail of her leaving the water pot or the water can there and going to the village. Why does he leave that detail in there? It must means something. He wants us to take something from it. Let me give you some suggestions. Some say that she left the water pot so that Jesus and the disciples had water to eat with their meal. That's a nice thought, but I don't think that's why it's recorded. I think more likely John is using this, at least on the surface, to indicate that she was in such a hurry to tell people about Jesus that she didn't want that heavy water pot. To weigh her down, she would have carried it on her head. I remember when my family went over to Papua New Guinea and we saw women with huge containers on top of their head. And it seems absolutely strange to us. Why would you carry something that way? I want to assure you that there are millions and millions and millions of women today in the world who are carrying water on top of their head. And they think the way we do things in the West is strange. This woman was in such a hurry that she left it there. She was enthusiastic It would have slowed her down. It was probably, you can go to the well, you can go to the village today. It's about a half mile If you're carrying a heavy burden on top of your head for half a mile, it's going to slow you down. You can't run that way. This woman leaves the pot there, which is the reason she came to get that water, and she runs back to the village. But I want to suggest to you that John has included this here for a symbolic reason as well. And that is, I think, that John is indicating to his careful reader that her old life has passed away. Why do I say that? Because we find the same kind of symbolism elsewhere in the gospel When Jesus called Simon and Andrew to follow him in Mark chapter 1, we read that immediately they left their nets and followed him. And the leading of those nets was not just Mentioned there to say, oh, they left their nets. It meant that that way of life was now over for them. They were now following Jesus. Their fishing business was over. And when we read also of James and John, the author of this gospel, the sons of Zebedee, that they were with their father. in a fishing boat, they left him there in the boats and followed Jesus. And when Matthew the tax collector was called by Jesus, He got up and he left his booth and he followed the Lord. It doesn't say that he packed up all of the money and everything else and closed down the booth and a couple days later went. No, he just left it there and he followed Jesus. It was symbolic of the fact of a clean break with his old life. And I want to suggest to you that that water pot left there by the well was symbolic of the fact that this woman's old lifestyle of adultery was now over. It was gone. And in just a few years Jesus would shed his blood on a Roman cross, and his blood would wash away all her sins. But there's another evidence of her change. Because what does she do? She goes out Verse 28 went out into the town and said to the people, Come see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ? How is this a change? Well think about this. She came at noon. She was trying to avoid the people. She didn't make eye contact with people. She was used to people hurling insults her way or avoiding her or shunning her in some way. And so she just tried to avoid people, but now she's seeking out after people. She's going to talk to people. She's engaging them in conversation. I think before she looked angry and cynical and her countenance was fallen, but I suspect now that she had joy radiating from her face. and she looked everyone in the eyes and she wanted to share this incredible news that had changed her life. And she had an unusual message to share. You see how it's put here? Come see a man who told me all that I ever That was her great witness and testimony. And you'll see this is repeated again in verse 39. Look at it. Many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony. He told me all that ever I did. Not much of a testimony. But that's what she had to say. Now let's talk about this for a moment. When it says here that he told me all that ever I did, I hope that you understand that this is hyperbole. Do you know what hyperbole is? It's when you intentionally exaggerate something because you're intensifying it, right? So husbands, when your wife says, you never talk to me, that is hyperbole. It doesn't mean that you should say, No, a month ago I said hi to you. That's not true. No Wrong way to respond. Jesus did not have time to go through and explain every moment that had happened in her entire life. She is excited. She is enthusiastic. And she is overcome with what has occurred. And so she expresses it this way. What can explain this sudden transformation? Well, God's amazing grace has changed her from the inside out. My third point. This woman became a witness for Christ despite her many limitations. Throughout John 's gospel, he has arranged many things to point to the identity of Christ. And so we have miracles. We have Old Testament quotations. We have acts that he did that will remind the reader of things in the Old Testament. And we also have witnesses like John the Baptist, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. The first witness in this book. We have the witness of the disciples. And we have the witness of this woman. Now, have you ever considered what an unqualified witness this woman was? Can I put it this way without people getting angry with me or making you think that I'm throwing mission boards under the bus? But if she went to a mission agency and said, hey, I'd like to be a missionary, Let me tell you about my qualifications. They would say, no, thank you. Exits over there Let me mention four facts about her life that could have kept her quiet. Number one, she was a woman. Women were not allowed to give testimony in a court of law because they were considered untrustworthy. I think this might explain why she witnesses for Christ the way she does. Look at verse 29. This is an underwhelming testimony on her part. Do you see what it says? Come see a man who told me all that ever I did. Can this be the Christ? Why didn't she say, this is the Christ? Some people have looked at this and they said, well, you see, I don't think she was really a believer, at least not yet. She doesn't even know that he's the Christ, the Messiah. But I think a more likely explanation is the reason she put it like this is because if she boldly proclaimed, I have found the Messiah, people would say. We're not going to listen to you. You have no credibility. You're not a rabbi. You're not a religious teacher. You're an immoral woman. You have no standing in our society or culture to make a proclamation like that. So instead she has this teasing question, can this be the Messiah? Could this be? She wants them to become curious and to come and find out for themselves. There's another reason that she could have kept her mouth shut. Number two, she was an immoral woman. She had a poor reputation. She was not what you would call an expert witness. You know what happens when you come as an eyewitness to something and you are Cross-examined in a court of law, the witness, you know what they do? They go to your character and your credibility. And they will research your entire life and they'll look for things like a criminal record. or cases where you have not told the truth in the past, and they will bring that up when they cross-examine you and they will completely discredit you and they'll bring up facts about your past that people say, I'm not listening to a thing that person says It was the same with this woman. But this woman still speaks for the Lord. She didn't keep quiet. She didn't let her past define her or keep her mute. She comes and she shares the good news. Come see a man who told me everything I ever did in my life. This was her great talking point We see it in verse 30, and then in verse 39, it's repeated again. He told me all that I ever did. But you know what? The Lord likes to take small things and do great things with them. He took that little simple intriguing statement And people came, verse 30. She said, come and what happened? Verse 30. And they went out of the town and were coming to him. That is Picture John picturing all these people coming from the Samaritan village, making their way to the well. To see for themselves this guy who 's has profetic gift and claims to be the Messiah And it brought about great fruit. Amazing. Number three, something else that could have kept this woman quiet. You know what it was? She didn't know very much. She didn't know very much. Can I put it this way? I suspect, maybe, except for really tiny children, I suspect that everyone here knows more about Jesus than this woman did at this point. She knew he was the promised Messiah. And that was it. I think if you were to give her a theological exam, I think she would fail. She was probably illiterate. She had heard bits and pieces from the first five books of the Bible. That's what the Samaritans recognized as the Word of God. I suspect that she rarely attended worship at the temple in Mount Gerizim because she was such an outcast. And even if she did go for temple instruction, it was filled with distortions and fables and legends. And influences from the pagan culture around them. My point is she knew very little about Jesus. She knew very little of the truth. But she told people what she did know. You know what so often keeps people quiet about witnessing for Christ? They're afraid they're going to say something. I want to explain to me the problem of evil. Or where, you know, or or some other crazy questions that people like to ask that's very philosophical and very deep and they're afraid I don't have the answers to all the questions they might ask so I'm just going to keep my mouth shut This woman didn't take that approach. She simply said the little bit she knew And then there's the fourth thing that could have kept her mouth shut. Think about this. She was giving a witness to people who didn't like her. They weren't kindly disposed to her. They didn't trust her. They hated her. And yet she's going and talking to them. She was an outcast. She probably had the worst reputation of any woman in this village. And when people saw her in public, I suspect they hurled vile names at her. And yet she is concerned for these people who hate her. And I'm sure not everyone. Talked to her nicely that day or said, sure, I'll go see him. I suspect that most people rejected what she said. Perhaps cursed her But she kept going. What was the result? Look down with me at verse 40. So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days. And many more believed because of his word. They said to the woman, It's no longer because of what you said that we believe For we have heard for ourselves and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world. Did you pick up in this paragraph the key word that John loves to use in this gospel? In verse 40 it says that many believed. In verse 41, many more believed. In verse 42, we have the word believe. No longer was it hearsay. This woman said something amazing about this man. They've heard from his own lips and they've come to believe, yep, she's right, he is the Messiah. This was one of the most successful missions recorded in our Lord's earthly ministry. It's been called the Samaritan Revival, and it was all started by the testimony of one unlikely witness. But now I'd like to move to just a few points of application as we conclude this morning. I want you to know, and this is good news for all of us, it's certainly good news for me. God delights to use unimpressive people to take the gospel to the lost. Sometimes we think that God only uses spiritual supermen and superwomen, not people like us. I want you to know that all of God 's spiritual giants have been weak men and women. William Carey, the father of modern missions, was not an impressive man to look at. He lived in a little village in the middle of nowhere in England. He was a shoe cobbler, which means he repaired shoes, not that he made shoes, because he wasn't good enough or skillful enough to make shoes. By his own admission. He was an unimpressive teacher. He also supplemented his income by teaching in a local school there. But by all accounts, he was a failure as a teacher. You know why? He had no classroom control. The kids were running all around the classroom and throwing things, and he would just say Please be quiet. I'm trying to teach here. He was also the pastor of a tiny little congregation in this village in England. And he wasn't the greatest preacher in the world. People were not breaking down the doors to come and hear him. But God called him to be a missionary at a time when that was dangerous and strange and out of the question. And he went over to India and he faced great hardship and great obstacles. But God used them in a mighty way because it turned out that he had this genius for language, for translating languages, and he translated so many Bibles. into different Asian languages that God blessed and opened up vast missionary territory through his labors. But he was an unimpressive man. What about Dwight L. Moody, the great evangelist of the 19th century? If you read any of his transcribed sermons, they're filled with grammatical errors and often a few theological errors as well. He was saved at the age of 17 when a man named Edward Gimble, Gimbel, excuse me, who was a Sunday school teacher. This young man came to a Sunday school class and he could tell that this man did not know the Lord. He followed up with him in his place of work, and Moody got saved, and he was attending this church, so he wanted to join the church. So he met with the leaders of the church to join the church, and they rejected him because he was completely ignorant of theology, couldn't answer their questions But he would go on to become the greatest evangelist of the 19th century. And through his worldwide preaching ministry, millions of people were saved. But he was not an impressive man. No one said, what an intellect. What a speaker. He was a simple common man. He had no theological training. He was never ordained. He said, just call me plain Mr. Moody. But God used that unimpressive vessel to do great things for him. Number two, my second application is this. No Christian has an excuse for refusing to be a witness for Christ Sometimes people think that if you're going to speak for Christ You've got to be a missionary or a pastor or an evangelist. You have to have theological training. You have to have a near perfect background and record in your life that's unassailable. And that then and only then can you really speak for him. But that is not the case. As I mentioned earlier, we so often excuse ourselves. Because we think they might ask a question that I have no answer for. And I'm going to look stupid and I'm going to bring reproach upon the name of Christ. So I'm just not going to open my mouth. The woman at the well could have used all of these excuses, but she didn't. She spoke for the Lord, and her enthusiasm and the obvious change in her were a compelling testimony. to Christ's saving work. And then number three, the essence of our witness is come and see. We don't have to answer all their questions. We don't have to have the Bible memorized. We just have to say, come and see. See for yourself. Read for yourself. Learn for yourself. In verse 29 she says, come and see. And the people did in verse 30. They were coming to him. In John chapter 1, we read of Philip finding Nathaniel, and he says to him, Come and see. We see this invitation all throughout the pages of Scripture. Think of Isaiah 118. Come, let us reason together. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Matthew 11, 28, come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden. To the rich young ruler, Jesus said, come follow me. To all the disciples, at some time he said, come And we could go on and on. I always think it's powerful and amazing that the Bible ends with an invitation. Revelation chapter 22, the last chapter. 1189 chapters, and in the very last chapter, towards the very end of that chapter, we read: The Spirit and the Bride say, Come. And let him who is thirsty come. So my question to you this morning is, have you come? Have you come to drink of this living water, the only water that can quench the thirst of your soul? Have you come to believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God? Have you come in simple faith to trust in the saving work of Christ alone? as the basis of your salvation, not in your good deeds, not in your ability to clean up your life and turn over a new leaf, but you're trusting in his redemptive substitutionary death on the cross in your place. Have you come to belief? May God help you to trust in Him today. Let's close in prayer. Dear Lord, Thank you for giving us a great Savior. We thank you that you use unimpressive people like us. People who are flawed, people who are ignorant, people who are sinners. Thank you that you use us as jars of clay to bear the treasure of the gospel And Father, for those who might be here in our presence this morning who are yet lost in their sins, I pray that today would be their day of salvation, that they would come and see And come to believe the gospel. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen