If you have your Bibles, please. I would invite you to turn with me to Hebrews chapter ten. I want to preach to you tonight about a topic that is not necessarily pleasant. It's not a feel-good thing. It doesn't make you feel warm and fuzzy inside. But there are a lot of things in life that are real. That are important for us to consider that aren't necessarily delightful and entertaining for us. We live in an age of entertainment. To say the least, and it's very easy for us to pick and choose what we want to dwell on and think about and receive But the fact of the matter is there is some strong medicine, if you will, in the scriptures. I'm preaching on this topic of apostasy tonight, primarily because of a message that I listened to. There's a great preacher who's going on to be with the Lord who I used to attend his church when I was in college. And he used to say there's only two things that really get me stirred up. And that's good preaching and bad preaching. And in this case, it was bad preaching that got me stirred up. And uh got me to thinking about the importance of this issue and the uh importance of us having a good understanding of it. However, The issue itself is somewhat controversial and something that Christians do differ over. And there's certain latitudes That we must give to one another. But there also should be boundaries where the Bible is clear. You can't really say this or go beyond this without going into error. I've mentioned to you before that biblical truth is very precise, and you can think about it like a narrow pass through a mountain range. On either side of that path, there is a precipice, a cliff that goes down to destruction. And if you don't stay in the middle of the road, you're in danger. To use another analogy, God's truth God 's truths are often things that should be held in tension Like two great pillars that have a cable stretched between them. And there's tension there. These are two truths that are clearly taught in the Word of God. For instance, man is responsible to believe. But God always saves sinners by grace and initiates that work. These things are true and taught in Scripture. And what we often want to do is we want to eliminate one of the pillars so that there's not that tension. But when we do that, we do that to our own peril, and we drift into unbelief. I've mentioned you before to use another analogy, you can take any truth any wonderful truth of Scripture and so exaggerate it and blow it up as it were like a balloon. that it becomes distorted and now it's gone into error And that is true about this matter of our salvation and the security of the believer. I am going to get to the end of Hebrews chapter ten here. The reality is If you've been a Christian for very long and you've been in a church anywhere, you know that there are people who go away from the faith. What do we mean by apostasy? Apostasy means to fall away. It means that someone who at one time professed to be a Christian and was received into the body of Christ as a brother or sister in Christ. But then something happens in their life and now either in their words or in their actions or in both. They renounce that profession and they say, you know what? I'm not a Christian anymore. I don't believe the Bible. I don't believe Jesus is the Son of God. I don't believe there's a heaven or a hell. I'm not even sure I believe there's a God 's. What do we do with people like that? Well, the technical term for that is apostasy. Apostasy. We have to be careful and not condemn people. We always want to put people in neat little categories. The fact is a person can possibly go through a period of great turmoil and disruption in their life where out of bitterness or anger or disappointment, they say things that really don't reflect their hearts. I say that to say this a person may say some very unwarranted things and yet in time come back to the Lord and demonstrate that they do have a living faith. So we should be slow to write people off and say, well, you know, this is they're an apostate. But we need to realize that it is a very real possibility. And that should alarm us. All of us have known people who one day profess to be believers and today do not. Often, and perhaps the most common variety is people who make a profession of faith and they come into a church and uh they they might even show some initial enthusiasm. And then all of a sudden they stop coming, you never see them again, and they they don't want to answer your calls, they don't want to answer the door when you knock on the door. And they've gone completely back to their old life. How do we explain that? Did they lose their salvation? I would say no. We would explain that by, I think, what Jesus called what's commonly called the parable of the sower, or parable of the soils, perhaps more precisely. And that is, it talks about the seed that springs up, but then when the sun comes, it withers away, it has no roots. There is what looks to be life, what looks to be growth, but in fact, there's no root. And it's gone, it's withered, never to return again. And then there are people. How this grieves my heart. There are people who grow up in Christian homes, are brought to Sunday school from the time they're an infant. And they attend church with their parents again and again and again. They know all the right answers. They know the language. They know what to say. They know how to give a testimony. But then when they come of age, when they start to interpret life for themselves and figure out who they are and what they want to do. They walk away and say, no, thank you. I don't believe that anymore. And every place I've ever ministered, I've known people like that. And then perhaps even most disturbing, most alarming, if that wasn't bad enough, are people who didn't just grow up in a church, but people who were leaders in the church. People who were members of gospel preaching churches for decades and were very active in service. I can remember very vividly as a young man when I was in I want to say fourth or fifth grade. I had a Sunday school teacher. He was a pretty good teacher. He took an interest in the kids. People liked him. He was well respected in our church. And then he wasn't teaching anymore. And I found out, because my parents didn't tell me at the time then, because I was just a kid, but they told me later, well, he doesn't He says he's an atheist now. And he left his wife and his family and was living a wicked life, and he says there is no God. And this guy was my Sunday school teacher. I can remember very vividly the church that I grew up in when Frederick, there was a man there who was a very charismatic leader in the church. He was the Sunday school superintendent and one of the deacons. And probably like the second or third most respected man in that congregation. And he was there for many years. And in midlife. He walked away from the Lord. To my knowledge, he's still alive. He's an elderly man now, but for the last 30 years or so, he has not gone to church and he does not profess to believe in Jesus Christ anymore This man was one of the pillars of our congregation. It's a disturbing thing. But we can't pretend like it doesn't happen And we should not think that the Bible does not address these things. It does. This is not a new problem. The book of Hebrews is an extended sermon. It's probably the best example of a sermon that we have from the early church. And the author, of which no one can dogmatically say who that is, although many people say it's Paul, I suppose it's possible, but it cannot be proved. The author is writing to Jewish believers in the first century who were caught up And this initial wave of excitement and following Jesus of Nazareth, who claimed to be the Messiah, the Son of God. We know 3,000 were saved on the day of Pentecost and many, many thousands after that in a short period of time. It was an explosive movement And every time the Spirit of God works in revival, there are many people that are saved, but there's also many people that get caught up in the excitement of it who truly are not converts. But the emotion, the excitement of something new and powerful that is taking place just sweeps them away. And they get caught up in it. Look with me at verse 32 of Hebrews 10. The writer here is going to recall, is going to call these Jewish believers who are being persecuted to remember their initial days and what they endured. He says, but call to remembrance the former days in which ye illumin After ye were illuminated, ye endured a great fight of afflictions, partly whilst ye were made a gazing stock, both by reproaches and afflictions, and partly while she became companions of them that were so used. For ye had compassion of me in my bonds and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and enduring substance. He's saying to them, you have a good record. You endured some hardship, some difficulty, some affliction. You lost your money. You maybe lost your job. You may have lost your freedom. And you stood with the people of God. But some of them were being tempted to go back to their old life because it was just too costly to them. Cost them in some cases their family. And in the Jewish community, that meant everything. It meant that they couldn't go to the social center of their lives and synagogue anymore. It meant that they were ostracized, they were considered pariahs, they were considered unclean, they were considered part of a dangerous cult. They were treated as traitors. And although some of them initially endured a great deal of affliction, there came a point where some of them said, you know what, this is just too much, this is too costly, I'm going to go back. And the writer here says, no, you can't go back. Don't you understand? This is not a club. This is not a movement. This is a work of God. I don't know what you think about these things. If you ever put yourself in their shoes, I tell you what I think. And perhaps you think this as well. I think to myself, would I continue on? In the faith, if it cost me my family, and it costs me my freedom, it cost me everything that's near and dear to me, would I continue on? And and when I look at myself, I think to myself, I'm not so sure I would I mean, we've lived in such a soft and and uh situation Where we endure virtually no persecution. It costs us so little to be a follower of Christ. And so it's a very sobering thing to consider. There were some Who said, you know what? I can't do this. They went back to their families. They publicly renounced Christ, and they were received back into the Jewish community and into the synagogue. And the book of Hebrews was written to exhort these persecuted believers that they must not do this. The key word in this book is the word better. He uses it again and again by way of contrast. Christ is better than the angels. He's better than any Old Testament priest. In Christ we have a better hope, a better covenant, a better sacrifice, a better treasure, a better country, a better resurrection, a better blessing, and a better message. He says you'd be foolish to go back. What are you going back to? Because Christ is your only hope of salvation. And so the author of this epistle urges his suffering Jewish readers not to cast away the treasure of the gospel. I want to very quickly look through this tonight, and I'm going to take a little more time later in this message to address these various interpretations of the warning passages and how we should understand this. But I want us to look at some good reasons why we must not abandon our faith. Now you and I are not going to, at least not today. Going to be rounded up and persecuted and arrested and lose our homes and our jobs because we're Christians. Maybe in the future, but but not right now. But there is relevance for us. I have found that most people that have abandoned their faith who have said, you know what, I just I don't know what I believe anymore. I don't believe any of that stuff. If you probe a little bit and you really talk to them, you know what you'll find? You will find that there was something in their life Maybe a tragedy, maybe a great loss, some great disappointments that came into their life and seemed to turn everything upside down. They expected things were going to go a certain way and a certain plan, and God was going to do this for them. They assumed that this was part of the bargain, if you will. That God would never allow their marriage to fail, that God would never allow their health to fail, that God would continue, that God would provide them a wonderful husband or a wonderful wife. and the and the American dream and they they really anticipated this is the way it's going to be and it didn't work out that way And so they said, I'm done. Now they're not being persecuted for their faith, but there is this common denominator of affliction and hardship and suffering and disappointments. And failed expectations. I think we see at the closing of Hebrews 10, five good reasons not to abandon your faith when facing trials. The first one I want us to look at is because there is great reward for those who persevere. Look at verse 35. Cast not away therefore your confidence. Which hath great recompense of reward, which will bring about great reward. Don't cast that away Now this word confidence, this word to translate confidence here, is an interesting word. It's used three other times in the book of Hebrews, and I want us to look at these with our own eyes. Turn with me, please, to Hebrews chapter 3 and verse 6. Hebrews chapter three, verse six says, But Christ as a son over his own house, whose house we are, if we hold fast the confidence and rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end. Here again this word is translated confidence. And you notice here it's saying that we can have the assurance that we are part of his house, that we are with him. But this confidence, this assurance is for those who remain faithful to the end. Now look with me to the next chapter, Hebrews 4. 14. Seeing then, this is the beginning of a very familiar passage, seeing then that we have a great high priest that has passed into the heavens, Jesus The Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. Our profession of faith, our confidence, our assurance, our hope of salvation. Let us hold that fast. And look at Hebrews chapter 10 now, the chapter that we're in. It's used earlier in this chapter. Begin reading at verse 19. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way which he hath consecrated for us. through the veil that is to say his flesh, and having a high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water, let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering For he is faithful that promised. Here it's called the profession of our faith. It's a courageous assurance that results in endurance. I believe the scriptures teach that a saving faith is a persevering faith. That does it mean that we persevere perfectly I mentioned the sermon that was bothering me in this book I was reading by the same man. And this is not unique. I've found this often within fundamental churches. Mentioned I talked about those pillars of truth and the cable that goes between. One of the great pillars of the Christian faith is what? The doctrine of justification, right? That instantaneously we are saved, we are declared not guilty, we are given the imputed righteousness of Jesus Christ. What a wonderful truth! But did you know that you can take that truth outside of its biblical bounds to teach things that the Bible says are untrue if you just morph it Way beyond even a wonderful truth like that. For instance, there are preachers and individuals who say And I am not exaggerating their terminology when I say this, that a person who prays a prayer and makes a profession of faith in Christ can later come to the place where they completely disavow Christ and live for the remainder of their life the life of an atheist and they would say, and live like the devil, the most wicked debauched life possible, and yet still go to heaven. There are many fundamental preachers who say that. And they say that because they say Anisus reveals to us the glory of the gospel, that Jesus Christ You know, justifies us even though we're unworthy. But I don't think it glorifies the gospel. I think it makes a mockery of the gospel And you don't have to go far in the pages of Scripture to find scriptures that contradict that viewpoint. And I've read some of them even tonight. Of course, we in no way earn our salvation. We don't keep ourselves saved. It's very easy to lapse over, remember the path with the cliff on either side. It's easy to say, oh I see. We kind of have to keep going to keep ourselves safe. No, now you've just gone off into works. That's the other cliff. We don't earn our salvation. We don't even earn our rewards, but all is of grace. But one of the things the author here speaks about is the fact that there will be great reward for us who endure hardness, endure suffering, and yet have a persistent faith that will not fail. James chapter 1 and verse 12 says, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, or we might say trials, for when he is tried he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. In the very next chapter, the author, of course, is going to give these numerous examples of faith. It says in Hebrews 11, 24, about Moses. By faith, Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin. for a season, esteeming the reproaches of Christ greater riches than treasures in Egypt, for he had respect unto the recompense of the rewards. How was Moses able to make that choice that was so counterintuitive to walk away from the splendor and the glory and the comforts of Egypt? The answer given here is that he had his focus on a much greater treasure than what they had in Egypt. And they had great treasures in Egypt, but nothing compared with the treasure of Christ. You see, it's God's design that we would cling more tightly to Him when we go through trials and difficulties and disappointments. We must not walk away. That brings me to my second point, and that is that another reason that God brings these into our lives is in order to develop spiritual endurance because that's part of God's plan for your life. Look with me at Hebrews 10, 36. It says, for ye have need of patience. That after ye have done the will of God ye might receive the promise. Now there's two different Greek terms in your New Testament for patience. One means Being patient with people. That's usually what we mean by the English word patience. You know? Someone who's annoying, someone who just really bothers you, but you have the patience to not retaliate, to forbear. It's a wonderful quality. It's a spiritual quality. That's not the word here. This word here has to do with endurance. It has the idea of bearing underneath of a burden and yet not being crushed or destroyed by it. but by the Spirit of God having power and strength to endure the suffering. This term is used all throughout Scripture. It's held up as a very essential and important quality in our Christian maturity. Christian people are people who endure suffering and hardship and difficulty, and this is part of God's plan. The next book after Hebrews is the book of James. It says in James 1, 2 through 4, My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations or various trials, knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh. Patience and the word patience there is the word endurance. What is the Lord doing when he brings you through a very difficult season in your life? that's filled with pain, suffering, and disappointment. He is trying to develop within you spiritual endurance So that you will be stronger for the other tests that come ahead. I have to confess to you that I watch very little television, but I'm an Olympic junkie. I love watching the Olympics. I have been since I was a kid. And one of the things I like to watch is uh these middle distance races. And it just boggles my mind to see these individuals who can go around there lap after lap at what seems to me to be a very good pace. And then they come for the last two laps and they break out into a sprint. You say, how in the world do they have those reserves? How can they run that fast and then run even faster and have the energy to sprint the finish line It's amazing. Some of that, of course, is genetics. I could train for my entire life. It would never happen. But some of it is those people have given their lives to that, and every single day they are pushing their endurance They are, as it were, punishing their body and stretching and straining and developing this technique so that they have that kick at the very end And God wants us as Christians to have that spiritual kick. That we have the endurance that we can go through a time of testing and pain and suffering, and towards the end, we go even faster. We have more endurance. What a glorious thing it is. Have you not ever seen, have you never ever witnessed in the life of a believer? some saint who has suffered a great deal, who has gone through hardship and difficulty, and yet towards the end of their life, as they come to the finish line, they they finish their course with joy. And they're concerned about others, and they have a joyful testimony, and they're witnessing to others, and they finish strong. How were they able to do that? It's because throughout their Christian experience, they have developed this quality of endurance by the grace of God. This is what the scriptures teach. In Romans chapter 5, there's another reference to this. Romans chapter 5 and verse 2 it says, By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand and rejoice. in hope of the glory of God, and not only so, but we glory in tribulations, also knowing that tribulation worketh Patience, that word endurance, and patience experience, and experience hope, and hope maketh not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. You see, if you don't develop spiritual endurance, if you just quit every time there's some little disappointment in your life and you just give up on God. How are you ever going to move forward and become the mature believer that God wants you to be? You're in a sense short-changing what he's trying to do in your life of developing that endurance which stretches your faith, which develops hope, as he says there. It's like a chain reaction. The word experience here has the idea of character. It used to be that even unsaved people talked a great deal about character. And about raising young people who would not quit in difficulties, that virtue has fallen by the wayside, unfortunately. I think about this, I think of the great men and women of God who have come before us. I think of William Carey, the shoemaker who was called out of an obscure village in England. He went to the mission field despite the fact that his own church, his family, and everyone told him, You're crazy, don't go. But he went, and boy, did he endure hardship. His wife went insane. She couldn't take it. She lost her child, a little boy, in infancy. And she never recovered from that. And for most of his life, or 20-some years that she lived after that, she was like an invalid. He didn't have any converts for the first five years of his ministry. He poured himself into translation work, which he had an unusual gift for, learning languages. And he did all this work, mountains of paper. And then one day there was a huge fire in 1812, and years and years and years of work just burned up into the smoke. But he didn't quit. He continued on. He would write this in his journal towards the end of his life. Trials of a great variety which must expect in this mortal state. But they are all sent by the hand of a gracious God who pities us as a father pities his children for our ultimate good. And that we may be thereby weaned from this present world and may have our minds set on things above You see, one reason why God brings difficulty and pain into our lives is because we become too attached to the things of this world. He says, no, no, no, don't look here, look up there. And so he brings hardship into our lives. There's a third reason that we must not quit. And that's because your trials will not last long in light of eternity. Verse 37 says, For yet a little while, and he that shall come will come and will not tarry. This is a quotation of Isaiah 26, verse 20. And notice that this time factor is emphatically mentioned at the beginning and at the end of this verse. The reader cannot miss it. One of the most important things that you need to focus on when you're going through a very difficult season in your life is that in light of eternity, this is nothing. It's but a moment. It's so easy to fixate on that pain and suffering and to think it's always going to be this way. My life will never be the same. My life is going to be ruined because of this event. And it's easy to let our problems define us, but that's not who we are. We are children of God. We will spend eternity with him. We will be with the Lord forever. And there a day will be like a thousand years. And a thousand years is one day, and so the time of your suffering on this earth, whether it might even be prolonged for 20 or 30 or 40 years, is still nothing in light of eternity. And so it's important for us to focus on this. This is, of course, is something that's taught all throughout the scriptures, both in the Old and New Testaments. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4, the Apostle Paul talks about this. For his cause, we faint not literally, we don't lose heart. We don't become discouraged. Why, Paul? How can you continue to minister as you are, rejected, beaten, stoned all throughout your ministry, he says, though our outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed day by day, for our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. Why we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. He says it's but for a moment. That is the focus of faith. Lord, I may face hardship in this life. I may have a chronic problem that confronts me every day, but still, in light of eternity, this is but a moment. And I will continue to be faithful to you. This passage alludes, of course, to the coming of Christ. It says, for that ye might receive the promise for let a little while, and see that shall come will come and will not tarry. He will come. We have a wonderful hymn that we sometimes sing that expresses the truth of this verse perfectly. Of time the day seems long, our trials hard to bear, we're tempted to complain. to murmur and despair. But Christ will soon appear to catch his right away. All tears forever over in God's eternal day. And then of course it will be worth it all when we see Jesus. Life's trials will seem so small when we see Christ. One glimpse of his dear face, all sorrow will erase. So bravely run the race till we see Christ. The next argument that he gives, number four if you're taking notes, is that this endurance that he's speaking of that he's calling the people of God to here in the first century has always been the way the people of God have lived. They live by faith in the midst of trials. Verse 38 says, Now the just shall live by faith This is one of the most important verses in the Bible. It's a quotation of Habakkuk chapter 2 and verse 4, a very obscure corner of the Bible. It was written by a prophet who was perplexed with what he was seeing, by what he was reading in God's Word and what he was seeing in the world. The world seemed like a mess. It didn't seem like God was in control. The people of Israel were wicked. They were meshed in idolatry. And the pagan nations of the world seemed to be prospering in. prospering and seems so powerful. And he says, how can this be? I thought there was a just God, that there was a sovereign God who was in control. And that's what the book of Habakkuk is all about. And one of the conclusions that he reaches is the just shall live by faith. We don't live by sight. We live by faith. We trust in the promises of God even when we cannot see them working themselves out in our lives. Now it's interesting that this very important Old Testament verse is quoted three times in the New Testament. You may know that it's found there, really the opening of the argument of the book of Romans, Romans chapter 1 and verse 17, where it says, the just shall live by faith. Now what's interesting about And this is not just my observation, you can find it anywhere, but in each of these three quotations of Habakkuk 2. 4, the just shall live by faith. A different part of the verse is emphasized in the book that quotes it. So in Romans chapter 1 and verse 17, the emphasis is on the just shall live by faith. And the book of Romans is all about what? Well, the first 11 chapters are about how can a man be righteous with God? And then verses chapter 12 to the end of the book deal with practical righteousness. How do we live out that righteousness in our Christian minds? And of course the word righteous and just are essentially the same in the Greek language. How is it that Christian people, just people, redeemed people, how do they live by faith? That's the question. And Romans focuses on, well, first of all, let's make certain that you are one of the righteous ones in Christ. And then Galatians chapter 3 and verse 11, it's also quoted there. And here the emphasis is, on the just shall live by faith. What do we mean by faith? And that's how Paul is going to use that quotation in Galatians 3:11. And then we have it here again in Hebrews 10. 38. So we've had the focus on the beginning of that phrase and the end of the phrase. So guess where Hebrews 10. 38 is going to focus on? The very middle of the phrase, the just shall live by faith. How does a person live out their faith? You want to know? He's going to give you a whole bunch of examples in Hebrews chapter 11. And we have all those verses by faith. Noah did this by faith. Abraham did this by faith. Moses did this by faith. You want to mean what that looks like? This is what it looks like. Hebrews chapter 11 This is why we have all of the examples given to us. This is very helpful to us spiritually because We can sometimes think that the scriptures just give us these truths and we say, well , how does that really work? Is anybody really doing this? Is anyone really living like this? We all tend to think that Our experience, our problems, our obstacles are kind of unique. Other people have wonderful, happy lives, but I've got all these problems. No, you know what? Everybody's got their problems. Everybody's got their burdens, and it's always been that way. And so it's helpful to look in Scripture at these inspired examples and say, this is the way they overcame this. This is the way they faced this challenge. And I'm not going to take the time to survey through this chapter, but we have done that in the past. And finally, I want to say this, and this is the ultimate reason he gives and the most disturbing one, because people who abandoned their faith reveal that they never had a saving faith. This is what we have in verses 38 and 39. Now the just shall live by his faith, but then we have this, but if any man draw back , The idea of the word there is to shrink away. My soul shall have no pleasure in him. But we are not of them who draw back unto what? Unto perdition. What's that word perdition mean? It speaks of ultimate destruction in hell. But of them that believe to the saving of the soul. Now the big controversy of the book of Hebrews, and I'm not going to solve it tonight, is these warning passages. There are at least four warning passages, many people make them five or six You have a warning passage in chapter 2, verses 1 through 4, and then chapter 3, verse 17 through chapter 4, verse 13. That's a very lengthy one. Another really lengthy one is chapter 5, verse 11, all the way through chapter 6, verse 9. And then the one right before this in chapter 10, verses 26 through 31, and others see there's one in chapter 12, although that's disputed. Now how are we to deal with these warning passages? Christians throughout the centuries have dealt with these warning passages almost always in one of five ways. Okay? One is they say, well, the writer is warning people, first of all, not to lose their salvation. Now I reject that. Because I think the Bible teaches that a true child of God will not fall away, and that what God has begun, he will complete He that hath begun a good work in you will perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ. I believe very clearly that what Jesus said is the most comforting thing. That we are kept by the hands of the Father, and no man shall pluck them out of my Father's hands. My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me. So we reject that one. Another viewpoint is that the writer is addressing those who are simply unbelievers. But the problem is that it's in most of these warning passages, you know what he says at the very end of the warning passage? But we are persuaded better things of you. Or like we have here in verse 39. But we are not of them who draw back unto perdition So you have these reassuring words that say, But I believe that you are believers, at least in large parts. Another approach. Is scholars will say that the writer is using a hypothetical warning to true believers to get them to shape up Like a parent who threatens his children, you know, if you don't clean your room up, I'm going to put you up for adoption and get you out of this house And the parent and the child both know they're not going to do that. But they give this dramatic, exaggerated warning. I don't think that's the case because God doesn't bluff. Now, one of the most popular views, and the one that I would say, and I don't have any statistics on that, but I think if you went to most churches that were fundamental, independent Baptist And you were to sit down with the pastor and say which view would you take? I think the majority would say view number four, which I'm giving right now, and that is that these are speaking of a loss of reward. A loss, a reward. In other words, those who aren't faithful, who turn away from the Lord, they lose their rewards. They will have no rewards in heaven someday. And many of these individuals would say that it's possible for a Christian to bear no fruit in their life and to live a pretty wicked, miserable life, and yet still go to heaven, because there was once a day that they prayed a prayer and asked Jesus to save them. That's a viewpoint that's very, very prevalent. I want you to know that you have to stand on your head and squint your eyes to get that out of what the Bible teaches. I understand, I understand perfectly well why it's so attractive Because it makes us feel better, doesn't it? Because we all have friends and we have relatives and perhaps children and others who, to put it mildly, are not real enthusiastic about the Christian life. They go to church every once in a while when they have a crisis or when mom or dad really pressure them to go. They don't read their Bible. They don't live like a Christian. They may be living an immoral life. But how many parents have I met in my life say, you know, I know he's, you know, not living for the Lord at all, but at least I know he's going to heaven At least I know because you know he I I I remember when he made that profession of faith. But we have trouble squaring that with scripture, so we make this category. We say, well, he's not going to have any rewards in heaven It's going to be kind of a miserable existence for him, but he's getting there. But the problem is that in these warning passages and many others that are even outside of the book of Hebrews, like here, verse 39 We are not of them who draw back unto perdition. That's not a loss of rewards. That's a loss of your soul. I don't know how you can get that out of Scripture. I don't know how you can read these warnings and say, oh, they just lost the reward. That's all. They're going to heaven. No worries. What we like to do is carve out a little niche for nominal Christians. We like to create a third category. You have believers, you have unbelievers, and then you have people kind of in the middle, and they're going to squeak in No one would ever know they were Christian, but they are. The Bible doesn't recognize the third category. It always talks about two roads, two paths , two ways, not three Now, does that mean that Christians are all bringing forth the same amount of fruit and walking at the same level? Absolutely not. The scriptures don't teach that either. There are all kinds of different levels of maturity among believers. But we cannot find in Scripture the safe harbor for the nominal Christian. This is why Paul says things like, examine yourselves whether you be in the faith This is why Peter says, make your calling and election sure. This is why Jesus said, not everyone who saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. How do we explain that? First John two nineteen says they went out from us for they were not of us It's not that they lost their salvation. They never really had it. It may have looked from the outward appearance that they did, but they never really possessed a saving faith. Now these passages are not telling us again that somehow by continuing to go to church continuing to stay with the program that we are earning our way to heaven or keeping ourselves safe. We can't keep ourselves safe. The Bible says we are kept by the power of God. But the Bible is exhorting us to continue on. Now the fifth view, the one I understand this, is that The writer is warning the professing community of believers, that is the church, that contains both true and false believers that if they abandon Christ they will be lost eternally. The people that he's speaking to would all say, if you asked him, listen, are you a Christian? Yeah, yeah, I'm a Christian. Oh sure But some of them weren't. And that was going to be revealed in the days ahead when they walked away and abandoned their faith and said, no, I'm not a Christian anymore. Just like in every church. Every church, this is a disturbing fact. It bothers me immensely. Every church is a mixed multitude. There are people who are truly children of God, hopefully the vast majority, and there are people who are not. Even among the Lord's twelve, there was an imposter. Should we think it would be different in the church? And often the way the Lord winnows his weeds is by trials and afflictions. Years ago I read Puritans say this, and I've never lost this analogy. He said this that If a person walks through the streets day after day, mile after mile their skin on their feet will not entirely wear away, but it will what? It will grow calloused and thick. And it will withstand the punishments. But if a man puts on a pair of leather shoes And he wears them and he walks on those cobblestone streets day after day. You know what's going to happen? Eventually that leather is going to wear through. It's going to wear out and there will be holes. And then the Puritan preacher would say, What is the difference between the man's feet and the man's shoes? And the answer is they are both skinned, but one of them is alive and the other is dead And so a believer with a living faith , he may be worn down Initially, he may, as it were, develop blisters and sores from the hardship, but in time his faith, by the grace of God, will revive and he will, as it were, develop cowuses and be stronger for that affliction as he responds in faith. But the unbeliever will completely wear away and say, ah, this isn't worth it. This isn't what I signed up for. So, people of God, my exhortation to you is be faithful. This is an important thing. It's an important thing that we walk with the Lord, that we show that we are his disciples. And one of the ways that we show that is that when difficulty and disappointment come in our life, we do not go away. I always think of that, and I'm going to come to that in my study of Peter. But when the multitude went away, Dave Larson read it this morning, when the multitude went away after the feeding of the 5,000, and they were no longer interested because the free lunch was over. And Jesus turns to his disciples and he says, Will you also go away? And Peter says, To whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. I think that resonates with every true believer. Where do we have to turn? What does the world really have to offer that's going to satisfy your soul and bring peace to your heart? They have nothing. To whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. Let us close in prayer. Father. Pray that you would take what is said tonight and use it for your purposes in our lives. Help us to be faithful. Help us to show in our responses. That we do not have a nominal faith, that we do not have a temporary faith, that we have the real thing, that we have a living faith That we have truly been born again and regenerated, and that life will never perish. Help us, Father. to show in our responses to the hardships of life that we serve a faithful God who will never fail us or forsake us. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.