Give your Bibles, would you please turn with me to Hebrews chapter ten? Hebrews chapter ten. On July the 8th, 1741 , Jonathan Edwards preached in Enfield, Connecticut. The most famous sermon in American history. It was entitled, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. It was a sermon that was never finished. You remember the story the once light-hearted congregation was suddenly gripped by the realization that they were in grave danger as Edwards was preaching. It got to the point that people started crying out. gripping the pew in front of them lest they fall into hell. People were standing up and saying things like, What shall I do to be saved? Or I am going to hell. Edward several times stopped and asked for silence, but the tumult only increased, and he was never able to finish his message. Modern scholars, literary critics, of course, scoff at this as a primitive And superstitious understanding of religion. But let me ask the question: why did Edwards preach this way? Was he unhinged and unimbalanced? No, even secular scholars would acknowledge that he was one of the most brilliant thinkers. Of his generation, his philosophical writings are still widely studied. If ever there was a sane man, it was Jonathan Edwards No, Edwards preached about hell because he feared that many of his church and other churches in colonial New England were in fact lost. They were accepted as Christians because their parents were Christians and their grandparents were Christians. They were the offspring of the Puritans and pilgrims. That had come a century earlier. They knew the gospel, but they had a vague moralism Many of them did not profess to have a personal relationship with God that was considered kind of over the top. And there was no evidence that they had ever been born again. They put on a good show on Sunday. Everyone in the community would dress up and come to church. But the rest of the week they lived like lost people. And so Edwards famously warned them of the judgment of God. But he also in many sermons enticed them with the glories of heaven. In fact, Edwards preached more often about heaven than he did about hell. This is what gospel preachers have always done. They warn of the judgment of God. And this is what the unknown author of Hebrews does in our passage this morning. Now it's been six weeks since we studied Hebrews together. And some of you were not here for our previous study. And so let me quickly remind you of some basic facts about this book. The book of Hebrews was written by an unknown pastor who knew this congregation of first-century Jewish believers. They were likely meeting as a house church in someone's home in the city of Rome. It was probably written because the author heard discouraging reports of professing believers. who were troubled by the growing persecution and were considering going back to their old ways of Judaism because they would be protected from persecution that way. And so the writer of Hebrews informs them that this is not an option for them. He writes what is essentially a sermon. And nearly every scholar agrees that the key word in Hebrews is the word better. The author of Hebrews wants these beleaguered believers to know that Christ is better than anything that Judaism has to offer or anything else. Jesus is better than the angels. He's better than Moses. And he's a better high priest than Aaron or any of the Levitical priests who followed him. Now the main argument of the book concludes in chapter 10 and verse 18. There's a sense in which the rest of the book is illustration and application of what he has already said. Now we come to this transitional section that begins in verse 19 through verse 25, and this section contains three Exhortations, three applications, and they're easy to spot because they have the words, let us look at verse 22, let us draw near with a true heart. in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast to the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. And verse 24, let us consider one another to revoke unto love and to good works. not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. If I were to summarize these three exhortations, they would be draw near, hold fast, and gather together. But following right on the heels of these encouraging words, we have the fourth warning passage in the book of Hebrews. Perhaps you remember That the book of Hebrews is famous for its warning passages. There are five of them. Now the good news about this particular warning passage is that it's brief. We're going to cover it entirely in today's message. The bad news is that it might be the most severe and intense of all of them. Alright? So it's short but intense. The message that we're receiving today. Now, this raises the whole question of why the author of Hebrews includes such terrifying verses in his letter. The reason is because the book of Hebrews emphasizes the perseverance of the saints. This doctrine of faithful endurance is at the very heart of the message of Hebrews. The author of Hebrews is saying to these early first-century Jewish believers. Do not go back to your old Judaism because Christ is better than all of that. And if you renounce your faith in Christ and you go back. You will perish eternally. He calls on them to persevere. Now the biblical doctrine of the perseverance of the saints simply means that those whom God has graciously saved will never finally abandon their faith because they are kept by the power of God and will therefore keep on following Christ The Bible teaches that God is a shepherd of his people, that he preserves his flock. I think sometimes people think it just happens automatically. But Ark Shepherd uses means to preserve his people What kind of means does he use? Well, he uses wonderful exhortations like we have here in verses 22 through 25 that we are to Draw near and hold fast and gather together. But there's another means that God uses to preserve his people. And that is, he warns us of the consequences if we do not continue to follow the Lord and if we somehow renounce our faith in Christ. Now, what happens if a person refuses to follow these admonitions of drawing near, of holding fast? And what if they just completely ignore the warnings? I think that most Christians, and perhaps perhaps even most people Here this morning would say, Well, I guess you wouldn't be very happy, and I guess you would lose your rewards in heaven. And they would do so because they come from a church background that really, really, really emphasize that once saved, always saved. And as long as you make a profession of faith, it doesn't matter what really happens the rest of your life story, because the Bible says that you have the gift of eternal life and you can never lose something that's eternal. So it really doesn't matter what you do after that because after all we're not saved by works But you might lose some rewards, you might lose some status in heaven, but you'll make it there because you said a prayer long ago I want to suggest to you that is not at all what the Bible teaches. And it's certainly not what the book of Hebrews teaches. I want you to follow the train of thought. I'm going to read. the passage that we just that that I just read and that I want to read into our text today. Look with me at verse 22. Let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering. for he is faithful that promise, and let us consider one another to provoke unto love unto good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. For if we sin willfully after that we have received the knowledge of the the truth there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins, but a certain fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation which shall devour the adversaries. Did you see that connection? If you don't heed these exhortations, if you give a deaf ear to these warnings, you will experience the ultimate judgment of God. Now let me clarify some things. God uses these warnings to preserve his people. This does not mean that we keep ourselves saved by doing good works. But it does mean that true believers will receive these warnings and claim cling to Christ. But those who fall away and renounce their faith in Christ Commit the sin of apostasy. And this does not mean that these individuals have lost their salvation. It indicates that they were never truly born again, even though they may have looked like They were part of the Christian community. Apostasy is a deliberate, calculated rejection of Christ by those who clearly understand. the gospel. That is what is described in verse 26. So what happens to those who commit apostasy? Our sixth first passage this morning gives one resounding answer. They will experience the judgment of God. Now let me ask you a very important question this morning. Do you think that this warning passage and the message that I'm about to preach to you about apostasy is something that you need to hear. Do you think this message, this warning, this passage of scripture is for you? I think there are many people who think it's not for them. And they would say, Pastor, I know that I'm a Christian and that I have eternal life, and so this warning's not for me. But you get those people up there, you preach hard at them who need to hear this. Now maybe you haven't said that out loud, but maybe there's some people here that's exactly what you've been thinking. I'm glad pastor is preaching this, but this is not for me. Because I said a prayer a long time ago, I have eternal life, and so there's nothing here really for me to hear. I want you to notice one thing that refutes everything that you're thinking. Do you know what it is? Look at verse 26. It's the third word in my text. It says, For if we Why does it say we? Because the author, the godly pastor who wrote this book, is including himself in this. And it's his way of saying, he does this throughout the book, it's his way of saying, this is true of all believers. No exceptions. No one gets to the place where they say, I never ever have to be concerned about apostatizing or walking away from Christ because I'm such a strong believer. You never get to that place. The godly author of Hebrews includes himself in this warning. And so I'm going to preach this morning on this truth. Every Christian should understand that apostasy will bring the judgment of God. Why is that? Number one, because those who apostasize forfeit God's forgiveness and invite his judgment. This is what we find in verses 26 and 27. The passage we're looking at today has six verses, and they are arranged in pairs. What I mean is that verses 26 and 27 go together, verses 28 and 29 are connected, and verses 30 and 31 are logically linked together. They're like in couples, three couples. Look with me, please, at verses 26 and 27. For if we sin willfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sin. But, in contrast A certain fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation which shall devour the adversaries. So let's look at verse 26 to begin with. This is a troublesome verse to many people. I find that many Christians Really wince when they read this verse. Because I think they interpret it to mean that if you've ever sinned deliberately Then you are doomed and will never be forgiven. And let me just say at the outset that if that's the meaning of this verse, then we're all gone. Including your pastor. Alright? Because if you're going to sit here and tell me that you've never deliberately sinned, you knew something you were about to do was wrong, but you did it anyway. Then you just lie to me, and that's a sin in itself. So that's not what this verse is saying That's not what it means in context. It's not speaking of any sin, but of the sin of renouncing Christ and his gospel. I want you to notice that there are three descriptions given of the apostate in verse 26. First of all, they know the truth of the gospel. Notice what it says. After that we have received the knowledge of the truth. Okay? The knowledge of the truth is a reference to the gospel. They know that they're a sinner. They know that Jesus died on the cross for their sins. They know that he rose the third day. They know he died as a substitute. They know all of those things. They've heard it. They understand it. You see, apostasy is a sin that can only happen in the church, the community of believers. People who are lost and never hear the gospel, they can't commit the sin of apostasy. They might still go to hell because they're not trusting in Christ. Don't misunderstand. Me. But they can't commit this specific sin of apostasy because you have to know the gospel to commit the sin of apostasy. This is why I often say that the church is a dangerous place If you're rejecting the truth that you know, then your heart is not becoming soft. week by week as you hear the preaching of the word, but it's actually becoming hardened and you're becoming more callous to any conviction that you might encounter The second description of an apostate here is this person has deliberately chosen to reject the gospel. You'll notice the word willfully. This is emphatic in the text. It expresses a deliberate and defiant act of rejection. This isn't something they drifted into. But they came to a day where they said, I don't believe this stuff anymore. I will not follow this stuff anymore. I'm going to completely renounce this and turn from it because it's nonsense. It's kind of like the reverse of repentance. and repentance, you come to an understanding in a moment of time that the path that I'm on is the path of destruction and I must turn around and go the opposite direction. Well an apostasy You, as it were, are walking on the path to eternal life, and you say to yourself, that's not the path that I want to take. This is all nonsense. I don't believe all of these things the Bible teaches. I'm going to go back where I was. That's the idea of willfully, a deliberate, defiant act of rejection. But there's a third important component of an apostate. This individual persists in this defiant rejection. The term sin here is a present participle that refers to one who keeps on sinning this way. This is a settled attitude. That they have come to embrace that of absolute repudiation of Christ and his gospel. It's not something that they said in a moment when they were discouraged, or frustrated, or angry, and they Proclaimed out loud, I don't believe this stuff, or I don't believe Jesus is the Son of God. Because someone has said those words at some time does not mean they've committed the sin of apostasy. This is an abiding, lasting, deliberate decision that they have made. Just like saving faith is something that continues So an apostate continues to embrace a rejection of Christ and his gospel. So what is the result of those who apostasize? Says here, these amazing words, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sin. What does that mean? It means that their sins will not be forgiven. Why is that? Well, earlier in this very chapter The author of Hebrews emphasizes that Jesus came and offered one sacrifice. Let me show you this little paragraph starting at chapter 10, verse 10. It says, by the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. That is, it's not going to be repeated. And every free standing daily ministering and offering of times the same sacrifices which can never take away sin. But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sin forever sat down on the right hand of God, from henceforth expecting till his enemies be made his footstool. For by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. All right? The contrast is between the many sacrifices in the Old Testament and the one sufficient sacrifice of Jesus Christ. So the reason why your sins will not be forgiven is because you have defiantly rejected the only sacrifice that God has provided. There is no other sacrifice for sin. There is no other way your sins can be forgiven if you say, I don't believe about Jesus and this dying on the cross for my sin. I'm going to walk away from that. There's no more sacrifice. It's kind of like a person being in a burning building and a high rise, and they're there by the window, and there's a fire escape there. But the fire escape is kind of rusty and old, and they're like, you know, I don't really like heights, and I'm not sure that's the safest route for me to take, so I'm just going to stay here. What's going to happen? They're going to perish. They're going to die because that is the only way to safety that they have. And they've chosen not to take it. This is the same idea. They have turned away from the only path to salvation. So those who reject Christ will not be forgiven. What will they find then on the day of judgment? Well notice verse 27 begins with the word but. This is a contrast. Instead, you might say they will find a fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation which shall devour the adversaries. The language used here speaks of an inevitable and irreversible judgment. This is an illusion to Korah and his followers who showed contempt for God and for his prophet Moses. Do you remember that story? We're not going to take time to look back at it. But they said basically to Moses, who made you boss? Why do you run things around here? And and and and why does your brother get to be the priest and we don't get to be priest? Aren't we all the people of God? And there was a mutiny, and Korah and many men followed him, stood up against Moses and Aaron. And God says, I'm going to do something that's never been done before. If these men die a natural death, then Moses says, then I'm not a prophet called of God. And so the ground opened itself up and swallowed them whole, and the Bible says the fire came and consumed them. This was a picture of hell. And it was to be a warning to the people of Israel that they should not show contempt for God's leader. The enemies of God will experience the inevitable and irreversible judgment of God. You'll notice here in verse 27, the last word is adversaries. When a person apostasizes and rejects Christ and his atoning work And it becomes the abiding resolution of their heart. They are now an enemy of God's. They are an adversary. And God's judgment will fall upon them. But there's a second reason why apostasy brings the judgment of God. And that brings us to verses 28 and 29. And that is because those who apostasize are committing more grievous sins than those who violated the Mosaic law. Look with me at verse 28. He that despised Moses ' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses. This is a classic argument from lesser to greater. If this is true, then certainly this is going to be true. In verse 28 here we have a reference to not just any sin, but persistent idolatry. If you can easily, I would invite you to keep a finger here and turn back with me to the fifth book of the Bible, the book of Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy chapter 17, please. Deuteronomy chapter 17. I'd like to begin reading at verse 2. Deuteronomy seventeen verse two. If there be found among you within any of Thy gates, which the Lord thy God hath given thee, man or woman that hath wrought wickedness in the sight of the Lord thy God, in transgressing this covenant, And have gone and served other gods and worship them either the sun or moon or any of the hosts of heaven which I have not commanded, and if it be told thee, and thou hast heard of it, and inquired diligently, and behold it be true, and a thing certain that such abomination is wrought in Israel, then shalt thou bring forth that man or woman which hath committed that wicked thing unto thy gates, even that man or woman, and shall stone them with stones till they die, at the mouth of two witnesses or three witnesses shall he that is worthy of death be put to death, but at the mouth of one witness he shall not be put to death. And the the hands of the witnesses shall be first upon him to put him to death and afterwards the hands of all the people, so sh thou shalt put away evil from among you Now the point here is that before there could be capital punishment, there had to be Proof that this occurred. It couldn't just be one person had a grudge against another person. There had to be multiple witnesses who had seen it with their own eyes. The guilt had to be established. But once the charge of idolatry was confirmed, justice was demanded. I don't have time to go into an apologetic as to why this was done and everything, sufficient to say that idolatry is something that God hates. And the idolatry was a persistent temptation and problem for the people of Israel. In Hebrews ten we read that the guilty were to be shown no mercy. This is a reference to another verse. and Deuteronomy. You can turn back to Hebrews 10 now, but that verse is Deuteronomy 13, verse 8, and it says if someone, even your best friend tries to entice you into idolatry, you shall not pity them, but turn them into the authorities that they might be executed. It says those who committed this sin died without mercy. There was no appeals process, there was no bargaining for a lighter sentence. No, they were executed because God's law was inflexible. Idolatry was the most serious of sins that were condemned in the Mosaic era because it demonstrated contempt for the Lord. Because the people of God were saying, our God Jehovah or Yahweh is not enough. We find the gods of the pagan people surrounding us to be more interesting and more enticing and more reliable. And God says, I am the one who have brought you by my mighty arm out of Egypt, and now you're going to worship these made-up deities. That were involved in so much that was heinous and wicked: child sacrifice, sexual perversion, and many other things. So the argument of these two verses is basically this: if worshiping a false God brought the death penalty under the Mosaic law, how much more severe will the punishment be for rejecting Christ and his glorious gospel? Once again, the author of Hebrews is contrasting the Mosaic covenant with the new covenant. When we ask this question, why does violating the new covenant bring greater punishment than violating the old. I mean, isn't wrong wrong? The answer is because the old covenant was filled with symbols, shadows, and types that pointed to the reality in Christ. So those living under the new covenant have much greater advantages than those who lived under the old. We have a much clearer understanding of Christ and the cross and of grace and the gospel. And so to commit apostasy is to sin against greater revelation and therefore to invoke greater judgments. There are wonderful advantages to hearing the gospel and understanding the gospel and being able to understand the Old Testament through the lens of the New Testament. This gives us an incredible advantage. Things are so much more clear to us. But with that great advantage also comes a greater responsibility. And that's the point that he is making. Perhaps you would ask, why is apostasy Such a big deal. Why does it bring the ultimate expression of the wrath of God? And so now in verse 29 , He's going to answer that question. He says, of how much sore punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy? And then this is how he's going to describe apostasy in three phrases. He says, Who hath trodden underfoot the Son of God, and hath counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified, an unholy thing, and hath done despot unto the Spirit. Here the author of Hebrews brings out the shocking reality and essence of apostasy. Those who commit apostasy, number one, trample underfoot the Son of God. This imagery speaks of absolute contempt and disdain. It could be a reference to the fact that when the pagans entered the temple in Jerusalem in the Maccabean period, and desecrated it. They walked all through the Holy of Holies. They were showing disrespect to the Jewish God because they knew that this was the most sacred place in their nation where no one would dare ever go. And they went and they walked all over it. But here it's not some sacred ground that apostates walk upon. But the exalted Son of God's. This title, the Son, you may recall, is one of the key titles for Christ. in the book of Hebrews. In fact, it's the title that is used to open this marvelous book. Turn with me to the opening of this book, Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 1. I want you to notice how this title is used to augment the author's argument that Christ is better than angels, that he is superior over all. Verse 1, God who at sundry times and in diverse manner spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds, who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power When he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the majesty on high, being made so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. Verse 5, for under which of the angels said he at any time, thou art my son. Answer none This day have I begotten thee, and again I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. And again, when he bringeth the first begotten into the world, he saith, Let all the angels of God worship him. And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits and his ministers a flame of fire? But unto the Son he saith , Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever. A scepter of righteousness is the scepter of thy kingdom. And so to trample upon the Son of God whom the Father has exalted to his right hand is to invite the full measure of his fury Turn back with me to chapter 10, please. You'll notice secondly those who commit apostasy have treated the blood of Christ. As defiled or unclean. The first one states that apostasy is an attack upon the person of Christ. The second item reveals that it's an attack upon the work. of Christ. Now let me answer one objection that may have come to your mind. Perhaps you're troubled by the fact that it says in verse 9, and counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified, an unholy thing. Doesn't this indicate, because it says he was sanctified, that this person was once a Christian and has now lost his salvation? I would say no. However, it does indicate that this individual was once set apart from the world and had become a part of the community of faith. And the lines between the world and the church were much more distinct than because the world hated the church You didn't drift from one church to another casually as we do in our culture. No, if you went to church, you were taking a risk. You were identifying with a despised group of people. This person had been set apart. That's the idea of sanctified. They'd been set apart from the world. They were now identified. Everyone knew they're with those Christians. But now that person has come to despise the blood of Christ that they once claimed had washed their sins away. The book of Hebrews speaks more of the blood of Christ than any other New Testament book, especially chapters 9 and 10. Chapter 9 and verse 12 says, by his own blood he obtained eternal redemption for us. In chapter 9 and verse 14, it says it's through the blood of Christ that our conscience has been cleansed so that we can serve the living God. In chapter 9 and verse 22, it teaches us that it's only through the shedding of blood that there is forgiveness of sin. And in chapter 10 and verse 19, It teaches us that it's only through the blood of Christ that we can boldly enter into the presence of God. So if a person has come to reject the blood of Christ, that is the sacrificial death of Christ, there is no longer any basis for their forgiveness. But this verse is not just saying that apostates, you know, saying, you know what, I don't believe in all that blood stuff. I think that's kind of disgusting. I I I I just I don't I don't go for that anymore. No, it's saying that they have come to despise the blood of Christ as something that is filthy and unclean. clean, something that they just want to cast away from them and throw in the trash can. This becomes a real litmus test. For whether or not a person has truly apostasized, it's not just someone who has walked away from the Lord. But it's someone that has an intractable hatred of Christ and his death on the cross. In contrast, Christians instinctively Regard the blood of Christ as precious. Because we were redeemed not with silver and gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spots. This is why we have all these hymns in our handbooks that the world cannot understand. Like there is a fountain filled with blood. Who would sing something like that? Christians who have been sanctified and cleansed by the blood of Christ Why do we have sermons and poems and verses and songs about the blood of Christ? Because it's precious to us. is a reminder to us of the death of our perfect Savior on our behalf But there's a third thing that we read about those who commit apostasy, and that is that those who commit apostasy have insulted the spirit of grace. That is the Holy Spirit. The last part of verse 29 says and hath done despot or insult or outrage unto the spirit of grace. And the idea of spirit of grace is the Spirit who gives grace. And that is the Holy Spirit. This is likely a reference to Zechariah 12. 10, which promises that the Lord would one day pour out a spirit of grace. Grace, of course, is something that we do not deserve. It is a gift. It is the favor of God And so to insult or reject this gracious spirit is the height of disdain. Once again, this speaks of an attitude of contempt. An apostate has not just turned away from the Spirit of God. But he has insulted or outraged the Spirit by his persistent rejection of that Spirit's convicting in his heart. And here we find in this last phrase of verse 29 a clear connection between the sin of apostasy and the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit, which is also called the unpardonable sin. Turn with me, please, to Matthew chapter 12. Matthew chapter 12 and verse 31. Listen to these words of our Lord Jesus Christ. He's speaking here to the religious leaders, the Pharisees, who have just had the audacity to say That the demon that he has cast out of this man was not done by God, but by Beelzebub, that is, by the devil. Which of course is completely illogical. Why would the devil cast out one of his own The Lord explains why they have made such a ridiculous charge. Verse 31, wherefore I say unto you, all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men. But the blasphemy against the Holy Spirit shall not be forgiven unto men. And whosoever speaketh a word against the Son of Man, it shall be forgiven him. But whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither in the world to come. These verses have troubled tender-hearted Christians perhaps more than any other. I've been asked about this passage countless times over the years. And I understand they are terrifying verses. We do need to take them seriously. And of course, when people come to me, they are fearful that they have committed this unpardonable sin. And I often say to them that if you're worried that you have committed this sin, it is clear that you have not committed it. Because a true apostate laughs at this warning. They don't believe it's true at all. They have completely rejected it. We have no record that the Pharisees were troubled by this. No, they had a persistent spirit of rejecting the truth. Now there are many, many questions that are generated by this and it's not my intention to expound this passage because we're preaching from Hebrews 10. But let me try to answer one question that may have come to your mind. Why is this sin so seriously serious? And why is it called the blasphemy? against the Holy Spirit? Why is that it says he'll forgive uh a blasphemy against the a Christ, but not the Spirits? What a blaspheme the Holy Spirit is to repeatedly and deliberately resist and reject his work of conviction. In Acts chapter 7 and verse 51, Stephen says to the religious leaders that were about to murder him, why do you always resist the Holy Spirits? And the point he is making is that again and again and again, they have actually in their hearts been convinced of the truth. They have seen the logic of his words as he goes to the Old Testament to show that it points to Christ and to the gospel. They have been convicted. Yeah, that that is, he does make a good point. That is true, that is right. They've turned against it, they can continually and persistently said, No, I will not believe that. You see, to reject the spirit is essentially to reject what you know to be true. I think the Pharisees who ascribed that miracle to the power of Satan knew in the depths of their hearts that that couldn't be the possible explanation. But they had to defend their status quo. They had to defend their standing in society. And so they made up this ridiculous explanation. You see, to repeatedly insult the Spirit and reject his convicting work is to commit the unpardonable sin that is fatal to our souls. Why is that? Because the only way that anyone has ever repented and believed the gospel is because of the work of the Spirit in their hearts. No one has ever been saved unless the Spirit of God was working there first, opening their eyes, convicting them of their shim, showing them their needs. And so if you insult the Spirit, you reject him again and again and again and again, saying, I will not believe this gospel. He will go away and no longer trouble you, and you will never repent because you'll never be convicted. That is why there's no going back from apostasy. But there's a third reason that apostates will face the judgment of God. And that is, if you look with me now back in Hebrews chapter 10, please. Please stay with me, Hebrews chapter 10, or in the last two verses, verses 30 and 31 For we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongs unto me, I will recompense, saith the Lord, and again the Lord shall judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. The author of Hebrews is going to demonstrate that judgment must come upon apostates by appealing to the revealed character of God. The Bible was primarily given to us to show us who God is and how we can know Him. So why does God judge unrepentant apostate sinners? The answer is because he is just and righteous and will not allow the wicked to go unpunished Genesis 18, 25 says, Shall not the judge of all the earth do rights? What does a judge do? They pronounce judgment on those who have found to be guilty. Now the author of Hebrews assumes that his Jewish readers would instinctively affirm that this is true. He quotes from Deuteronomy chapter 32, a section known as the Song of Moses. The verse says, To me belongeth vengeance and recompense their foot. shall slide in due time, for the day of their calamity is at hand. Incidentally, this happens to be the text for Edward's famous sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. The author of Hebrews uses this text to demonstrate that God is just and will bring judgment on sinners because his justice demands it. The scriptures are clear that vengeance is a divine prerogative. Romans chapter 12 and verse 19 says, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Now, in the context of Deuteronomy, these words of judgment were first spoken of the enemies of God's people, Israel, who attacked them and troubled them during the wilderness wanderings. And once again, we see that those who reject Christ and his work of redemption are the enemies of God and will face his judgment. But the next thing we read in verse 30, it says, the Lord shall judge his people. How can this be? I thought that if we were the people of God, that there was no condemnation to us Well, this is also a quotation from Deuteronomy 32 from the very next verse. There are two possible ways of understanding this statement. It could be saying that God will vindicate his people before their enemies. The Hebrew word for judge can be understood this way. However, in context, it is probably indicating that God will judge his people when they violate his covenant and turn to idolatry. The idea is that just because a person claims to be part of the covenant people of God does not mean in fact that they are believers. Because not all Israel was truly Israel. And so no one should ever assume that because they are a member of a church, Or once said a prayer that they can live however they want and evade the judgment of God. God knows all about you. He knows everything in your heart, and no one has ever fooled him. So how does the preacher conclude this searching paragraph? He does so with verse 31. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. This is one of the most terrifying verses in the Bible. The word fearful, it's not the normal word for fear and has the idea of terrifying. It's also used up in verse 27. what it says, but a certain fearful, a certain terrifying looking of judgment that is an anticipation of judgment. When it speaks of falling into the hands, it's an idiom that means to come under the power of another Like a defenseless convict standing before the ultimate judge of mankind. There he is in his shackles. Surrounded by guards, he is vulnerable, he has no way of fighting or escaping or resisting. He has to face the sentence of that judge Did you know that if you are an enemy of God, that God is the most terrifying being in the universe? Think about it. He's all powerful. He's all-knowing. He's everywhere He's sovereign over all. There's no way to defeat him or evade him or deceive him because he is God. He 's described here as the living God, an expression that the author of Hebrews likes to use, perhaps a reference to Yahweh, the self-existent one. And perhaps he's making a contrast here, saying that the God that you have to answer to, the God who will render judgment on you, is not some concept. He's not some myth like the ancient Romans believed in. some mythology, but he's the God who has always been the great I am, the God who is. That is the God that you must give an account before. Now perhaps you would strongly object to what I've been saying and declare that God is a God of love. And indeed he is. But God is also revealed in Scripture as holy and righteous and just And he dearly loves his beloved son. And he will not allow you to trample on his beloved son and despise his precious blood and insult the Holy Spirit without appropriate judgment. God 's judgment of every sinner is just and right. A lot of people struggle with this A lot of people struggle with the idea of hell and with the eternal judgment of God. Indeed, it is a fearful prospect. But a lot of people say that doesn't sound just, that doesn't sound right, that doesn't sound appropriate. But if you knew everything that God knows about every human being, And you understood the holiness of God, that would not be your response. A. W. Tozer said that if there was one verse displayed in hell, it would be this one: True and righteous are thy judgments, O Lord. So what is our proper response to this terrifying verse? This frightful warning. Should cause us to draw near to God, to hold fast our profession of faith, and to gather regularly with the people of God. Somebody says, what about assurance? What about assurance of salvation, Pastor? This is kind of undercuts entirety. Everything the Bible teaches about the assurance of salvation, the Bible does teach about the assurance of salvation. In fact, the book of Hebrews talks about the assurance of salvation But the assurance of salvation is not for people who reject the gospel, who trample upon the gospel the Son of God, who spit on the blood of Christ, and who insult the Holy Spirit. There is no assurance for them except for the assurance that they will perish eternally. So what practically does this mean? We must never allow our hearts to become comfortable with disobedience and high-handed defiance of God's. will. We must not think to ourselves, it doesn't really matter if I do this. Yeah, I know it's wrong. I know it's condemned. It's it's It's not a big deal. Does it matter that I stop going to church and that I never pray, that I never read my Bible? I mean God, the preacher said all my sins are forgiven and I have a home in heaven someday and that's not going to change. So why should I do these things? We must never think this way. We must be afraid to isolate ourselves and to abandon the people of God because they're We know that our own heart is so prone to wander and it grows cold so quickly that we know that we desperately need the people of God to surround us and strengthen us and uphold us. We must become troubled when our affections become cold And singing wonderful hymns with wonderful truths no longer touches our hearts. When communion is just some ritual that we fly through without ever a thought of Christ. These things should trouble us. They are warning signs that something is not right in your soul. The Bible teaches that we must persevere, not because we're working to save ourselves or keep ourselves saved. But because this is what the people of God do, they persevere. He that endureth unto the end, the same shall be saved. The most famous allegory of the Christian life is certainly Pilgrim's Progress that was written by John Bunyan in the 17th century while he was in prison. At the end of the book, Christian and hopeful, two of the characters finally make it to the celestial city, and two shining angels come and take them to heaven. A Christian sees ignorance who is also seeking to get in is bound hand in foot and taken to a door in the side of the hill. And Bunyan concludes his masterpiece with this line. Then I saw that there was a way to hell even from the gates of heaven, as well as from the city of the Spirit. What he's talking about is there's two ways, two primary ways that people can go to hell. One is the way of rebellion. Those are the people in the city of destruction. The other is the religious way. Those who may appear to be on a spiritual journey, they may appear to be going in the right direction, but they've never really been born again. And their heart is not a heart for the things of God. There are multiple ways to hell, but there's only one way to God. And that is by placing all your hope and trust in the finished work of Christ. Dear friend, hell is a real place, but you don't have to go there. Through the blood of Christ, your sins can be forgiven, and you can gain the assurance that you indeed are a child of God's. I'm going to conclude with three very quick applications. First of all, we must never adopt a false assurance of salvation that ignores God's warnings. The scriptures are not a buffet where we take some things that we really like and the rest we just kind of leave behind. No, we must take it all. Because it's all the Word of God. We have to take the wonderful promises along with the warnings. In the 20th century, many evangelicals have just about completely dismissed or ignored these warnings in Scripture. And we've taught people what is very comforting to them. Once saved, always saved. It is true that if you truly have been born again, You will be saved forever. But if you just hold that truth and you don't balance it out with other things that Scripture says and the warnings that it possesses, you will have a distorted view of salvation. So much so that you hear all the time of people who have renounced their faith and walked away from Christ and are living very conspicuously wicked lives. And yet people around themselves, well, I know they're going to heaven because they said a prayer one time. That's not what the Bible teaches. The Bible never teaches, and the church has never believed that if you say some magic words, then you're good to go. That was a 20th-century invention. You might say that became part of the evangelical landscape. And it's a very dangerous thing. Secondly, we must beware of rejecting or ignoring the biblical doctrine of hell. There are tens of thousands of evangelical churches in America today. Evangelical means they preach the gospel or they believe the gospel. But in many of those churches, you could go there for years and years and years and years and years, and you would never hear one time any mention of hell or any indication or allusion to it. Because guess what? It's not very popular. People don't want to hear it. And so they ignore it. But let me say this: Jesus spoke about hell five times more often than he spoke about heaven. Most of what we know about hell comes from the words of our Savior. And you can't speak of the good news unless you're going to talk about the bad news as well. And thirdly, and hopefully this will be give some hope to people here who are greatly troubled because you have loved ones who seem to be apostates. We must be slow to label people apostates who have walked away from Christ. Why do I say that? Because it's possible that they haven't completely apostatized. We read a story this week of a pastor who was dealing with a young lady that had grown up in his youth group and she was a leader and followed Christ and then she Went away from the Lord. She got involved with this young man. She was living with him. She renounced her faith in Christ. She was living a wicked life. And she was known for making posts and making fun of Christianity and everything else. And one day he came across her and he had a chance to talk with her and he said to her, I have some questions before you. you and he says let me ask you if Jesus were here would you trample over his body and do you despise his blood that was shed for you And would you insult the Spirit of God? And she began to cry and to weep, and she repented, and she was saved that day. Okay? People can turn away from the gospel. People can turn away from the truth. I'm not saying that's okay. I'm not saying that they may not be lost, but what I'm saying is keep praying for them. Keep being a witness before them. Keep trying to engage them. Keep trying to get to the root because so often it's not that they had this intellectual awareness that came to reject God, but that they became trapped by some habitual sin, in order to make sense of their life, they had to turn away from Christ. So keep praying for your child that may today claim to be an atheist, even though they know the truth. It's possible that they're atheists, but you don't, or that they're an apostate, but you don't know. They may not have gone that far. The Spirit of God may yet work in their heart. They may not have crossed that line. Continue to pray that they would be safe. May God help us to give heed to his word. Let's pray. Father, I pray that you would take what we've heard today and use it not to cause your children to doubt their salvation. And to be troubled without cause. But I do pray, Father, that you would help us to be aware. that our hearts are so quick to drift away. They're so quick to rebel and go our own way. And so help us, Father, to cling to the cross and to love our Savior, and to invite the ministry of our brothers and sisters in Christ that we dedicate. Desperately need. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen