Before we open up our Bibles, would you join me in a word of prayer as we prepare to look into the Word tonight? Let's go ahead and pray. Father, my heart is so warmed to be with your people tonight and to prepare to gather around your word. Father, the feeling is like that of being around the Thanksgiving table with dear family and just having a a time of fellowship, a time of feasting and joy together Lord, I pray that we would truly feed on your word tonight. I pray, Father, that you would loose my tongue and sharpen my mind. And Lord, I pray that I would be able to clearly articulate the truth in your word so that your people could understand. And Father, I pray that you would meet us with your spirit in a special way tonight. and show us how these principles in Romans 14 apply to our lives individually and to the life of our church corporately as we Minister to one another, and as we fellowship together, Lord, we want to truly be united as one people with one love. and one purpose of glorifying our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And we pray that we would learn better how to build each other up in love and in our most holy faith. And so, Father, I pray that you would meet with us tonight and give us clear insight into your word. We ask this in the name of our Savior, in whose name we pray. Amen. Would you turn with me to Romans chapter fourteen? Romans chapter fourteen. This will be our fourth message in a series that we've titled Welcome One Another How to experience gospel unity with brethren who differ on matters of conscience. Now, by way of review , I'd like to ask you tonight why have we titled this series just that, Welcome One Another? Why do you think that that title is over our series? Well, I would imagine some of you, hopefully most of us, recall that that is the central command. of this unit of Scripture. I invite your attention to Romans chapter 14 and verse 1. It says, as for the one who is weak in faith Here is that imperative. Welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. Now, if you turn to the very end of this unit, chapter 15, it bridges, goes through the chapter, chapter 15, and you'll notice verse 7. We have this command again. It concludes this unit. Therefore, based off of everything that Paul has said in this chapter, therefore, welcome one another. As Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. Welcome one another. This is a gospel imperative for God's people. I believe this portion of Scripture is especially relevant for us as a church at this point in our growth. The larger the local body of Christ gets, the broader the range. of conscience standards will be represented in it. It is critical for us to know how to relate to one another biblically in these matters so that we preserve the unity of faith. and the testimony of our Lord. Our passage tonight is verses 13 through 19. 13 through 19. But I would like to begin at chapter 14, verse 1, and just read everything up into our passage tonight. We've taken three messages to cover verses 1 to through twelve. And so I would like to recover that material by reading it tonight. So would you join me as we settle into this portion of God's Word, chapter 14, verse 1. As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains, and let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls, and he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats eats in honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God. While the one who abstains abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God. For none of us lives to himself. And none of us dies to himself. For if we live, we live to the Lord. And if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lords. For to this end Christ died and lived again, that he might be Lord both of the dead and of the living. Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God, for it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then, each of us will give an account of himself to God. Therefore, let us not pass judgment on one another any longer but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother. I know and I am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself But it is unclean for anyone who thinks it unclean. For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. So then, let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding. In the last message, we considered the second conscience issue raised in this discussion in chapter 14, which is the observance of days beginning in verse 5. And we discovered that there are what I'm calling vertical principles that need to be considered when thinking through matters of conscience. These principles focus our attention on our relationship with God. They have, as it were, a vertical perspective. Can you recall some of those principles? Maybe you have them written in your notebook from several weeks ago. I'll give some of them to you. One of those principles is that Christians must be fully convinced in their own conscience when making choices in matters that Scripture does not expressly command or forbid. We must be persuaded in our own conscience before the Lord that this is indeed pleasing to him. Likewise, Christians must make the honor of the Lord their primary primary goal in these decisions. Whether we live or we die, we are the Lord's. So not only are we to be persuaded in our own mind, but we are to have our as our motive and our goal the honor and glory of the Lord. It's a vertical perspective. Christians must remember that they are individually accountable. I, myself, not anyone else, is going to stand before the Lord and give an account for me. I must have that perspective when making these decisions in matters of opinion. These are the vertical principles in our previous passage. But it is not enough, brothers and sisters, to be persuaded in your own mind on an issue. We are, as it were, a community of believers. We are a body, the body of Christ. We are not an island to ourselves. The decisions that we make can have and do have a profound effect on the church, the church family as a whole. Our passage tonight is going to instruct us in how we are to relate to each other in matters of Christian liberty. The passage tonight is what I'm calling horizontal. In verses 13 through 19, the strong are given principles for how they should not exercise their liberty Or how they should and should not exercise their liberty in view of their weaker brethren. I would like to give you the major point of our passage tonight. So please look with me at verse 13. It says, therefore, let us not pass judgment on one another any longer. That statement right there is summarizing everything that Paul has discussed and gone over in verses 1 through 14. So everything that he's covering, he's patching it packaging it up in that statement. Do not judge one another any longer. Now the second half of verse 13 begins his new idea, his new thesis for the preceding paragraph. And he says this, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother. This thesis statement is stated negatively. And I'm going to summarize it this way Christians must never exercise their liberty in such a way that hinders their brothers walk. Christians must must never exercise their liberty in such a way that hinders their brothers' walk. Now At the very end of this paragraph that we're considering tonight, he states his thesis again, but he states it positively. So I want to read that for you. Drop down to verse 19 in your Bible. And Paul says this, so then let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding. He's making the same point. but stating it positively. So I would summarize Paul's thesis this way. Christians must always seek the peace. and edification or the building up of the body of Christ when making decisions in matters of conscience. That is Paul's main idea in this passage tonight. Now, before we look at the body of Paul's argument in this paragraph, I want to clarify his thesis statement. Because if we miss the main point here, then we're going to miss what follows. A believer should not do anything that would, in Paul's terms, put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother. The terms stumbling block and hindrance are functioning synonymously here. A stumbling block is an obstacle. It is something that causes someone to fall. The term hindrance literally means trap. So you have something that causes someone to fall and a trap. Both of these terms are describing something that causes a believer to have a spiritual downfall. It is essentially to cause another brother to fall into sin. So Paul is saying to the strong in conscience, You must never, never cause your brother to sin. Okay. Now our outline is going to refl reflect three subordinate points. And as we move now into the body of this paragraph, I want to frame those. three points in terms of a question or three questions. So let's follow Paul's train of thought here. Here's point number one in my first question. How can a believer put a stumbling block before another brother or sister? Don't you think that's an important question in this discussion? How can a believer put a stumbling block before another brother or sister? Look with me at verse 14. He says, I know and I am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself But it is unclean for anyone who thinks it unclean. Paul says, I am confident in the Lord Jesus. That is in my understanding of the teaching of Christ, of the doctrine of Christ, of what his redemptive work accomplished. That nothing is unclean in and of itself. Now what does he mean by that Well, Paul is not espousing the idea that universally there is nothing inherently good or evil in the world, that everything's just neutral. That's not what he's saying. That would be a philosophy that has roots in Stoicism and nihilistic philosophy. We have to understand this statement in context of the discussion, right? Context is king, as our hermeneutic teachers would say. Paul is saying that no meat is unclean in itself under the new covenant in Jesus Christ. Essentially, he's saying that the meat that is to be enjoyed, any meat, none of that is unclean under the new covenant. Was that, follow me, was that the case under the old covenant? W was all meat uh clean under the old covenant No, it wasn't. Just read Leviticus and Deuteronomy, the dietary restrictions. Certain foods or certain meats were considered unclean and others to be clean. We know this. So Paul is saying that nothing is unclean un of itself, but that's not where he stops. Consider what Christ said in Mark chapter 7 verses 16 through 19 on this very point There is nothing outside of a person that by going into him can defile him, but the things that come out of a person are what defile him. And when he had entered the house and left the people, his disciples asked him about the parable. And he said to them, Then are you also without understanding? Do you not see that whatever goes into a person From outside cannot defile him, since it enters not his heart, but his stomach, and is expelled. Thus he declared all foods clean. Christians have the liberty to eat me under the new covenant. However, look at the last half of verse 14. This is very interesting. He says, but it, referring to meat, is unclean if anyone thinks it is unclean. This verse is teaching us a very important principle. It is teaching us that it is sinful for a Christian to do something that is actually permissible, or we would say, in Paul's terms, clean. If in his conscience he thinks it is wrong, clean and unclean were terms used under the old covenant describing what was holy and unholy before the Lord. Paul is saying that if you regard something that is clean as unclean, then it becomes unclean to you. Let me illustrate. If your conscience is misinformed and you think that it is wrong to eat ham. then it is actually sinful for you to eat ham, even if it is not inherently sinful to eat ham. That's the point he's making. Paul is saying that if a weak believer in Rome eats meat that is in fact clean. And permissible to eat, but in so doing violates his conscience. He has sinned. Why is this? Well, the simple answer actually is given further down in the context of this passage. The simple answer is that it was not done in faith. Look at verse 22b. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. But whoever doubts is condemned if he eats, because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. Now I want to give uh an illustration here. I was thinking through this principle, and I think that At least for me, it is hard sometimes in my mind to reckon why something might be sinful if it is objectively good and and permissible. Yet it goes against my conscience and I I do that anyway. Why has that become sinful for for me in a sense? I'm going to give you an illustration. This is helpful to me. I will say there is a little bit of theological speculation in this illustration, so I'm not pointing to a chapter and verse and saying this is why. But I think that this illustration is helpful to get at the point. So follow me here Let's take a mom and dad who decide they want to go out for a dinner date Thursday night. By the way, moms and dads, you should go out for dinner dates. You should put that in your budget and husbands, you need to lead the charge on that. Okay? Amen. Ladies are saying amen. So let's say mom and dad go out for dinner on a Thursday night. And uh they have older kids, and um their kids think That it would be disobedient, it would be uh going against what mom and dad said to watch a movie that night while mom and dad are at their dinner date. Now, the reality is, mom and dad didn't say that. Okay? Actually, if they chose to watch a movie that night, mom and dad would be fine with that. But the kids thought That mom and dad had said not to not to watch a movie that night. And under that assumption, they decided to watch a movie anyway. They went against what they thought mom and dad wanted. Now I have a question for you. In those children's heart , Were they honoring or dishonoring mom and dad? They were dishonoring, even though the activity itself was permissible, right? And I think this might help shed some light onto this matter here. That a believer Who is faced with something that he may actually have the liberty to do, but yet in his conscience thinks that that this is not pleasing to the Lord and thinks that God may not want him to do that, yet does it anyway. I don't think that's coming from a heart of faith, a heart that is seeking to honor the Lord. Does that make sense to us? Okay, so let me ask you, how could we cause another believer to sin against his conscience? by exercising our liberty in Christ? This is a very important question. There are many areas in the Christian life where we are seeking to use biblical discernment to come to a position that is in line with God's will and pleasing to him. But there are many areas that Christians disagree over. And we have to recognize these because we have believers that whether they're in this church or not in this church, or other churches that we know of who are going to be in heaven someday, but they have different stances on some of these issues, and I'm going to raise some of them. I'm not stating my position on them. I'm just making a point that these are things that Christians have difference of opinion on. Okay? Some of them include secular and sacred music standards, modest dress standards, in certain countries, capitalism versus socialism. In America, it's usually you know Democrat or Republic uh party affiliations. Video games or standards of movies, going to a movie theater, dancing. Public school or private school or homeschool in the realm of ministry, a church with multiple services or multiple sites. Being overweight, ear piercings, tattoos, moderate consumption of alcohol. Best English translation of the Bible. These are things that believers have a variety of conscience positions on and how they appropriate the scriptures in these matters. These are areas where believers who truly love the Lord and are seeking to apply biblical principles arrive at different conscience standards. Now let me give you a few examples of how one believer might cause another believer to sin in his conscience. So This is purely a hypothetical made-up story, okay? But it's to illustrate this point. Not too many years ago in my lifetime, it was not uncommon for a Christian school or Christian schools to have a policy that prohibited their students from attending a movie theater. There are maybe Christian families and schools that still hold this position currently. I do not know. I am unaware of that. The church I grew up, however, in my teen years strongly discouraged going to a theater. So I'm going to create a scenario in this kind of context. Let's pretend there was a young adult group from church going out together on a Friday night. And one of the young men, who we will call Sam, okay , nice name. Um I thought of some other names, but Victoria kept saying, No, you can't use that name because they're gonna be there that night. And so anyway. So let's say this this young man, Sam , discovered that the group he was going out with from his church was planning to go to a movie theater later that night. In his conscience, he thinks that that would not be pleasing to the Lord for him to do. So he expresses his thoughts on it, but his friends do not share his viewpoint at all. They ins uh instead, they they insist that um this event will be wholesome and that it will glorify the Lord. And actually they suggest to Sam that he is being a little too legalistic. Now, let me pause here. Remember, what is the tendency of the strong's disposition to the weak? It's to what? to despise them, do you remember and what is the tendency of the weak's disposition to the strong? It's to judge them, okay? And just remember that here. So Sam decides to go to the movie theater. Not because his conscience has changed on the matter, but because he does not want to be left out of his friend group. Even though it was not sinful for other members in the group to go to the movie theater that night, it was sinful for Sam because he did not do so with a clear conscience. It was not done in faith. And thus his friends inadvertently set a stumbling block before him. Do you see? Mark Dever, a well-known pastor, said this. Your conscience cannot make a right , excuse me, your conscience cannot make a wrong thing right. But it can make a right thing wrong. Here is the principle. A Christian must not exercise his liberty in such a way that causes another believer to violate his conscience. A Christian must never exercise his liberty in such a way that causes another believer to violate his conscience. Now that brings me to my second point. Why must we not cause a brother to stumble? Why is this such a big deal? Look with me at verse 15 through 16. It says this, for if your brother is grieved by what you eat. You are no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil. Verses 15 through 16 highlight Two possible consequences of causing a brother to stumble. Here's the first. The first is that the strong fails to love his brother. The strong in Rome, by insisting on their freedom to eat certain foods, namely certain meats, grieved the weak and failed to walk in love. Grieve here can be translated hurt or pain or injure or distress. This term is used in the New Testament to describe the pain one feels at the loss of a loved one. It's a kind of a deep grief. It's not talking about just annoyance. And Paul is saying that if the exercise of your Christian liberty causes spiritual hurt to your brother, then you are not walking according to the law of love. You are failing to love your brother. But there is a second consequence here that is even more severe. Actually, it's it's shocking. Look down at your Bible at verse 15. He says this, by what you eat Do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. I want you to underline either literally or in your mind that word, destroy. Because it's very, very important. In Pauline usage, the term destroy here denotes ultimate spiritual ruin. Or what we would call apostasy. Paul informs the strong that the exercise of their liberty without regard for the weaker brethren could result in their apostasy. This is a very serious thing. And this raises many theological questions that we cannot afford the time to answer right now. There is a tension between the doctrine of preservate the preservation of the saints and the doctrine of the believers' eternal security. Both are true, and we must hold them both equally. The scripture teaches that all true believers are eternally secure. That is certain. Romans 8 affirms that. And at the same time, the scripture warns that this these same believers That he's speaking to, the same believers that were addressed in Romans 8, are in danger of apostasy and eternal destruction. if they were to fall away. This is not an empty warning. That warning is intended to motivate God's people to persevere in the faith. And those who are true believers will, by His grace, persevere. In context, the Romans exercise of Christian liberty liberty in eating meat. could so injure the conscience of the weak among them that the weak could possibly leave the church and abandon Christ. resulting in eternal ruin if they were to stray and and leave the the forsake Christ and his gospel. Gentile Christians could so greatly offend Jewish believers as to push them outside the household of faith by their position on this tertiary issue, this matter of opinion. This is a weighty thing, brothers and sisters. This is a weighty thing. So Paul reasons with the strong on the basis of the gospel in verse 16, and he says this, by what you eat. Do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. Paul is reasoning this way. If Christ, catch this, if Christ gave up his life. For the weaker brother, then is it too much for you to give up your opinion for their spiritual good? Do not destroy the one for whom Christ died by what you eat. Now let's think about how this might apply for us to us today. I think we have to be very careful in bridging the the application here when we're dealing with the historical context and we're seeking to make practical relevant application to our lives today today Let me share something that is not made up, that is a true story. The church that I grew up in in Pennsylvania, there was a lady. who um I I knew very well. She was much older than me. I think she's probably in her seventies by now. But she prayed for me regularly and was an encouragement to my faith. She was like a spiritual mother in some sense And she told me one day her testimony after getting saved. She had gotten saved later in life. Um I'm not sure exactly what how old she was, but I think it was probably thirties or forties. It was she was in her adult years. And upon coming to church for the first time and seeking to get involved with uh uh a a gospel church, she found herself being judged by the people in that church. And we're not talking about major things. We're talking about petty things. Things that are truly matters of opinion. And this was so hard for her. She she thought, here, I I I've just become a Christian. And I come to church and I'm actually feeling rejected, not welcomed, but rejected by Christians. And she told me she actually had to reach a point, she contemplated just saying, okay, I'm just going to wash my hands. I'm done. But she actually sat down and she thought through it and she said to her Savior, she said, Lord Jesus You died for me, and I'm following you. And even if your people do not welcome me, You're my savior, not them. And I'm going to follow you. And she persevered through some of the difficult uh honestly uh criticism and and judgment that she received at her church in order to really Become a functional member of that body and work through it. Now that is not a very good commentary on the body of Christ, is it? But I think that illustrates for us how It is possible when we are critical and judgmental and even exercise our liberties in certain areas that we can actually make part of the body feel unwelcomed. And that was the issue here with these weaker brethren, these Jewish believers in the Church of Rome. And it's a very dangerous thing because It could lead to that person's apostasy if because of that lack of welcome they abandon Christ. Do you see? So this is a very, very important um principle and a warning for us all. That brings us now to our third point. Well, let me actually summarize our, excuse me, let me summarize our second point. A Christian must never hold on to his liberty in Christ to the spiritual detriment of his brethren. A Christian must never hold on to his liberty in Christ to the spiritual detriment of his brethren. Point number three, and our third question. What eternal perspective ought believers to have on matters of conscience as we relate to one another? Look at verse 17 through 19. It says this, For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. These verses are the theological basis for the commands given in verses 13 through 16, what we've just covered. These verses provide perspective Perspective on the matter of Christian liberty. The strong in the Church of Rome were placing too high a priority on their liberty to eat meat They were holding on to, as it were, their liberty to the detriment of other believers, and thereby prioritizing their liberty over what is really most important in the kingdom. Paul is in essence saying eating meat doesn't matter. That's not what's important. What matters, look, he states it right there, what what matters in the kingdom of God? Righteousness Peace among God's people, joy in the house of God All produced, as Pastor Aaron reminded us this morning, by the Holy Spirit who dwells in us. Righteousness in Romans often refers to God's justifying act in Christ, but here it is most likely referring to moral rightness. Peace earlier in Romans is the result of being justified before a God. We have peace with God, Romans 5. But here it is referring to the harmony and the mutual support that we have with each other. And joy is what God intends to characterize the disposition of his people. All these are the product of the Holy Spirit. This is the perspective we need to have. These things, Paul said, are what we should be contending for in the body of Christ, not our opinions and our liberties. And Paul says, whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. The word thus is referring to the way in which we serve Christ in verse 17. Serves Christ with this perspective on the kingdom. What perspective? They are not fighting for their rights, their liberties, their opinions. They are willing to give up those things for the sake of Of righteousness, peace, and joy among God's people. So our third principle tonight is this: Christians Must value kingdom priorities above personal liberties. Christians must value kingdom priorities. Above personal liberties. How many churches have been split, have been divided Because of arguments over things that were not of gospel importance. They were not tier one issues. They were matters of opinion. And I dare say over the church over the course of church history, how many professing believers Have left the faith because they were hurt. Because they were deeply offended. in the church that they were attending because other believers were were contending for their right, their liberty. And not taking into consideration how that would affect other believers. This is a very sobering thing. So Paul says in conclusion, he states his thesis and summarizes it in verse 14 positively, as we noted at the beginning of the message. So then, here's what we ought to do in light of everything that he just said. So then let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding. Pursue, strive for what promotes peace in the household of God, what builds up your brother and sister. That's what you should be concerned about Not flaunting your liberty or contending for your right. Now, I want to take a few moments here and apply this to ourselves tonight, I want to ask you if you would ask yourself this question in light of what we've considered. Ask yourself this. Am I aware of anything that I am doing that may very well be right and good? But that is causing disunity in the body of Christ and possibly hindering another believer's walk. Remember, Paul said, don't let your good be evil spoken of. You might be doing something that in your conscience is good and fine. You have liberty to do it. But it's causing disunity in the body of Christ, where it's causing, it's hindering another believer's walk. Can you identify anything in your life like that? Second application. We need to learn from Paul's use of the gospel in this situation. Did you see how Paul applied the gospel to this circumstance? I think this is really instructive. There's a kind of counseling pedagogy going on here that I want you to see. As you observe Paul dealing with the Corinthians, as you observe him counseling the Colossians, look at any of his epistles Paul always goes back to the gospel. He's always taking the truth of the cross. And in some facet, applying it to the need of the believer. Here The strong needed to see the gospel in this sense. They needed to see that Christ gave up his life for the weak. And therefore they should give up their liberty for the good of the weak. That's the gospel counsel that they needed. And I want to encourage you, as you are looking at the needs of your own soul, use the gospel to counsel yourself. Counsel your soul with the truth of the cross. And when you're looking at the disharmony or the dysfunction in relationships in your life, Bring the gospel into that. Apply the gospel to that situation. That's what Paul is doing here. It's a beautiful thing. It's a powerful thing. Third, I want you to remember that in our last message, I encourage you to ask yourself this question. Remember at the end of the message, the end of our last passage, I should say, I ask you to ask yourselves this. Can I give thanks to the Lord with a clear conscience? in what I'm about to do. Knowing who God is, knowing his character and his will, in making this decision in a a tertiary area or a matter of opinion, can I do this? with a clear conscience and give thanks for it. That was a principle that we covered in our last passage. Well, that was, remember the vertical focus, but I want to add one additional question for you to ask yourself when faced with a decision in a tertiary issue. I want you to ask yourself this. Will what I am about to do promote the peace and growth of God's people? I might be able to say, you know, yes, on the first question. Yes, I I have a clear conscience about this. I can do this. I feel like I have liberty to do this, and this, I can even give thanks to the Lord in doing this. Okay, good. Check that that question off. Move on to the second. Will this Will this cause disunity in the body of Christ? Will this build up my brother or sister? And folks, if if it can't if you can't answer that, if it if if you or if you can answer it honestly and say, no, actually this would cause this unity. This would not build up my brother and sister, even though I feel like I could you know exercise my right in this, then we need to be willing. As God's people for the good of our church, for the good of our brethren, and for the pleasure of our Savior, to say, you know what? I'm going to set aside my liberty and not not exercise that for the sake of the unity of the body of Christ. It's a wonderful thing. May the Spirit of God give us wisdom in making these decisions. I want to close and I have about roughly two or three minutes before before seven. And I thought to myself, if I still have a few minutes left, I'm going to make one additional application. So this one is totally free of charge, okay? Just kidding. Um but I want to make an application to our teens, especially. Because I know our young people are listening to this and they're trying to process this and apply this to their situation. So teens, this this I'm I'm speaking to you here as I close. Growing up in a Christian home, as I did, I discovered that I didn't always agree with positions that my parents took And I at times pressed for my own way. And part of that was because I looked at what the Bible said or I I thought about and I said, okay, this isn't wrong. I should be able to do this. But mom and dad say I can't. And you might be listening to this series and and thinking to yourself, you know. There are things that I that my conscience would allow me to do, but my parents say that I can't Let me let me just speak to that for a moment. It may be that in time Once you are out of the home and whatnot, that activity or that whatever it is that that mom and dad say you can't do right now, you can do and and and do that to God's glory and have a free conscience in that. Okay. But for right now, what God's will is for you is to submit to your parents. And you may actually discover through your own growth in the Lord and through life experience that the restrictions that they put on you now were actually really, really wise and you just didn't have the discernment in these years right now to see it. And so I want to encourage our teens , if if you find within yourself a struggle, because there are certain things that mom and dad say you can't do. than aren't necessarily explicitly forbidden in Scripture. Recognize that God 's will for you right now is to submit to your parents, to honor them. and to allow the Lord to lead you in the future. And maybe it will be that someday as an adult you will partake in that. Or not, but God's will for you right now is to allow God to lead you through your parents as you apply these principles of Christian liberty. and matters of conscience to your life. Let's pray and we'll close. Father, we thank you for this passage and for the good instruction that it gives. I pray, Father, that you would give us insight. Lord, all of us are going to apply the truth differently according to our own context and our own situation in life. and our own relationships that we have. I pray that you would give us wisdom and that you would apply the truth by your spirit to our hearts tonight. In your name we pray. Amen.