If you have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to Hebrews chapter eleven? Hebrews chapter eleven. Read the story of a little boy who was riding his tricycle furiously around the block over and over and over again. A police officer across the street was watching this and finally decided he'd go over and find out why the boy just kept going around and around. And a boy answered the police officer and said, Well, he was running away from home. And so the police officer asked him, Well, why do you keep going around and around in circles? And he said, because my mom said I'm not allowed to cross the street. Obedience may keep you close to home, or it may take you far away from home. The latter was the case with Abraham, who was called of God to leave Earl the Chaldees. As we continue our study of Hebrews 11 this morning, we come to the most prominent example of faith in this chapter. And that is the man Abraham. Abraham is in many ways in a class of his own. He is the only person that is greatly revered by both Jews, Muslims, and Christians. Abraham, of course, is the very first patriarch, and he's the only man in Scripture called the friend of God. And the Bible tells us that He is the Father of all who truly believe. So if you're here this morning and you truly know the Lord as your Savior. You are a spiritual descendant of Abraham. He's presented in both Romans and Galatians as the classic example of justification by faith. And so it's not surprising that nearly one-third of this chapter, that of course is all about faith, focuses in on his life. It starts here in verse 8 and really goes all the way down To verse 22, or if you follow his descendants, all the way down through verse 22. And the emphasis of the section that we look at this morning Is that an authentic faith responds in obedience to God Now, no believer obeys God perfectly, not even Abraham, as we will see. But the Bible tells us that every true Christian lives by faith And the best evidence of a living faith is a life that is characterized by obedience. You may know the Children's Song. That so effectively teaches this truth. Obedience is the very best way to show that you believe It may seem childish and trite, but it is absolutely true. The Bible echoes this truth again and again that a true faith will evidence itself in true obedience to God. Now you may recall that this chapter is really fleshing out what is said in Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 38, where it says The just shall live by faith. This Old Testament text from the book of Habakkuk is repeated some three additional times in the New Testament. And here in Hebrews, the emphasis is on the word live. The just shall live by faith. That is, what does a living faith look like in real-life situations? May recall the writer of this book is addressing people who are facing fierce opposition and persecution. They're going to jail for their faith. They're being separated from their family for their beliefs. And some of them are being tortured and dying because they profess to follow Christ. And as a result, some who initially joined the community of faith are now saying, you know what, the stakes are just too high, and they're going back to their old life They're going back to the law. They're going back to the Old Testament priests. They're repudiating Christ. And the writer here is saying, don't do that. That's not what a living faith does. It perseveres, it obeys, it continues on. And that's exactly what we have in this passage. So let me ask you, are you living out your faith in a tangible way? What I want you to see in these verses this morning. Is that people with an authentic faith obey God? A very simple truth. Let's read these verses. Verse 8, by faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed And he went out, not knowing whither he went. By faith he sojourned in the land of promise as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. For he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God. I want you to notice with me first of all from verse 8 that people with an authentic faith obey God's word. Now the key verb in this verse is the word obey. We have all these words that come between the subject. And the object and the uh the verb here, but if you take them out, what you have is by faith, Abraham obeys What happens when we obey God's word? What does that look like? Well, let's pause for a moment and look at the life of Abraham. I want you to notice, first of all, that obeying God's word will involve change. There was a great change in Abraham's life. We know virtually nothing of Abraham before he was called of God and Ur of the Chaldees. The Bible doesn't record anything about him. We find in Acts chapter 7 that in fact that's where the call came. We know that Ur was located in a highly advanced civilization along the Euphrates River in what is today the country of Iraq. Where Abraham once lived is where our soldiers, at least some of them, are probably patrolling and going around today. Joshua 24 tells us that Abraham was brought up in an idolatrous family. We know from archaeological research that people in this city and in this culture worship a moon god. They built this gigantic ziggurat, this stepped pyramid. And it was devoted to the worship of the moon god. And it's very, very likely that Abraham was brought up in that culture. In fact, some of the names in his family speak of idolatry. He was brought up in this idolatrous lifestyle, but somehow God called him out of that. Not that he deserved it. It was all of God's grace. And his life changed dramatically. He followed a new God. He left for a new country. He built a new altar And his life would never be the same again. This is the picture of what the Christian life is all about. The Bible says, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creation. All things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. There should be a change in your life. God may not call you to leave your country. But things will change when God has really gotten a hold of your heart. The Bible describes salvation as being born again. Or is walking in newness of life or being converted. All of these terms and pictures speak of a definite and dramatic change. Was there a time in your life where things changed? Not that our entire lives, as it were, changed change in an instant. It's the beginning where there's a change and then it continues on for years and years and years to come. But there should have been a time when there was a change. I want you to notice in connection with this idea that obeying God's word will take you out of your comfort zone. When you start to obey God and do what He says, you're going to be stretched at times. You're going to feel uncomfortable. Genesis chapter 12 records it this way: God said, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house unto a land that I will show thee. He had to leave his homeland, his culture, his language, his fond memories, his traditions, all of that had to be left behind. He took his father with him, his wife, and some other relatives, but his extended family remained in Ur of the Chaldees. And I'm sure he left many of his possessions. He couldn't travel in those days with everything you owned. And our text says that he went to a place he did not know that is He didn't know what that country was all about. He may have known the name of it. Genesis 11 31 tells us that he went to Canaan. He knew he was going to Canaan. He had heard from other people and other traitors about this place But he didn't know what it looked like. He didn't know what it was like there. He'd never visited before. And it really wasn't close by, certainly not by ancient standards We might put it this way as one preacher did, when he left Ur the Chaldees, he didn't leave behind with his friends and relatives any forwarding address Because he didn't know where exactly he was going to settle, where he would go. There was no trace, and there was no way that he was ever coming back, the Bible says If you step out by faith, you can be sure at times that God will take you out of your comfort zone. I don't think it was easy for Abraham to leave everything that was familiar and go into the unknown, but that's what God wanted for him. And if you really respond to God's call and you continue to progress in your Christian life, God is going to lead you into areas where you say, you know, I'm not really comfortable with about that. I don't know about teaching that Sunday school class. I don't know about singing in the choir. I mean, that's a little intimidating. All those eyes looking at you I don't know about sharing my faith with someone else. I always feel kind of awkward doing that. I feel, you know, they that they say things they You see facial expressions. I don't know if if I'm up for that. Well, if you respond to God by faith, you're going to be taken out of your comfort zone. And let me just say this, the converse is also true. If you never ever step out of your comfort zone, Then you can be certain you are not living by faith. And obeying God will be a real challenge. What did Abraham have to go on? You know what he had to go on? Just the word of God God didn't take him over in a tour and say, no, this is, you know, this is what this land's like and this is what it's going to look like and these are the neighbors. No, no, no. All that he had was the Word of God. He didn't have the experience to go by He wasn't able to go on the internet and say, Canaan, what does Canaan look like? What's the climate? No, no, no, he didn't have any of that. All he had was the Word of God. The bare word of God. As far as we know, God gave him no spectacular signs or miracles. He just said, Abraham, I want you to come out of the world, as it were, and I want you to go to the land that I have for you. The text indicates that he went quickly out of Urba Chaldees, gathered up his family, his belongings, and he left. In fact, one scholar put it this way, he said out why the word of God was still ringing in his ears. He left quickly. He did not delay. Now I must correct something here, a misconception that some people have. He left Ur the Chaldeans quickly, but he didn't enter the promised land quickly. Because there was a halfway point. out to the north called Haran. And there he stops. It was a convenient place to stop. It was still part of the Sumerian civilization, so it would be a similar culture. similar religion, similar language. They they felt pretty much at home. It wasn't a drastic change. And and I don't know, the Bible doesn't say, but I'm going to use some s sanctified speculation. They go there The family's been traveling now for 500 miles through the wilderness on foot or perhaps on an animal. Not easy travel. They rest there, it's a city, it's comfortable, it feels somewhat like home, the people are friendly. And his father, who he would show great deference to, Tara, says, you know what, Abraham, let's stay here for a little while. I'm really tired. You know, I don't travel the way I used to. Let's just stay here a while. And so they stayed a few days, they stayed a few weeks, they turned into a few months. And as best as we can tell, fitting together chronology, Abraham and his family stayed in Haran for about 15 years. And the Bible says that when Tarah died, then Abraham left Aaron. That family relationship held him there. And finally, when his father died, he realized this is not what God called me to. God wants me to leave, God wants me to move on to the promised land, the land of Canaan. And so he did. One of the best tactics that Satan uses on Christians is to tell them, you know, you've already blown it. You've already responded in unbelief. You've already messed up. You've already thrown away those years. So you might as well just forget God's plans for your life. If Abraham had done that, he would have stayed in Haran and never had moved on, but he did not stay there. He moved on. Because he responded to the Word of God, he responded with a living faith. I want you to notice with me secondly In our text this morning, that people with an authentic faith obey despite difficult circumstances. I want you to notice that both verse 8 and verse 9 begin the same way. By faith. Verse 9, by faith he sojourned in the land of promise. as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with them of the same promise By faith he is sojourned in the land. Now we don't use the term sojourn very much today, do we? What does that mean? It means that he lived as a resident alien. All right? He lived in the land, but he never was Absorbed into the culture and never fully accepted. He was always an outsider, a stranger So I'm going to take from this that obeying God will involve being different from the world Abraham was never fully accepted. He never really fit in. He was always an outsider. His ways were always puzzling to the residents. He spoke a strange language, he worshipped a strange god, he wore strange clothing, he didn't worship at their altars, he didn't live in their cities, and he didn't bury his dead in their graveyards His lifestyle was distinct and different. May I suggest to you That that is what God wants from his people, not that we are to be isolated with them and have no contact with them. We must, if we are going to be salt and light and bring them to Christ. But I fear that one of the great weaknesses of contemporary Christianity today is that we bear such a resemblance to the world that you really can't tell the difference. And you know what? Your testimony, your witness is never going to be compelling if you're just like the person you're talking to. If you've got the same problems and the same hang ups and the same inconsistencies and the same despair on your face and the same problems and everything in your life is just like theirs, why would they want to be like you? Why would they want to adopt your faith The answer is they won't. God wants us to be different. And that means things should be distinct about us. Does anybody, this is a funny question to ask, does anybody think you're a little strange? Anybody at work say, you know, I can't figure that guy out. I don't really know what motivates him. Do they have difficulty identifying with why you are excited about the things you're excited about? They think that you're a little bit different. Have you ever faced even any subtle ridicule or persecution because you are a follower of Jesus Christ? Or would people at your workplace be surprised to know that you're a follower of Jesus Christ? Would they instantly say, really? That person's a Christian, the person , their office over. Really? I never would have guessed. You see, I think there's an awful lot of professing Christians today who are not in any way, shape, or form living in any way that is substantially different From their lost counterparts. I want you to notice that obeying God may involve difficult living arrangements. It says here that by faith he sojourned, and then it gives an example of this. Dwelling in tabernacles. We would say tents. You ever gone tent camping before? I know many of you have. In fact, this is a wonderful time of year to do that. In fact, I think we have some people way today doing that. I know some of you really love it and you look forward to it. I've gone about three or four times, and I think I've had about my fill of tent camping. All right You know, they always tell you know camping is really great, brings the family together, it's a good way for the the father to bond with his kids and everything. So I started thinking about what's the minimum that I can do this and check that off. Now some of you love tent camping. Love being out in the woods and feeling the chill of the ground and ah nature, it's wonderful. Let me ask you this. How would you like to live in a tent for, say, a hundred years? That's how long Abraham lived in a tent. I imagine as Pharaoh felt she could never get her house clean. The desert sands were always blowing in. In the day it was hot, in the night it was cold. And Abraham's son and grandson continued in that. We don't really have it in Scripture, but it seems that God specifically gave them instructions to do this, to live in tents. The scriptures are clear that this was to be symbolic of the fact that this was not their whole. It was a powerful testimony that they were living for another world. And I doubt very much that God wants you to live in a tent. You might get really cold this winter. But you know what? Following the Lord and responding in obedience may involve you laying aside some of your creature comforts. I know that there are Christians here that could live in a larger home if you didn't give the percentage that you give the Lord's work. You might be able to have a much nicer car if you weren't supporting this missionary every month with your money. And the fact of the matter is that God may call some of you to go to the other side of the world. And to serve him. And you know what? You might have electricity every once in a while. That's what it means to obey God. And let me say this third thing under this heading that may be surprising to you. Obeying God may not seem to pay off in this life. Do you know what Abraham found when he went to the Promised Land? I'm not going to have you turn back to Genesis chapter 12, but the Bible says that when he finally, in obedience, left Haran and came on down to the promised land. You know what it says in verse 6? It says he found the Canaanite in the lands. I think the implication is that he kind of scratched his head. You know, I left this pagan culture. I traveled hundreds and hundreds of miles through the desolate wilderness, and I come to this land that you promised to me, and there's already people here. In fact, they're pagan people who worship false gods and who sacrifice their little infant children on altars to gods. They do horrible things. I if if I Wanted to remain in that culture, I could have just stayed back home. But now I've gone all the way over here and the land that's supposed to be mine, there's people living there. My point is, I think that he might have been a little bit disappointed. The implication is he didn't expect to find that. He didn't expect that Right there in the land, there was already people living. And they didn't roll out the whipped red carpet and welcome him there. And the next thing the Bible says about his life is that there was a famine in the land. A famine in the land. Imagine this, he came from a part of the world where, although they don't get as much rainfall as we do, they still get, it seems, a little bit more rainfall than they get in Canaan. And they're near the Euphrates River, and there's the Tigris River, and there's some other bodies of water there. And he's gone out into this desolate wilderness where God's called him to go, and there's a famine. And he makes his living with his purds. He's a nomadic herdsman. And now all the vegetation is is dying, and he has nothing to feed his herds with Here he has followed the Lord step by step. It's been difficult. He's faced opposition, but he's done it. And this is the reward. Land's already taken. Famine comes to the land. One difficulty after another. It's not how Abraham thought things would work out I've encountered an awful lot of Christians who are very, very disappointed with God. Because things have not worked out the way they thought they would. They thought that when they came to the Lord, that their marriages would be stronger, that their children would be better adjusted and more obedient, that their finances would be more stable, that their health Would improve that things would really start to turn around in their lives and work out that way. It didn't work out that way. And I'm afraid that much of modern preaching at least implies this. You come to Christ, things are going to straighten out. Some in a very overt fashion with the health and wealth gospel that is absolutely abhorrent to gods, and others With lesser and more subtle forms of that, that if you just yield to God, everything's going to be okay. But guess what? The Bible doesn't teach that. It says, many are the afflictions of the righteous. The Lord Jesus says, if many come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. Christ said you're going to have to die to self. Christ said you're going to face difficulties. You're going to be hated by members of your own household. He said all of these things. He was very honest and up front with people who would follow him. You see, the Lord is not a salesman offering a better deal than his competitors It's not like the world out there, the world has these things to offer, and God says, you know what? I can do one better than they can. He doesn't want you to follow him because of the perks. He wants you to follow him because you really know and trust him. And people with an authentic faith. They obey God's word. They obey despite difficult circumstances. And thirdly, would you notice with me The people with an authentic faith obey because of their eternal focus. Look at verse 10. Notice the first word is for He looked for his city which hath foundations, his builder and maker is God. Verse 10 anticipates the reader's question. Why in the world did Abraham leave the comforts of home? and go into a strange land and live in a tent. Why would anyone do that? Alright? Verse 10 is going to answer the word for. You could render because, because he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God. Did you know that Abraham never saw the fulfillment of God's promises to him? Now he did with some of them, like with the birth of Isaac. But as far as those initial promises like that he would be taking him to a land that he would inherit, God would tell him later on that really he wouldn't inherit it, it would be his descendants. Acts chapter 7 in Stephen's historical overview, he says that God gave him no inheritance in it, not so much as to set his foot on. You know where he moved all around and put his tent? He didn't own the land under there. It wasn't his. The only land that Abraham ever owned in Canaan Was that cave at Magpala where he buried his wife? That's the only land he ever owned. He owned a burial plot. That was it. That was his land. He never ever fully enjoyed those wonderful blessings of the promised land. But you know what? Abraham didn't turn back. He didn't spill like he'd gotten a raw deal. Because he ultimately wasn't motivated, this verse tells us, he wasn't motivated by more real estate He was motivated by something much greater than that. Let me ask you. Is your life focused on the here and now? Focused on your life on this earth. I think that's nearly true of just about everyone. We live in a secular culture that focuses on our problems and our issues. Our lives. And every once in a while, when someone dies or something, we might talk about the great beyond. We may talk about heaven. But other than that, we just really never ever think about the fact that there's something beyond the here and the now And so our lives revolve around like sports, following your favorite team, your baseball team here in the playoffs, of your football team seasons going strong. Or maybe you put a big emphasis on your health and what you eat and how you exercise and you take great pride. The athlete that you are and that you stay in shape. Or maybe you get caught up in a quest for financial security. It's not a bad thing to get rid of your debts. In fact, it's a good thing. But if your whole life is focused on getting financial security and making sure that you've got this Really good investment and a really good nest egg so that all everything's under control no matter what happens if your health fails or if there's a uh the stock market crashes no matter what happens I'm covered because I've made plans for that It's not wrong to make plans. The Bible says in Proverbs that a wise man plans ahead. He foresees the evil. Talks about the ants storing up for the winter. Don't get me wrong. But if we live our lives like the only thing that really matters is my emotional well-being, the well-being and safety of my family And my financial stability. If I've got those things taken care of, that's all I need. You know what you're trying to do? You're trying to find your heaven on earth. Did you know that throughout the history of the world, Christians have not lived like that? You ever thought about that? If you were to read Christian history and read their their testimonies and their writings and things, you would find that Christianity has always been most effective when it's been most focused on the world to come. Not on this life. Now you probably heard the expression, you know, he's so heavily minded he's no earthly good. That is absolutely not true. A person who is truly heavenly minded will be of the most earthly good. The martyrs, those who lived in the early centuries of the church, you read their writings, they were focused. They were focused on the world to come. They found here no continuing city. You read about the pilgrims who came to this land. Yes, they were trying to carve out a civilization out of a wilderness, but they were focused. On the world to come. They saw themselves as strangers in this earth. That's why they were called pilgrims. Look at the Puritans both in England and in America. They were seeking to live under the reality that this world was just a prelude to what really matters. And so When someone in a century later, like a Jonathan Edwards, would stand up and preach sinners in the hands of an angry God, the reality of hell was as great as the pew in front of them You read the Negro spirituals, and you find a people who were longing for heaven. You see, most people in the history of the world did not enjoy any of the creature comforts that we do today. They didn't have electricity. They had the great curse of infant mortality. One out of every two babies dies. How many kids do you have? Well, think of half of them gone. That would be normal up until recent times Most men married two or three wives, not because they were polygamous, but because their wives died giving birth to some of their children and they got remarried again. And every time you caught a fever, you thought it might be the end because they didn't have very effective anecdotes for a fever. And if you got a high fever, it would kill you Most people lived to be 40 or 50 years old if they were fortunate. And life was hard. It was difficult. It was painful. And it's been that way throughout the history of the world. And so people naturally long for heaven. They long to be with God. But today And I do not regret the technological advances that we have, but there is a downside. Today with our creature comforts. And our medicines and our technology, we are so tempted to say, you know what, I don't really need heaven so much. I'm just going to try to make my heaven right here. And this, of course, affects Christian people because we're part of the broader culture. So many of the things that we focus all of our energy and all of our efforts and all of our time upon will not matter at all a hundred years from now. And Jesus said a person's life does not consist of the abundance of things that they possess. That's not the measure of your life. The Bible says of this world that this is not your rest. What you have right now is not your rewards. And Jesus said, Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. The Apostle Paul writes, seek those things which are above. Set your affections on things above, not on things of the earth. And how desperately we need to hear that in 21st century America because everything in our culture, in our society, and even often in our churches As focusing our attention right here and right now, as if there is no world to come. There is no heaven, there is no hell Let me ask you, how much do you think about heaven? Do you ever long to be with the Lord? You know, often when I hear people talk about heaven, you know what they're thinking about? I won't have any more pain. I won't have any bill collectors calling me up. I won't have any of my relatives that irritate me so much bothering me anymore. And I might get to see some of my loved ones who have gone before. That's not what heaven's all about Look at this beautiful passage here. He says, he looked, he focused, he longed for a city. Which have foundations, his builder and maker is God. And of course, the contrast is that he lived all of his life now in a tent. And he longed for the day when he would be in something that was really substantial A real building with the foundation. And it's interesting here in the Greek text, it's more definite, says he looked for the city with the foundations. He wasn't looking for just any city. This is a little theme that's found in the second part of Hebrews. Let me show you. Look with me a little bit later in Hebrews chapter 11. Verse thirteen, I'll begin reading. These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country, and truly if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned. But now they desire a better country That is a heavenly, wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. That 's the city Abraham was looking for. Chapter 12, verse 22 makes reference to it again. The preacher exhorts, but ye are come unto Mount Zion and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels. The city calls it of the living gods. And in chapter 13 and verse 14, we have another reference to it. He says, For here have we no continuing city, but we seek one to come. Now remind you the author is writing to people who have been persecuted, thrown in prison, tortured, thrown out of their homes, out of their businesses. Did it look like Christianity was paying off for them in this life? I don't think so. That's why he exhorts them to seek The heavenly city, to live for what is yet in store for you. Abraham was living for the unseen glories of heaven. He was living for the new Jerusalem Let me ask you, are you living for the world to come? Can hardly think of these verses without thinking of Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. If you haven't read this book, it's an allegory, very straightforward allegory. Main character is a man named Christian. He lives in the city of destruction. He leaves and goes on a quest for the celestial city. He encounters great difficulties, to say the least, along the way. And at one time he is about to turn back, just like the readers of this epistle were originally tempted to turn back. And some Christians told Christian to go up to the top of a mountain because from there, if he looked carefully on a clear day, he could see the celestial city off in the distance. And so he did that. And that vision empowered him to continue on. Ahead, he would face grave difficulties like Apollyon and Vanity Fair and the Valley of the Shadow of Death, but he would never quit. Because he never lost sight of that vision. He could never forget what he saw on top of that mountain. And Bunyan knew that is the key to living the Christian life. He wrote that book, as you may know, in prison, because he was a preacher of the gospel. Bunyan was able to persevere, and the character of his book was able to persevere, and Abraham was able to persevere because they set their focus. On the world to come, on the glories of heaven. And the greatest glory of heaven is that we will be with the Lord, that we will be with Christ. And therefore we look not at the things which are seen, but of the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. eternal. The only way you can live by faith is to live with an eternal perspective. And those who have a true and living faith We'll live a life of obedience. Let's have every head bowed and every eye closed Let me ask you this morning, does the idea of going to heaven and being with the Lord excite your heart? Does it inspire you? Does it motivate you? Or would you have to say that that aspect of heaven of being with the Lord is really not that enticing to you, not that attractive? It 's not really what you'd like to do. May I suggest to you that there could be a reason for that, and it might be that you're not headed to heaven. that you only have a superficial profession of faith, that you have never really encountered the living God, that you have never Turn from your sin and turn to the Savior. There's never been a real change in your life, and there's nothing in your life that would distinctively set you off as a true follower of Christ. Remember, this was written to people, some of who were true followers of Christ, and some only thought they were. If you're here this morning and you have no longing for heaven, you have no longing to be with Christ, you have no longing to be with all the saints. You have no longing for a place of purity and of glory, a place where there is no sin. If those things don't excite you, my friend, there is something wrong with you spiritually. You need to seek the Lord. You need to call upon him. You need to beg of him to grant you more grace. You need to repent of your sin. You need to come to trust in him more. Father, I pray that you would help us to be a people whose lives are not governed by the here and now. but on the hereafter. I pray that our hearts' desire would not be set on the things of this earth, but on our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who is even now at thy right hand. I pray, Father, that we would be a people who have a true and living faith and who demonstrate it daily in the way we respond to your word. And Father, for those who are here who are yet lost in their sins, I pray that today they would seek the Savior. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.