Turn with me to Mark chapter 15. Everyone has heard the expression that a picture is worth a thousand words. And the Bible is filled with many pictures, not visual pictures. But symbols, analogies, and types that teach deep spiritual truth. Sometimes these symbols and types are very obvious and are explained in the text itself, and sometimes they are not. Sometimes they are more subtle. They come in many different forms. Many of them point to Christ, and many of them point to doctrinal truths connected with the gospel. Tonight I want to look at something that is in the crucifixion narrative that I believe is intended to illustrate and teach us something more about our salvation. I'm referring to an individual, and this individual is released from bondage, and this man we know as Barabbas. In Mark chapter 15, I'm going to read his account, beginning in verse 6. It says, now at that feast. . He released unto them one prisoner whomsoever they desired. . And there was one named Barabbas, which lay bound with them that had made insurrection with him. who had committed murder in the insurrection. And the multitude crying aloud began to desire him to do as he had ever done unto them. But Pilate answered them, saying, Will ye that I release unto you the king of the Jews? For he knew that the chief priest had delivered him for envy. But the chief priests moved the people that he should rather release Bar Barabbas unto them. And Pilate answered and said again unto them, What then will ye that I should do unto him whom ye call the king of the Jews? And they cried out again, Crucify him. Then Pilate said unto them, Why, what evil hath he done? And they cried out all the more exceedingly crucify him And so Pilate, willing to content the people, released Barabbas unto them and delivered Jesus when he had scourged him to be crucified. And this man Barabbas is mentioned in all four Gospels in this connection as the man who was released instead of Jesus at that final trial before Pilate. You may recall that there were six trials in all. There were three Roman trials. The first before Annas, who was kind of high priest emeritus. Then there was a trial before Caiaphas in the wee hours of the morning. And then there was a trial right as the sun was rising around between 5. 30 and 6. On that Friday, and this was before the full Sanhedrin, and it was the official trial, so that they could sentence him and send him on to Pilate. Then there were three Roman trials. There was a brief preliminary we might call hearing before Pilate. Pilate wants no part of this. He sees through the accusations of this many, he sees that Jesus is not some dangerous revolutionary seeking to topple the Roman Empire. He recognizes that they brought him because they envy the popular appeal that he had with the people. And he's looking for a way out, and so he sends him on to Herod Antipas, who was in town for the Passover. But when Christ appears before Herod, he says not a word. And after he is mocked and roughed up, he is sent on back to Pilate. On at least five occasions that Friday morning, Pilate tried to let Jesus go, but the crowd controlled by the religious leaders would have nothing of it. First Pilate tried to argue that this was simply a Jewish religious matter and none of his concern, but they would not hear of it because they wanted him to be executed. Pilate says in John chapter 18 verse 31, take him and judge him according to your law. And when he hears that Jesus is from Galilee, he sends him to Herod Antipas, hoping that he will deal with this thorny issue and that he'll never have to deal with this again. But Herod sends them back to Pilate. So Pilate has Jesus flogged, hoping that this brutal act would quench their thirst for blood, but it does not. Pilate again tries to release him, but the people kept crying out, Let him be crucified. And Pilate responds, What evil hath he done? And they reply just louder, let him be crucified. Finally, Pilate thinks of one last way to release him. Pilate was a shrewd man. He didn't get to this level of authority without knowing how to get out of a difficult situation. And so when all other methods failed to secure Jesus' release, He tries to turn to their traditional custom at the Passover feast of releasing a prisoner, sort of like our national custom of having criminals pardoned at the end of a presidential term. Now the Jews were celebrating Passover this week, and it's not hard to imagine how this custom began because the Passover was all about what? It was all about release from bondage. And so it would certainly seem appropriate to incorporate as part of its celebration to release someone from bondage. And so Pilate puts them in a situation where they must choose between Jesus Christ, a man who, as he has heard, has done incredible miracles. And has held vast audiences spellbound with his words, or a man who is a dangerous criminal. And Pilate's mind, it was an obvious choice and a way that he could get out of this thorny situation because ultimately he would not be making the decision. The people would be making the decision. But Pilate underestimated their hatred for Jesus Christ. And so he was shocked and dismayed when they cried out, release Barabbas, but for Jesus, let him be crucified. Now for us this may just seem like an historical event, and certainly it is an historical event. But I think along with things like the thief on the cross and the various symbols that we've seen that surround uh the cross, like the crown of thorns and the the reed in his hand and the robes that he wore, all of these speak about the majesty of the gospel. And so I want us to consider briefly that Barabbas is an intentional picture of those who have been saved by God's grace. I want you to notice with me, first of all, that Barabbas represents us as fallen, sinful people. And the name Barabbas is a name that means literally son of the Father. Many scholars believe that this indicates that he was from a prominent line of rabbis, because we know that rabbis were often given the honorific title of father, and to say that he was the son of the father would be very redundant if you took it literally just to refer to someone's father. But if it was referring to a father in the sense of a rabbi as a prominence and revered spiritual leader. That's probably the origins of this name. So this man came from probably a very prominent religious family. But for some reason he turned to a life of crime. Now, John records that he was a robber. And we can be certain that he was, this was not petty larceny because the Romans didn't just crucify robbers. In Mark and Luke's account, we read that he was an insurrectionist. which is a term that would refer generally to a revolutionary or perhaps a terrorist. And the scriptures also reveal in Mark and Luke that he was a murderer. Somehow, it seems in connection with a robbery, a murder was committed. Matthew 27, 16 describes him as a notable prisoner. Now we go into a little range of disagreement here. Many commentators have thought that Barabbas was a hero to the people because he was a revolutionary, we might say a freedom fighter who was fighting for Israel's freedom from Rome. And uh that's possible, but I think improbable for several reasons Number one, if this were the case, if if if if this man Barabbas was a freedom fighter, was a revolutionary trying to cast off the yoke of Rome. Then Pilate was an absolute fool who didn't know what was going on because he puts them up against Jesus, anticipating that certainly everyone would want to release Jesus instead of this dangerous man, Barabbas. But if he was a popular freedom fighter , He would never have made that the bargain, because he would have known that people would go certainly for Barabbas. Secondly, I would say in view of that, that it seems to me that The people would need to be coerced and prompted and coached by the religious leaders, as the scriptures reveal, to say Barabbas. Don't say Jesus, save Barabbas, if he was such a hero. It would be automatic. But the scriptures revealed that this was part of the conspiracy. This is part of what they did. So I think in Matthew 27, 16, when it says that he was a notable prisoner, it's not talking about his popularity, but we would say his infamy. And I think this is confirmed in one of the very earliest Christian sermons. I'm going to turn briefly. There is one more passing allusion to Barabbas in Acts chapter 3. In verse fourteen. Let me read this for you Peter says, but ye denied the Holy One and the just, referring to Christ, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you. And the murderer is Barabbas. He said, you had a choice between Jesus And Barabbas and you people, the residents of Jerusalem, you cried out, release unto us Barabbas, but let Jesus be crucified. This would have been a very convicting statement that he made to them So I believe that we should view Barabbas not as this noble freedom fighter, but as a dangerous criminal, a man who was a murderer, a thief. a revolutionary who was stirring up problems. There are some scholars, and I think they may be right that say that he was like um robbing the wealthy, the influential families in Jerusalem, that he wasn't an ex-insurrectionist against the Romans, but against society and order and law in general. And I think he pictures us as sinners who have broken God's law. 1 John 3. 4 says sin is the transgression of the law, the simplest definition you can think of for sin. The law is a reflection of God's own character. It's something that's personal. So all of us naturally, instinctively Our rebels, our insurrectionists, are those who defy God's rule and God's authority. We are fallen, wicked, and hopelessly sinful. And we see this in this man Barabbas. Secondly, I want you to notice that Barabbas represents us as those condemned to die. The fact is that Barabbas was essentially a dead man in that prison. He'd apparently been tried sometimes earlier and found guilty. Everyone knew of his crimes. He was notorious for his activities. His case was not difficult to proof. Everyone in Jerusalem knew of him And because of the seriousness of his crimes, because of the anarchy that he espoused, he was condemned to be crucified. The Romans did not show mercy to criminals. They weren't trying to restore them back to the population. They ruled with an iron fist and they believed in making examples of people. Who were problems. To them mercy was a sign of weakness And I want you to realize that there was no chance of Barabbas getting out of prison and out of his death sentence through some legal procedure. He was not going to be released from some technicality. His situation was hopeless, and his day of execution had come. I'm speculating here, but I Don't think it's beyond the realm of possibility that Pilate had intentionally scheduled this crucifixion to be on the Jewish Passover. to kind of show these Jewish religious leaders who were thorn in his side that he was still in control And that he was going, in a sense, to mock their holy religious day by doing something that was offensive to them, and that is to have someone die outside the city gates. For all to see, because their law said, cursed is anyone who hangs upon a tree. So Barabbas was like us condemned to die. He had no hope. I'm sure as the sun rose that Friday morning. He thought to himself, this is my last day on earth. Today I die. I don't think he entertained for a moment that there was any possibility that he would be released because the Romans didn't do that. He was a dead man. The Bible declares that we were born dead in trespasses and sin. The Bible declares that the wages of sin is death. In Romans Chapter 3, we read this very comprehensive verse in Romans chapter 3 and verse 19, a verse familiar to many of you. It says, Now we know that what sort of things The law saith, it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God 's That's very comprehensive. We are all guilty. All humanity has our mouth stopped because we cannot say, no, listen, I'm innocent. I'm just We're all sinners. We're all guilty. But by the grace of God Sinful, fallen, hopeless people like us can be saved. And so we read in Romans 8. 1, there is therefore now no condemnation. To them who are in Christ Jesus. Apart from the providence of God, Barabbas would have perished on that fateful day And before we can appreciate the good news of the gospel, we must understand the great peril that we face before we come to know Christ. This is one of, I think, the weaknesses often in modern present presentations of the gospel. We tell people, wouldn't you like to have a wonderful life and be a Christian? Wouldn't you want to have a better marriage? Wouldn't you want to have better children? Wouldn't you want to have God 's guidance in your life? And frankly, there are many people who say to that, you know what, I'm doing pretty well. No, thank you. I'm glad that works for you, but I'm doing well. And often people want to approach the gospel along those lines because they're kind of embarrassed to talk about the wrath of God. and about people being sinners and about them being guilty and about a place called hell. And so that they try a different approach, perhaps with good intentions. Not knowing that they are undermining the very gospel itself, because until a person really sees that they are justly condemned, that they're in a lot of trouble, that they're headed For a Christ with eternity in hell, they will not turn to the good news of the gospel. We have to receive the bad news before we can really receive the good news. And I'd like to show you thirdly that Barabbas represents us as the undeserving recipients of God's grace. Just imagine that you're this man Barabbas Frieli has finally come. In the past, like most Jews, he looked forward to the Passover. Just like we look forward to important holidays like Thanksgiving and Christmas and Easter For many people, they're not just a religious celebration of any sense, but they are time when the family gathers together and we mark the passage of time and we remember back to past Thanksgivings and past Christmases and so forth. And that's the way it was with the the Jews at Passover when they gathered there in Jerusalem and the population of that city multiplied many times and they made reacquaintance with with people they had not seen since last year. I suspect that Barabbas all of his life looked forward to the Passover, but this year he didn't look forward to the Passover. Because it was the announced day of his crucifixion. There in the dark recesses of the fortress, he awaited the inevitable He was only hours away from his brutal execution when a soldier came to his cell and told him that he had been chosen by the people to be released. as was the custom at the Passover. And he must have been absolutely shocked and dumbfounded. He was the most notorious criminal in Jerusalem. People feared him. Why would they choose him? Why would he be set free? This was too good to be true. He was the worst of the lots. My point, of course, is that Barabbas did nothing to secure his freedom. He didn't make an impassioned speech before Pilots. He didn't get his lawyer to make some kind of filing with the authorities. He wasn't let go on good behavior. He did not pay his debt to society. He was completely passive in this transaction. All that he did was walk out of that cell at the invitation of the guards. This is a picture of God's grace in our salvation. Ephesians 2. 8. 9 says, For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast Titus 3. 5 says, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us by the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Ghost. In this respect, he is very much like the thief on the cross. The thief on the cross did nothing to merit salvation But he was told by our Lord, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. I wonder if we truly understand this. This is so contrary to our human nature. We want to be independent. We want to think that God does his part and we do our part. But the fact is we have nothing to offer. We have nothing to bargain with. We have no merits to put on the table. We have no record of good behavior because all of our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. We have nothing that we can do to commend ourselves or to make excuses or to build a case for our release. All that we can do is receive the gift of redemption And I'd like to notice with you fourthly that Barabbas represents us as those who have been released from bondage by the death of a substitute Everyone knows that Jesus was crucified with two thieves on either side of him. We even teach this to our children. They're described in Scripture as thieves or malfactors, or we would say today, criminals I'm going to do a little bit of sanctified speculation on this point. I don't have scriptural proof for this conjecture. But I want you to know that this is the opinion of many Bible scholars. You may recall the scriptures describe Barabbas as what? As a thief, among other things. And we know that the criminals that were crucified next to Jesus are also described as thieves, but we know that they were not just petty thieves. They weren't pickpockets. Because Rome, although they were cruel, were just, and they would not have executed a man by crucifixion for something like that. These were dangerous criminals. That's the meaning of the term malefactor. They did much more than just steal. And they were obviously sentenced to be crucified on that day on Good Friday. So there are many scholars who think that Barabbas and the two thieves that died on either side of our Lord were all part of a game. They were all involved in the same transgressions that resulted in the murder of an individual. They were thieves. They were parasites on the community. They were dangerous criminals. And this and this had been scheduled for some time to take place on that Friday And everything had been prepared, the crossbeams that they would carry, that would be sunk into the ground there at Golgotha and where they would be crucified. Now I say all that to say this. Jesus, Barabbas would have died in the center. of the other two because he was the ringleader. He was the one most responsible. So that center place where Jesus died was the place that had been originally reserved for Barabbas. The crossbeam that Jesus carried was the crossbeam that Barabbas was supposed to carry. The scourging that Jesus received was originally scheduled for Barabbas. And the death on the cross would have been Barabbas ' death. That shameful march down the Via de la Rosa was supposed to be Barabbas ' journey. But instead, a substitute took his place, the Lord Jesus Christ. This, of course, is the essence of the gospel. Jesus died in our place. It's the most amazing message the world has ever heard. There is nothing similar to it in all the other religions of the world. Isaiah 53, 6 says, All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Romans 5. 8 says, but God commended his love for us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Galatians 3. 13 says Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law being made a curse for us. 1 Peter 2. 24 says, who his own self bare our sins in his body on the tree. And 1 Peter 3. 18 says, For Christ also has suffered for sin, the just for the unjust. that he might bring us to God. This is the beauty of the gospel And I think if we look through the lens of faith, we can see this in the life of this man Barabbas. He represents us. He was sinful. He was wicked. He transgressed God's law. He was condemned to die. And he did nothing to merit his release or his pardon. But someone, a righteous one, died in his place. on the cross. What a wonderful picture of the gospel. Let's close in prayer. Father We thank you for this wonderful truth. I pray that we would never get tired of hearing it. Pray, Father, that we would be reminded again tonight. That Jesus Christ died in our place. They took our guilt, our punishment that we Have earned, and he paid for it. Dying in our place, I pray that we would never forget this, Father. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.