So glad you're here this morning. I'm going to invite you to turn with me, please, to 1 Corinthians chapter 7. In the 11th century, there was a king in Bavaria by the name of Henry, Henry III, to be precise. He grew tired of being a king, the pressure, the expectations, decided that he wanted to abdicate the throne and enjoy a life of quiet contemplation at a local monastery. And so he traveled there And spoke to the head of this monastery by the name of Richard and asked for admittance. And Richard said, you understand That if you come and become a follower of this monastery, you must pledge obedience to me, absolute obedience. And the king said that he understood And then Richard said to him, go back to your throne and serve faithfully in the place where God has put you. That word of advice is really the essence of the paragraph before us this morning. Serve God faithfully where He has put you. First Corinthians chapter seven is one of the more difficult chapters in the New Testament to interpret and understand. One of the reasons that 1 Corinthians is a challenge for expositors is because it's like listening to one side of a phone conversation. You see, the letter that was written to the Apostle Paul from the church at Corinth with various questions. no longer exist. And so we don't know exactly what they said or what how they phrased things. But we do know that one of the questions they asked him about was marriage. And he addresses a lot of issues related to marriage in this chapter. He addresses controversial topics like marriage and divorce and remarriage and celibacy. You'll notice the chapter begins now concerning the things whereof you wrote unto me. And so he is going on to the next question. And if you look That he continues to have this phrase throughout this chapter and indeed throughout the book. Now this morning, my intention is not to look at these specific issues. But at a timeless principle that is behind Paul's advice on these issues. Verses 17 through 24, the passage that we read together this morning is essentially a digression. From his discussion on these issues related to marriage. And what Paul is doing is after giving his advice on certain things, he backs up And he says, the principle that I just gave you about marriage works in many other areas of life as well. This is a foundational principle that's very important for the Christian life. You'll notice he says in verse 17 that what he is going to teach here, he's so ordained in all the churches. In other words, he's saying, what I'm giving to you is not just for you there at Corinth. This is something that is for all churches. This is a timeless truth. This is something that I teach and preach wherever I go. And what Paul is teaching here is a very simple to understand concept, but it has profound implications. And that is that we have been called by God to be content with the role that God has given us in life. Although the word contentment is not used in this chapter, the concept permeates this passage. The theme of this passage is really not hard to discover because it is repeated three times. I want you to notice. As I read these verses, how the Paul is saying something very similar in each of these verses. Look with me at verse 17, the first verse of our text. He says, but as God has distributed to every man, as the Lord hath called every one, so let him walk, and so ordained I in all the churches. Now skip down to verse 20. Let every man abide in the same calling wherein he was called. And now the concluding verse, verse 24. Brethren. Let every man wherein he is called therein abide with God. You see, you can't really miss what he's saying here. He has it at the beginning, at the middle, and at the end. So that we can get this truth. And he repeats himself so that it is hammered home in our hearts. Now you'll notice that in all of these verses that I read, the word called or calling is used. This is an important New Testament word that reminds us that our salvation was all God's doing. Now in verse 20, The same word calling is used to describe a person's vocation in life, the position that God has given them in this world. You see, the Lord has not only graciously called you to himself, but he has called you to a specific role in life. This is the teaching. Now Paul is going to address several situations that people were troubled about at Corinth that many people lived in. Those situations have in some cases changed for us today. But the overall truth, of course, remains the same. Paul says here, in essence, What was your position in life when you were saved? Were you married to an unbeliever? Then stay in that position. Were you saved as a Jew? Then don't be embarrassed of your heritage. Live as a Jew Were you saved as a Gentile, then don't try to become a Jew. Live as a Gentile believer And his point is this, the situation in which you live your Christian life is not of paramount importance. What is really important is that you do God's will for your life no matter where He places you. Now the word that's translated distributed in verse 17 has the idea of assigned. This leads us to the unmistakable conclusion that God has a specific calling on our lives. He has a purpose for us. We may not always understand from our perspective what that purpose is. But God has vastly different roles for us to play in life. And as the Lord, he has the rights. to dictate those roles to us and to assign to us various roles Now let me clarify, this passage is not teaching that we can change nothing about ourselves. It's not saying that if we're single, we can't get married. We know that for most people that is God's role for their life. It's not saying that if you have a low-paying job, you can't ever get a high-paying job. We should not misunderstand what it's saying here. It's not saying that we cannot seek to improve our lot in any way, shape, or form. But often we become angry, frustrated, or even bitter because of circumstances that we cannot change in our lives. And we become very discontent with where we find ourselves. And if we are not careful, that discontent That anger, that frustration will lead to many poor decisions on our part and perhaps into deep sin. This is a huge problem with many Christians. How many people Go around each day believers thinking, if only I had a spouse Or if only I had a Christian spouse, or if only I had children, or if only I wasn't disabled, or if only I had a rewarding career like someone else I know. has and they they become so discontent and there's always this sense that if only I had this Then I could be happy. Then I could be content. Then I could really be comfortable with the role that God has given me in life. But God wants you to be content with Him and with the role that He has assigned to you. It's so easy for us to become so focused on those circumstances that we don't look in, we don't like in our lives. that we allow ourselves to become bitter and angry and frustrated so that we have our joy robbed of us And we question even the goodness of God. And when we find ourselves in that situation, we are so open and vulnerable to temptation. Satan doesn't have to dangle much of a carrot in front of us for us to jump out of what God condemns because we are so discontent. So I'm going to preach to you this morning from this paragraph on this truth that we must learn to be content with God's calling for our lives. And I want to apply this in three basic ways that are outlined in this chapter. First of all, you must learn to be content with your marital assignment in life. I mentioned a moment ago that verse 17 is a summary verse Paul is concluding here what he has said previously about marriage, and he's introducing a new paragraph. It's like a bridge. So what has Paul been saying about marriage right before verse 17? Let's back up to verse 12. He says, but to the rest speak I, not the Lord. Let me pause there for a second. Some have mistakenly understood this to mean that Paul is saying what I'm giving you here is not inspired. It's not from the Lord. That's not at all true. What he is saying is the specific scenario that I'm talking about now, the Lord did not address, the Lord Jesus did not address when he was on earth. But he is speaking under inspiration, and his advice is inspired advice. He says, if any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him, Let him not put her away. Paul is saying to Christian husbands, don't divorce your wife. Because she is an unbeliever. Don't do that. That would not be pleasing to the Lord. And then he turns it around, and he gives, and at verse 13, the opposite scenario, and the woman which hath a husband that believeth not, and if he be pleased to dwell with her, let her not leave him. Why, Paul? Why is it that a person who's married to an unbeliever should not leave verse 14, for the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Else were your children unclean, but now are they holy. Now there's a lot of theology there. And when he says that they are sanctified, he means that they have been set apart. For a special work of grace. What he's saying essentially is this is that you can have a much more effective witness to your unsaved spouse if you live with them And they see your testimony every day and they see the example of your life. And if you're living there with the children in a in a family that's all together you will have much more of an influence for Christ in their lives than if you're all broken up and going your own ways. And verse 15, he faces the reality that it could be that the unbelieving spouse will depart. Wants no part of the marriage since you've come to Christ. And he says here essentially that you're not responsible if they abandon the marriage vows and leave. And then he goes back and calls in verse 16, for what knowest thou, O life? And whether thou shalt save thy husband, or how knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife? He's obviously the focus here, he says, when you're married to an unbeliever, is to be a good testimony. So that they will come to Christ. That's what you should be praying for and working toward. And so Paul is addressing this issue of marriage. Let me try to apply this to us here in the 21st century. In every church that I've ever been a part of, there are what are called spiritual widows there. That is, there is a Christian wife who is married to an unsaved man. Or perhaps They're married to a man who claims to be a believer, but shows very little fruit and no initiative in spiritual things. He's not a spiritual leader at all in the home. It's the wife who gets the family together to go to church. It's the wife who gets them involved in ministry. Everything comes from the wife. And the wife Sits there and she says, if only I had a husband who would be a spiritual leader, or if only I had a husband who truly knew the Lord's, how much better my life would be. It can even be difficult when a woman in this situation comes to church and she sits behind a family and there's A Christian husband and his wife and the children, and they seem happy and everything. She says, if only I had their situation, then I could be happy. I could be content. If only I had a husband who loved God, was a good example for my children, my life would be so much better. And if they're not careful, they can become bitter and say, why doesn't God do this for me? Well, it's possible that he will do it for you. In time. 1 Peter chapter 3 addresses this of what a wife is to do in this situation of living out a godly testimony before her husband. She shouldn't nag him into the kingdom, but she should live out her faith in a godly way. Perhaps the situation is not that, but that you're single and you desperately want to get married. All of your friends, all of your peers, it seems, are married. When your friends become married, your relationships change. And you beg God for a spouse, and perhaps there's been situations where it looked like something was going to work out, but then it didn't. And you're fixated on that. You think about it every day from the first moment you wake up in the morning till you go to bed at night. That's what you're thinking about. It's about what you're missing in life. And sometimes in our society and even in the church, we have given the impression that a person who is not married is somehow defective. Let's have something wrong with them. But that's not the New Testament teaching at all. In fact, later in this chapter, Paul is going to talk about that calling. About living a celibate life for the glory of God. He's going to say that there's some things that you can do in ministry for the Lord that a married person can't do. They have responsibilities. They have a a wife or spouse to care for and children. to care for, but a single person has more freedom, more liberty. And so rather than becoming frustrated in anger and saying, if only I had a spouse You have to come to the place where you say, this may be God 's role for my life. This may be what He has intended for me all along. And I need to yield to that because it's something I cannot ultimately control. Or maybe you're married and your spouse even claims to be a believer, but your relationship is distant at best. There's no love or affection. There's no real communication. You're just like two strangers who live under the same roof. And your spouse will not seek any counseling. You've tried. They want nothing to do with that. And you've come to realize that will probably never change. I wish I could say that this is a rare situation in the church, but unfortunately it's quite common. I've heard many tearfield testimonies over the years. And the question is how you respond to that circumstance. Will you grow bitter and angry? Will you what many people do in the world, they will buy into the sly and say, I deserve to be happy? This can't possibly be God's will for my life because I'm not happy. I want to get out of this marriage and enjoy life because I've only got one life to live It's that kind of thinking that plunges people into horrific decisions that destroy families and ruin lives. But if you learn to find your satisfaction in God, you can survive any circumstance. But if you will not be content, you will become easy prey for Satan and for the temptation he will send your way. We must learn to be content with God's marriage assignment in life Second, you must learn to be content with your physical assignment in life. Verses 18 through 20 refer to some things that are not ordinarily discussed and are hard for us in some ways to understand But what Paul is talking about here when he speaks of circumcision and uncircumcision is in a symbolic way talking about Jews and Gentiles. The early church had this real big problem, and that is they had it was comprised of both Jews and Gentiles. The Jews wanted nothing to do with the Gentiles. They considered them to be unclean dogs. And the Gentiles believe that the Jews were religious fanatics. They weren't very cultured. They weren't very educated. They were simple-minded was their perspective. And so imagine this two groups of people that had great animosity for each other brought into one body of believers. It was a real challenge. What Paul is referring to here is that in some of the assemblies, some of the churches there in the region of Judea , In the environs of Jerusalem, that when a Gentile would be saved , They would be very subtly, perhaps not so subtly, pressured to become more Jewish and to look like a Jew and to talk like a Jew, to speak Hebrew. and observe observe the dietary restrictions because these individuals who were steeped in their Judaism Could not imagine that a person could be pleasing to God unless they were a good Jew. This was a battle that the apostles fought all the time with the Judaizers. who kept trying to introduce Old Testament law and grace into grace. But there was the converse of this as well, out in Asia Minor, where Paul and others were establishing churches. And in those cities there would be Jewish colonies, and so some of the people that would be saved would be Jews and some would be Gentiles, but generally speaking, most of them were Gentiles because the Jews rejected the gospel. So if you were in a church that was primarily Gentile, but there were a few Jews, the Jews in that congregation were subtly pressured to become more Gentile, to speak Greek. To dress like a Greek, to adopt their customs and their entertainments and everything, and their diets So in both cases, Christians were pressured to get with the program. Don't be so Jewish or don't be so Gentile. Be more like the rest of the group. Now, if you know anything about the Apostle Paul, you know the Apostle Paul was proud of his Jewish heritage. He says in Philippians chapter 3 that he was a Pharisee of the Pharisees. He was about as Jewish as you could get. But he also understood that being a Christian was not about being a good Jew. And so he says here that if you are saved, and when you are saved, you're a gentile. That's your heritage, that's your culture, your background. Don't be ashamed of that. Now there might be areas of that culture that are sinful and wrong, and those need to be jettisoned, of course, and repented of But there are many other aspects of that culture that are neither right nor wrong. They're just part of the culture. And so he says, if you're a Gentile, live as a Gentile Christian. And if you're Jew, live as a Jewish Christian. You don't have to change or become something you're not in order to appease those who are around you. This, I'm sure, would have been unsettling to some of Paul's original readers, especially those who are Jew. They might have thought that he was doing and saying something that was wrong. But the fact is, verse 19 is clear. that God is not impressed by your racial or cultural identity. Those things may be very important in the world. But it's not something that God is impressed with. The implications of this truth are many. Most churches in America tend to be divided racially. We have black churches and Hispanic churches and Korean churches and Chinese churches and on and on the list goes. Let me be careful about what I say here. There are some groups that of course speak different languages, and if you're going to reach them, you have to preach and teach the Word of God in their language. And they feel comfortable being in a certain culture. But I want you to understand that that is not what God intends for the church. God intends for the church to be diverse because the gospel is not for one particular culture or ethnicity It is for all people. And we read in Revelation chapter 5 and verse 9 that up in glory someday in heaven, there are going to be people of every tongue and of every race. of every ethnicity who are singing praises to the Lamb. And that's the way it should be ideally in our churches today. It's helpful for us to be around people who are different, who have different cultures. We have more of an appreciation, more of an understanding. of them and how God's working in their lives and in various places in the world. Your racial identity doesn't matter to God. Your racial differences and ethnic differences are relatively incidental and unimportant. And you know, as science has advanced in the areas of DNA, and you see commercials about ancestry. com and how you can Send them your DNA and they'll tell you the makeup of what you are. You know, there used to be this fallacy that most people believed That individuals were that some individuals are like purely of one race. And there was all this nonsense about, in some cases, about having a pure race in some areas. But when scientists do DNA testing, they realize that we're all a mixture of all kinds of things. And that the similarities that we have Are so strong and pronounced that our differences are minimal. God desires the church To be diverse and it will be diverse. Now, Paul here is speaking of some physical assignments that God has given us in life that you cannot really change. You did not decide on what race you would be born into. There are a lot of other physical things that you never had a choice in, right? Let me ask you, when you get up in the morning and you look in the mirror, do you like what you see? You say that's exactly what I'm looking for. If that's the way you feel, you might have a problem with pride. I don't think I have to convince you that we live in a culture that focuses so much on appearance. We have before our eyes individuals who comprise less than 1% of the human population, the so-called beautiful people. And so we have the vast majority of people, especially young women, who think that somehow they are cursed. and defective because they don't look like a supermodel and they starve themselves to death and they do all kinds of radical things because they cannot believe that somehow they have were born defective. Now there are some things, of course, that we need to be responsible for, and we need to live healthy, of course, but you know a lot of things That we have been given in life we can't change, you know? Your height, your body type, whether your hair is curly or straight. You know, it's funny how discontent people are with the way God makes them. You know, I find that people with curly hair want to straighten their hair and people with straight hair want to make their hair curly. And and and there's obviously some things that we can work on and so forth, but ultimately there are many things that we cannot change. And what we need to understand is that God did not make a mistake when he made you the way you are. And part of what we need to understand is that this is not an accident, but this was part of God's plan for you. That you would look this way. That you would have these attributes, whether you like them or not. This is what God has made you. The Bible says, I will praise thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works. And that my soul knoweth right well. We need to come to the place where we let God be God. And say, God, this is the way you made me with all of my faults and frailties and the things that I don't maybe like about my appearance that the world considers to be less than ideal. But in your infinite wisdom, this is the way you made me. And I am content with that. This was your plan for me. Thirdly, we see in this passage that you must learn to be content with your economic or social assignment in life. Look with me at verses 21 and following. Art thou called being a servant? Care not for it, but if thou mayest be made free, use it rather. For he that is called in the Lord being a servant is the Lord's freeman. Likewise also he that is called being free is Christ's servant. Ye are bought with a price. Be not ye the servants of men, brethren, let every man wherein he is called therein abide with God. Now, when it says servant here, make no mistake about it, it's talking about slave. Slavery was a fact of life in the first century in which the New Testament was written. I want to give you some facts about this to help us maybe have a better understanding because whenever we in 21st century America Think about slavery. We think about our own national problem of slavery. And we think of the 19th century and we think of plantations in the South and so forth. But it was quite a bit different in the Greco-Roman world. And so let me give you some statistics here. First of all, there were about 50 million slaves in the Roman world, or about a third of the population. So one out of every three people that you met were slave. Conversely, in in churches, about one out of every three people in the church, or many scholars say it was higher than that because the church was able to reach a great deal of slaves and so in many cases about half the people in the congregation were slaves Most of these slaves were either born into slavery because their mother was a slave, or they sold themselves into slavery because of their indebtedness. I could go on a tangent right now and say how many people in America would be a slave if after you were in debt you had to sell yourself into slavery But this is what people did. In other words, it was often a decision that they made. Well, I have no other option. I have to become a slave if I want to pay off my debt. And this is very important for you to hear. Slavery in the Roman world was not connected with race. Okay? It was not at all connected with race. A slave could be of any race. A slave could very well be a Roman. And most slaves were not slaves for life. Most slaves were freed sometime in their thirties. They might be a slave for ten or fifteen years, but then they were free. They purchased their freedom. That's the way it was in the world in which Paul is writing here. To the church at Corinth. Now that doesn't mean that being a slave was a great situation. They were still someone's property. They had no freedom. They lived at the mercy of their masters. It was not an ideal situation for a person to find themselves in. And what we think is behind what Paul is saying here is that there were some New Testament believers who, when they came to Christ, And were saved, said, you know what? According to the Bible, the Lord is my master. And he said that no man can serve two masters, so I have to, as a good Christian, run away from my master break the law because that's what God requires of me. And Paul here is saying, no, that's not what you should do. You should remain where you are, because that is God's calling on your life, at least for now. You'll notice he's very clear about this that if you can become free, if you can purchase your freedom or your time is up, then by all means use that freedom. You can walk through that door. But you must not break your obligations because you think you have to in order to be loyal to Christ. He says, be content with God's role for your life now. And then he gives an explanation that may have been confusing to you in verse 22. He gives the reason for this. For he that is called in the Lord being a servant or a slave is the Lord's freeman. He's saying, you know what? If you've been forgiven of your sin debts, even though you may be in the role as a slave, you're actually free. In fact, if your master is lost, you're more free than he is. Because you have the freedom of the forgiveness of sins. And then he says, you know, but if you are a freeman, if you're not a slave, if that's your role in life, you know what? You're still a slave of Jesus Christ. So in some sense, he says, everyone, no matter of your circumstance, is both a slave and yet free. That's why he says in verse 23, you are bought with a price. So what is Paul teaching here? He is saying that your socioeconomic status does not define who you are. It is your relationship with Christ that defines your true identity. This is the bottom line of what Paul is teaching here to all the churches. It's not your marital status. It's not your racial identity. It's not your social economic level that determines who you are What's really important is are you in Christ or not? These verses have a powerful message for us today. We have been conditioned to believe that a person's economic status defines their value We tend to treat people who have nice clothing and nice cars and beautiful homes. We give them a certain level of deference and respect that we will not give to others. The book of James addresses this about visitors coming in. You know, a guy comes in in beautiful apparel, very obviously a very wealthy person, he gets the VIB treatment. A guy comes in off the street, maybe he's homeless. We have a seat for you way back here where no one can see you. That's the thinking of the world. Because a man's life, Jesus said, does not consist of the abundance of things that he possesseth. Your life is not defined by your stuff Or by the impressive toys that you have, so many people pour out their lives energy The short span of life that God has given to them, trying to impress people, trying to gain a sense of acceptance and approval. By getting more and more stuff and surrounding themselves by things that say, I have made it. I am somebody in the world. But it should not be this way with the people of God. Because the only thing that really matters is are you a child of the king or not? You might be a person here who has a very meager existence. You have a menial job. You have very poor housing. You have a broken down car. As I've said to you before, If you could somehow measure yourself with everybody else in the world, the poorest person here would feel very rich. You have been greatly blessed. And you have been called on by God to be contents. I believe Brother Dave may have mentioned this in this Sunday school lesson in here this morning. But sometimes we want so much to have things that God has not assigned to us Some of you who think you're less than attractive and you beg and you plead and every day you wish if only you had a different body type or a more attractive face and That you would really be considered valuable and important in the world, but God hasn't given that to you. You know what? It could be there's a reason he didn't give that to you. Because most of the beautiful people in the world have no time for God at all. And it could be that you would go far away from the Lord if you had what the world considers beauty. Or why hasn't God entrusted great physical prosperity to you? Because riches have a way of taking our hearts away from God and it could be he knows that you couldn't handle that temptation. If you had all if you had millions and millions of dollars, you would have no time for God. You wouldn't be here this morning. You wouldn't be praying to the Lord. And so in his infinite wisdom, he has not given that to you. You see, when you yield to the lordship of God , You can be content with wherever he places you, whatever role he has for you in life. God's role may be that you remain all of your days single. But that's okay because that does not define who you are. God's will for you may be That you be a stay-at-home mom. The world may devalue your efforts, but Christ has claimed you as his own. And you have the chance to pour your life into your children. His yoke is easy, and his burden is light. I remember illustration that I heard many, many years ago as a young man, a preacher who was talking. About a person who got on a plane. And like often is the case even today, every seat in the plane was taken. You know, the airlines don't like to flight with them, fly with empty seats. And sometimes flying on a plane can be less than pleasant. I don't know if you've ever experienced that before or not. But this individual was next to someone who was taking up all the space and someone behind them was coughing, was obviously ill, and and and they were they were just Very upset about the seat, and so they called for airline personnel and they said, I want my seat changed. Because I deserve better than this. I cannot remain another moment in this seat. And the airline personnel said, but sir, this is your assigned seat. There are no other seats. This is where you must remain And this person protested, but again the airline personnel said, This is your assigned seat, this is the ticket that you bought, this is the seat that you chose, this is the seat that you will remain in until we land. There's only one of two options you have. You can either sit here and fume and fuss and be miserable for the entirety of the flights, or you can accept that. And try to enjoy this flight as much as possible. The choice is yours. And there are many things in our life that are just like that. Things that you cannot possibly change. And so you have a choice. You can either become frustrated and bitter and angry and keep telling yourself this isn't fair, I deserve better than this. Why did God bring this into my life? Or you can yield to it and say, God has a purpose and a plan for me. God has a reason that He has put me in this role in my life. in this family, in this job, at this location, God has a reason for me to be here. And therefore I dare not Become bitter and angry at him and seek to change things that can't be changed because I think I can't be happy without it. Now I know that what I've said to you this morning, if I can put it this way, is hard medicine. Because there are people here under the sound of my voice who have very difficult circumstances in which they are living. And some of my words may even sound almost harsh. That you just have to accept it as God's role for your life. But my friends, is this what God's Word teaches? Is this what Paul said to these individuals? He said this even to people who were slaves. He said, This is God's calling for you. Remain where you are. Serve for the glory of God, he says, do it as unto the Lord's. Whatever circumstance you're in. You can be faithful there and you can bring glory to God. Because you have what you need to bring you ultimate fulfillment and satisfaction if you know the Lord. But if you don't know the Lord, you cannot really heed this advice. You cannot even begin to know what it means to find your satisfaction in Christ or find your peace in Him. And so I would ask you to seek the Lord. And to consider your relationship with him this morning. May God help us to believe and accept his word. Let's close in prayer. Our Father, I pray that you would help us to yield our stubborn wills to you. And to say, as our Savior said, not my will but thine be done. Help us, Father, to find joy and contentment and peace. And you're calling for our lives. Instead of insisting that God change our circumstances so that we can be happy. Help us, Father, instead, to change our hearts and to find our joy in you. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.