Have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to Romans chapter 8? Romans chapter 8, looking this morning at verses 12 and 13. The Scottish preacher John McNeil used to tell a story about an eagle that was captured when it was very young The farmer who found this bird restrained it so that he could and couldn't fly. And he kept it in his barnyard. It wasn't long until the eagle began to act like the chickens that were there scratching and pecking at the ground. And it lived that way for several months. One day the farmer was visited by a shepherd who came From the mountains where the eagles lived and seeing the eagle in the barnyard, he was disturbed. And said, what a shame to keep that bird hobbled in your barnyard. Why don't you let it go? And so the farmer agreed and they cut off the restraints. But the eagle continued to wander around scratching and pecking as before. So the shepherd picked it up and put it on top of a tall stone wall where it could see the mountains and the valley and the vista ahead of it. And then the eagle spread its wings and with the leap soared off and never returned. At last it was acting like an eagle. A great deal of the instruction that we find in the New Testament is calling us to act on who we are in Christ Jesus. The process whereby our behavior comes to match our identity is known as sanctification. The word sanctification in the Greek language is related to the word holy Because sanctification is our growth in holiness, the lifelong process whereby we become more like our Savior. The Bible speaks of three aspects of our salvation. We usually think of it in just one aspect, but really there are three aspects. First of all, there's justification. That is, when we were saved from the penalty of sin. And for all of us, that has been in the past. And then sanctification is the present when we are being saved from the power of sin. This does not take place in a moment of time, but is progressive. And then there's glorification, where we will be saved from the presence of sin. And this, of course, is yet future. This morning, as we continue our study of Romans 8, we come to one of the most significant passages in the Bible on the doctrine of sanctification. Look with me at verses twelve and thirteen. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh, to live after the flesh. For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die. But if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. Notice that verse 12 begins with the word, therefore. Paul is now going to point out some of the implications of what he has been saying about the believer's life in the spirits. Let me remind you in summary what Paul has been teaching us. He says in verse 4 that Christians are those who live not after the flesh, but after the spirits. He goes on to say that we do not mind the things of the flesh, but the spirit. We live in the realm of the spirit not the flesh. We are no longer slaves to sin. We are not spiritually dead, but alive and at peace with God. In fact, we are indwelt by the Spirit of God and have been imputed with the perfect righteousness of Christ. And someday our bodies will be raised from the dead, just like our Savior, by the power of the Spirit that indwells our hearts. Let me remind you that Romans chapter 8 is all about the believer's triumphant assurance of salvation. In the first 17 verses, Paul is demonstrating that through the Holy Spirit we can triumph even over our sin. Sin is one of those great enemies that separates us from God. Well, by the grace of God and the Spirit of God, we can triumph even over sin. Sometimes our sinful fleshly nature seems to overwhelm us. But here Paul assures us that sin will not ultimately defeat us. Through the Holy Spirit, we can experience increasing victory over sin. This is incredible news. But what difference does it really make in our lives? How does this elevated teaching relate to the daily struggles that we face? I'm going to preach to you this morning on how to live the Christian life. And I want us to consider in these two verses two essential truths. For our sanctification. You can think of them like two mighty pillars. That support our walk with God. And if either one of those crumbles, we will perish. We need both of these pillars, these truths. To enable us to walk with God. Now the first truth, the first pillar. The first essential concept for us to grasp is something that I've been saying several times in recent weeks, and that is you must remember That you are not obligated to live according to the flesh. Paul here is saying, as he says so often, remember who you are. Look with me at verse 12. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh to live after the flesh. Notice to whom Paul is writing. He says, brethren, of course, this includes women as well, but Paul is writing to Christians. Notice that he includes himself in this struggle where he says, we are debtors not to the flesh. Even the great Apostle Paul Is involved in this great struggle against sin. And all believers, whether it be an apostle or a new believer , are not obligated to the flesh. Let me just say that the converse is also true. The instruction that Paul is giving here will not work in the life of an unbeliever because you have to be a Christian in order to live like a Christian. Let's consider the first statement that Paul makes here. We are debtors not to the flesh to live after the flesh. The last phrase To live after the flesh is just further explaining what Paul means by being a debtor to the flesh. He's making it crystal clear. Now we understand the concept of debt very well. Most Americans, unfortunately, are drowning in debts. Now, debt expresses the reality of an abiding obligation. And that is how Paul is using this term here. Paul is restating what he has already taught in this epistle, and that is that we are not in bondage to sin or the flesh. I'm going to invite you to turn back with me again to Romans chapter 6. I want you to look with me at verse 6. Romans chapter 6 and verse 6. Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin For he that is dead is freed from sin. Now, if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more, death hath no more dominion over him. For in that he died, he died unto sin once, but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body that ye should abate it in the lust thereof, neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God as those that are live from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. For sin shall not have dominion over you For ye are not under law, but under grace. Now turn back with me to Romans chapter 8. Look with me at the verses we have recently encountered. Look with me at verse 6. For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace, because the carnal mind is enmity against God, for it is not subject to the law of God. Neither indeed can be. So them that are in the flesh cannot please God. But ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none. of his. Paul teaches here that Christians are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, and therefore we are not obligated, he says now, to live after the flesh. Our fallen fleshly nature does not have authority over us. We are not obligated to obey it. But why does it so often seem that we are in bondage to our fleshly nature? Why do even genuinely born-again Christians Have such a struggle with sin. I'm going to give you six reasons why that is the case. Number one Because the flesh or our sin nature is an ever-present enemy within our hearts. The Puritans described it as the traitor within. The Bible teaches that we have three enemies that we face. We have the world, we have the flesh, and we have the devil. And the flesh, though it has no authority over us, is still very much there, and it has a powerful influence on our hearts and minds. A second reason why Christians struggle with sin is because the lifestyle of the flesh is the lifestyle of the world in which we live. So think about this. We have a part inside of us that is always fighting against us, and then we live in a world where everything around us. Is trying to get us to go back and adopt an old worldly lifestyle. We're swimming in an ocean of pollution and sin. That is a huge problem that we face. The world and our flesh within resonate and conspire against us. The false values of the world bombard our minds every day. A third reason we we struggle with sin because Christians bring bad habits of behavior and thinking into their new life. When you get saved, your bad habits, your way of thinking about things do not just instantly vanish. Bad habits, as we all know, die hard. And so often we fail to put off the old man with his deeds. Number four, one of the reasons why we struggle with sin is because we fail to renew our minds with the truth of God's word. We have to be, as it were, reprogrammed. And we need the Word of God constantly flowing through our minds to counteract the false messages that we hear and that emanate from our fallen hearts. And so often we fail in this area of omission. We don't take in the nourishing Word of God as we ought. And number five. The truth is, one of the reasons why we fall to sin so often is because we don't really want victory over sin. And so we continue to feed our flesh. We make provision for the flesh. That is, we actually plan to fail if the truth were known. This is why Paul says in Romans 13, 14 Put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. And number six, which is what Paul is addressing here, one of the reasons why we struggle so with sin and fail so often. is because we don't really believe that we're free from the bondage of sin and the tyranny of the flesh. We don't really believe that. It doesn't seem true in our experience. So maybe we think, maybe that's true for super Christians. Or maybe that works for some people, or maybe this is just kind of a theoretical truth that has no real relevance, but it doesn't seem that way in my life. And so we don't believe it. We continue to live the lifestyle of a slave to sin Romans chapter 6 addresses this moment again reading at verse 16. He says, know you not That to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are, to whom ye obey, whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness. But God be thanked that ye were the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart the form of doctrine which was delivered unto you, being then made free from sin, ye became the servants Now I want you to know when Paul talks about our being free from the slavery of sin, and from the tyranny of the flesh, he is not employing the power of positive thinking. This is not like a placebo effect. You know about the placebo effect, right? You give people a sugar pill and you tell them this is going to cure your problem. And a lot of times it does seem to fix their problem because they think it's going to work If you were to look up stories about the placebo effect, it's absolutely mind-boggling how much what we think will happen affects how we actually feel That is not what Paul is saying here. He's not saying, let's pretend that you're free from sin, even though everybody knows you're not, and maybe you'll be free from sin. That's not what he's saying. He is saying that because of the Spirit of God, you really are free from the bondage that you once lived in. You are not obligated. Sin has no authority over you. Your flesh cannot command you. You need to remember your true identity He says, remember that you're dwelt by the Spirit of God. There is therefore no reason that you need to fall. Now, how does this practically relate to our lives? It means, I'll put it this way, you must stop thinking of yourself like a helpless victim. You must stop thinking, well, this is just the way I am. Or I just can't stop. I have an addictive personality or I have a real weakness in this area. I always have And I've never been able to find victory. You have to stop thinking like that because it's all based on a lie. You are not a debtor to the flesh. So stop living like one who is obligated and under the authority of your old nature. But what about the individual who might say, well, to be honest with you, I don't really care much about growing in grace or progressing in holiness. I'm just content to live after the flesh and go to heaven someday. I want you to notice in the first phrase of verse 13 that Paul Anticipates such an objection. Look at verse 12 again. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh to live after the flesh. And someone says, well, what happens if I do decide just to live after the flesh? For if you live after the flesh, ye shall die. So, what does Paul mean by this phrase? If you live after the flesh, you will die. Christian scholars differ about the precise meaning of this phrase. Some would suggest that Paul is saying that if a Christian persists in living a fleshly carnal life, they will lose their salvation. I do not believe that this is what the Bible teaches here or anywhere else. Jesus says that he gives unto his people eternal life. and that they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. He goes on to say, and no man is able. to pluck them out of my Father's hand. In 1 Peter 1. 5, we read that we are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation. And this chapter, Romans chapter eight, is one of the bulwark defenses of the security of the believer, which ends with that wonderful saying, nothing can separate us from the love of Christ. And some would say, well, of course you can separate yourself from the love of Christ. If that's true, then none of us has any security. That is nonsense to take that position. So Paul is not teaching here that a true Christian can lose their salvation A second view is that the death that's referred to in the first phrase here in verse 13 is a reference to physical death. And so they would see that Paul is warning Christians that if they live a carnal life, the Lord might take them home. Indeed, 1 John 5 16 speaks of a sin unto death. But I don't think that the context here supports that interpretation at all. So I would suggest that what Paul means by this is simply what he has been saying. Paul is simply warning that if a person says that they are a Christian and yet continues to live after the flesh, They will perish eternally because they have demonstrated that they were never truly a child of God. Now let me clarify, Paul is not saying that somehow we must continue to earn our salvation or keep ourselves saved by our good works. No, that's all contrary to the gospel of grace. Paul is simply restating what he said earlier in Romans chapter 8 and verse 6. For to be carnally minded is death. The Apostle Paul is very consistent in his theology. Throughout his epistles, he warns Professing Christians that they cannot live like the world and go to heaven someday. This is not a very popular thing today. There are many so-called evangelical churches where the gospel is in some way, shape, or form proclaimed, but where the message is given It doesn't really matter how you live as long as you love Jesus. As long as you identify yourself as a Christian. Other than that. We certainly don't want to be accused of being legalist, and they never preach about sin in their services. I want you to turn with me to some of these passages because I want you to see it with your own eyes. Turn with me first of all to Galatians chapter 5. Galatians chapter 5, which is the closest parallel passage to what we're looking at in Romans 8 in the first 17 verses. Look with me at Galatians chapter 5, verse 19. We've gone to this passage before. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these: adultery, fornication Uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings and such like. In other words, I could add a whole lot more to this list, of the which I tell you before as I have also told you in time past. That they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Turn with me now to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Look with me in verse 9. Here the warning comes right at the beginning of the passage. 1 Corinthians 6. 9. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind. Those last three phrases refer to homosexuality. Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. He says it again in case you missed it the first time. And such were some of you. But you are washed, you are sanctified, you're justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. Now turn with me if you would to Ephesians chapter 5. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 1. Be ye therefore followers of God as dear children And walk in love as Christ also hath loved us and hath given Himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savor. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as becometh saints. Neither filthiness nor foolish talking nor jesting which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks. For this ye know that no whoremonger or unclean person or covetous man who is an idolater hath any inheritance In the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. He says, let no man deceive you. And the reason he says that is because there are many false preachers who do deceive people into thinking you can live like the devil And escape the flames of hell and go to heaven someday. The spirit of antinomianism is contrary to the gospel The idea of no rules in the Christian life. I can just live life on my own terms. I can live an immoral life. I can live a life where I am completely materialistic and secularized in my thinking, but if I go to church every once in a while and tell everyone I'm a Christian, then I am good to go. Paul says again and again and again as we've just seen, that is not true. That is a lie. I've spoken to people before who have made professions of faith, been baptized by me. And then have left and walked away and gone back to their old paths of sin, living according to the flesh. And I have met with them and I have visited them in their homes and I have told them, I want to tell you one thing. When I preached the gospel to you, I told you about the great gift of eternal life. And I say to them, you should not think for one moment that you have that gift because you're living like someone who has not received you. That gift. And I tell that to you to warn you because I don't want you to think, I made a profession of faith, I got baptized, I'm good to go. No, the Bible doesn't teach that. It is true that once you are saved, you are always saved. But the question is, were you once saved? We must never use this cliche as an excuse for a godless lifestyle. The scriptures offer no assurance to those who live after the flesh. What Paul is saying here is essentially failure is not an option. Going back to the old life is not an option for a Christian. Because that's the path of death. That's what the writer of Hebrew says as well. You can't go back to your old rituals of Judaism. You can't go back to that Christess form of worship. Because to go back is to perish eternally. Apostasy is a real thing. And we must stand in fear of it Now would you notice with me the second truth that you must remember that's found in the rest of verse 13 Paul writes, but if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. What does it mean to mortify? We don't use that word very often today. If someone's mortified, they're embarrassed. Well, it means to put to death. The verb here is active. This is something that you must do. The tense suggests that this is something that we must do continually. It's in the present tense. We must daily put sin to death in our lives. But we can only do this through the power of the Spirit. Now, this truth calls for m some important clarifications. about the great doctrine of sanctification. Number one, this passage is not suggesting that you can eradicate all sin from your life. This will happen someday when you're glorified in heaven. But it's not going to happen here and now. This passage is not saying that we can achieve sinless perfection as some have dreamed. There is some parts, some bodies of Christianity who believe that you can eradicate sin from your life. I have spoken to people. Who have told me that they have not committed a sin in many, many years. And I was always tempted to say, well, you just did right now because you lied to me As tempting as it is, and as wonderful as it would be if it were true, you cannot eradicate sin from your life. Number two, I don't believe this passage is simply saying that we must consider ourselves to be dead unto sin. There's some on the basis of what we read in Romans chapter six that says that we are dead, that it means that when Paul and other places say that we should mortify our sin. That he is simply saying the same thing, just using different words. In other words, all of this is simply a mental aspect of how we should think about ourselves. And it doesn't involve us having to actually actively do anything. But I think that this interpretation is wrong, even though it's held by many good men. No, instead, Paul here is saying that since we are dead to sin, that is, no longer slaves to sin, we must therefore wage war against the sin that still troubles us Yes, it has no authority over us, but it still often overcomes us. And thirdly, this instruction does not allow us to be passive with regards to our sin. The Bible does not teach let go and let God. There are many fine Christian leaders, and this all started about a century ago. who bought into the notion that believers do not need to struggle or fight against sin. We just need to surrender and leave the matter with God. Those who hold this view would say, just as we were saved from our sin , Without works, but by simply relying on Christ, that the same is true of our sanctification. That we must simply surrender to God and rely on Him, and He'll take care of everything for us. But this is not what the Bible teaches. There are some fine friends of mine and fundamental preachers who still hold this view. I do not think it can square with this passage or many, many others. Killing something is certainly not a passive activity, and this is what Paul calls us to do. No, you must be actively involved. Sanctification and justification are different. In sanctification, I mean in justification, God does everything. In sanctification, by the Spirit of God, we must cooperate to fight against our sin. Now what are the deeds of the body that are mentioned here in verse 13? It would be easy to misunderstand what Paul is saying in this phrase. Paul is not saying That your sin problem is all due to your body. If only you could get rid of that body, you'd be great. He's not suggesting to some of thought that if you punish your body and deprive your body of food and of rest, that you will become holy No, your sin problem goes far deeper than the natural appetites of your body. No, Paul is using the term body here, as he does in other places, to represent the whole of man. As long as you are in this body of sin, as he says in chapter 6 and verse 6, or the body of death in chapter 7 and verse 24, you must wage war against your sinful tendencies and practices. The other great text on mortification is Colossians chapter 3 and verse 5. It says this mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. Fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry But how can we do this? How do we put sin to death in our lives? It often seems like a hopeless task. Our text says that this can only be accomplished through the Holy Spirit. This is how sinful and weak we are, people It's sort of like a little child. You give them a task to do, but you notice that they're not doing it. The only way they're going to do it is if you sit there next to them and each step of the way show them how to do it. And encourage them to do it and help them do it. That's how weak we are. That's how sinful we are. We have to have the indwelling of the Spirit to empower us to fight against our sin It's not even enough for us to know that we are in Christ, that we have been saved, that we have been forgiven. We have to have the Spirit of God Himself inside of us to help us wage war against sin. So how does the Holy Spirit aid us in our war against sin? Number one He provides the truth that you need to fight against sin. 2 Corinthians 3. 18 says, but we all with open face, beholding as in a glass, the glory of the Lord are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. It is only by the word of God that we will be changed by the Spirit of God. And this is why we must constantly take in the Word of God. Number two , he provides the power that you need to fight against sin. Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 18 says, and be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be filled with the spirits. The filling of the Holy Spirit enables Christians to do what seems impossible. And number three, he even provides the willpower. That you need to fight against sin. Philippians chapter 2 and verse 13, it says, For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Now I want you to look with me at the last three words of Romans 8. 13 He says, But if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live The striking contrast in this verse is this. If you live after the flesh, you will die. But if you put to death sin in your life, you will live. This is one of those great paradoxes that we find in Scripture, those seeming contradictions that help the truth stand out for us. Think of this. God's way up is down. The scripture says again and again, he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. The Bible says that the weak are the ones who are actually strong. The Bible says it's the poor in spirit who are rich. It says that only those who are broken, they are the only ones who are truly made whole. And here we find that it's only those who die daily who will truly live. I want to conclude with several applications. Number one, it is essential for us as Christians To remind ourselves daily of our new identity. You are in Christ. You are a temple of the Holy Spirit. Your life is hid with Christ and God. You are not in the flesh, but in the spirit You see, the battle for sanctification always begins in the mind. As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. This is why we must constantly renew our minds with the word of God that reminds us who we are. Number two, you must never become complacent about living according to the flesh. You must never think it's okay to live in a fleshly manner. Why? Because that is the path that leads to to death. We must never go back to our old lifestyle of fleshly living. This is what Paul says And Romans 13. This is the paradox. It is possible. It is possible for a true Christian to fall really fast and really far into the depths of depravity. That's the implication of the verses I'm going to read here. But a Christian, because the Spirit of God dwells within them, will not be able to enjoy that and remain there. Because they have been bought with a price. Listen to these words. He says in Romans 13, verse 11, and that knowing the time that is now high time to wake out of sleep, For now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness. And let us put on the armor of light, let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness. not in strife and envying, but put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. Don't deceive yourself into thinking that you can love Jesus and go to heaven someday and still live like every other lost person in the world. Number three, you must daily seek the spear's help in your fight against sin What does this practically mean? It means that you must pray and desperately ask God for help. We must pray prayers like this. Lord, I can't seem to defeat this sin in my life. Please help me. Lord, I love my pet sin. Please take it from me. Lord, keep me from temptation today, for I am weak. And the final application I want to make is this. You must be ruthless with recurring sin. in your life. Paul doesn't say here that we are to take sin captive or keep it under control or keep our sin from becoming excessive or embarrassing to us. No, he says we must slay it. This is exactly what the Lord Jesus Christ taught as well in his Sermon on the Mount. Don't turn to this, please, but let me read from you Matthew chapter 5. And tr verse 27, this is true, especially of sexual sins in our lives He says, Ye have heard it was said by them of old time, thou shalt not commit adultery. But I say unto you that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out and cast it from thee, for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell. If thy right hand offend thee, cut it off Cast it from thee, for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that the whole body should be cast into hell. Christ, of course, is not advocating self-mutilation, but he is saying that we must be drastic and ruthless. with our sin. We must see it as a great evil that must be killed in our lives. Just like people who are afflicted with cancer. Choose to poison their bodies with chemotherapy in order to kill their deadly cancer. Have you ever witnessed someone who is undergoing chemotherapy? You see how weak they become, how nauseated, the hair loss, and all the other things, the suffering that goes with it. Why would they do such a thing? Because it's a matter of life and death. John Owen, the greatest of the Puritan theologians who wrote the greatest book ever on the mortification of sin, said this: Be killing sin, or it will be killing you. This is the mindset that we must adopt. What does this mean? It might mean that you need to cancel your cable TV subscription. Or you may need to eliminate the internet from your home, or you may need to get rid of Facebook. Or you may need to do what I've said to so many men over the years that they need to get rid of their smartphone. You may say that sounds a bit extreme. Well so does putting something to death. So let me ask you, what is your besetting sin? I read recently a man who put this in a very interesting way. He said, if there was a button that you could push. That would make it impossible for you to ever commit your besetting sin ever again, would you push that button? Or would you say, you know, I'm not so sure I want to push that button because I really still love my sin. I think so often if we were honest, we would say, I'm not so sure I want to hit that button if it means that I could never ever be involved in the pleasure of that sin for the rest of my day. I think we have to be brutally honest with ourselves about our sin. I'm going to conclude by reading A quotation from another Puritan named William Gernaugh, who wrote the greatest book ever on spiritual warfare entitled The Christian in Complete Armor. Listen to what he says. The language is old-fashioned. But I think that you can grasp this vivid imagery. He says the Christian is to proclaim and prosecute an irreconcilable war against his bosom sins. Those sins which lay nearest his heart must now be trampled under his feet. He says, Soul, take thy lust, thy only lust. Which is the child of thou dearest love, thy Isaac, the sin which has caused most joy and laughter, for which thou hast promised thyself the greatest return of pleasure or profit. Lay hands on it. and offer it up. Pour out the blood of it before me. Run the sacrificing knife of mortification into the very heart of it. And this freely and joyfully For it is no pleasing sacrifice that is offered with a countenance cast down, and all this now before thou hast one embrace more from it My friends, he has captured the spirits of the mindset that we must have as we fight against our sin. And we can do this Because we are not obligated to our flesh, and because the Spirit of God that empowers us dwells within us. Let's close in prayer. Father, help us to be more like our Savior. Help us to hate our sin more. Help us, Father, to be more determined to live for Christ Because of what we have heard this morning, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen