If you have a Bible, please, would you turn with me to Romans chapter 12? Romans chapter 12. On March the 17th, 1883. A faithful few gathered under the cloudy skies of North London to lay to rest one of the most influential men of modern times. His name was Karl Marx. the founder of communism. Men like Vladimir Lenin and Mao Zedong would champion his idea and change the world through communism. It's interesting to note that when communism enters a nation instantly, the media outlets and schools are seized. Because the Marxist leaders know that the control of information is vital to success. If they can mold the minds of the young, especially They will have total control within a generation because mind control is the key to conformity If you control a person's perception of reality, you can shape the values of their life and give them direction beyond their own understanding This evening, I want us to understand from Romans chapter 12 and verse 2 that the Christian life is very much a battle for the mind. We have these very familiar verses that many of you have memorized to begin this chapter. Romans 12, verse 1. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service, and be not conformed to this world. But be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Let me remind you of a few things we learned from verse 1. Paul here is exhorting believers on the basis of God's merciful and gracious plan of redemption. to offer up their lives as a living sacrifice. He's saying when we stop and consider How we have been saved from the wrath of God through the death of Christ, and that it's all been by his grace that should compel us to offer up our lives to him. He describes our sacrifice in three ways. It should be a living sacrifice, not that we give up our lives in death although for some that will be the cost, but we give our lives to him, our all, our time, our talents, our treasures to him. It also should be holy, that is, it's set apart to God, we do not regard it as our own, and it is acceptable. That is, it is well pleasing to God. Or to put it another way, our lives should be considered as an act of worship. We are to be Christians 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Now I think that many people's response to this call to consecration is to say, you know, I I just can't do that. I know that I should live that kind of a Christian life, but it just seems impossible. And I want to suggest to you that one of the reasons why we respond that way is because our minds have been shaped and molded by the world. The very next admonition that we have in this passage is in verse 2, the first phrase And this is all we'll be looking at tonight, and be not conformed to this world. There's a part of me that hates to divide this because this is two halves of one coin. Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your minds. But because there's so much to consider here, we're just going to look at the first half of this, and Lord willing, we'll look at That second phrase in days to come. We see here that there is both a defensive strategy and an offensive strategy for our spiritual growth. And that we need both of them. It's not enough just to have one. We need both offense and defense. We need the positive and the negative. This is the only way that we can become the individuals that God has called us to be. This is the only way that we can live a lifestyle of worship is if we follow this instruction. So I'm going to speak to you briefly tonight on this truth that we can only become consecrated Christians by refusing to be conformed to this world. And I have two main points I want you to consider with me tonight. The first one is this. We must recognize that the world is our enemy. In our quest for consecration, the world is our enemy. Now, in order for us to have any understanding of this, we must know what we mean and what this passage means by world. The Bible uses the term world in different ways. For instance, this morning I read for you John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. And the same author who penned those words, John the Apostle, also wrote, Love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Obviously, the Bible is using the term world there in two different senses. Actually, the Bible uses this word, it's translated world, in at least three different ways. First of all, it can refer to planet Earth. Of course, this is the way we use the word world today. Planet Earth. Some environmentalists have tried to read that meaning into John 3. 16, for God so loved the world, planet Earth. But you can't read the rest of that verse without knowing that's not what the Lord was saying. That's nonsense. Another way the term world is used, it's used of all of humanity, all the peoples of the world. And I believe that's how it's being used there in John 3. 16. But thirdly, it's also used of the system of false values that is promoted by Satan and is evident in the hostility of lost people to the revealed will of God. That's a mouthful Okay? So there's different components to the concept of world that we're talking about. It's first of all It is promoted by Satan. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 4. 4 that he is the God of this world. Does that mean he's sovereign over the world? No, it does not. But it means over the values that lost people have. The things that they treasure. He is the promoter of that. He is God with capital lower G. He's the God of that. In 1 John chapter 5 and verse 19, it says, the whole world lieth in wickedness. It's not saying there's something corrupt on planet Earth. It's saying that all of humanity naturally is in some sense tainted by wickedness, lieth in wickedness. And he's called, of course, in John 12, 31, the devil is called the prince of this world. Now this passage in Romans 12 tells us that we are not to be conformed to this world. So what exactly does that mean? The reality is that Christians use the term world or worldliness or worldly. In a very broad way. Many well -meaning Christians have equated worldliness with an object. Or an activity. We know this, just to the north of us , there are settlements of people that we like to visit in Lancaster County. We have the Old Order Mennonites, and we have the Amish And if you were to go up and engage them in conversation and say, what is worldliness? They would say it's things like rubber. and electricity and automobiles. It is modernity the signs of progress, and they see that as worldly and wrong. And so by their estimation, I think every single one of us in here is worldly Because I didn't see any horse and buggies out there in the parking lot tonight. Now when I was a child, I heard evangelists come through and sometimes preach fiery sermons. I think you many of you know exactly what I'm talking about. And sometimes they would talk about worldliness, and they love to talk about worldliness. And I remember as a kid wondering, what is he talking about? Worldliness. And maybe they didn't say this directly, or maybe sometimes they did, but also I know is that everyone equated worldliness with things like Wearing jeans, or the clothing, or the length of your hair, or a style of music you listen to, or going to the movie theater, or dancing, and so there was a list Mind you, it wasn't written anywhere. They didn't have it in the back of the church. But there was a list, an unspoken list that everyone knew that these things constitute worldliness. And as long as you stay away from the dozen things on this list, congratulations, you are not worldly. Now I say this not to poke fun at these people. I think they had great intentions, and perhaps in many ways they're wiser than many of the approaches that people have today. But I will say this, if only worldliness could be removed from our lives so easily. If only it was a matter of avoiding about a dozen things, and then we could rest easy that worldliness was no longer a problem. But worldliness is not a matter so much of what you wear or where you go. What we need to consider is how the Bible defines worldliness. And the key passage for this I've already quoted for you. It's in the book of 1 John and chapter 2. So would you turn with me there, please? 1 John chapter 2. Again, many of you have memorized these verses. 1 John chapter 2, verses 15 through 17. Notice what John says. Love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. That's a pretty powerful And disturbing statements. So po so John, what do you mean by the world? Verse 16. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life is not of the Father. but is of the world. And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever We have three items here. And you can find these three items all through the pages of Scripture. This is another indication to us that the Word of God is timeless. This was written over 1900 years ago. But yet this is certainly still a description of the world today, is it not? First of all, we have the lust of the flesh. This is what we would call sensuality. The technical philosophical term for this is hedonism. A heathenist is someone who lives for pleasure. They live for thrills. They go out and they party wildly on the weekends, and the rest of the week they're looking forward to going out and partying on the weekend. That's what they live for. They may not know the term, but they're a heathenist. This is often a course of trap for young people, especially. That's worldliness. It's a distortion of reality. Then there's the lust of the eyes. Included within this are the ideas of focusing our life on what is superficial. Not just the way we look, but what we wear. Living our life by status symbols, the car that we drive, the house that we have , wanting to impress people. So you have the first thing is sensual, then you have what is superficial, or you could say materialistic. And I could spend the next Many moments talking about this. We live in such a materialistic society where we measure good and value By the things that we possess, the status symbols that say that we're important, that we are someone. And then we have the pride of life This is selfishness. The correct philosophical term for this is narcissism. Living life for me, viewing everything, what's of benefit for me? How will this make me look? How will this make me feel? How will this glorify me? And we live in a culture that has become very narcissistic. And so we have in the world sensuality, superficiality, and selfishness, or hedonism, materialism, and narcissism. These are the values that have always animated lost people from the beginning of time, and they still do today. You see, let's go back to this matter of worldliness. Worldliness is a matter of the hearts. It's an attitude. It is a world view. It may indeed be reflected in what we wear or what we listen to or where we go for entertainment, but those things in and of themselves are not worldly. What's worldly is the reason that we go to those things. You see, the great danger of equating worldliness with a select list of taboos is that it provides cover. For more discrete expressions of worldliness. For instance, a person Could be very worldly and go to a church and maintain very strict standards. But in fact, they are very materialistic They're very much involved in getting stuff and they spend most of their week thinking about how they can improve their financial situation and be more secure and have have have more land and and a larger home and better cars and a better future for their children and that's the focus of their life. And we say that sounds that sounds reasonable and logical If that's what you're living for, that's materialism. That's worldliness. That person who has a high standing in a local church who may be very strict in their standards. They may indulge in sensuality They may be a very proud person, and they make everyone in their family cater to them. And everyone knows their proud and arrogance. And yet, they're still regarded as a paragon of virtue because they don't do certain things that are considered worldly, and yet their entire lifestyle can be described as worldly. Again, I'm not poking fun at previous generations or other preachers. But the fact is that when we do when we try, as it were, to simplify or externalize biblical truth, we get into trouble because we provide cover for other expressions of worldliness. So what does it mean to be conformed to this world? This is an interesting word. It's found, it's a rare word. It's found only one other time in your New Testament. I want you to turn with me there if you would to 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 14 The same word that's translated conformed in Romans 12, 2, is translated in 1 Peter 1 and verse 14 with the term fashioning, as obedient children. Not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust in your ignorance. We actually get an English word from this Greek term that is translated conformed in Romans 12 and fashioning in 1 Peter 1. It is the word Schismatic, schematic. You know, a structural diagram that maybe shows you how the wiring goes on something, a schematic That comes from this Greek word. It has the idea of an outline or a structure The world is trying to dictate the structures of your life. It's trying to mold your thinking so that you live by the values and the goals that lost people live for. And you notice here in 1 Peter 1. 14 it says, as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves. He's saying, don't allow this to happen to you. It's the same idea in Romans 12, too. Be not conform to this world. Don't allow the world to mold and shape. Your thinking about the most important things in life. This reminds us That we must not view the world as a playground, but as a battleground. This is why James 4. 4 says, Whosoever will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God's. The person who lives a life that at its core is dictated by selfish and sensual and superficial considerations is a person who is an enemy of God, no matter what they might profess. This requires wisdom on our part. Sometimes Christians think that the way that we keep from being worldly is to isolate ourselves from the world and to kind of cut ourselves off So that we don't talk to lost people. We don't engage, we don't have any friendships with them, any real connections with them. We just live in a kind of cloistered Christian community kind of a 21st century Protestant monasticism is sometimes espoused. But again, if only worldliness could be shut out so easily But yet even within our Christian communities and in our homes, we see worldliness permeating the way people think. And of course, God has called us to be salt and light, and so we can't isolate ourselves from the world and just say, I'm just I'm just not going to talk or have anything to do with lost people or anything that lost people do. I'm just going to avoid them. No, no, no. You have to engage them. You have to be salt and light. You have to talk to them. Interact with them You have to be in the world, but not of the world. You can't be like them if you really want to draw them to the Savior. And be a testimony. You know, I find the most convicting things about worldliness were written by people who sort of lived in a different world. I'm talking about the Puritans. I looked, I was reading some of their books recently. This one gentleman, William Greenhill, Puritan preacher from the 1600s. He says the soul becomes what it loves. If it loves the earth, it is an earthly soul. That's why John says, love not the world. It's really an idolatry of the heart. It's spiritual adultery, James says. This preacher goes on to provide seven directions for getting our hearts off the world. And the first one, number one, on his list is We must be convinced that the world is evil. That's the only one I'm going to mention to you tonight. Do you think that way? Do you think of the world, the thought of lost people, the values, the goals of lost people as being antagonistic to the way you think? You see, the world molds us usually very gradually It's accomplished by a gradual wearing away of your biblical values, like a river wearing away a rock and removing all the edges and lines until it's a smooth and rounded object The world is trying to erase God's holy intentions for your life. And this is one reason why most Christians never go very far in their quest for holiness, because they allow their minds to be constantly Molded by the worlds. And they come to church and they may read their Bible. And yet they find that they are still very weak Christians. And so often it's because, although they may be taking in some spiritual nourishment. They may be immersing their minds at times in the Word of God. They are also opening up their minds to a floodgate of everything that is antithetical to biblical truths. Sort of like someone trying to clean their home. Many women, many wives here can perhaps identify this. You clean the floor, and then the kids, and perhaps your husband as well, come in and track in dirt everywhere. It's not enough to just clean the floor. You have to also give instructions and restrictions to others if you want to have a clean floor. And it's the same way in our Christian life. There must be an offense and a defense. We need to remember that the world is a hostile influence. We need to remember that we carry around within us still as redeemed born-again believers a sinful nature. And whether you want to admit it or not, the most advanced Christian, the most godly man or woman that you ever have met in your life, I want you to know there is still a part of them inside of them. That responds to the message of the world. Have you never felt that struggle inside of you? Where there's a part of you that's saying, This is no good. This is not right, but then there's a part of you inside of you that says, I like this. This is neat That's why we have to be transparent about this and and really be um Honest about this. There is a conspirator that dwells within us that seeks to work With the world to overthrow our spiritual progress. Many years ago During World War II, the United States had a secret project called the Manhattan Project, where they were seeking to develop an atomic bomb. And there was a man working in that project as there were thousands of people by the name of Ted Hall. He was a spy. And he realized that he had access to a lot of very sensitive information, and so he decided that he wanted to sell the information that he knew to the KJB. And to his consternation, he found it difficult to really find an agent who would take him seriously And really take his information because they didn't trust him. He had to work really hard, but finally he found someone and he did conspire and he did commit treason And sometimes we get into trouble not because we trip and we fall, but we go looking for trouble. And we are guided more from the traitor within our heart than by the truth of the Word of God. This is why we must fight tooth and nail to keep our hearts and minds from embracing the way of the world. Far too often we silence the convicting voice of the Holy Spirit that cries within our souls, unclean! And through habitual sin we grieve the Spirit and we mute his warning. We read in 2 Peter this example of lots. It says that he vexed his righteous soul when he was living in Sodom and Gomorrah. If it was not for that verse, I suspect that most Christian preachers would say that Lot certainly was not a believer. But we have this comment. And 2 Peter that says he vexed his righteous soul. How could a true child of God live in the heart of Sodom and Gomorrah? The answer is, if you study the Genesis narrative, he slowly desensitized his heart. until he accepted what was absolutely unacceptable. And the same can easily happen to us Have you never discovered that? That some things, some thresholds that you have in your life, of things that once were shocking And things that you would never ever allow your mind to dwell on, or your ears to listen to, or your eyes to see, once you go through certain barriers. It can easily come to a place where those things are not shocking at all. They are not disturbing at all. They don't trouble your spirit at all. And it's not because they're now acceptable, it's because you have desensitized your hearts. This is why we must stop loving the world. We must stop viewing the world as our friend. And we must view it as our hostile antagonist. And this brings me to my second point. We must resist the world's attempts to shape our thinking and hindering us from becoming a consecrated Christian. So how does the world shape or mold us? Well, Romans 12 gives us a hint in this second parallel phrase. where it says, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. You see, it all takes place in the way we think about things. Every day our minds are bombarded by a multitude of messages. And our minds are either primarily being renewed. By the word of God or conformed to the world. Proverbs tells us: as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. The fact is, you are becoming what you think. I want you to turn with me, if you can, please, to the book of Ephesians, chapter 4. Ephesians chapter 4 Verse 17, Paul writes, This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord. He's writing to Christians that you henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk. in the vanity of their minds, having the understanding darkened and being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them because of the blindness of their heart. who being past feeling have given themselves over to lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness with greediness, but ye have not so learned Christ. If so be that ye have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus. We see here that sanctification is a battle for the mind. So how could you tell if the world is having an adverse influence on your thinking? Well look at the clues found here. in Ephesians 4, we have first of all the futility or the vanity of the mind. Man's mind was made to know God. But instead, people focus their mental energies on that which is empty and worthless Do you ever walk in a grocery store or in a in a drugstore somewhere and you see the rack of magazines you will find what it is that people feed their minds on. You have celebrities and cars and sports and food and travel and wine and all manner of sensuality and bodybuilding magazines and everything imaginable All of this is part of what we call pop culture, and it's pure vanity. We must be careful that we do not allow our minds to become entranced with worthless things. We can so easily spend our mental energy and our money and our life on worthless pursuits of the world. The Bible says where your treasure is. There will your heart be also. I used to know a preacher who would say, if you want to know What you really treasure, look at your checkbook statement sometime and see what you invest your hard-earned money in. That will show you the true treasure of your life. We also see a distorted sense of reality. It says here that they are in the dark, having the understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God. Those who live in the dark live as if there is no light, that is, that there is no God. They live life with no sense of purpose beyond themselves and their own immediate comfort and gratification. In verse 19 it says, who being past stealing have given them over unto lasciviousness. This is a word we don't use much anymore. It refers to sensuality or immorality. Living just to satisfy your appetites. This is how the world thinks I don't think I need to really convince you that we live in a pornographic culture and that things that a generation or two ago people were arrested for are now piped into millions of homes 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The technology has made it very difficult. to keep the sensuality out of our lives and out of our homes. With the advent of smartphones and the internets We have unfettered access to the most degrading material imaginable. Parents, this is one reason why we have to be so careful. I never cease to be amazed at parents Who give their children unfettered access to the internet. And they say, Well, I've got good kids. I've got wonderful kids. And I ask them, are they human beings? Because if they're human beings, you're setting them up for failure. I don't care how wonderful they may be, they still have flesh, they still have blood running through their veins, they are human beings and they are weak. just like you and I are. This is a huge problem and is worthy of a whole series of messages in and of itself. But this is a huge, huge problem. I could throw out a bunch of statistics that would be very demoralizing and embarrassing, but nevertheless are true of the amount of people that on a regular basis who attend churches who indulge in pornography and other forms of sensuality This is a huge problem. There's no way that you can have a heart for God, a heart for holiness. With that coming into your life. It's just impossible. It'll eradicate and erase any progress you're trying to make And it scars a person's soul, it desensitizes them, it destroys marriages and our ability to interact and relate to others. It's a horrible scourge. And we must avoid it like we would avoid some great plague. A sensual person lives with no sense of eternity. The word that's translated world in Romans 12, too, is actually a term that means age, the contemporary age. And it reminds us that the world is focused on the here and now. Let us eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die. Live for the moments. This is the message of the world. And most people live give little thought to the fact that they live on the edge of eternity. But on the other hand, we as Christians are to be people who live with eternity in view. Hebrews tells us, we find here no continuing city, but we seek one to come. That passage that I read from you in 1 John says, and the world passeth away. and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. You see, there might be people here tonight who are thinking, you know, so I understand that, you know, the message of the world we should We're really supposed to avoid it. We're supposed to avoid all that sensuality and that materialism and that selfish stuff. We really shouldn't be there. But yet It seems that that's where all the joy and all the fun and all the happiness is found. That's only a delusion This is why it says in 1 John 2, the world passes away, all of those superficial things. Are going to pass away. There's nothing of lasting value there. But the person who does the will of God is living with eternal values. A sensual person lives with no sense. of the spiritual. They're focused on the material, on the physical, what they can touch and taste and handle. The Puritan Jeremiah Burroughs wrote a book entitled A Treatise of Earthly Mindedness, based on Philippians 3. 19, who was into this destruction. whose God is their belly, whose glory is their shame, who mind earthly things. In this book he addresses Christians who are tempted to find their happiness in the world. And he says this, O poor soul, your happiness is not here. There are other things in which your chief good consists. You were made for higher and better things than these. God has nobler thoughts about mankind than merely to let him have a few contentments here in the earth. We are called to be different. We are called to live with eternity in view. We are to value spiritual treasure over material treasure. And so often these things sound alarming to us and almost very demanding and very restrictive. And the reason why that is, is because all of our minds to some degree have already been tainted and shaped and molded by the worlds. We can never become the living sacrifice that God has called us to be if the world is daily shaping and molding our thinking and our values. Because the way we think will determine the kind of person that we are. Most of you here have heard of the famous English commentator Matthew Henry. A very godly man, a pastor, and a man who has left us a great treasure in his commentary on the whole Bible. His father, Philip, was a great Puritan preacher. And he would write letters to his son. And in one of these writings he has just this little phrase that I find very powerful. He says to his son Matthew, after the heart has been let loose a little bit in the world, oh, what a hard matter it is to find it again. When we let our hearts go out and embrace the values of the world, it's very hard to get back where you need to be spiritually. It's an uphill battle. This is why we must guard our hearts. We must guard our thinking. When we sit down to watch something or to listen to something, we need to ask ourselves, is this conforming me to the world? Is this going to dull my sense of the eternal, of things that are really important? Is this going to take out of my heart any taste or any desire for the things of God? Is this going to add darkness to my mind instead of light? May God help us not to be conformed to this world. Let's close in prayer. Our Father, we need your help. We need your grace because we are weak. And the pull of the world is powerful. And our flesh is a very willing accomplice. And so we pray that you would help us and strengthen us. Help us, Father, to be wise as serpents and harmless as dove. Help us, Fat, to be vigilant. To guard against the attacks of the world, the wiles of the devil. Help us, Father, to stand in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Help us to become the holy warriors for Christ that you've called us to be. And I pray, Father, that you'd help us to have a proper understanding and view of the world. And that we would be eternally vigilant, daily watchful against any change in our hearts, attitude, and in the thinking of our minds going after the things of this world. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen