Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to the book of 1 Peter? We read this morning from Isaiah chapter 6. because of what we're discussing this morning, but we have not abandoned our series on 1 Peter. This morning we come to consider two verses Verses 15 and 16 of chapter 1, 1 Peter 1, 15 and 16. It says, but as he which hath called you is holy, so be holy in all manner of conversation. Because it is written, be holy, for I am holy. In R. C. Sprohl's book, The Holiness of God, he makes the following perceptive statement. He says, xenophobia. is a fear of strangers or anything that is strange or foreign. God is the ultimate object of our xenophobia He is the ultimate stranger. He is the ultimate foreigner. He is holy. And we are not. We come this morning to one of the great exhortations to Christian living that we encounter in the epistles. Be holy, for I am holy. I suspect that we often dismiss this command as another impossible demand. That we should not even begin to seek to fulfill. And indeed, there is an aspect of God's holiness that we cannot in any way imitate. Our God is transcendent. He is the creator of all. And he is separate from creation. He is not part of creation. He is the creator. He is separate to the nth degree, and to that degree we cannot attain. We are not transcendent. We are not separate from creation. We are created beings. And so in that aspect, we cannot begin to imitate his holiness. But we can imitate his holiness. And being separate from sin and from the world by the grace of God Now perhaps you recall from last week that the core idea of this Hebrew and Greek word The concept of holiness is to be set apart or separate. This is why God tells Moses that the burning bush to take off his shoes because this is holy grounds. Not that it was germ-free But that it was sacred. It had been set apart because here God had manifested his glory to Moses. We read in the Old Testament of Israel as being a holy nation. They often failed to live up to that designation, but they were set apart and separate from the other nations of the earth. And it was only with Israel that God made a covenant. We read of holy anointing oil and the priest wearing a holy linen coat, and it doesn't mean that had holes in it. It means it was distinct. It was set apart from all of his other garments. You probably have on the front of this book, if you open it up, it probably says Holy Bible. It is a holy book. It is set apart from all the other books of the world. So this is a very fundamental concept of Scripture found on nearly every page from the beginning to the end. It's something that we must understand. God is a holy being and he desires that his followers, his children, be holy. Now God's holiness is not just another attribute of God. Sometimes theologians like to debate about what is God's chief attribute. It's a little bit dicey, a little bit difficult because it's not like there's attributes that are competing with one another. It's not like God's love is really kind of competing against God's holiness. God is a complete being, and his attributes are not at odds. They do not contradict one another. But some attributes are more emphasized or more often mentioned than others. And that would be true of this attribute of holiness. In fact, most of the great theologians throughout the centuries that I am aware of have considered God's holiness to be his fundamental attributes. We read about his holiness all throughout Scripture. In 1 Samuel 2. 2, it says, there is none holy as the Lord. In Exodus 15, 11, after God preserved his people crossing the Red Sea, the Israelites saying, Who is like unto thee, glorious in holiness? And the answer is, there's no one holy like God's. The Bible says that his name is holy. Psalm 111 verse 9 says, holy and reverend is his name. The Bible tells us that his law is holy. And one of his titles, especially in the book of Isaiah, is the Holy One of Israel. And this morning we read the most famous passage on God's holiness in Scripture, Isaiah chapter 6. And we read there that those angelic beings cry day and night: holy, holy, holy! We read that the same chant in Revelation chapter 4 and verse 8, this is not something distinctive to Isaiah, but it's what the scripture teaches. From beginning to end. This is why many theologians Consider God's holiness to be his primary attribute. It flavors, it qualifies all of the other attributes of God. God's love is holy. His righteousness is holy. His mercy is holy. Stephen Charnock, who I mentioned last Lord's Day, said that God's holiness is the crown of all of his attributes. Another Puritan, John Howell, said, this may be said to be the transcendent attribute that, as it were, runs through the rest and casts luster upon them. It is an attribute of attributes. Thomas Watson says holiness is the most sparkling jewel of his crown. Ralph Wardlow says holiness is the union of all the attributes as pure white light is the union of all the colored rays of the spectrum. I think that is a beautiful picture and imagery to understand God's holiness. If you were to put together all the attributes of God, his omnipotence, his omniscience, His omnipresence, his immutability, his eternality, his goodness, his love. And you put them all together, they all combine to form the bright light of God 's holiness. And so as Peter moves in his epistle to exhortation application, he calls on his readers, his Christian readers. To be holy as God is holy. This passage begins really in verse 13 where he says, wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. And here we see that holiness begins with the way we think. This is where the battle is truly fought. In verse 14, we read as obedient children not fashioning ourselves according to the former lust in your ignorance. We see here that holiness is a matter of our obedience. of us resisting the pull of the world as it seeks to get us to walk in our old patterns of behavior And now in verses 15 and 16, we come to the very heart of Christian sanctification. We are commanded here to be holy because our God is holy. This is not an option. This is not a suggestion. This is something that we must do as the children of God. Every Christian should seek to be holy because our Father is holy. I want to bring three truths out of these two verses. The first one is that God is our ultimate pattern for holy living. I want you to notice the context of this verse in verse 14. We as Christians are told not to fashion or mold or pattern ourselves after the world. And he gives two reasons why that is the case, because things have changed now. That's the way we used to live before we were saved. But that's when we were living in ignorance. Now we know better. We have no excuse. And so we are to live differently. There should be a real break, a real change. From the time when we are lost and we're living in the darkness to when we come to Christ and we are his children, there should be a definite mark, a definite change in our lives. Now Peter begins verse 15, you'll notice with the word but a word of contrast He's saying in contrast to the way you once lived now, you are not to pattern yourselves after the lost celebrities of the world or your unsaved neighbors or your co-workers or your family members who know not Christ. No, you are to pattern your life after your holy gods. This is what he says in verse 15. Now Peter's probably referring to the way pagan people worship their false gods. Most of his early readers were Gentiles. And their idolatry involved immorality and drunkenness and witchcraft. So why did they worship their gods in this manner? Because they didn't know the God whose name is holy. And so the world must not be our pattern for living. Instead, God is to be our pattern. Notice how it is put here, but as he which hath called you is holy. Well, who is it that has called us to salvation? It is God the Father. This concept of God calling out a people for himself is something that is distinctly emphasized in the book. of 1 Peter. Let me show this to you. Look with me at a wonderful verse, 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 9. It says, But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood and holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you. out of darkness into his marvelous light. Look down with me in the same chapter to verse 21. Peter writes by way of application, 1 Peter 2. 21, for even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow his steps. And then if you look with me at chapter 3 and verse 9. Peter writes, not rendering evil for evil or railing for railing, but contrary blessing, knowing that ye are therefore called, that ye should inherit a blessing. And then finally at chapter 5, the very end of this book, and verse 10. But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, After that ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. Notice we have been called unto his eternal glory. So why is Peter emphasizing this in this call to holiness? Peter here is reminding his readers that our salvation was initiated by our Heavenly Father. The Christian life is not something that you give a try. It's not like a hobby. It's not like joining a club. And say, you know, this might be good for me. I think I'll give this Christianity thing a try. See what it's like being a Christian. If it works out great. If not, nothing lost. No, it's not like that. It is a work of God in our hearts. It all starts with Him. It is nothing less than a new birth. You see, if our salvation was our idea, then we could dictate the terms of our Christian experience. We could say, you know, I tried it, it didn't work for me, or we could modify it, or we could make up our own rules, because after all, this is all my idea, this is all my endeavor. But that's not the way it is. That's not what the scripture reveals to us. It is a sovereign work of God's. And he is the one who dictates the terms of this relationship, not us. Salvation is of the Lord. And it's all of grace. You see, he didn't just save us so that we would escape the flames of hell. Have a better life, better marriages, be able to handle our finances better, be able to better control our emotional responses. That's not what salvation is all about. They may be some of the side benefits of it, but that's not the point of it. The point of it is that we would bring glory to God, and we will do that by the way we reflect his holiness. Therefore, we should all be changing into the image of Christ, who is the express image of the Father. We have a lot of parents here today. Let me ask you, do any of your chids your kids look like you? Maybe you would say unfortunately. Yes. You know what I found about children? It's interesting. They almost never like it when you say, you know, you look just like your dad. Or you look just like your mom. They usually don't love to hear that comment. They like to think they're completely different, not at all like mom and dad This is sometimes the reason that children want to rebel and go out on their own because they want to be their own person. And we can try to deny it. We can try to make ourselves different, but we cannot get away from the fact that Really, we are very much like our parents in one way or another. And of course, there are two great reasons why this is the case. One is simply because of our genetics, right? Our DNA. Some of you have the eye color of one of your parents. The bone structure in your face looks exactly like your mom or dad, and the texture of your hair and how curly it is. Everyone says, you know, you've got curly hair just like your father We use expressions like chip off the old block or the acorn doesn't fall far from the tree. To express the fact that generally speaking, children are a lot like their parents. Some of you here have inherited a mind for numbers. or artistic and musical talent and you can trace it directly to one of your parents or perhaps even both. And this is true in the spiritual realm as well. The fact of the matter is we have been given the Spirit of God. We have been given a new nature, the scripture teaches. There is a certain sense in which we have, because we have been born again , you might say, some spiritual DNA from our Heavenly Father. But there's another way that we are like our parents, and that is that we imitate their actions and their responses and their words, do we not? Every parent provides a pattern for their children. And I think to most parents this is a disturbing thought I've heard parents, children, children before, do as I say, but not as I do. That never works. Children instinctively imitate their parents They imitate the way their mom and dad respond to one another. They imitate their speech patterns. They imitate their vocabulary They imitate perhaps even the way they spend their money. They are always observing. This is how God made us to learn. We need a pattern to learn. We need a model to follow. And who better than our parents? They teach us so much, and we we just instinctively begin to do things the way they do things And it's true in the spiritual realm as well. Our Heavenly Father provides a perfect pattern for us to follow. Our Heavenly Father never has a bad day. He's never inconsistent. He's never hypocritical. He never changes. He's always holy. The Bible does tell us that there is value and merit to some degree in patterning our lives after other believers. The Bible sets forth the Apostle Paul as a pattern. In Hebrews chapter 13, we read that people are to pattern themselves after to some degree their spiritual leaders. And some of the qualifications that you have in Scripture for spiritual leadership is because they are instinctively patterns for people to follow, whether they like it or not. It's just the way it's going to happen. But we must always remember that no human being can be our ultimate pattern Every Christian has a weak area or a blind spot or a besetting sin that you dare not copy. You should not follow any pastor or any deacon or even your dear sweet grandmother in every single respect because they're not perfect. And they all come short. Sometimes people will follow some Christian celebrity or some famous preacher of the past. And everything that they've done, they think they just did it perfectly, but that's not the case. The only perfect pattern is our holy God. The second point I want to make from our text this morning is that God expects us to reflect His holiness in every aspect of our lives It says, so be ye holy. Look at the end of verse 15, in all manner of conversation. Now this King James word conversation was a perfect translation for the Greek term that's used here in 1611. I've mentioned to you before that English words sometimes become more broad in their meaning over time, and sometimes they become more narrow in their meaning. In 1611, the word conversation was a very broad word that included everything including your conduct, your lifestyle, your behavior. But today when we use the word conversation, what are we talking about? We're talking about what people say, their speech. Peter's not saying here, be careful what you say. That's included, but it's much broader than that. It's talking about a way of life. This actually happens to be A favorite word of Peter. He uses it more than any other New Testament author. Let me show you this. Look with me at 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 12. It says, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works which they behold glorify God in the day of visitation. So we are to have a lifestyle, a conduct that is different from the lost people around us. And what does that lifestyle look like? Well, it's a lifestyle that is honorable and abiding Look at the verses that follow this, verses 13 and following. Submit yourself to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether it be to the king as supreme or unto governors. as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, for the praise of them that do well. For so is the will of God that with well-doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. Christians are not revolutionaries. We are not lawbreakers. We are to seek to live at peace with our fellow man. And chapter 3 We read about this in Peter's admonition to a woman who's married to an unsaved man. It says in chapter 3 and verse 1, likewise ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands, that if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be one by the conversation. of the wives. It's not talking about her speech there. It's not saying here, what you need to do is nag him a little more. It's the opposite of what it's saying. It's saying let your lifestyle of meekness And love. Convince your husband that you have truly changed. It says in verse 2, while they behold your chase conversation coupled with fear or with respect. In chapter 3 and verse 15 and 16, we read, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. Verse 16, having a good conscience, that whereas they speak evil of you As of evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse you of your good conversation in Christ, of your good conduct, of your exemplary behavior. So here we see that we are to live a lifestyle that is above reproach, that is unimpeachable. You see, our Christian conduct is not confined to a place or day or time. Too often Christians compartmentalize their life. And they put their holy living in a little box along with their Sunday clothes. And so on Sunday morning they get up and they. put on their clothes to go to church and all of a sudden everything's changes. They they they come to church and they adopt a a a different vocabulary and they have a pious grin on their face and they interact with people they can't stand with a nice broad smile And for many Christians, that's what they think of Christianity as. But when they get back in the vehicle to go home, they're a different person. And they've left their Christianity at the door of the church. That's not what God has called us to do. By the way, if you want to make certain that your children abandon your Christian life, live that way. They will see through it and they will want nothing to do with it. Our holiness should permeate every facet of our lives. It means that we should live a life that is separate from evil and sin. We talked about this some last week. Is it very easy to go too far in either direction? Some Christians, well-intentioned, go too far, and they isolate themselves from the lost world in which we live. I don't want lost people to corrupt me, so I'm just not going to interact with them. I'm not going to talk to them. I'm not going to talk to my unsafe neighbors. I'll just pretend they're not there. I'm never going to have my kids around anybody that's lost because I don't want them to pick up their bad patterns and of behavior. We're just going to kind of isolate ourselves and we'll we'll we'll hang out and we'll do things with other Christians, but we'll never ever Have any kind of interaction with lost people because that may be defiling to us. Only problem is that's not the way the Lord Jesus Christ lived. And God has called us to be lights. God has called us to be salt. We can't make a difference in the world if nobody even knows we're here. We can't live in a little commune existence and wall off the world from ourselves. No, God wants us to be in the world, but not of the world. But as I mentioned last Lord's Day, we do need to be separate and to constantly guard our thinking and always be on the lookout lookout for worldliness. and evil influences coming into our hearts and in the lives of our family members. It's so easily to pick up the mindset of the world. And without even really perceiving it to live for what I called last week that it's not unique to me, the unholy Trinity. The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. To be hedonistic, to live for pleasure, to be materialistic, to have all of our focus on our stuff and our things and our money. And our narcissism to be focused on ourself and our goals and our dreams and our reputation and our standing in society. That's the way lost people live. That's not what God has called us to do. God wants us to be separate from the world, but we also in a complimentary way must be dedicated to God. We are not living as lost people live. We are not living to please ourselves, but to please God However, this does not mean that we are miserable. It's when we do God's will that we find the greatest happiness. But how exactly does God want us to live? The fact of the matter is, and I've mentioned this before, and people take it different ways, the New Testament does not provide us with a detailed list. of how to live the Christian life as far as what you're allowed to do and what you're not allowed to do. Have you ever noticed that? Have you ever looked for a list? You're not going to find it. Of course there are things rooted in God's moral law that do not change. It's always wrong to steal. It's always wrong to murder. Those things, of course, are repeated in the New Testament. But it doesn't tell us about a lot of the things that people ask me about and wonder about. about music standards and about videos that we can watch and what's all off limits and what's appropriate, what words can we use as a family, and what words can't we use as a family. How long should a man's hair be? Questions of clothing. There's not a Christian uniform that's outlined in Scripture. It'd make things a lot easier. If there was, a little diagram there, a little picture, then I'll find that. I think there are many Christians who really secretly wish there was such a list, that there was a nice handy little rule book with pictures and explanations. But there's not. Of course, God could do that. In fact, He has done that in the past. In the Old Testament, God told the children of Israel what they could eat and what they could not eat. He told them what they could wear and what they could not wear. He told them how to groom and even how to build buildings and even dispose of garbage. The Lord regulated every aspect of their lives. Why is that? Because the people who came out of Egypt were ignorant of God. They had lived for 400 years in a pagan country. Spiritually they were like infants. They didn't know very much about gods. All they knew is that God, the God of their Forefathers had brought them out of this pagan land and was taking them to a new land, but they knew very little about what was right and wrong because their senses, their thinking, their mind had been so tainted by the land of Egypt. And so just like a little child, he didn't say, you know, do what's for my glory. No. He gave them very specific and concrete instructions about every aspect of their lives so that they knew something about their God, that he is a holy God. But now we do not find these things in the New Testament. Why? It's not because As some people seem to assume that the God of the Old Testament is different from the God of the New Testament. You know, God's kind of mellowed out and he doesn't have all of these stringent requirements for us anymore. That's not true. God has not changed He is still the Holy One. It's because the Lord has provided more revelation of himself. And now he expects the people of God to make mature, God-honoring decisions. And he gives us throughout the New Testament all of these principles to help us make those choices. Such as is this activity or this substance addictive to me? Paul says that we should not be brought under the power of anything Does this practice build me up spiritually? Or does it tear me down? Does it feed my spirit so that I want to seek God more? Or does it make me feel as if there isn't even a God and I go away from him? And will this practice cause a weaker brother to stumble? Will this be a help to others as they follow my example, or will this be a problem for some? Is this investment of time and money that I'm making going to result in laying up treasures on earth or treasures in heaven? And can I do this activity to the glory of God? Could I pray and ask for God's blessing for this. Could I pray and thank God that He has provided me with this? Or would that seem not really appropriate? These are the kind of principles that we find in Scripture. And when we take these principles, And we really think about it and we really apply them, it will not result in loose living, in rampant worldliness in our lives. If we really take those principles seriously and in good conscience apply them to our situation, it will result in us living holy lives to the glory of God. Now the third point I want to bring out of our text is found in verse 16. And it is that God commanded God 's command to be holy is a timeless requirement for God's people Notice that Peter grounds his previous instruction, his command in verse 15, in the authoritative word of God, because it is written. Be ye holy, for I am holy. In case his readers were wondering, well, where do you come up with this that we're supposed to be holy as God? He says, let me quote for you. You notice that Peter believes that the Bible should be authoritative in the life of a believer. This is not a book of sage advice or suggestions. It's the Word of God. We are to live our lives under its authority. Now Peter here is quoting from the book of Leviticus. There are several times in the book of Leviticus where you find these words or something very similar to it. And so I want us to turn now to the third book of the Bible, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus. Turn with me to Leviticus chapter 11. The Book of Leviticus is a book about holiness. And therefore it's appropriate that Peter quotes from this book. Look with me at Leviticus chapter 11, verses 44 and 45. It says, For I am the Lord your God. Ye shall therefore sanctify yourselves. For ye shall be holy, for I am holy. Neither shall ye defy yourselves with any manner of creeping things that creepeth upon the earth For I am the Lord that bringeth you out of the land of Egypt to be your God. Ye shall therefore be holy, for I am holy. Now the context here is actually dietary restrictions. The Israelites were instructed by God To not eat certain things. They were to be different from the nations around them. Now I don't have time to deal with all of this, but some people try to look into here and Find, you know, some secret, wonderful diet plan for Christians of all times and and of all ages. That is not, in my estimation, what God is doing here. Why do I say that? Because that's not what the New Testament teaches. Remember what that vision that the Lord gave to Peter, the author of the book that we're studying? What I have called clean, call not thou unclean. And 1 Timothy chapter 4, the principle for us is if God has provided it and you receive it with thanksgiving, it has been sanctified. It's set apart. It's appropriate for you to eat. We don't find a list of what you can eat and what you can't eat in the New Testament. But that raises the question, then why did God give all these restrictions to the children of Israel? The answer is, in verse 47, to make a difference between the unclean and the clean, and between the beast that may be eaten and the beast that may not be eaten. This was God wanted them to be distinctive, different from the other people. That's why they had to have garments that that couldn't be of different kinds of material and so forth. Was there something inherently evil about a certain kind of material? No, of course not. It's because he wanted his people to be different so that when people saw the Jews and they looked at them , And they heard them speaking about what they were eating, they recognized, you know, these people are a little bit different. They serve a different God. He wanted them to be set apart. Turn with me now, please, to Leviticus chapter nineteen. Leviticus chapter nineteen and verse two. It says, speak unto all the congregation of the children of Israel and say unto them, Ye shall be holy, for I, the Lord your God, am holy. And then he's going to give various applications really of the Ten Commandments. Notice that being holy should affect the way you worship, verses 3 through 8. Ye shall fear every man his mother and his father, and keep my Sabbaths. I am the Lord your God. Turn ye not unto idols, nor make to yourselves molten gods. I am the Lord your God And if you offer a sacrifice of peace offerings unto the Lord, ye shall offer it at your own will. It shall be eaten the same day, ye shall offer it, and on the morrow And if aught remain until the third day it shall be burned in the fire. And if it be eaten at all on the third day is it ab it is abominable. It shall be It shall not be accepted. Therefore every one that eateth it shall bear his iniquity, because he hath profaned the hallowed thing of the Lord, and that soul shall be cut off from among his people. He goes on and on to make application. In verses 9 and 10, he says that our holiness should affect the way you treat the oppressed and the disadvantaged in society. He says, listen, don't take every grape off of the vine. Don't don't reap every single grain, stalk of grain. Leave some for the people. Who are oppressed and who are disadvantaged and are relying on these things to survive. Why? Because he's holy He talks about our business dealings with others should be different because we are the people of God He even speaks in verse 14 of the fact that because we have been called by a holy God, our consideration of the disabled should be different. You see, it was to influence every aspect of their lives. Turn with me to the next chapter, to Leviticus chapter 20. Look with me at verse 7. Sanctify yourselves therefore, and be holy, for I am the Lord your God 's. And now skip with me down to verse 26. And ye shall be holy unto me, for I, the Lord. am holy, and have severed you from other people that ye should be mine Now what is between verse 7 and verse 26 in this chapter, chapter 20? Most of it is regulations about sexual relationships. We see here the unmistakable principle that God's call to holiness means that Christians should be conspicuous For their sexual purity. Our moral value should be radically different from that of the world. This is something that is emphasized in the Old Testament as well as in the New. I of course spoke on this a little bit last Lord's Day, and I mentioned this radical shift, the greatest revolution in the thinking of people in my lifetime. Has been in this area. There was a time when the vast majority of lost people had some sense of morality. They thought of adultery as a horrible thing. They thought of sexual relations before marriage as something that was scandalous and wrong. And even those who had fallen in these areas would admit that what they did was horrible and wrong. But through the 1960s and the sexual revolution, now of course it seems that everything is acceptable. Everything is to be celebrated. There is nothing hardly anything that is off the table and the few remaining things that remain wrong and evil are going to crumble if things continue as they are. I can remember talking to a Christian father many years ago about his daughter, his teenage daughter. And her loose living. And I reminded him of his importance to speak to her And of what the scripture says. And he said, Pastor, he says, you have to understand, this is just the way young people live today. He says, I don't agree with it, but this is just the way it is. And we just have to accept it. And I said to him, but God has not changed. And his word has not changed. And what it requires has not changed. And even though our society is rapidly crumbling in this area, we need to remember that our God is holy. We must be absolutely steadfast on this issue of what the scriptures define as acceptable and unacceptable. It's amazing to me when I think about it. But in the land that was founded by the pilgrims , And Puritans, a land that was to be a light set on a hill, an example to the rest of the world. Today In this United States of America, most children are born out of wedlock. The majority. You can check it out. It's like 51 or 52 percent. There was a time in this land when that was about the most scandalous situation you could imagine. It was great shame when that took place. I remember reading the biography of Richard Baxter, this Puritan, and the 1600s. And he mentioned that he lived in this community, this town where he was a pastor there for all of those years. And he mentions as an aside in one of his comments about his dealing with the situation that is his fifty years is pastor. He only knew of one case of a child that was born out of wedlock in that community. Today that's the norm. And nobody has a problem with it. But God does. That doesn't mean that God hates that child. But by the way, you know, it's the number one contributor to poverty in this country. You want to disadvantage your child? Have a child outside of the bounds of marriage and the odds are stacked against them. We often think that being tolerant And more accepting is the loving thing to do. And those who have standards and those that say this is wrong. are the ones who are mean-spirited and hard-hearted to people, but actually it's the tolerance that brings about great pain and suffering and difficulty in the lives of people. We live in a country where marriage has been redefined by the Supreme Court, but I want you to know that Supreme Court is not really the Supreme Court Modesty has disappeared. Our everyday language has become coarse and vulgar. And our entertainment has become indecent. Our morality has sadly changed, but God has not. He is still holy, and he commands all Christians, all people who claim to follow Him to be holy. The Old Testament priest had a miter on his head that said, Holiness to the Lord 's. He was to represent that before all the people. It was a reminder that their God, Yahweh, was holy. And the Bible says that we, as New Testament believers, are priests And so I would say to you that our lives are to be marked by holiness to the Lord. This call to holiness is timeless and absolute God doesn't want a segment of your life. He doesn't want a day of your week. He doesn't want a tithe of your money. He wants all of you all of the time. Because he is holy and he has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Let's close in prayer this morning. Our Father, we are so far from being holy. And we live in a world and a society that dwells in darkness. Where good is called evil and evil is called good. I pray that you would remind us this morning that you have not changed. that your demands upon our lives have not been lessened with the passing of time. I pray, Father, that you would remind us that we can never live this holy life unless we are your children, and unless we desperately appropriate your grace every day. And so I pray, Father, that you would take these words and use them for your purposes, that you would draw sinners to the Savior, that you would make them very well aware of their unholiness. And Father, that you would draw your people to follow your truth, to live in the light of who you are and what you have called us to be. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen