If you have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to the passage we read together, Luke chapter 17? Luke chapter 17. I know many of you are familiar with the name of H. A. Ironside. He was an evangelist at the turn of the century. One day he was In a restaurant eating, and uh a man, it was a very crowded restaurant, and so a man asked if he could join him right before he was about to begin to eat, and so Ironside said, sure, go ahead and join me with me And then as his custom was, of course, Harry Ironside bowed his head and said a silent word of prayer. And when he finished, the man looked at him and he said, Do you have a headache? And he said, no. And he said, is there something wrong with your food? You look like you're staring at it or something. He says, no. I was simply thanking the Lord for the food that He has provided for me. And the man said, Oh, you're one of those people, huh? He said, I want you to know that I never give thanks for my food. I've earned it with my own hard work And I don't think God has had anything to do with it. And so when I get my food, I just dive right in. And Harry Arnside said, you know, that's exactly what my dog does. In First Thessalonians chapter five and verse eighteen we come to An astounding verse. It says, and everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. This is one of those verses that after you read it, you say, it can't really mean what it's saying, right? It can't mean in everything. Give thanks. But I want you to know that's exactly what it says. The scripture has called us as believers to a lifestyle of gratitude. Every Christian should be known for being a thankful person, thankful to the Lord. In Luke chapter 17, we encounter an incident in the life of our Lord that helps us to understand this very requirement. It's known as the cleansing of the ten lepers. It's found only in Luke's gospel. It's one of two healings that our Lord did for those afflicted with the disease of leprosy. And the context in which it is placed is noteworthy. It comes right after a parable of our Lord when he speaks of the importance of us as servants of the Lord, of serving him. Look with me at the verse preceding this paragraph in verse 10. So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded, you say, We are unprofitable servants. We have done that which was our duty to do. This touches on something that we looked at a while ago in the parable of the laborers in the vineyard, and that is that we never approach the Lord demanding our rights or as an employee demanding our wages because it is all of grace We never come with the implication that somehow God is indebted to us, because in fact we are always indebted to Him. And in the parable before us, the miracle, which is also a parable before us in a sense, we see that we must live the Christian life. as one who has been cured of a deadly disease and has a new meaning to our life. The story begins by telling us that this incident occurred in a village that bordered both Galilee and Samaria when a Jewish person travel down to Jerusalem, they would take the long route rather than go through Samaria, which was the more direct route. And that is because the Jews hated the Samaritans, and the Samaritans hated the Jews. The Samaritans were thought to be compromisers, that they had intermarried with the pagan Gentiles around them. And uh they had they were therefore considered not purely Jewish people, although they still had much Jewish blood in them. The fact is that many of the Jews that were then living in Israel had done the same things. These Samaritans, being isolated as they were in this little pocket, had adopted a modified version of Judaism. They only accepted the first five books of the law, what we know as the Pentateuch, as the Word of God. And rather than worshiping in Jerusalem, they worshipped in Mount Gerizem, which of course was in their territory. And once again we see in this passage that God's grace extends even to those who are cast aside by others. This historic event is both a miracle and a parable with primary application for Christians. The fact is it teaches us that those who have experienced the grace of God should be the most thankful people on the earth. That should be true of all of us. If you think about it, if we indeed are the children of God and we live And the most wonderful land in the world where we have so much prosperity and so much freedom, we have so much to be thankful for. But unfortunately, often we are not thankful. And the fact is, we are more controlled by the world than we are the word. We are influenced more by our flesh than the spirits. The Word of God teaches us that being thankful is not something that's just polite or social nicety, it is an indication of our spiritual health. In Romans chapter 1 in one of the darkest chapters of the New Testament that speaks of God giving over people to incredibly wicked activity One of the characteristics of people who have a reprobate mind, a mind that cannot really discern between good and evil, is that they are unthankful. That's the characteristic of the world. And in 2 Timothy chapter 3, where it talks about the signs of the last days. It says that people will be lovers of themselves, unthankful. It's one of the signs of the end times is that people have a very selfish view of life and they do not have a spirit of gratitude. Now the story before us this morning underscores the importance of gratitude in our lives. You see, God is not just concerned with our behavior, he's also concerned with our attitude, he's concerned with our hearts. And what we truly believe and what we truly feel. And so I would submit to you from this passage of Scripture that every believer should be thankful. But perhaps you're here this morning and you would say, but I really don't feel thankful. My mind is so bombarded with difficulties and problems. And obstacles and things that have happened in the past that I don't know how I can become more thankful Well, I want us to look at this passage to find three keys to becoming more thankful. And the first thing I want you to notice in this passage is that we will become more thankful. when we understand how unworthy we are of the blessings of God. Look with me, beginning at verse 12. And as he entered into a certain village there met him ten men. That were lepers, which stood afar off. And they lifted up their voices and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go show yourselves unto the priest. And it came to pass that as they went, they were cleansed. Now the focal point of this story is going to be about one of these ten lepers. This man was an outcast in two very significant ways. Number one, he was a leper. He had a deadly disease that people literally avoided like the plague. And he was a Samaritan. Which were considered by the Jewish people to be those who were under the judgment of God. So from this man's perspective, he was hopeless He had defective theology, and he had a deadly disease that would guarantee that he would never have a normal life again. He lived in a small colony of ten lepers. who were living outside of the city as the law prescribed. It's likely that he was the only Samaritan and the other nine were Jewish individuals. But their suffering have severed their racial and religious differences. They were all afflicted with a common misery, the disease of leprosy. Now we often encounter this disease of leprosy in both the Old and New Testaments. Most of the cases that we read of in Scripture are probably what is medically known today as Hansen's disease. Perhaps you have heard of preachers or Sunday school teachers in the past that told you as they told me that leprosy was a disease that ate away the body and uh and so forth. But that that would not be true What happens is that this disease attacks the nervous system and makes the extremities of the body so numb that a person repeatedly injures themselves. and contract some type of infection so that over time the their extremities wear away Because they have no sense of pain there. It's not that the disease has eaten those limbs. It's that they have worn away as the person has injured themselves. Now the Bible uses leprosy as a fitting picture of sin and the deadly and defiling consequences that it brings. You see , leprosy was the most dreaded disease in the time of Christ, and for good reason. In time it would lead to death. But it also separated the individual from all that they loved. First of all, it isolated you from your family. Just imagine if you were a person, you're living in a family, maybe you're a parent and you have kids and you have a spouse and all of a sudden you some some uh some spot show up and it comes out that it's leprosy That meant that you had to leave your family and you would never be able to hug them again. or kiss them again. That was it. It was over. They may be able to come and see you from afar and speak to you, but you could never have any interaction with them really again. And you would be consigned to go live in some colony of other people afflicted with this. It also meant, of course, that you were isolated from society. You could never have a normal job again. You could never live in a village again. You could never see your friends again. The only people you would see would be other lepers. And it also effectively separated you from God. Because you could never go to the temple to worship again. It means that you were perpetually unclean So you were not in a situation where you could offer sacrifice or anything like that. And thirdly, people would consider that the reason why you had contracted this disease is because you were probably under the judgment of God. And you had done something horrible. Otherwise, this would never have happened. And so to be afflicted with this disease of leprosy was a horrible thing. It was to lose, as it were, all meaning to life. By the way, this is the spiritual state of all of us apart from Christ. We are separated from the people of God. We are separated from God who loves us That is the effects of our sin. What misery it brings upon humanity And let me just say this morning, if you're still here and you're lost in your sins, and you have never put your faith and trust in Christ, this is an accurate depiction of your state today spiritually. You may not think that is the case, but it is, in fact, the way you are. You are separated from the things that make life really worth living. And this is why they cry out to Jesus with such intensity in verse 13, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. This term mercy is the word compassion that's often used of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's used to describe him. It says, when he saw the multitude, he was what? Moved with compassion. Jesus used this trait in his parables, like in the parable of the Good Samaritan. That Samaritan had compassion on the man who was beaten and left to die in the roads. And I think that these lepers talk to other lepers. And perhaps had contacts with other leper colonies. And they had heard about a miracle worker from Galilee who even had the power to heal leprosy. And they heard that he was a man of compassion, that he was truly moved by the plight of other people and the pain that they suffered. And so when they saw this man and people said to him, that's Jesus of Nazareth, they cried out for all they were worth. Have mercy on us. This was, they probably thought their one chance to ever be healed, to ever have a normal life again. And so they cry out And Jesus gives them a very unexpected response. He simply tells them to go to the priest and get checked to see if they were cleansed. It's like going to someone who you think has the cure for your wonderful disease your horrible disease and they say to you, well, why don't you go see your family doctor and get that checked out? You wouldn't be helped by that and you wouldn't be satisfied with that answer. Jesus didn't draw near to them. He didn't come to them like we often see him do in the Gospels. Another case in Luke chapter 5, he deals with a man who had leprosy and he actually touched the man. That was very powerful to him. But he doesn't do that here. He doesn't even say from a distance, I pronounce you to be clean. Nothing like that happens. So why did he treat him this way? It's because he was testing their faith. Do you really believe that I have the power to heal? Do you really believe those stories that you've heard from other lepers? And these men, these ten men, passed that initial test. They obeyed. And they went on their journey to see the priest. It must have seemed foolish to them because they still had leprosy. Looking down, still there. They could easily have said, there's no point in going because I still have the disease. What is this man doing? But they went. And verse 14 tells us that as they went, they were cleansed. Now what would have happened if they didn't go? If they said, this is nonsense. I'm not going to make that trip to see the high priest. I'm not going to go there. Well, the implication is they would not have been healed. But they obeyed. This reminds us very much like a story that we read of in the New Testament. I mean the Old Testament. We read of a man named Naaman. And he was told by the prophet to go dip himself seven times in the river, and that his leprosy would be cleansed. And it didn't make any sense to them, and he objected at first, but finally he went and he obeyed and his leprosy was cured. And so these men as well, when they finally came to see the priest, indeed they were declared to be clean. How often we forfeit God's blessings because we do not obey. Now I want to focus on their great desperation and cry for mercy. And this gets back to the point I'm trying to make. This ties into why we so often as believers are not more thankful than we are. And I think one reason is because we tend to think that we're really not that sinful of people. We say to our s we think to ourselves, you know, I have my thoughts like everybody else. I've done wrong, but it's not like I'm a criminal. It's not like I'm an America's most wanted. I I haven't done horrible, horrible things And we deep down inside think that we have a good heart and we minimize our faults and we exaggerate our virtues. But the Bible says that our actual case is that we're desperately wicked. And if we were really to measure ourselves against God's standard of perfect holiness and we were to measure our thoughts and our attitudes and our actions, all the things that we do that we shouldn't do and all the things that that we should do, that we fail to do. If we were really to to get a grasp of that and really put our life under the microscope, we would see how incredibly sinful we are and how far short we come of his glory. And because we minimize our sinfulness, our salvation from sin doesn't seem like a very big deal. We tend to think that our forgiveness is not that amazing. We feel like we have the right to be forgiven. I mean, that's what God does. He forgives people. And of course, we live in a society that tells us that we have certain rights. We have the right of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. We have our civil rights. We have rights as a patient in a hospital and rights as a customer in a business. We even when we are arrested and we have broken the law, we have to be read our rights because we are a people obsessed with our rights. But the fact of the matter is, the brutal truth is that we have all come short of the glory of God. We have forfeited any rights that we might have. And what we all deserve is nothing but God's eternal wrath. But God in his great Grace has saved us and forgiven us. You see, there's a real connection between our the sense of our sinfulness and our thankfulness to God. And the reason why We are not more thankful and more overwhelmed by our salvation and the forgiveness that we have in Christ is because we don't think We really have committed that many sins or accrued that great of a debt before God. J. C. Rile Great preacher in the 1900s, 1800s says, it is the man who daily feels his debt to grace and daily remembers that in reality he deserves nothing but hell. This is the man who will be daily blessing and praising Gods. And so in verses 15 through 17 we read that this man Cried with a loud voice, and he fell down on his face at his feet. And then we read this fact, and he was a Samaritan in verse 16. Luke delays giving us his identity to the end of the story to add a bit of suspense. And I'm sure that when our Lord's original audience heard this story, or the readers of the Gospel of Luke, when many of them heard this, it ruined the story for them. Just like the wonderful parable of the good Samaritan, when those Jewish leaders heard that story, and the hero of the story is the Samaritan, it just ruined the story for them. You see, it was not, it was the sinner, not those who consider themselves to be righteous, that is, the Jews. who comes and worships at the Savior's feet. The greater we consider our sinfulness the greater we will estimate our salvation. And the greater our estimation of our salvation, the more thankful we will be throughout our lives of the great salvation that God has provided for us. The second thing I want you to notice in this passage is that we will become more thankful when we recognize that our gratitude glorifies God. It's mentioned twice in the second half of this parable or of this story. Look with me at verse 15. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back and with a loud voice glorified God. And then skip down with me to verse 17. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? They are not found that return to give glory to God, save this stranger. So we see here in this passage that giving glory to God or thanking the Lord, praising the Lord, being overwhelmed with his goodness , To us glorifies God. It magnifies Him in our own lives and before others. Now why is it that though ten lepers were cleansed, that only one returned to give thanks to God? Well, let me offer you some suggestions that people have given. Perhaps they did not want to be reminded of the the horrible life that they had lived before. Perhaps Jesus is still there in that little colony that they lived in, and they never ever wanted to go back there again and see that place. And so they just did not go back and give thanks to him. Or perhaps they got so carried away with the elation of being cleansed that they completely forgot about the right thing to do. Or perhaps they had planned to return some other time and give thanks, but other priorities came first. They wanted to be reunited with their families. They wanted to see people that they had not seen in years. And so they thought to themselves, I'll give thanks to this man some other time. But right now, I've got to see my family. Or perhaps they did not think it was really necessary because this man was a miracle worker and this is what he does all the time. Or perhaps they were afraid that the master would make certain demands on their life, and they were not prepared to do that. We can't be dogmatic about this, but it is very instructive that only one in ten return to give thanks. This illustrates the fact to us that man is naturally unthankful to God. This is the way we are in our own fallen estate. If you are a parent here, you understand this. You have to teach your children to be thankful. If you just let nature take its course and let them do whatever they want and respond however they want, your children will not be thankful. You have to show them the importance of that. Moms, you've probably never had your toddler say to you in the morning, thank you for staying up with me last night. Thank you for getting up four or five times. Thank you for sleeping on the floor next to me so I wouldn't be afraid. I really appreciate that. That really means so much to me. A toddler is not going to say that. They have to be taught and understand the importance of giving thanks to others. The fact is that we are all naturally self-centered. Now notice how the Samaritan responded in four ways. We read, first of all, that he turned back. That is, he was walking with the other men. He was walking with his fellow lepers. But he had a change of mind. He turned back and he thought, I must give my gratitude. To the Savior who has rescued me. He left the crowd. He turned around. He walked back. And now he turned to follow Christ. This is a great picture of repentance. The Old Testament word for repentance literally means to turn. The idea is a person is walking in one direction and then they turn around and they begin walking the other direction. The New Testament word has the idea of a change of mind. These are very combatible because when a person is going one direction and they turn around, it's often because they've had a change of mind and they they want to go in this direction now. And notice it says that he glorified God with a loud voice. In the Greek text, the word for loud is the word mega. And the word for voice is the origin of our word for phone. So literally, he used a megaphone. He let out for all he was worth. He's just completely overwhelmed with the goodness of God that he wants the whole world to know what this man has done for him. And the fact of the matter is when we have been redeemed, we now live for the glory of God. Paul writes in 1 Corinthians, whether therefore we eat or drink or whatsoever we do, do all to the glory of God 's. And that's what this man is doing now with his life. We see that he bows at the feet of Jesus, the third thing. This is a posture of worship. You see, true salvation always leads to worship. If you're here this morning and you have no desire to really enter into worship and you think that's just something that religious people do and you don't understand why anybody would really come to church, maybe you've come because some relative have have brought you along today, but it's not really where you would be if you had your own uh uh choice in the matter and and and really you don't like to worship at all kind of kind of unnerving to you to be around people who want to worship God and really you see something that it really comes from their hearts. My friend, if that is the way you are this morning, you are not a child of God's Because the people of God are people who worship God and have a desire to worship with the people of God. Salvation always brings us to the feet of Jesus. And then he thanks Jesus for his miraculous healing. You know, this is the only time in the Gospels that we read of someone specifically giving thanks to Jesus. We read of them giving thanks to God generally. This is the only place where we have of someone giving thanks to Jesus. And I think this illustrates the fact that our entire lives should be lived with a sense of gratitude. And this is to spill over into every aspect of our lives. Let me make some application here. I read something this week as I was preparing for this message that I thought was very insightful. It's a takeoff on a verse that we find in the book of 1 John It said this, if you are not thankful to the people you see, how can you be thankful to the God whom you cannot see? In other words, you want to know if you're really a person who has great thanks to God, well, to the people around you Get the impression that you are thankful to them. Do you have a life that is filled with gratitude that, in other words, we can't keep just like our our thanksgiving to God in one little compartment. No, it's going to spill over into every aspect of our lives. And so we are thankful to the people and our family and we express that to them. We have that thought in our mind of of how good they are to us and how patient they are to us and how how gracious they deal with us. And we think that of our friends, and we think that of our church family, and we think we we tend to have that as our default setting in our minds, and every once in a while we're disappointed with that, but the overwhelming Thought that we have in our heart is that people around me are such a blessing and I'm so fortunate to have this family and these friends and everything else Now maybe you're here this morning and you would say, that's not at all the way I think. I go through every day thinking about These people who annoy me that are constantly surrounding me and how they always fail me and how they don't give me my due And I'm not thanking people. That's not what I'm known for. No, I'm more known for complaining to people and being critical of people and coming before them and saying, why have you treated me this way? Now there is a time, according to Scripture, to confront people. But I'm speaking here of your overwhelming attitude. Are you known as your reputation for being a gracious, thankful person who was genuinely surprised? at the goodness that people show to you? Or do you go throughout your days generally dismayed at how people are treating you? You see, I have found that people who are unthankful to others, critical of others, complaining to others, bitter at others are ultimately that way towards God. People who are embroiled in bitterness to others, if you really probe that person, you'll find they're bitter to God toward God. People who are unthankful, who have a complaining spirit, if you really, really push them and probe into their hearts, you'll find, you know what? They don't think they have much to be thankful to God for because he hasn't really been very good to them. And of course, when that is your experience, you have failed to understand and appreciate all that God has done for you. This is a key part of our Christian testimony. Wherever you work, if indeed you are working now , You should be known as a person who is gracious and thankful. This is part of our Christian testimony in Philippians chapter 2. He says that we are as lights in a dark world. And he connects that to that we should not complain. In Colossians chapter 1 I'm going to turn there for a moment, but it says something about our salvation and how that should change us. in regards to our thankfulness. In Colossians chapter 1 and verse 12 it says, giving thanks unto the Father which has made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints and light, who has delivered us from the power of darkness and has translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. And it's just giving one layer of blessing after another in connection with our salvation Later in this book in chapter 3 and verse 17 it says, And whatsoever you do in word or in deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him. That is a big summary statement, and it's saying this, that a Christian lifestyle is a lifestyle of thankfulness and gratitude. Because we're overwhelmed by the grace of God in Jesus Christ. The great Scottish preacher Alexander White was once visiting a woman who had a multitude of ailments And he visited there for some time, and the entire time he visited her, she did nothing but complain, complain, complain, complain, complain. And as he was leaving, he said to her, madam, I have just one verse I can leave with you. And that is from Psalm 103, forget not all his benefits. How easily we forget all the blessings that we enjoy. Being thankful magnifies the goodness of God to others. It is a significant way that we can bring glory to God. And thirdly, we will become more thankful when we realize that gratitude is an expression of faith. One of the reasons why we are not more thankful than we are is because our faith is weak. The Lord asks these rhetorical questions in verses 17 and following. He says, were not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? There are not found that return to give glory to God, save this stranger. The term translated stranger is used only here in the Bible It literally means one born in the wrong family. The implication is that it was the only non-Jew person, the Samaritan, who returned to give thanks to God, to the Jewish Messiah. But all the other those that were afflicted with leprosy, those nine Jewish individuals, they did not return to give thanks. And the implication is that everyone who is cleansed should indeed give thanks. And he says in verse 19, Thy faith hath made thee whole. Now, what do you make of that proclamation? You might have always thought it was simply referring to the fact that he had been healed of his leprosy. But I think, and most scholars do, that this is an addition to that because the man has already been cured. The word whole that is used here is often translated as saved. It could be rendered, thy faith has saved these. I think what he is saying here is that all of those lepers had a certain level of faith. That's why they obeyed and made their way to the priests to be checked out. And on their journey, they were healed. But only one of these lepers had a saving faith. And that is why he returned to give thanks. The nine lepers were healed physically, but this man was healed both physically and spiritually. He was changed on the inside and outs. How many today feel that God exists to make their life a little bit easier? He's there to fix their problems, their health concerns, their financial debts. There are so many people who, to some degree, have bought into this pervasive lie. God exists to make my life better. But the scriptures teach something else. Indeed, he does make our life a whole lot better. But we exist to bring him glory. We see here that these other lepers that were healed had no sense of gratitude or worship. They did not come to bring glory to God. But this man does. The fact is that we all have much to be thankful for. If your thought is, what do I have to be thankful for? One explanation for that attitude is perhaps you have never truly been healed. You have never been made whole, because those who have been made whole who have truly been cleansed, who have truly been born again, have a great sense of gratitude for God. And it really so often comes down to a weakness of faith. This is true even with those who are truly born-again believers. Why is it that some Christians are very thankful and they're just overwhelmed each day with the goodness of God? And there are other believers who are truly born again, who are truly trusting in Christ, but they go through each day not overwhelmed with the goodness of God, but with the enormity of their problems. And that's where their focus is, and that's what they're thinking about each day. And their meditation is not on the Lord. Their meditation is on all the people who have failed them and all the problems that seem insurmountable before them. The answer really comes down to the focus of your faith. Do you really believe that God has blessed you much better than you deserve? If you truly believe that, you will be a thankful person. Do you really believe that God will bring good out of the tragedies and disappointments in your life? Do you really believe that he is in control that these are not just a bunch of haphazard accidents that have occurred somehow inhibiting your progress and your goals in life, but you see them as things that God has lovingly as a father brought into your life for your good, for your spiritual developments. You see, if that's what you truly believe, then you will not be overwhelmed with your problems. But you will be more overwhelmed with the goodness of God. Do you really believe that God is in control of your future? How easy it is for us to face the unknown future with great fear. and apprehension. Wondering what diseases, what health problems are just lurking around the corner, what financial disaster may be just a few days away. What problems will you encounter with your family that will be devastating to you? And so many people live their lives with great fear of the future. And it's so easy to fall into that trap and to already begin to worry And fear as if those bad things have already, in fact, occurred. But if we truly believe what the scriptures teach, then we have to believe that God is in control. And as he has been faithful to us in the past, so he will be faithful to us in the future. And as believers, we have to know that in the end, it will turn out much better than we can ever imagine. Because we will be forever with the Lord's. If we truly grasp hold of these truths and really believe exactly what the scripture clearly teaches , It would adjust the way we think and the way we feel and the whole focus of our lives. Indeed, it is the just that must live by faith. So being thankful, living with a spirit of gratitude, is the fruit of our faith as it grows more and more each day. Many of you here have heard of the great English commentator Matthew Henry. He was a preacher, a pastor for many years. He wrote many wonderful books beside his commentaries. He wrote great books on prayer and Bible study and the Christian life. His father was a very godly Puritan minister by the name of Philip Henry. And Matthew Henry is famous for many things, but One of the things he left behind in his writings was extensive journals. Some of you like to journal, you like to write in your diary. It is a very helpful exercise for many people, spiritually and otherwise. Well, Matthew Henry was one of those people. Now it's important for me to tell you that like most of you, he never intended anyone to read his diary. He did not write these things down for people to peruse them and certainly to publish them. But one day he was traveling on horseback from one preaching engagement to another And he encountered some highway bandits, and they robbed him. And at the end of each day, he had the discipline of reflecting on what had occurred that day. And he makes this. note about that robbery in his journal. He said, let me be thankful. First, because I was never robbed before. Second, because they took my wallet, but they did not take my life. Third, because although they took my all, it was not very much. And fourth, because it was I who was robbed and not I who robbed. That is a man who has learned to be thankful in all things. Let's close in prayer. We are reminded again that our response of faith to your blessings to us is so inadequate We do not love you as we ought. We do not trust you as we should. We are not as grateful as we ought to be. But Father, I pray that our focus would not be on our shortcomings this morning, but on your amazing grace. Pray that you would remind us. That apart from you, we were like that leper cast off, set aside, doomed to death in loneliness. I pray that you would remind us that giving thanks to you is a very significant way in which we can bring glory to God. It's an important part of our testimony. And help us, Father, to be reminded also that giving thanks is the fruit of our faith. It's an expression that we know you and that we trust you. And that we truly believe that you are in control. Help us, Father, to be a thankful people. And to be overwhelmed with your goodness to us. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.