If you have your Bibles, you can turn to John chapter 1, please. Many years ago, a man was working. on the steep roof of a church in Scotland. He was seeking to repair a damaged section when suddenly he lost his balance and fell backward off the roof. He felt certain that he would die because the roof was very high off the ground. But to his amazement, he landed without a scratch. It seems that a shepherd was leading his flock by the church at the exact instant the man fell off the roof and he landed squarely on top of a large woolly sheep. This cushioned his fall, but it killed the sheep. One of the threads of redemption that runs through the whole Bible Is the fact that Jesus Christ is the Lamb of God. We find this truth in the first book of the Bible, the book of Genesis, and the last book of the Bible, Revelation. and in many books in between. It's a picture of the gospel that permeates scriptures. We should not be surprised as imageries used so frequently in the Bible. Sheep were a very important part. of life in the ancient Near East. They provided wool for clothing, meat for food, and sacrifices for the tabernacle and temple. Many of the heroes of Israel are described as shepherds of some sort, Moses and David to name a few. The most beloved Psalm is the shepherd psalm. And Jesus, of course, is described as the good shepherd in John chapter 10, the good shepherd who gives his life for the sheep. Therefore, we should not be surprised that one of the most prolific titles for Christ is the Lamb of God. Certainly the most famous use of this term is found in John chapter 1. It's actually found twice there. It's found in John 1, verse 29. Where it says, the next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and he saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. And then skip down to verse 36. And looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold the Lamb of God. This great declaration of John the Baptist was made as Jesus had just returned from the temptation in the wilderness. He's calling on all of mankind to look at the Savior. And he is saying that Jesus is the ultimate Lamb. Of all the millions of lambs that have been slaughtered over the centuries , And the Jewish observance, all of them pointed to this Lamb, the Lamb of God. Notice There is only one lamb that God has provided, is called the Lamb of God, not a lamb of God. And what would this lamb's sacrifice do? He says that taketh away the sin of the world, or that bears the sin of the world. Does this mean that all will be saved? No, it does not. The Bible does not teach universalism. In fact, you can prove that just from this very same chapter, because in John chapter 1 And verse 12 we read, but as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Those Old Testament sacrifices were for the Jews, but his sacrifice would be for the Gentiles as well, for all of mankind. Jesus' sacrifice would save without distinction, but not without exception. Tonight as we prepare for the Lord's table, I want us to consider this title. is the Lamb of God. And the first place I want us to turn is to the first book of the Bible, Genesis chapter 22. Genesis chapter 22, I want you to see here that Jesus is the sacrificial Lamb of God. This, of course, is the famous incident when Abraham submits to God's will and prepares to offer his son Isaac as a sacrifice. And verse 1 of this chapter it says that it came to pass after these things that God did tempt or test Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham, he said, Behold, here I am. He said, Take now thy son, thine only son, Isaac. whom thou lovest , get thee in the land of Moriah, and offer therefore a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of This was a great test of Abraham's faith because he truly loved his son. That is acknowledged here in this passage. In fact, this is the first time that you encounter the word love in the Bible. in connection with Abraham's love for Isaac. But I think this command was also difficult because it didn't make sense. Why would God give him a son in a miraculous way only to take him away? Why would God base a covenant on the birth of this son? And now he asked that he be sacrificed. And why would God ask Abraham to do what the pagans did to their children for their false gods? But despite this difficulty, Abraham did not flinch. He obeyed God immediately, resolutely, and completely. This is what we have recorded here. Look at verse 6. Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it upon Isaac his son. And he took the fire in his hand and a knife, and they went both of them together. And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father and said, My. My father and he said, Here am I, my son, and he said, Behold the fire in the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering. So they went both of them together, and they came to the place which God had told him of. And Abraham built an altar. They laid the wood in order and bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar upon the wood. And Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son. And the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, and he said, Here am I. He said, Lay not thy hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him, for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing that thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold him a ram caught in the thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered him for a burnt offering in the stead of his son. And Abraham called the name of the place Jehovah Jireh, as it is said to this day, in the mount of the Lord it shall be seen. We have here a beautiful picture of redemption. In fact, this region of Moriah is in the area of Jerusalem. Some have speculated that it was on the very place where Christ would be crucified some 2,000 years later. We have a picture of a father and his only son. We see here a picture of the father's love for his beloved son. We find here a picture of the father's willingness to sacrifice his own son. But more significantly, we clearly see the Lord providing a substitute that would save the life of Isaac. This is the first clear mention of a substitutionary sacrifice in Scripture. There may be allusions earlier, theologians and preachers debate about this, but this one is unmistakable and it's clear. In verse 14, we encounter the name Jehovah Jre, which means the Lord will provide. And the reason that God has provided a lamb for us is because we could never save ourselves. And the Lamb that God has provided is his beloved son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Abraham had his special son spared. But our heavenly father did not spare his beloved son. This isn't certainly what Romans 8. 32 is alluding to when it says, He that spared not his Son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Jesus is the sacrificial Lamb. But Jesus is also the spotless Lamb of God. Turn with me to the next book of the Bible, Exodus chapter 12. Exodus chapter 12 records for us the account of the first Passover. Look with me at verse 3. Speak ye unto all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth day of this month, they shall take to them every man a lamb according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for a house. And if the household be too little for the lamb, let him and his neighbor next to his house take it according to the number of the souls. Every man according to his eating shall make your count for the lamb. Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male of the first year. Ye shall take it out from the sheep or from the goats. We have here the picture of a lamb dying for their deliverance. It's interesting to note the progression in this passage. In verse 3, we read of a lamb. In verse 2, we read twice of the verse 4, excuse me, we read twice of the Lamb. And in verse 5, we read of your Lamb. Each household would select a lamb that would die for them. This suggests a personal appropriation. Their obedience to these specific instructions was the evidence of their faith. And once again we have a lamb dying to save others. Look with me at verses 22 and 23 of this chapter. And ye shall take a bunch of hyssop and dip it in the blood that is in the basin and strike the lentil and the two sideposts with the blood. that is in the basin, and none of you shall go out at the door of this house until the morning. For the Lord will pass through to smite the Egyptians, and when he seeth the blood upon the lentil and on the two sideposts, the Lord will pass over the door. and will not suffer the destroyer to come into your houses to smite you. The lamb's blood would be smeared. On the doorpost to ensure that the death angel did not visit their household and kill the firstborn How precious this blood must have been to those Hebrew families. This blood preserved the life of their firstborn son who was the hope of a better future. But we have been redeemed with something much more precious than the blood of a lamb. We have been redeemed with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. Most commentators believe that when Peter penned those words in 1 Peter 1, 18 and 19, he had this passage in Exodus in mind. Notice in verse 5, the first and the most significant qualification of this Lamb is that he must be without blemish. This spotless lamb was, of course, a picture of the sinlessness of Christ. The Bible is filled with testimonies to his purity. Jesus said I always do those things that please him that is my father. John 8. 29. The thief on the cross said, This man hath done nothing amiss. And the centurion at the cross said, certainly this was a righteous man. And in the epistles We find his sinlessness clearly defined and revealed. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin That we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Hebrews 4. 15 tells us that our great high priest was tempted as we are, yet without sin. The book of Hebrews perhaps brings out this theme more than any other New Testament book in Hebrews chapter 7. Verses 26 and 27 it says, for such a high priest, excuse me, became us who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separated from sinners, and made higher than the heavens, who needeth not daily as those high priests to offer up Excuse me. Sacrifice first for his own sins and then for the peoples. For this he did once when he offered up himself. And just a couple chapters over in Hebrews chapter 9, we read these wonderful verses. Hebrews 9 verse 12, neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. For if the blood of bulls and of goats and the ashes of heifer sprinkling the unclean sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. Without a spotless lamb, we would all be condemned because there would not be an atoning sacrifice for us. But the Lamb that God provided is the spotless, sinless Son of God. Now I'd invite you to turn with me to Isaiah chapter 53, please. A very familiar portion of God's Word. Jesus is the sacrificial or substitutionary Lamb of God. He is the spotless Lamb of God. He is also the silent Lamb of God. Look with me at verse 7, please. Well, actually, I'm going to begin at verse 4. This is the heart of this passage. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Now look at verse 7. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter. And as a sheep before her shears is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. In verse 6 We see that sheep are pictured like all of us, those who go astray. But interesting, in the very next verse, we read that our Savior is like a sacrificial lamb. Speaks of the lamb going before the slaughter. A lamb is silent as it goes to be slaughtered primarily due to ignorance. But that was not the case with Christ. He knew exactly what he would face at the cross. Throughout the Gospel of John, we read of him awaiting his coming hour. This was not blind compliance, but willing submission. We read that as a sheep before her shears is dumb Sheep are quiet even as their wool is cut off, even when they are nicked or roughly treated. They do not squeal like a hog because that is not their nature. Christ was silent like a lamb, but not for the same reasons. You may think that this imagery found in this verse is not significant. However, it is this verse that establishes beyond question the typology of Christ as the Lamb of God. The great German Hebrew scholar Dielitch says all the references in the New Testament to the Lamb of God. spring from this passage. And there are many passages like that in our New Testament. The silence was specifically fulfilled in the trials of Jesus. Yes, he did speak at his trials. He spoke with Annas and with Caiaphas and with Pilate. We have those discussions recorded in the Gospels. When he was asked if he was the Son of God, he answered He said to Pilate that he could have no power at all if it had not been given to him from above. And of course we have the famous seven sayings from the cross. So this verse is not saying that he would not utter a single word. So in what way was he silent? Well, four times in the gospel record we read of his silence at his trial. In the second trial before Caiaphas, we see that he did not seek to defend himself before false witnesses. In the fourth trial, before Pilate, he did not defend himself before the false accusations of the religious leaders. In the fifth trial, before Herod, he did not answer the curious questions of this wicked man. And in the sixth and final trial before Pilate, he did not answer the insincere questions of his worldly interrogator. We read something of the meaning of his silence in the book of 1 Peter, something that we will come to in a little while on Sunday mornings, but in 1 Peter chapter 2. And verse 23, we read this. Whoops, I'm in 2 Peter. I'll begin reading in verse 21, for even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us. Leaving us an example that ye should follow his steps, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not. but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. So what does our Lord's silence, the silence as a lamb, reveal to us? Well, first of all, it demonstrates the voluntary nature of his death. The fact that Jesus did not try to defend himself shows that his death was not a horrible miscarriage of justice. In John chapter 10 and verse 18 we read, No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down of the myself and I have power to take it up again. His death was no accidents. It was the ultimate expression of submission to the will of his father. Secondly, the silence demonstrated his complete trust in his father. 1 Peter 2 brings this out. It says that he committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. Or he entrusted, is the word there himself to his father. He left the matter with God. This, of course, Peter says is an example that we should have. When we are persecuted for the Lord's sake, we should entrust ourselves to our Father who judges righteously. Thomas Brooks has a wonderful book, The Mute Christian Under the Smarting Rod, and he talks about The Christian facing suffering. And he says there that we should see our suffering as ultimately coming from God, and therefore we should receive it without complaints. He says there that no man honors God as he who lays his hand upon his mouth when the rod of God is upon his back. It is indeed a great act of trust and submission to our Father to not become angry. And to ask many questions when God sends painful trials into our lives. But most commentators and scholars are agreed that the main thing that we learn from the silence of our Savior is his meekness. A proud man is quick to defend his honor. He aggressively defends his rights, but a humble man holds his peace. Listen to the words of a 19th-century preacher renowned for his godliness, a man named Edward Payson. This summer when we were on vacation, we vacationed for some time a little south of Portland, Maine, and I went into the city of Portland, Maine, to the Historical Society. To find out what I could find about this man who was the most famous American preacher of his generation And there was one portrait of him in a corner somewhere, but the main historian there knew nothing of him. And so I gave him a little lesson about the greatness of this man, Edward Payson. Edward Payson wrote a wonderful sermon. And he said this, silent meek and unrepining he stood before butchers, at once innocent and patient as a lamb. No murmurs, no complaints, no angry recriminations escaped from his lips. If they were open, it was but to express the most perfect submission to his father's will and to breathe out prayers for his murderers. Jesus is the substitutionary lamb. He is the spotless lamb. He is the silent lamb. But the scripture also reveals in its closing pages that Jesus is the sovereign Lamb. Turn with me, please, to Revelation chapter 5. You realize that the book that most often refers to Jesus as the Lamb is the book of Revelation. Nearly 30 times we read in this book of Jesus is a lamb. But in the book of Lamb, Jesus is not like a pet lamb that is meek and mild. No, he is the sovereign lamb who rules and reigns. It is the lamb who will make war and overcome his enemies. for he is the King of kings and Lord of Lords, according to Revelation 17, 14. The throne of God is described as what? the throne of the Lamb. The heavenly city is the temple of the Lamb. It is the Lamb that provides the light for this great city. Revelation 2123, we read of the marriage of the Lamb in Revelation 19, 17. and the wife of the Lamb and Revelation 21. 9. The name of all the redeemed are kept in the Lamb's book of life. Revelation 21, 27. You see, the Lamb is sovereign. All of these uses of this term are used in the context of power and authority as a great king. Revelation chapter 5, we read some of the most uplifting and amazing verses in the Bible. Look with me please at verse 5. And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seals thereof. And I beheld, and lo, in the midst of the throne and of the four beasts, in the midst of the elders stood a lamb. as it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent forth unto all the earth. Let me pause there in my reading. We have an incredible contrast here. Did you notice it? Jesus is described in verse 5 as a lion. the most powerful and majestic of animals, certainly by the recollection of the ancients. And then in the very next verse, he's described as a lamb. Jonathan Edwards has a great sermon on this text entitled The Excellency of Christ that he preached in 1738 in Northampton, Massachusetts. And he says in that sermon, in the person of Christ, do meet together infinite majesty and transcendent meekness. That's what he found in these two images. What should be our response to this truth? Look with me at verse 7. And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne. And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and the four and twenty elders. Fell down before the lamb, having every one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sung a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain and hast redeemed us. to God by the blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation, and has made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth And I beheld and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beast and the elders and the number of them was 10,000 times 10,000 and thousands of thousands. saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. And every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth, and such as are in the scene, all that are in them Heard I saying, blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb forever and ever. And the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshiped him that liveth forever and ever. I don't know of any passage in the Bible that comes to more of an incredible climax of praise and majesty than that passage right there. But there is another portrait of the lamb that perhaps is not as exciting to us, and that's found in the very next chapter, Revelation chapter 6. Look with me at verse 12. And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal, and lo, there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth. Of hair, and the moon became as blood, and the stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs when she is shaken of a mighty wind, and the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places. And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bondman, and every free man hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains, and said to the mountains and rocks, fall on us. Hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb, for the great day of his wrath is come, and who shall be able to stand? This sovereign land will come to judge the world. This is what we find in this passage. We read here of the wrath of the Lamb. What a terrifying scene. How can one escape the wrath of the Lamb? Well, the same man who wrote the book of Revelation also wrote the Gospel of John. And in John chapter 3 and verse 36, he said, He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. Tonight, as we fellowship at this table, let us remember that it is the Lamb of God who bears our sins and has satisfied the wrath of God for us. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And for those of us who have put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, We can look forward to the day when we will be in heaven and experience that great glory. Let's close in prayer. Father We thank you for your word. We thank you for the wonderful, cohesive, unified message that we find through all of its pages. We thank you for providing a lamb in the Lord Jesus Christ. And we pray that everyone here would be ready. to meet the Lamb, that we would have come to the place where we have claimed by faith that Christ is the Lamb of God who has taken away our sins, who has died for us. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen