The Day of Atonement is one of the great pictures of the gospel in the Old Testament. It was the most solemn day in Israel's calendar. The ancient rabbis simply referred to it as the day. In Hebrew, it's Yom Kippur. Some words that most of you know because it's mentioned even today in reference to the Jewish calendar. Yom is the Hebrew word for day. Kippur comes from the Hebrew verb kafar, which means to cover. It was on this day that the high priests made atonement for the nation. You may wonder why this was necessary. Didn't the Israelites offer sacrifices continually throughout the year, yes, but not everyone took care of their sin as the law prescribed. And so there was this annual provision. According to Leviticus 1629, this event took place on the tenth day of the seventh month. The seventh month was the equivalent of our mid-September through mid-October. The Day of Atonement is mentioned in three Old Testament passages. Two of them are brief and very similar. One is Leviticus chapter 23. Verses 26 through 32. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, also on the tenth day of the seventh month There shall be a day of atonement. It shall be a holy convocation unto you. And ye shall afflict your souls and offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord, and ye shall do no work In that same day, for it is a day of atonement, to make an atonement for you before the Lord your God. For whatsoever so it be that shall not be afflicted in that same day, he shall be cut off from among his people. And whatsoever soul it be that doeth any work, in that same day, that same soul will I destroy from among his people. Ye shall do no manner of work, it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations and all your dwellings. And it shall be unto you a Sabbath of rest. And ye shall afflict your souls in the ninth day of the month. And even from even unto even shall you celebrate your Sabbath. And then a very similar passage in Numbers chapter 29 I'd like to begin reading at verse 7. And ye shall have on the tenth day of this seventh month A holy convocation. And ye shall afflict your souls. Ye shall not do any work therein. But ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the Lord for a sweet savor. one young bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year they shall be unto you without blemish, and their meat offering shall be a flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals to a bullock, and two tenths deals to one ram. Of several tenth deal for one lamb throughout the seven lambs, one kid of the goats for sin offering, besides the sin offering of the atonement, and the continual burnt offering, and the meat offerings of it, and their drink. offerings. Now if you turn back with me to Leviticus chapter 16, this day, the Day of Atonement, was a high Sabbath day. That is, it was to be observed on as a Sabbath day, even though it may not fall on a Saturday. It was to be a day of rest, absolutely no working. The Bible also describes it as a day of affliction, not meaning that the people tortured themselves, but it was a day of humiliation, a day of fasting. The Israelites were to examine their hearts and consider their failures of the past year and confess their sins. It was a day of national repentance. Now the key passage on the Day of Atonement is Leviticus chapter 16. This is one of the most significant chapters in the Old Testament. The placement of this chapter is instructive. In chapters 1 through 7 of Leviticus, you have the five offerings that are described In chapters 8 through 10, you have the giving of the priesthood. In chapters 11 through 15, the purification rituals, that is, to deal with the defiling effects of sin. And then we come to chapter 16, which seems to put everything together. This is a very instructive chapter on the meaning of the atonements. Now it's likely that these chapters are put in a doctrinal order, but not so much in a chronological order. If you look with me, At Leviticus chapter 16, verses 1 and 2, I'm going to show this to you. The Lord spake unto Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron when they offered before the Lord and died. And the Lord said unto Moses, Speak unto Aaron, thy brother, that he come not at all times into the holy place within the veil, before the mercy seat which is upon the ark, that he die not, for I will appear in the cloud upon the mercy seat. Now what is referred to here is recorded back in Leviticus chapter 10. So turn back with me please to Leviticus chapter 10. I'll begin reading at verse one. And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron took either of them his censer, and put fire therein, and put incense thereon, and offered strange fire before the Lord, which he commanded them not. And there went out fire from the Lord and devoured them, and they died before the Lord. Then Moses said unto Aaron, This is that the Lord spake, saying, I will be sanctified. and them that come nigh me, and before all the people, I will be glorified. And Aaron held his peace. So turn back with me now to chapter 16. It seems that the instructions for the Day of Atonement were given shortly after God took the lives of Nadab and Abihu. And it says in verse 3 of chapter 10 that this was done to sanctify the Lord before the people so that they would truly understand the holiness of God, and that not just anyone could approach him in any way they desired. So just think of how Moses and Aaron and the people must have felt after this incident, after these two priests. were slain by the Lord. The question must have come to their minds, who can come before God? The entire book of Leviticus establishes two contrasting realities. First, that God is absolutely holy, and second, that man is inherently sinful. Even the priests chosen by God were not worthy to come into his presence. And so this raises the fundamental question: how can sinful people have access to To a holy God. And although the answer is given in symbols and types, the Christian reader cannot fail but see that the answer is found in Christ alone. Tonight, as we prepare our hearts to remember the death of our Lord and Savior, I'd like us to see in this chapter that believers have access to God through the work. I have two main points that I want to make this evening. First of all, we have access to God through the work of our great high priest. Look with me at Leviticus chapter 16. And verse 3. Thus shall Aaron come into the holy place with a young bullock for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering, and I shall put on the holy linen coat, and he shall have the linen breeches upon his flesh, and shall be girded with a linen girdle, and with a linen mitre shall he be attired. These are holy garments, therefore shall he wash his flesh in water and shall put them on, and he shall take of the congregation of the children of Israel two kids of the goats for a sin offering, and one ram for a burnt offering. And Aaron shall offer his bullock of the sin offering which is for himself, and make an atonement for himself and for his house. We read here the instructions for Aaron to enter the Holy of Holies on the Day of Atonement. To say that the Holy of Holies was a place of restricted access would be a gross understatement. The Holy of Holies was a room that measured fifteen feet by fifteen feet. Only one person could enter that sacred room, the high priest, and only on one day a year, the Day of Atonement. And only with the blood of sacrifice, and only after he had been purified. I want to call your attention to three truths that come naturally out of this passage. About our great high priest, we see in the shadow of Aaron here one far greater, one through whom we have access to God. First of all, our great high priest humbled himself to make atonement for us. It is fascinating to consider that Aaron did not enter the Holy of Holies with his priestly robes. The priestly vestment was worn to show the dignity and majesty of the high priest office among the people He represented the people to God and God to the people. And when the high priest went into the Holy of Holies, however, he came in humility. Everything that he wore was plain white linen. Nothing was dyed or decorated or embellished in any way. Scholars have thought through the centuries that surely this points to the condescension of our Lord who came to a send-cursed earth to save his people from their sins. In 2 Corinthians 8. 9 it says, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich. But when we think of the condescension of our Lord, his humility, probably the passage that comes to our mind is Philippians chapter 2. Which reads, Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. So we see here the humility of our great high priest in his incarnation And secondly, our high priest is holy and the only one qualified to make atonement for us. It says in our text that these linen garments were to picture holiness. They were whites. And we read here that Aaron had to make a sacrifice for himself. It says in verse 3, Thus shall Aaron come into the holy place with a young bullock for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering. And then in verse 6, and Aaron shall offer his bullock of the sin offering which is for himself, and make an atonement for himself and for his house. Here we have the spiritual leader of the most spiritual nation on planet Earth. But yet he had to bring a sacrifice for himself. And the scriptures record for us that Aaron was indeed not a perfect man, but a man who was weak and wicked just like us. And so we see here that there is not so much a similarity between Aaron and our great high priest as a contrast. The implication here is that even the high priest was not fully qualified to fulfill this task. He was a sinner. like the rest of us. But he pointed to the ultimate high priest who would truly live up to the priestly sign holy unto the Lord. Our Savior is so much greater than Aaron. The author of Hebrews demonstrates this in at least four different ways. I would invite you to turn back with me, if you would, please, to the book of Hebrews. Which some have considered almost to be a commentary on the book of Leviticus. Turn with me first of all to Hebrews chapter 7. So in at least four ways, the author of Hebrews demonstrates that Christ is superior to Aaron. First of all, Aaron had to make a sacrifice for his own sins. and then for the sins of the people. But our mediator is not a frail sinner like Aaron and in need of forgiveness. No, he is the sinless Son of God. In Hebrews chapter seven and verse twenty-six it says, For such a high priest became us who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separated from sinners, and made higher than the heavens, who needeth not daily as those high priests to offer up sacrifices first for his own sins and then for the people 's. For this he did once when he offered up himself. Secondly, Aaron offered up the blood of bulls and goats, but Jesus offered up his own blood. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 12. Hebrews 9. 12 says, Neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood, he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption. for us. And then in chapter ten and verse four we read, For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sin. Thirdly, Aaron entered the tabernacle, but Jesus entered into heaven itself. If you look with me at Hebrews 9 and verse 24, it says, For Christ has not entered into the holy places. made with hands which are the figures of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us And what you may have already seen in these texts is that Aaron had to fourthly repeat these sacrifices every year, but Jesus made atonement for the people once for all. Look with me at Hebrews 9 verse 25. Nor yet that he should offer himself often as the high priest entereth into the holy place every year without bl the blood of others. For then must he have often have suffered since the foundation of the world. But now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And now look with me at chapter 10, verses 11 and 12. It says that every high priest standeth daily ministering and offering oft times the same sacrifices which can never take away sins. But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God. If you look at the furniture that was in the tabernacle, there was no chair there because the priests never had a moment's rest. They were always on their feet offering sacrifices. And in the beginning of this book of Hebrews, the author mentions also in chapter 1 that when Jesus had finished his work, he sat down. And this way, contrasting himself with all of the priests that have come before him. So our great high priest is far superior to any erotic high priest. But there's a third point that I want to bring out of the work of our great high priest, and I invite you to turn back with me, please, now, to Leviticus chapter 16. And that is that our great high priest did his work alone. On the Day of Atonement, the high priest did not work as a team with other priests. He worked alone. I want you to see this. In verses three through six we read about Aaron preparing the sacrifice for himself. And then as we go on, we say, we just notice Who is doing all the action here? And he shall take two goats in verse seven and present them before the Lord. Verse eight, and Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats. Verse nine, and Aaron shall bring the goat upon which the Lord lot fell. And verse eleven, and Aaron shall bring the bullock of the sin offering. Verse 12, and he shall take a censer full of burnt coals Verse 13, and he shall put the incense upon the fire before the Lord. Verse 14, and he shall take up the blood of the bullock and sprinkle it with his finger. Verse 15, then shall he kill the goat of the sin offering that is for the people. Verse 16, and he shall make an atonement for the holy place. because of the uncleanness of the children of Israel. And now verse 17, and there shall be no man in the tabernacle of the congregation when he goeth in to make atonement in the holy place until he come out and hath made an atonement for himself, for his household, and for all the congregation of Israel. The work of atonement was a solitary labor. But Aaron had a sense even in his Ministry of the presence of God as he performed his priestly task. But Jesus died alone in the darkness of Calvary. Remember how he cried, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? It is only through Christ that we can have access to God. He is our great high priest. I would like to turn once more to the book of Hebrews. You don't need to turn there if you are growing weary of turning to various passages, but in Hebrews chapter 9. We read these wonderful words. Hebrews chapter 9. I'll begin reading at verse 6. Now when these things were thus ordained, the priest would always enter the first tabernacle accomplishing the service of God. But in the second went the high priest alone once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself and for the heirs of the people. The Holy Ghost This signifying that the way and the holiest of all was not yet made manifest, while as yet the first tabernacle was yet standing He's saying that all this speaks of that restricted access to God. But then if we will look in chapter 10 and verse 19 , After he expounds Christ's work, as our great high priest, he says in verse 19, having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which He hath consecrated for us through the veil, that is to say, His fet flesh, and having a high priest over the house of God, let us draw near. With a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. And let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. The Day of Atonement teaches us that we can have access to God through the work of our great high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ. But Jesus is not only our great high priest, he is the sacrifice that secures our atonement. So I would invite you, if you're not already there, to look with me now at Leviticus chapter 16. And I want to begin reading at verse 7 It says of Aaron, and he shall take the two goats and present them before the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. And Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats, one lot for the Lord, and the other lot for the scapegoat. And Aaron shall bring the goat upon which the Lord's lot fell, and offer him for a sin offering But the goat on which the lot fell to be the scapegoat shall be presented alive before the Lord to make an atonement with him and to let him go for a scapegoat into the wilderness Now why these two goats? These two goats illustrate two aspects of our atonement. One goat was selected for a sin offering and was slaughtered and its blood was sprinkled on the mercy seat. Look at verse fifteen. Then shall he kill the goat of the sin offering that is for the people, and bring his blood within the veil, and do with that blood as he did with the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it upon the mercy seat and before. the mercy seat. Now we are familiar with this. We know that this picture is the blood of Christ that was shed for the remission of our sins. The book of Hebrews comments at length on the necessity of a blood sacrifice. This is a picture of the biblical doctrine of propitiation. In fact, the word propitiation, the Greek term, is connected with the word to describe the mercy seat in there on the lid of the Ark of the Covenants. This is a beautiful picture of the doctrine of propitiation. Propation means the satisfaction of God's just wrath against sinners. It's important that you understand that this is not some reactive or irrational anger. It's completely in keeping with his nature and the reality of the situation. What is irrational is our casual attitude towards our own sin. The Bible teaches us in a number of passages that God's wrath towards our sin was absorbed. Or satisfied by the death of Christ on the cross. There are four primary passages in the New Testament. Let me read them for you back to back. First of all, in Romans chapter three, verses twenty-four and twenty-five, it says, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God has set forth to be a propitiation. Through faith in his blood to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance And then in Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 17 it says, Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto us his brother and that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest and things pertaining to God to make reconciliation. And the word reconciliation there is the Greek word propitiation for the sins. of the people. And then in the third passage is 1 John 2-2. And he is the propitiation for our sins and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. And then finally, 1 John 4. 10. Hearing his love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. This is the meaning of the slaughter of this first goat. And this, of course, is pictured in many other sacrifices and in many other types in the Old Testament. But now we come to the second goat. That second goat that is more intriguing to us, that was not killed or slaughtered, but was led out into the wilderness and released. What does this picture? This helps us to understand the doctrine known as expiation. And really, that's the emphasis of what the Day of Atonement is about. It includes propitiation, but there's more space and more explanation and more detail given in this matter of expiation. What does this mean? It means that our sin and guilt has been removed. I want to draw some important distinctions between these two goats and these two doctrines. The first goat explains the means of our atonement, that is, the shedding of blood. While the second goat expresses the effect or result of our atonement, that is, that our sin and our guilt has been removed. Or to put it another way, the first goat pictures the Godward side of our atonement, God's wrath is satisfied. The second goat, that is the scapegoat, pictures the manward side of our atonement, that our guilt is gone. Both of these aspects are absolutely essential. Look with me at verse 21. And Aaron shall lay both his hands. upon the head of the live goat, and confess over him all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions, and all their sins. putting them upon the head of the goat, and shall send him away by the hand of a fit man into the wilderness. According to Old Testament, ancient documents, the high priest prayed this prayer when he placed his hands on the head of the goat. O God, the people, the house of Israel have committed iniquity, transgressed, and sinned before thee, O God. Forgive, I pray, the iniquities and transgressions and sins which thy people, the house of Israel, have committed and transgressed and sinned before thee. This ritual signifies the transfer or imputation of guilt. from the people to the animal. Now perhaps as you read this it sounds almost kind of magical Did that goat actually receive the sins of the people? Did it really take the guilt of the people away? Well, in Hebrews chapter ten, we read that these rituals were a shadow of good things to come. It also says that it's not possible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sin. And therefore, this wandering goat that went off into the wilderness did not in all actuality in some way take their guilt away. But it pictured their guilt going away. All of the sins of the Old Testament saints We're eventually placed on Jesus. He is the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. But this animal does provide a crude picture of a beautiful truth. Just imagine that you were part of the people of Israel and you assembled in the wilderness. And you watched the ceremony taking place as the high priest put his hands on the head of this goat, and then he was led out of the camp, and you saw him going until in the distance you could no longer see that goat. This was to assure the people of God that their sins were gone. Now I know what some of you are thinking. You're saying to yourself, but what if that goat came wandering back into the camp the next day? We've all heard the stories of dogs traveling incredible distances in order to come back to their owners. But notice our text says that this goat was led out by the hand of a fit man. The idea is that he was responsible, that he took his job seriously. He was not going out of the camp for like a mile and then letting it go. No, in verse 20 says it says that he would take The goat to a land not inhabited. That phrase in the Hebrews literally reads, a region that is cut off. This probably indicates that the man would take the goat beyond some gorge or ravine so that the goat had no chance of ever returning. Now, why did the Lord go to all this trouble to picture this aspect of the atonement known as expiation? Because the Lord knows that many people struggle to believe that God has truly put their sins away I wonder if you really believe this glorious truth. You see, this gets to the heart of our atonement. How can sinful people like us Be at one with God. How can we have access to a holy God? The answer is only through Christ. Our Savior has satisfied the Father's wrath against our sin through his death, and he has forever removed our guilt. He is both our great high priest and the sacrifice that is offered up for our sins, and he is the one who has taken our sins forever away. In Christ, we have boldness and access with confidence. Tonight Let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith. Let us pray. Father I pray that you would use these truths to encourage our hearts. And I pray that as we partake of these elements tonight, that our worship would be pleasing to you, for it's in Jesus' name This name we pray. Amen.