Let's work on our memory verse. It's been a a week. It's been two weeks since we were able to be in this. I was going to move on to a new verse, but I thought, no, let's solidify this a little bit more. And then we'll move on to the next set of verses. But out of 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verses 5 and 6, let's stand together and we'll say these First, we'll say the reference and the verse. We'll say it through two times. And if anybody would like to try to quote that, that'd be a good opportunity. 1 Thessalonians 5, 5 through 6. For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the darkness, nor of the darkness. So then let us not sleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober. Let's say it again. 1 Thessalonians 5, 5 through 6. For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. So then let us not sleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober. Excellent. Okay, let's go on into a review basically of where we are in First Thessalonians. But the structure of 1 Thessalonians is divided into two sections. The first half is the first three chapters, and they are backwards focused. They're looking back at Paul. and his missionary team, Silas and Timothy, as they ministered among them and what the Lord did in Thessalonica. This This church that was no church before, largely pagan, some Jewish people that came to know Christ as their Savior. And so he is filled with thankfulness. He's just received a report from Timothy that they are remaining strong in the faith, that their love and their affection for Paul and for Silas is still very strong. And he's encouraged by the fact that in the midst of persecution, in the midst of trial, their faith is growing. And he's re just recounting that and reminding them of not only what God has done in their midst, but also how they acted when they were with them, because there are false Teachers, there are those that are trying to undermine the faith of the Thessalonians who have come in and they're making accusations against Paul and against Silas and against Timothy. saying when they came here they were only after your money. When they came here, they were only after your women. When they came here they they came in pride and in pomp and in circumstance with flashy words. And he said You guys know that's not true. We paid our own way. We worked night and day so we could pay our own way. We didn't even ask any money from you guys. We were honest and upright and full of integrity among you. We came in not with pomp and circumstance, but with humility, because we had just been beaten. We had just been been beaten and thrown in jail. So we were we were humbled and we came in with much trembling, he describes. So he says, you know that's not true. And he said, but now that Timothy has come from you, we're encouraged because we have seen what God has done. And he said, we live because you are standing firm in the face. Our life is so intimately and intricately connected with your faith that it's as if we live because you are standing firm in the faith. The whole theme of 1 Thessalonians is this, continue to grow in faith, hope, and love. In light of Christ's imminent return. We're going to see that this evening as we look into this passage of Scripture. Let's just read, beginning in chapter 3, verse 11, to the very end of the chapter. It's just a few short verses. Now may our God and Father Himself and our Lord Jesus direct our way to you, and may the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all as we do for you. so that he may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints. And I've entitled this section, Paul's Pastoral Prayer. And it is a prayer, but it's not really a prayer. It's often described as a prayer, but when you read it, it's a little different than a normal prayer. You could say technically it's not because he's not addressing God. Most significantly, he's not addressing God in this prayer. Technically, he's addressing the Thessalonians. He talks about our God, our Lord, may he direct our way to you. The Thessalonians. So he's talking to the Thessalonians, and it's kind of like it's a prayer wish. Technically, it's called the optative mood, which is it's expressing a wish. But it's expressing it a little more than just a wish. He's expressing it in a prayerful way. It's something like what you might say today, like a benediction. If you've been in a church where a pastor pronounces a benediction on the congregation, oftentimes they'll quote something like Hebrews chapter 13, verses 20 and 21. Now the God of peace that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant, make you perfect in every good work to do his will. Working in you that which is well pleasing in the sight through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. It's not technically a prayer in one sense because he's talking to you, the people, but he is a he's He's speaking as if he's almost talking to God at the same time. Like he wants God to do these works in him. So that's kind of what we're seeing here. A very similar thing. He starts out with the same two words, now may. Then he speaks of God in the third person. And it's interesting in Hebrews chapter 13, he ends it with the word Amen, like a prayer. And it's something like what we we might say to something, may the Lord bless you and keep you. We're speaking to a person, but we're asking God, we're invoking God to do this work in their life. And this prayer or benediction or this request that the Apostle Paul makes here has three requests in it. And we're going to look at those three this evening. The first is. A request for providential direction, that God would direct his way to them. Secondly, for a prospering love, that their love would abound more and more And then for a purifying hope that they would be holy in light of the return of Christ. And those three requests are at the core of this Firstly, we're seeing that Paul prays for providential direction in verse 11. He says, now may our God and Father himself and our Lord Jesus direct our way to you. Now this is interesting. This is significant. We can really read over these verses very quickly, and I almost did this last two weeks ago. I had planned on covering this and I thought I'm just not going to go into this. But we were running low on time. I thought, you know what? We're going to go over it. We're going to spend some time and look at this this week. Paul prays here to the Father and the Son. He prays to the Father and the Son. Now may our God and Father Himself and our Lord Jesus. That's a very significant thing. Theologically, he is addressing both the Father and the Son as the ones who answer his prayers. He is identifying them as equal and their their ability. And so he links here, what significantly, he links two subjects, God the Father and our Lord Jesus, with a singular form of the verb. So it's kind of unusual grammatically, but it's done s on purpose. It wasn't that he had bad grammar. He was doing this intentionally to identify a truth. It's kind of like something in English if we were to say, Tom and Bill is coming. Like, yeah. If I were to say that because I was in the backwoods, you'd be like, yeah, he just doesn't know his grammar well. But If I were to do that on purpose, I'd be indicating that there's something singular about Tom and Bill. Tom and Bill are coming, would be a much more appropriate way to say it. It would be normal to say Tom is coming But when you add bill, the plural form of the verb would have to be used. In a similar way, Paul is linking two subjects using a singular verb. It's kind of like you're saying, God the Father and our Lord Jesus, may He, not may they, may He direct our way to you. You see that what he's doing here? He's saying, pay attention, God the Father and the Lord Jesus, there is unity. in their plurality. There's unity, although they are distinct in their persons. This is a strong indication that Paul recognized the deity of Jesus Christ and his oneness with the Father. It'd be very easy when we're reading through this, just to read through and not even stop and recognize what Paul is doing here, but it is a rather significant phrase, and the way he prays tells us a lot about his theology. Paul also uses the definite article the Before both God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. And it indicates that although they are both rightly called God, they are distinguished from one another. Sometimes as Christians, we pray inaccurately. In fact, I'm a tadalon myself. We had a prayer meeting uh Tuesday morning with Pastor Nick and some other folks, and I prayed inaccurately. And as soon as I said it, I realized what I had done. I said, Father, I thank you so much for your shed blood. Boom. Did the father shed his blood? Or did the son shed his blood? The son did. And no one said anything because they were gracious to me. But and it was also six in the morning. And that might have been part of the they were gracious to me because it was six in the morning. But that's not not a proper way to pray We need to recognize the Father is distinct from the Son, is distinct from the Holy Spirit. And when we address them, we need to address them appropriately. You'll often hear Christians blending these things together in their prayer, saying things like, Dear Father, I thank you that you came and died for our sins on the cross. You'll frequently hear Christians say that. Not that they're trying to be heretical. It's a slip of the tongue Maybe you never have thought about it before. But it's not correct. The Father didn't die on the cross. The Son died on the cross. And so When we speak about God, Christians refer to God as Trinity. The Bible teaches that God is Trinity. He is three in one. God eternally exists. as three persons. He didn't come into existence, or parts of the members of the Godhead didn't come into existence at different points in time. In Isaiah 43. 10 he says Before me there is no God formed, nor shall there be after me. There is only one God who exists eternally in three persons. The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and each person is fully God. And there's one God These are the realities of the Trinity. Try to wrap your mind around this mystery, and you will come to the end of your ability to understand it. Just like you'll come to the end of your ability to understand that God is eternal. You try to think about the eternality of God for a little while. Everything we know has a beginning and an end. But God does not. Either beginning or an end. And so we struggle. We start to think about eternality. People get scared thinking about eternity because it's a concept that our mind just comes to a wall and we can't understand. It doesn't mean it's not true, it just means we can't understand it Similarly, with the fact that God is Trinity, it doesn't mean it's not true. The Bible speaks about it repeatedly. It just means we can't fully understand these truths, that God is three persons, each person is fully God. There is one God. Those are the three truths that the Bible teaches about God. This is different from what is commonly called modalism. Modalism is a heretical belief that teaches that there is one God who appears in different modes or different forms at different times So they'd say there's one God. They'd get that part right, but they'd say, and sometimes he appears as the Father, sometimes he appears as the Son, sometimes he appears as the Holy Spirit. That is not true. That is not what the Bible teaches about God. We can see this even in the baptism of Jesus Christ. You have the Father speaking, this is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. We have the Spirit, the Holy Spirit descending like a dove, and you have the Son right there. We have the example of the Son praying to the Father. There is this reality that when we see Jesus Christ praying to the Father, he is not praying to himself. He is praying to the Father, who is another member of the Trinity. It's also different than what is known as Arianism. It denies the full deity of the Son and the Holy Spirit. It's an ancient heresy that exists today in a number of different forms, but probably the most well-known is the Jehovah's Witnesses. And it teaches that Jesus is a lower God who was created by God the Father at some time in the past. That is a heresy. The Bible does not teach that. The Bible teaches that all three members of the Godhead are eternal. God eternally exists in three persons. So Paul is expressing the deity of Christ. He is bringing out this truth. Here he's talking about the Father and the Son specifically. But he's bringing up two members of the Trinity, and he's praying to both of them, both the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, to direct their way to the Thessalonians. And it's obvious that at this point in time Paul had already taught the Thessalonians the reality of The Trinity. Or else this would not have made any sense. And they'd say, whoa, what are you doing? He had already taught these truths to them. Paul prays at this point in time in a confident dependence on God Paul had already tried and failed, as we saw earlier in this chapter, multiple times to return to the Thessalonians. If you look back to chapter 2, verse 18. If you're in chapter 3, just probably turn back one page. He describes how they were torn away from them for a short time. We've endeavored to come More eagerly with great desire to see you face to face. Then in verse 18 he says, Because we wanted to come to you, I, Paul, again and again, but Satan hindered us. That's probably why when you come to chapter 3 and verse 11, he says that God made our God and Father Himself and our Lord Jesus Christ. And the word himself is actually emphatic. It's at the very beginning of the sentence, meaning, may God himself do this. I have tried and I have been thwarted. I'm asking God to do something that I can't do. Satan has hindered me, but I'm asking God to work, to bring me to you, so that I can see you. And that word direct has the idea of removing hindrances. He's asking God to remove these hindrances. so that he can make it to the Thessalonians. And we studied this a couple weeks ago, and we saw that that's exactly what happened. God removed hindrances through hindrances so that Paul would go to the Thessalonians. It's a rather interesting event. After the riot that took place in Ephesus, remember great is Diana of the Ephesians. That riot that took place, they said, Paul, you've got to get out of here. And so that's when Paul went back to Macedonia. He went back to Thessalonica and to Philippi and he met the believers there and he encouraged them. And then he came back around and he was in Athens for a time. And there in Athens, he was going to travel by boat, but he got word that there was an attempt on his life. If he were to travel by boat, he would be killed. And so he traveled another way and he went back through Macedonia again. He met with the Thessalonians and the Philippians and he spent some time there with them. So God answered this prayer through trials And he brought them back to the Thessalonians on multiple occasions. As he depended on the Lord, the Lord opened up a way for him And he says, now may our God and Father Himself and our Lord Jesus direct our way to you. And you say, why does he want to see them so badly? Does he just need a little break and there's nice nice beaches there in in Philippi and in Thessalonica and he wants to go back and enjoy some R and R with them? That's not the case at all. If you look back just to the verses we looked at a couple weeks ago. He says, we pray most earnestly night and day that we may see you face to face and supply what is lacking in your faith. So the purpose that Paul has in this ministry, going back and seeing the Thessalonians, is to supply to fill up something that is lacking in their faith. There's an area of their faith that is deficient, and he wants to strengthen them. Paul's goal for this trip was to instruct them further in the Word of God so that they would be more mature in their faith. He was praying to God that he would be allowed to return so that he could continue this work in them. The fact is that God has put Leaders in the church. He's put apostles and the prophets and pastors and teachers, as he says in Ephesians chapter 4, that he's put them in the church for the purpose of strengthening up the church, preparing the church to do the work of the ministry, to equip the saints for the work of ministry. And so Paul says, I am praying that I can go back, I can meet with you, I can have this opportunity to use my gifts among you so that you will be strengthened in your faith, so that you will be able to continue on doing the works that God has called you to do without being carried away. Notice he says at the end of this, that you don't be children Tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness and deceitful scheme He's saying, I want to ground you in the Word of God. I want to teach you. I want to encourage you further. I want to strengthen your faith. so that you will stand firm against these temptations, against these lies, against these false doctrines that come, so that you'll be able to stand against them. The fact is that God has placed gifted people in the church for the specific purpose of equipping the saints for the work of the ministry. And we ought to take advantage of that. We ought to, and I by the fact that you're preaching to the choir, you're the folks that are coming out Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night. You say, I need the teaching of the Word of God, and I'm thankful that God has put people in the church to teach the Word so that I can be equipped to do the work of the ministry. And it should encourage us that this is what Paul was encou was thinking about with regards to the Thessalonians, and it's what we need today as well. So the first thing he prayed for was that there would be providential direction, that God would work an amazing way to bring him to them, and God did that. The second thing he prayed for was that they would prosper in their love. That they would have a love that grows and matures. Notice what he says. And may the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all as we do for you. He's not saying that they don't have love, but he's saying that he wants their love to be increasing, their love to be growing. Already in chapter 1, verse 3, he says. . Remembering before our God and Father your work of faith and labor of love. . So right from the very beginning, the third verse of this book, he says, I remember your work of faith and your labor of love. And early in this chapter, he says, Timothy has brought us the good news of your face and love. So they are known for their love, but he says, I want it to grow. I want it to be abounding. I want it to be increasing more. And they're instructed that this ought to be a continual reality. We should never reach the place in our lives where we say, yep, I have maxed out in love. You know, I I have reached a hundred percent, I am fully loving, and I don't need to love anymore. The love that God has shown us is a love that we can never attain to And so we need to be growing, we need to be increasing, we need to be abounding in this love continually, because God's love is such a high standard for us. And he says in this verse, may the Lord make you increase and abound in love for One another. Does that remind you of anything in our church constitution? In our covenant that we have, we have these one another statements. If you have our church constitution, there's the covenant that we make, and it's written out in the beginning of the Constitution, and in there there are a number of the New Testament one-another instructions. In the New Testament, there are 30 different one-another commands. Just kind of, whoa, that's really small. You're not going to read that too easily, I don't think. But just to go through them kind of there's just eleven of them, just kind of sampling. To live peaceably with one another, to respect one another. To maintain a spirit of unity with one another, to edify one another. The idea of edifying is to build each other up in Christ. To accept one another, meaning we're not going to have cliques, we're not going to shun some, we're going to accept one another in Christ. You may be from a different background, you might be from a different uh part of the country or a different country, but we're going to accept one another. To admonish, that means to instruct and to correct one another, to be considerate of one another, to care for one another, to bear one another's burdens. to be patient with one another, to pray for one another. Those are just the samplings of the one another commands. If you go back to your your Constitution or if you don't have one, see me afterwards and I'll get you one. And in there is a listing of the one another commands that we do, we take seriously. This is our responsibility from the New Testament to do to one another. To pray for one another, to be considerate to one another, to care for one another, to live at peace with one another, which requires us to forgive one another So in order to grow in love, we really must know what love is. If we're going to grow in love, we have to look at the perfect example of love, and that is found in God. 1 John 4 he says, Beloved, let us love one another. For love is from God. And whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know God Because God is love. That's a pretty strong statement. If you don't love in verb form If you are not living in love, you don't know God. Wow. It's a really strong statement. Why? How can he say that? Because God is love. So if we want to know what love looks like, we need to look at how God has loved us. And we could spend a lot of time looking at 1 Corinthians 13, and I really would encourage you to take time and look at 1 Corinthians 13. Love is patient. Love is kind. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Love isn't rude. running through all those descriptions of love that are found in 1 Corinthians 13 and asking yourself, am I loving my wife? Am I loving my husband? Am I loving my fellow church member this way? Am I rude to someone? Am I impatient with them? Am I believing the worst of them or am I believing the best of them? This is what we are called to do because God has done that for us. There are many places that describe love. I just want to look at two and see two realities of how we ought to love one another, how we ought to grow in love for one another. And the first one is in 1 John 3. 16. We know John 3. 16, which also talks about love, for God so loved the world. that he gave his only begotten son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. But 1 John 316 says, by this we know love. How do we know, love? That he laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. What does love look like? Christian love gives no matter the cost. It's willing to lay down its life because God laid down his life for us. The cost that God paid to redeem us was an infinite cost. God sent his only begotten Son to die in our place on the cross. And this love demands that we sacrifice to meet the needs of others. We can't say, yeah, that's just asking too much. That's a bridge too far. Because they're God didn't say that to us. He didn't say, that's a bridge too far. You mean send my only begotten son, my beloved son? No, that's a bridge too far. To die on the cross? No. No. He didn't say that. He laid down his life for us. Christ laid down his life for us. The next verse actually tells us that we need to sacrifice to meet the material needs of others. If you're to follow this very next verse, verse 17, he says, if anyone has the world's goods, meaning financial benefits. And sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him? Little children, let us not love in word or talk, but in deed and in truth. Basically saying talk is cheap. Put your money where your mouth is. That's exactly what he's saying. Talk is cheap. Put your money where your mouth is. You say you love your brother. Help him when he has needs If you see your brother or sister having a financial need and you go, yeah, sorry, you don't actually love him. You don't actually know the love of God. This love demands not that we sacrifice not just to meet the material needs of others, but also many of the immaterial needs. Sometimes in an affluent country like the United States, it's actually easier for us to give financially and say, here, take some money and Don't bother me again. That's a lot easier for us to do than it is to say, I'm gonna give you my time. I'm gonna be a listening ear. I'm gonna be a friend to you. I'm going to pray for you. I'm going to have compassion on you. That's a lot harder. Takes a lot more work. We'd rather say. Sure you don't need anything? I I'd gladly buy you something, but I don't want to spend all this time with you. What can I buy you? Like, no, no, I I don't need that Christian love gives whatever the cost because we have been given an infinite gift. Secondly, Christian love sacrifices to forgive. And this comes from 1 John as well, chapter 4, verses 9 and following. Says, in this the love of God was made manifest among us. That God sent his only son into the world, so that we might live through him. In this is love, not that we have loved God. But that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. That he is the the one who took the wrath that our sins deserve so that he could forgive us. He says, Beloved, if God so loved us, he paid the cost. For forgiving us, we also ought to love one another. In the same manner that we were loved, we also ought to love one another. We ought to love in a way that is costly to forgive. That we pay the cost to forgive. Forgiveness costs our Father, his only begotten Son It meant that he had to bear the wrath and the punishment that we deserved. And forgiveness in the church is also costly. If you're going to forgive your brother or your sister, if you're going to forgive your husband or your wife It means you have to relinquish your rights to justice. You have to say, no. Christ died for me. And he didn't demand, God didn't demand the rights of my punishment. Rather, he forgave me at a great cost. And so we turn those over to God. We say, I forgive you. And we forgive like God forgave us. When God forgives us, he doesn't say Yeah, I forgive you, but I'm holding you at arm's length. I forgive you, but every time you make a mistake that mistake again, I'm going to bring it up against you. No, he says I've buried it in the depths of the deepest sea. I have forgotten about it. I remember it no more. So often in our own forgiveness, one to another, you say, yeah, I forgive you. And then when they do something else, like , you always do this. And we bring up the past offenses, which reveals that we never actually did forgive because we keep bringing it up We must forgive, even if it's costly, because we have been forgiven. So Paul prays for the Thessalonian believers that they would increase and abound in love one to another. And then he says, not just for one another, but also that for those who are outside of the church. It's very easy just to say we're going to love one another and forget those who don't know Christ. And he says, no, you need to love for all as we do for you. So the responsibility that we have is to love not just those that are within the church, but also those who are outside the church. And that's a lot harder, especially when you think of the Thessalonian believers. They were being persecuted for their faith. They were literally facing beatings. They were literally being thrown out of their homes. They were literally being kicked out of the community, losing jobs. It's very easy. To hold bitterness in a situation like that, but he says, love your enemies. I feel like someone else said that in the New Testament. Pray for those who persecute you. Oh, that was right. That was Jesus. Yeah. This type of love is a supernatural work of the Holy Spirit. And that's why he's saying, I'm praying that the Lord would cause your love to increase and abound. Because it can't be done just by ourselves. We are dependent on the Spirit to do that. The love of God reached out to us while we were still sinners, and it calls us to reach out to them while they are still lost in their sins. Just look at a couple verses real quickly here. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Verses 14 and 15. For the love of Christ controls us, because we have concluded this, that one has died for all. So what do we learn about that? Well, if one died for all, therefore all have died It means that all were dead. And he died for all that those who live might no longer live for themselves. Those who have been given new life, we don't live for ourselves anymore But for him who for their sakes died and was raised. And if you continue following that passage down, he says, You have been made ambassadors. That is if God is beseeching the world through you. We are to be ambassadors for Christ. We are to love the world. because Christ died for us and for them. Paul said in 1 Corinthians 9, 22, I have become all things to all people, that by all means I might save some. You don't see them prevaricating and saying, I just that I can't do that. Hang out with the Gentiles? You've got to be kidding. No, he became all things to all people that he might by all means save some. Are we loving and growing in love for the lost? Or are we so convinced of our self-righteousness that we don't want to associate with sinners? I'm not saying live like the lost, but love the lost like Christ loves the lost. Who associated with sinners because he loved them. The last thing in this passage we saw a providential direction. We saw a prospering love. And lastly, Paul prays for a purifying hope. In verse 13. so that he may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints. And again, we have at the end of this chapter a reference to the return of Christ. At the end of every chapter in 1 Thessalonians, there is a reference to the return of Christ. And he's going to spend more time on that. in the latter part of chapter 4 and into chapter 5. This is going to be discussed more heavily in the latter part of this book. But he's beginning here just addressing the fact, I am praying that God will establish your hearts blameless before him. at the coming of Jesus Christ with his saints. The imminent return of Christ is intended by God to be a motivator for us for holy living. The reality that Christ could come today should be something that's on our minds on a regular basis. As we've been going through 1 Thessalonians, the Lord has encouraged my heart to think about this on a much more regular basis. Christ could come today. And to pray, Lord, help me today to live as I would want to be found if Christ were to come today. It changes how we live, what we spend our time on, what we think about. The Apostle Paul says the same thing in 1 John chapter 3. He says, Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared, but we know that when he appears, we shall be like him. Because we shall see him as he is, and everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself as he is pure. So he says this is the reality of this imminent return of Christ causes us to purify ourselves, to be more holy day by day as we wait for the return of Christ. It could be today. It could be before we meet again on Sunday. How would we want to be found should Christ come today? And we ought to be living with that in our mind on a regular basis. The anticipation of this will cause our lives to be transformed. The coming of the Lord Jesus to rapture and to reward the church is really at the center of the purifying hope. That Paul is praying for. He speaks in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. I think I have this in our note. Notes. Yeah. Verses nine and ten. So whether we are at home or away, we make it our aim to please him, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. so that each one may receive what is done what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil. This reality that when Christ returns, there will be a judgment. Not an eternal judgment, but a judgment of our works, that every believer will stand before the Lord and will give an account of himself, and we will be judged based on what we've done in the body, whether good or evil. Paul prays for them to not only be justified, but to be actually found without blame before the judgment seat of Christ. Not that they are There is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. He's not talking about that. They are already without condemnation. Their eternal state has been settled. But this judgment of the works that will be revealed at this time is what he's talking about. This testing does not determine our eternal destiny, since it is for all believers. Just one passage to think about in light of this is in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Paul says, now if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each one's work will become manifest. For the day will disclose it, because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test what sort of work each one has done. If the work that anyone has built on the foundation survives, he will receive a reward. If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire. He's saying really sobering thing. He's saying he will be saved. The one who comes before the judgment seat of Christ is a believer. But his works will be tested, whether they are pure works or not. And there are some that are going to come in there with a large superstructure, but at the end of the testing, it'll all be burned up. And he says, he will be saved. But the works will be gone, and there will be loss. The reward will be lost. That's a sobering thought for us. This testing doesn't determine our eternal destiny, but it does determine the rewards. This testing tests our works, he says, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body. It's a testing of our works. And it's a testing as well of our motives, whether they're good or bad. This is what 1 Corinthians 13 speaks about. He says, Paul says, If I speak of the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging symbol. And if I have prophetic powers and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith So as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing. If I give away all I have, and I have if I deliver up my body to be burned, but I have not love. I gain nothing. If the motive behind our service is not love for Christ and love for others, he says it is empty. It's worthless. So this is a sobering thing. That's why he's praying for them that their love would increase and abound. Because when love increases and abounds, it yields eternal fruit, eternal rewards. Because the works that are done are motivated by love. And so he's saying, I want your hope, this reality of the coming of Christ, the standing before him to purify you, to make you holy. Even in our motives. And he says here in verse 13, so that he may establish your hearts. blameless. Not just your external works, but your hearts. This is where you see the motives are being brought to bear. The reality is that we And I know in my own life, it's very easy to put on an outward show, but the heart is far from love. Paul says, I'm praying to God that your hearts would be blameless in holiness before our God and Father. That the motives behind your service would be pure, so that you will not be whitewashed tombs, so that you will not suffer loss in that day. But that you are able to come with great confidence and joy. He describes here the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints. this phrase with all the saints. It might seem something very small, but it's actually there's been a lot of ink spilled on this. What who are the saints? What is being described here? And we're not going to have time to thoroughly parse everything here. But this idea of the coming of our Lord Jesus, this is not just a single event. It refers broadly to all the events that are involved in the second coming of Christ, what we might call Daniel's 70th week. Well, all the things that lead up to the final culmination. It's accurate to say that the coming of the Lord has a beginning, which happens at the rapture. It has a course, which is the tribulation, and it has a conclusion where we have the final Final return of Christ to the earth. But he says the question is here, he's coming with his saints. Who are these saints? There are some who would say that this refers to angels. The word that's here for saints. could be understood as the holy ones, the angels. And it would make sense if you look at Zechariah chapter 14, verse 5, where it says Then the Lord my God will come and all the holy ones with him. And when Jesus speaks about it, Jesus specifically says, he quotes Zechariah 14, but he specifically calls them angels. And so we know through Jesus that the holy ones that are being described in Zechariah 14 are actually angels. If you include what we find in 2 Thessalonians 1, where he says in verse 7, to grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. So are the holy ones angels or are they believers? Some people say it's pretty conclusive. It's angels. Jesus calls them angels. Zechariah 14 seems to be referring to angels. However, many Bible students see this as not referring to angels, and and I actually would lean on this side as well, but actually to Christians. That there are different realities that are being described in these different verses. The precise word that's used for holy one or saints here is a word that is only used by Paul To refer to Christians. It's never used by Paul to refer to angels. Every time he uses it in all of his epistles, it is referring to Christians. And if you look about what's being discussed, uh It would make sense that he would stay consistent. The holiness of Christians has been the focus of his conversation in the last part of the sentence. So I think what he's referring to is the coming of Christ in the air to rapture his church. And when he comes in the air to rapture his church, he comes with his saints. With the disembodied saints and the dead in Christ rise first, their bodies rise out of the ground, and they meet The the Lord in the air, and their bodies and their spirits are united there at the coming of Christ. And then we who are alive and remain are caught up together with the Lord. But at the rapture, the dead in Christ. Their bodies come out of the ground. Their spirits come with Christ. And they're united at the rapture. 1 Thessalonians 4. 16 says, oh just I think I have this up here. For the Lord himself will descend. And I added this part. This is not scripture. This is Aaron Scheite. with the spirits of the dead in Christ. So for the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command. with the voice of an archangel and with the sound of the trumpet of God and the dead in Christ will rise first. So the idea here is that when he comes, he comes with his saints. spirits and their bodies are reunited with him. I think that's what he is describing here, that when the Lord comes, He comes with his saints. Those who are alive and remain are caught up together with the Lord. And following that is the judgment seat of Christ, where Christians are tried. And Paul says, I want you, your hearts to be established blameless in holiness. I want this reality to transform the way you think, the way you live, the way you love. Because Christ is coming again. And when he does, there will be a testing And I want you to be blameless before him. Just a couple points of application here very quickly. We need to live with our eyes fixed on heaven. Waiting for the return of Christ. In another place, Paul describes it as us being nearsighted. I'm nearsighted. That's what my glasses are for. I can see, I can read without my glasses on, but y'all are just blurry because you're far away Oftentimes we live nearsighted. We see things that are near to us, but we don't live with our vision set on the eternal. The things that are coming. We're focused on that which is right here that I can touch and I can handle. But we're not thinking about the coming of Christ We are called to live not as those who are nearsighted, but as those whose vision is fixed on the coming of Christ. Because that transforms the way we live. We ought to be pursuing holiness in preparation for his return. Are you living in such a way that you would not be ashamed if Jesus were to return today? If Christ were to come today, would you say, yeah? Or would you say, oh, not today? There's not been a good good streak here recently. Secondly, we ought to grow and abound in love for one another and for all. Real Christian love exceeds convenience. It exceeds preference. It exceeds comfort. It sacrifices. It forgives even when it's costly. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for your word that is a sword, it is a lamp, it is a light. I pray that you'd use it appropriately in our lives this evening, that we would be transformed by it, that we would live expectantly. That we would be motivated by love in all that you have called us to do, that our love might abound more and more. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.