Give your Bibles, please. Would you join me in John chapter 3? If you're visiting with us, we are preaching through the Gospel of John. And this morning we come to one of the most significant passages in that book. John chapter 3. One of my heroes of the faith was an English preacher named George Whitfield. He accomplished incredible feats in his brief life. From his journals and other contemporary records, we read that He preached on a regular basis for 40 hours a week. I don't mean that he was preparing to preach and then preach. No, I mean that he actually was preaching to large numbers of people. for 40 hours a week, some weeks 60 hours a week. He usually preached four times a day in his adult life The first sermon was usually at 5 a. m. And you might think that no one would show up to hear a preacher at 5 a. m. There would be thousands of people at 5 a. m. to hear him preach the gospel. He had a booming voice that under the right conditions could be heard a mile away without amplification. You might say that's impossible. Well, a man named Benjamin Franklin, who knew a little bit about science, once tested this theory when he was in Philadelphia preaching. and stepped off a mile away, and he said that he could hear clearly George Whitfield's voice. During his lifetime, he preached the gospel to an estimated 10 million people, including 80% of the colonists in this country, and many thousands. of Americans were converted under his ministry. His most famous sermon that he preached over 300 times comes from the passage we're looking at this morning in John chapter 3, and it was entitled The Necessity of the New Birth Once he was asked why he preached this sermon so often, and he answered, because unless a man is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. John chapter three records a well-known Jewish religious leader conversation with Jesus one night. This man is named Nicodemus. He was an expert in the Old Testament law and a member of the Sanhedrin the governing body of Israel. He also is described as a Pharisee, a religious conservative who tried to preserve the faith of their fathers, but in doing so they had externalized So much of what the scriptures taught. In verse 2, we read of his polite and complimentary greeting of our Savior. He says It says, Rabbi, we know that you are teacher come from God. For no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. Now you might expect that Jesus would respond with his own polite niceties and compliments, but instead He says, what is essentially a rebuke in verse 3, truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Telling this respected religious leader that he needed to be born again would be like telling a priest or a pastor that he needed to be saved. It would be highly insulting. So why did Jesus respond this way? The answer is because everyone, religious or irreligious, needs to be born again if they would enter the kingdom of God. This passage is all about being born again. This truth is expressed in slightly different ways. The term Born again can also be translated, born from above. In fact, that's how John most often translates that Greek word. It also can mean born of God. We read about that in John chapter 1 and verse 13 And now in John 3. 5, it's also going to be described as being born of water and the Spirit, which we will explain in just a little while. And then in verse 4 we read of it being called being born of the Spirit. And again, we read at the end of verse 8, so is everyone who has been born of the Spirit. So these descriptions, being born from above, being born of God, being born again, being born of water and the Spirit, being born of spirit, they all are referring to the doctrine of regeneration. And that is that a person must be given spiritual life. And come from death and salvation. The Bible teaches that no one can be saved apart from the radical intervention of God. It's not something you can earn. It's not something you can do. Salvation does not come about by trying harder or becoming more religious or turning over a new leaf Salvation is of the Lord. And everyone who desires to go to heaven must be born again. Why is that? Well, our our text, verses four through eight, provide several reasons. Number one, because no one can enter the kingdom of God through human effort. Look with me at verse four, please. Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus is saying something here to Nicodemus, and Nicodemus responds with something that is often, I think, misunderstood. We know that the Jews described Gentile converts as those who had been reborn. So this imagery would have been known to Nicodemus. But the Jewish people, especially observant Jews, did not think they needed to be born again because they were the chosen people of Abraham. They did not need to be saved, if you will, like the Gentiles. But Jesus says to this man who is the epitome of Judaism, Unless you are transformed internally by the Spirit of God, you will never enter into the kingdom of God. And so Nicodemus responds. In a very interesting way, he says, how can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Now, often preachers will beat up on Nicodemus and say that he was very dense. Because he seems to believe that he actually, as a grown man, needs to go back into his mother's womb and be born. But I think we need to remember that Nicodemus is a very well-educated, intelligent man. He is not here being dense. He is answering an analogy with the language of analogy. And what he is saying is, I think this is crazy. I can't start over again. He has been working all of his life to earn merit with God, and he has a great position of reverence and status among the people of God. And the idea that he has to start over from square one and try a completely different approach. And to be born again just seems ludicrous. In the highest degree. In his answer, there is a mixture of confusion, rebellion, and perhaps even mocking. Because the idea of being spiritually transformed seems extreme. This is exactly the response That the Bible predicts from lost people. In 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 14, it says, the natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God. For they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. And in 1 Corinthians 1. 18 we read, For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing. But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God 's This is a truth that if you've been a believer for some time, you have probably experienced in some way. Have you ever had someone maybe a co-worker that you had a real burden that they come to Christ and so you maybe brought them to a service? where they heard the gospel clearly presented, and as the sermon is being preached, you're in essence listening to it through their ears. Thinking about maybe how they would interpret things. And to your estimation, it was a very clear and powerful presentation of the gospel. And you are rejoicing because you feel certain they're going to be saved. And as you walk out and you talk to them about it, you realize that it was all a bunch of nonsense to them. They didn't hear it. They didn't understand it. They didn't grasp it. They were deaf and blind. to the glorious gospel. This is exactly what the Bible predicts. In fact, sometimes I use this when witnessing to people and I share with them the gospel and every once in a while, you know, most often people just be very polite and and say, I'm not interested, no thank you, whatever. But you know that there's probably other thoughts going through their mind. And sometimes you'll come across a person who's just very candid and frank and they'll say, you know, to be honest with you, I think this is a bunch of nonsense. I think the idea that this Jewish carpenter died 2,000 years ago that somehow that's supposed to make a difference to my life and change everything for me. It doesn't make any sense to me. I always appreciate it when people are candid with me. And when they respond that way, I say to them, that's exactly the way the Bible said you would respond. And then I turn them to these verses in Corinthians. And explain to them why that is the way they is. They think it is, because they're so intelligent, they're smarter than the average bear. And that's why you understand, but but really the answer is because they're blind. And they think if they have some religious sense about them that they can earn God's favor and that surely they are good enough. This is the way lost people inevitably think This is the way, the premise of every false religion in the world. By following this path, by religious observance , By being moral, by being disciplined, you can earn God's favor and he will receive you and accept you. And the afterlife is going to go well for you That is the basic premise of all man-made religion. But that's not what the Bible reveals. If you talk to people about the gospel and they're not an atheist or something like that , And they profess to believe in God, about 75% of them will say, I think I'm going to heaven, and I think it's because I'm a pretty good person. I think that, you know, I'm not perfect, but I try to live a good life. And I think that God's pleased with me. I think he's going to accept me. You know, I he's he's a you know I've been told he's a God of love. And he loves me, and so he's going to accept me. Yeah, I'm not perfect. Yes, I've I've fallen often in my life, but he's going to accept me. This is the way lost people think. So let me just say this. If this is the way you're thinking, that's a red flag. And it probably indicates that you're lost. I've had people on Sunday afternoon call me before and say, you know, you said today about like if people are thinking like this, I want you to know that's exactly what I was thinking when you were talking about salvation. I'm a pretty good person. I think I'm alright. I think God's going to receive me. He kind of grades them a curve, right? And and he's gracious. And it's going to be alright. No. Unless you are born again, you will perish eternally. He's going to say that later in this chapter Secondly, everyone needs to be born of the Spirit to enter the kingdom of God. We come now to this. famous verse, perhaps notorious verse, because it has a big interpretational question within it. It says Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. Once again, Jesus responds to Nicodemus with the words, verily, verily. He's saying essentially, Nicodemus Maybe you didn't hear me the first time. So I'm going to say essentially what I said in verse 3. Remember what he said in verse 3? Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God's. And now he's going to put that same expression in slightly different language. Now there is a great debate about what the Lord meant by this expression being born of water. We know what he meant by being born of the Spirit. There's not a question about that But what did he mean by being born of water? Let me give you the three most popular suggestions, okay? Number one The Lord is referring to natural birth. This is the view that I heard growing up. In my Baptist church, and I've heard many times since then by good Bible-believing individuals. The idea here is that water is a reference to physical birth. Because of the analogy of amniotic fluid. And so the Lord is saying to Nicodemus, you must be born of water that is physically and born of the Spirit spiritually to enter the kingdom of heaven. And those who hold this view would say that verse 6 confirms this interpretation. Look at the very next verse, verse 6. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and they would say that's a reference to being born of water, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. And that of course is a reference to spirit birth But I think that that is not the co the correct understanding. There's some fatal problems with this view. Number one, never in Scripture or in any rabbinic writings that we have access to do we find water being used as a reference to physical birth. It would be very easy for us to read back into this passage something that was not there originally in the passage. We're looking at it with the viewpoint of 21st century eyes But what would a religious Jew in the first century understand by this? That's what we need to ask ourselves. So how would the Lord expect Nicodemus to understand what he meant by water? If there was nothing in Scripture or nothing in rabbinic writings that ever referred to water being physical birth. Secondly, it seems unnecessary for the Lord to tell Nicodemus that he must be born physically to be born spiritually. Alright, if I can just put it this way, no one has as a part of their evangelism presentation. Point number one. You have to be physically alive to be saved. Uh duh. I kind of knew that. And thirdly, the Greek structure suggests the idea of one birth, not two. All right, so what's the second popular answer? And that, of course, is that the Lord is referring to baptism. All those who believe in baptismal regeneration take this view. This is how the Roman Catholic Church interprets it. The Orthodox Church and many Protestant churches would understand this passage this way. In fact, there are millions and millions of people alive today that if you ask them if they're going to heaven, they would say yes, because I was baptized as an infant. That's the answer they would give. And that's because of this erroneous teaching about regeneration. There is nothing in the context that would lead Nicodemus to know that Jesus was talking about baptism. In fact, Christian baptism had not been introduced at this time. And the last thing the Lord is doing here is giving to Nicodemus, who was all about rituals, one more ritual to do, to make him right with God. I believe that the correct view is the third view, although you're willing, you're you're you're able to disagree with me if you would like. You have the freedom in this country to be wrong, if you would like so. Um just kidding, just kidding. Number three I believe the Lord is referring to be born of the Spirit, and it's not talking about two things one. It could be translated born of water, even the spirits. The water is symbolic of the Spirit's work. The Lord is saying the same thing he said to Nicodemus in verse 3. These are parallel expressions Unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. He's not talking about something different now when he says being born of water and of the spirits The Lord expects Nicodemus to understand this symbolism, and well he should, because this imagery is found in the Old Testament, and Nicodemus was a master of the Old Testament. There are many references to purification by water as symbolic of the work of the Spirit in the Old Testament. The key text is Ezekiel chapter 36 Verses 25 through 27, it says, I will sprinkle clean water upon you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleanness. And from all your idols I will cleanse you. And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. Notice there's a reference to water and the spirits, and it's all a picture of regeneration, of having a new heart that will now obey. You see, the Lord is saying to Nicodemus, you need to be cleansed by the Spirit of God. You need a new heart, a new birth, a new beginning. But even this truth can be distorted by people. I've talked to many people over the years who think when you present the gospel to them they will say Yeah, I I want to get saved, but I've got to clean up my act first. There's some habits I have to get rid of. There's some new things I need to implement in my life. But when I get my act cleaned up, then I will come to God to be saved. And that, of course, is the wrong answer. We heard a song this morning, Just As I Am. You have to come to God just as you are. with your sin and your problems and your inconsistencies and your flaws Yes, you repent of your sin by the Spirit of God, but you don't clean up your act. You come as you are, depending only on the work of God in your life. There's a third reason that we need to be born again because no one can enter into the kingdom of God in this natural state. Look with me in verses six and 7, please. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the spirit is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, you must be born. Again, the Lord here is explaining to Nicodemus why he must be born of the Spirit. He says, what is born of flesh is flesh, what is born of spirit is spirit. The Lord is simply saying here that like Begets like. Alright? We understand this, right? Dogs give birth to dogs. Cats give birth to cats. People give birth to people. The Lord is using the word flesh to refer to our human nature. He is saying that human effort produces human results. And your human effort can never save you. Now, I don't believe that the Lord here is using the term flesh in the way that Paul does. to denote our fallen nature. However, it is true that all of us, our human nature, is inherently sinful. You inherited from your parents and they inherited from their parents going all the way back to Adam and Eve. Every parent in here knows that you did not have to teach your child to lie or to be selfish Or to be deceptive? No, they did that naturally, and they got that from you. You have to teach them to share. You have to teach them to be honest. You have to teach them to be kind. Because we all have as part of our fallen human nature a propensity to sin. And so if you are going to be saved, there must be the intervention of the Spirit of God. You must be born again. Look with me at verse 7. We have this very famous command. And I want to point out something that you may have never noticed before. I didn't until I was studying this week. It seems like the Lord is just speaking to Nicodemus and giving this command to him, but the word you in the text is plural. The principle that the Lord is explaining is not just true of Nicodemus, that Nicodemus needs to be born again. No, everyone needs to be born again. And notice this word must. He doesn't say they should be born again, or they may be born again, or it'd be nice if they were born again. He says they must be born again This is a word that John uses several times in his gospel to denote what is absolutely necessary. such as it was necessary for Jesus to go to the cross for our salvation. It wasn't just one plan. It was God's plan. It was a necessary plan for salvation and for atonement. There are no exceptions. Every true believer has at some time been born again because no one can go to heaven in their natural state. And fourth, no one can enter the kingdom of God apart from the work of the Spirit. Look with me now at verse eight. The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes So it is with everyone who is born with the Spirit. The Lord here uses another analogy to help Nicodemus understand what he means by this concept of being born again. Perhaps as they were speaking, there was a gust of wind that was blowing through the trees. It's very interesting that in both Hebrew and Greek, the word for wind is also the word for spirits. And I'm told this is true in many other languages as well. So he says here that the wind blows where it wills. The wind, of course, does not have a mind of its own. But it often seems like this. He's saying that there's something mysterious about the blowing of the wind, so there is something mysterious about the work of the Spirit. And I think a parallel that he is making here is that the Spirit's work in salvation cannot be manipulated Even today with our modern technology, we cannot really control the wind. We can predict when there's going to be a windy day But you'll notice that sometimes meteorologists get the weather forecast wrong, very wrong. And it's almost because the wind suddenly shifts direction or intensity Where Gulf Streams change, things change unexpectedly for no apparent reason, and it completely shifts the whole pattern of the weather. Even with all of our satellites and all of our computers, we are still often baffled with unexpected changes in the weather. And so the point is that it's impossible to completely manipulate or predict the moving of the spirits. Have you ever have you ever felt that someone was going to be saved? And then they didn't get saved. Or have you ever felt that someone was definitely not going to get saved because just the hard kind of person they are, and yet that person got saved? You never would have guessed it. The work of the Spirit is unpredictable. And the work of the Spirit cannot be manipulated. A lot of well-meaning Christians Have at times tried to manipulate the work of the spirit. And the idea is that they put great psychological pressure on people to respond. And that if you just create the right atmosphere and have the right music and say the right words And just keep that then you can get people to respond. You can get people perhaps to walk an aisle or to raise a hand or to say a prayer. And I'm not saying I'm against any of those things. I'm not saying they're evil at all. But where people depend on those methods There is a very high percentage of false professions of faith. They were caught up in the moment and they made some response, but their life after that reveals there was no real change inside. So we have to be careful. We have to be faithful. We are gospel ambassadors speaking the truth, and we're speaking the truth in love and earnestness. But we're not selling fire insurance. We're not salesmen saying, hey, we got a ticket for you, get out of hell, and all you gotta do is do this, and then it'll all be taken care of and never have to worry about it again. Again, my point is not to throw stones at people, a lot of well-intentioned Christian people seeking to do the work of the Lord. have inadvertently fallen into patterns of manipulation which produce a lot of false fruit and false assurance. of salvation. But the Spirit's work cannot be manipulated. Just like you can't Summon up the wind to blow on a hot summer evening when you wish there was a breath of air. You can't control that So you cannot control the spirit of God and the way he works. But I also want to bring this point out. The evidence of the Spirit's work in salvation is recognizable. He says here, you hear the sound thereof. That is, you can see the effects. You can't see the wind, but you can see where the wind has blown. You can hear the wind blowing. I think we must have had some type of weather here last night. I wasn't in the area. I came in this morning and there were the telltale signs of strong wind. There were little leaves everywhere and little branches that had been broken off laying around in the parking lots. I didn't hear or see the wind, but there was evidence the wind was blowing here. It's the same way in the spiritual realm. The results are not always the same in every person. But there is a common denominator, and that is there has been a change. When a person has been born again, there has been a change wrought by the Spirit of God. You may not know exactly when it occurred. You may not have the date written down inside your Bible. Maybe you do. Sometimes it's traumatic, like the Apostle Paul. But sometimes it's not. But you know that there has been a change, a whole new focus in your life. It says here, so is everyone that is born of the spirits. This is true of everyone. There's evidence of spiritual life. There's something, I think they still do it. They did when my kids were born. There's something called the Apgar test. where they would rate the health of the child when it is firstborn. The Bible gives us evidences of new life. The same man who wrote the Gospel of John also wrote some other books. He wrote the book of Revelation, the last verse, a book of the Bible. He wrote three epistles, first, second, and third John. And in 3 John, he gives five evidences. that a person has been born again. Let me give these to you. Number one. Born again believers practice righteousness. 1 John 2. 29, everyone who practices righteousness has been born of him. This doesn't mean that we're perfect. Doesn't mean that we're sinless. But it means that we're different than we used to be. And that we are becoming more and more like Christ as we grow in grace. We are people of integrity. We practice righteousness. Number two, born-again believers do not love their sin, but repent of it. I thought a long time about how to capture what these verses are saying. 1 John 3. 9 says, no one born of God makes a practice of sinning. 1 John 5, 18, everyone who has been born of God does not keep on sinning. And I can't tell you how many times people have come to me in my office and said, I'm really troubled about this verse. Because I keep on sinning, but the Bible says if you've been born of God, you don't keep on sinning. We do not believe the Bible teaches sinless perfection in this life. You're not going to get to the place where you just don't sin anymore. You know, it's been a good ten, twelve years since I've sinned. I've run into people like that before. And I usually want to say, I usually stifle, I usually want to say, you're sinning right now because you're lying to me But this is this is this is a difficult one. I think what it's saying is that we do not continue to love our sin and cherish it Although we do have besetting sins, but we hate our sin and we repent of our sin and we we beg and plead for God to take away our sin. And hopefully we grow in grace so that it becomes less and less frequent in our lives, but we don't defend our sins and embrace our sins and love our sins. We turn from our sin. And by God's grace, we find victory. Number three, born-again believers love their brothers and sisters. This is actually the most frequent sign that John gives. of new life. In fact, the most frequent evidence the New Testament gives for being born again is that you love Your brothers and sisters in Christ. That may be shocking to you, but it's exactly what the Bible teaches. We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brothers. Do you want to be with Christian people? I asked this question like this, would you rather be with the unsaved people at work? Do you have an affinity for them? You love to hang out with lost people? Or do you like to be in church with the people of God because they are your people? You have a bond with them. You have something in common with them. You have a supernatural affection and concern for them because they're part of the body of Christ. This is why a person who claims to be a believer and never wants to come to church, that's a problem Or all of your best friends that you hang out with are lost people, and yet you have a great affinity for them. That's a problem. Because born-again people are closest to other born-again people. This is just the way it is Birds of the feather flock together. They are my people. Do you know what it is? Do you know what it is to have like a Christian radar? This is a weird mystical thing. But sometimes I'll be around a crowd or something. I tell my wife over there, that family over there, I guarantee you they're Christian people. And she'll say, how could you tell that? I said, I guarantee, watch. I'm going to go out and talk to her. And nine times out of ten, I'm right. I'm right. Just have a sense. Those are Christian people Number four, born-again believers are not overcome by the world. 1 John 5 4 says, For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. The world is a very dangerous place in which to live because it constantly is giving us an anti-God message, a secular view of the world. Live for the here and now. So how are we supposed to survive in this kind of environment? We survive because we have been born again, because we've been changed. from the inside out and because we've been changed from the inside out our faith will persevere it will not evaporate It may grow weak, it may be beat down, it may at times be filled with doubts, but it will not die. It will continue, and in time, by God's grace, it will thrive again. We are not defeated by the world. And number five, and I've saved this one for last, born-again believers trust in Christ alone. 1 John 5, 1. Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God. And it's not talking about intellectual sense. It's not talking about you nodding your head, yeah, yeah, I guess, I guess he is the Christ, the Messiah. No, you're trusting in him and him alone for your salvation. You're relying on him. You have no reliance in yourself. But you have come to believe that he is who he claimed to be the Son of God. He is the Savior of the world, as we will find in John chapter 4. And you have come to put trust in him. This is exactly where Jesus is going to go in this discussion with Nicodemus. Skipping ahead, not wanting to steal my thunder, but in verses 14 and 15, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. Those who have been born again give evidence to it in that they trust in Christ alone. So let me ask you, is there evidence that you have been born again? Do you have signs of spiritual life? Is there evidence in your daily life that you have been changed from the inside outs? Years ago, when I was a kid, And there was still the uh the the um Soviet Union and everything, and and preachers were always preaching about like Soviet Union coming and invading our country and and rounding up Christians and putting them on trial. You didn't hear sermons like this? I heard these sermons all the time. And and um And they would say, if they were to put you on trial for being a Christian, would there be enough evidence to convict you? And that's sort of what I'm saying here. Is there evidence? Or would there just be like, well, I go to church every once in a while? They pray when things are really bad. They take their Bible when they go to church. But aside from that, there's not really much convincing evidence that they have been transformed by the grace of God. This message is not for just people who think they're lost. This message is for everyone. Have you been born again? We sang this gospel song with that buoyant melody since Jesus came into my heart. And I picked that song because it has the message that everything changes When you've been born again. So has there been a time in your life when there was a change And your life has gone in a different direction since that time because the Spirit of God changed you from the inside out. And you now bear fruit, the most significant of which is you trust in Christ alone. alone. He is your only hope, your only savior. May God help you to respond in faith this morning. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you, Father, for the message of the gospel that tells us clearly and repeatedly that we cannot save ourselves. But that we need a Savior. And that we don't need a little reformation. We need regeneration. We need you to radically change us from the very core of our beings. And so I pray, Father, that we would respond in faith. And for those who are here this morning, who perhaps have come to the conclusion that they have never been born again, I pray that they would seek you right now. And that they, Father, would cry out in faith. And Lord, if they have questions and issues, I pray that they would seek Godly counsel immediately that they might come to the full assurance that indeed they have been born again. For it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.