I'm glad to be with all of you again this evening as we jump into the book of Jude again. I hope that this book has been ministering to you as we've discussed the many different aspects of the book and through a couple different conversations and really just my own nudging and desire. We're going to go one more week for this book. I was trying to do a bunch of verses this week, but it just wouldn't really do the book justice. And Um I appreciate uh pastors moving around some of the schedule so I could do one more week of Jude. So we'll get pretty far tonight as we get into it, but The doxology of Jude is is pretty epic, so I want to spend a whole uh lesson just on that doxology at the end. So good, we're all set up here. So I'm not going to do much of a recap tonight. We're kind of past the critical. I'd be recapping for I think half of the lesson if we were to do that at this point. But what's significantly happening at this point in the book of Jude is we're kind of making a transition. So if you've been with us in the book of Jude. Really verses 6 through 16 deal with these apostates, these false teachers, and really this vivid description of them and what they're doing. But now starting in verse 17, Jude makes a shift. He makes a transition. And now he starts addressing the beloved. And we've talked about the beloved a few times in our lesson. In terms of who they are. Remember back in verse 3, I believe, or sorry, verse 2, he talks about the beloved and who they are in Christ. But in these next seven verses, he's going to direct these believers towards kind of the antidote of what he's been talking about so far. So all the lessons we've gone through. Jude's not kind of turning the direction, he's going to, in a sense, solve the problem that he's been presenting, or at least encourage them in the right direction. He's going to go from this kind of passive observing of these apostates. to have an active role or active involvement in the lives of these believers and what they should be doing. But coming back to our theme verse, he's going to give kind of the who, what 's, and how of the contending for the faith. So we've been holding that theme up there. It's been the theme we've Realize it's the theme or saying it's the theme, but we've really been waiting for that to really flesh out, and today we'll start getting some of that fleshed out. But tonight's section involves a series of commands, and there are three sections in your notes, we'll cover them tonight. The first is about remembering the predictions of the apostles, which brings awareness to the apostasy that they're experienced. And second, he's going to give this declaration to build yourself up in the holy faith. This is again fostering their spiritual maturity by the words of faith. And lastly, this section on restoring the doubting. By having mercy to those who have been contaminated by the apostates while avoiding contamination ourselves. So I'm going to jump into this first section tonight, remembering the predictions of the apostles. He says this, but you must remember, beloved, the predictions of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. Again, we've talked about this shift here to the beloved. He makes this contrast, but he's making this really boldly, and he's been talking about these apostates. But you must remember, beloved. He's really making that emphasis, that big kind of categorical shift in our minds. It's really a big change from who he's been talking about. And James will make sure, or Jew must make sure we're adjusting audiences. But his command in this verse for us is to remember. This is the bad star. We're just going to erase that, try again. This is his core command for this verse. Remember. That's his first kind of press. to them. Which makes sense if we just slow down a second and think about his whole kind of perspective, right? To come back to the faith once delivered to the saints. This information. But This is a sense of urgency. You must remember. He's pushing them actively to recall these words. You're making that connection back to verse 5. And as believers, we understand that there's a level of remembering to what we need to do. We talk about memory verses, we talk about remembering what's going on, we know about hiding the word in our heart Keeping that word inside of us. I think the maturity of a believer has much to do with how much and to what detail the Word of God lives in them As they mature, the teachings, the word of God, it makes an impression, a change in their heart, and that word begins to stick, and they begin to live through that word. So this word is kept in our minds. But this is not just a mental exercise for the beloved. This call to remember, as it is mostly in the New Testament, is not just a call to mentally remember. But it's a call to act out in a sense. It's to remember to act accordingly to what you know. When someone says, you know, when I say to My children, hey, remember to take out the trash. I'm not asking them to be like, yeah, remember you said that. Thanks. That's not the intent, right? It's a remembrance to enact. To follow. This is what he's conferring here. You must remember, beloved, these things. But he calls out what he's wanting to remember: the predictions of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now the predictions, these are words that have been delivered, it's in this certain sense, and they're using this to talk about something that's been delivered either orally or written, as we we kind of understand what he's talking about. We're still in the early 60s here. The scripture is getting around, but a lot of these believers have been taught orally the word of God. We have to kind of keep that in mind as we think about this. There are some letters. Again, but not everyone has access to letters. But it's something that they can speak of the surety of the apostates. This is something that they've been sharing with them these predictions that the apostates, or sorry, the apostles have been sharing. to them. But as he talks about these predictions, he says the predictions of the apostles. So he's mentioning this as he stirs us up to remember the apostles. And this is again coming back to that hanging idea of contending for the faith once delivered. So we talk about what the apostates have been doing, they've been introducing new teachings. Now new ideas, they've been going off, and he's bringing back a level of authority here to say, hey, remember the predictions of the apostles of Jesus Christ, our Lord. You know, the natural meaning of the word apostle simply means the sent one, yet in this context of Jude, he's speaking about those of the Lord Jesus Christ, those sent of the Lord. Now Jude didn't see himself as one of the apostles, but rather saw this group as a divine authority bearing the word of truth. Now this is important as we understand this and not to go off on a divergent kind of path here and talk about canonicity which we talked about last week. But even here, Jude is recognizing that there's an authority to the apostles. To what they have said. He's kind of introducing this. When we think about apostolicity of our books of the Bible, we talked about last time. Um It was already important to the believers that the letters of the apostles and the words of the apostles were set off differently than just other books and other writings. Jude's making that occasion here. These apostles of our Lord We must remember those specifically. Now, again, it's not even saying that Jew knew them all, but he's against stirring them up to a reminder of these predictions. He said, They said to you, In the last time there will be scoffers following their own ungodly passions. As he uses this phrase, they said to you, the warnings of the apostates, or sorry, the apostles, well, that's going to be a tricky one today. The apostates were a regular figure in the apostles' teachings. This is more precisely rendered that they were saying unto you, which would open up the inclusion of not just oral transmissions, but the writings as well. We know this from 2 Timothy, I'd give you some references there. So this idea of saying this has not been a new idea, this is again something delivered once off for the saints. This is the history, the faith that we're contending for. They said to you these things. Now this quote definitely raises some some uh some thoughts in the commentary. There is one place they believe this is echoing Which is 2 Peter 3, 3. So the connection to this verse, so he's saying they said to the apostles, we would assume maybe this is coming from a letter, and it's not a word-for-word exact. Copy, but the spirit of the letter is there. In 2 Peter 3. 3, Peter says, Knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing, following their own sinful desires. Just on hearing that , you probably can see the similarity in that, they both use the word scoffers, which actually is the only time in the New Testament, this in Jude, that that word is used. It's a very unique word, so it definitely aids to that connection there. Obviously the reference to last times with scoffing and this following of their own desires, whether it's ungodly passions, their own sinful desires, the connection, the construction of the sentence is pretty similar. And assuming that Jude, as he said here, remember the predictions of the apostles, we're assuming here that Jude is copying Peter, not the other way around. Remember, all the way back in our first lesson, we did a little introduction. You have Second Peter and Jude have a very similar timeline and there's some debate on who comes first. This is one of those cases we realize, okay Clearly, Jude really respects the apostles and their opinions. So it would be kind of strange for Peter to quote Jude. It's more likely that Jude is quoting 2 Peter here as he talks about this verse. But he says, in the last time there will be scoffers following their own ungodly passions. This last time is a reference to Christ and the return of Christ These are grammatically the times that are last, in the sense those times that are going to be the last of times. This is a reference given all through the New Testament. The reference to the apostates and false teachers at end times is so widely heralded from the apostles. 1 John 2, 18 says this, Children, it is the last hour And as you've heard that the Antichrist is coming, so now many Antichrists have come. Therefore we know it is the last hour. They went out from us, but they were not of us For they had they had been with us, they would have continued with us, but they went out, that it might become plain that they are not of us. And there's some really strong echoing here of this message of the apostates in that verse. And even in the Gospel of John, which Pastor is faithfully working through. We'll get more as we get later into some later verses, this idea of last days that John talks about uses frequently to speak of the coming of the Lord and the end time for judgment to take place. So this idea of last time is pretty consistent through the New Testament. But he mentions that there will be scoffers. Again, this is only used twice in the entire New Testament. It's people who mock and ridicule the great and vital importance of things of the Lord In 2 Peter, the object of their faith is, of their scoffing, is Christ, but Jew does not refer to the object here, rather the act. Again, as we've seen through Jude, Jude's stress has been continually on the character of these men, not so much the object or what they're saying, what they're doing, but who they are in character. So Jude kind of continues that pattern here. Now, there's a strong case here, and as I've studied Jude, I think more and more about this, especially as what the content has been going. There's a strong case being made that they're scoffing here. was really a scoffing against or towards the return of the Lord. Or against it in a sense, to be more accurate. Considering the nature of the apostates and the content we were covering in past lessons, denying judgment, denying the return of the Lord, that there'll be a judgment. really opens the door to all kinds of evil, moral degeneration, all these kind of evil things, and that doesn't seem that far off to us, even the world we live in. When you remove the idea that your actions have a consequence, that there's going to be a moral judgment, and you scoff at that idea. How easily that's paired with a reckless sin and a reckless life in full, in a sense, apostasy or in fleshly living that Jude's been talking about over and over again. So I believe this is what the scoffing that he is talking about just fits well to the kind of the theme or the kind of pattern we've seen in Jude as he talks about Cain and these apostates. But they'll be scoffing, and in light of that, again another support, they're following their own ungodly passions. Because of that, because there's no judgment in their mind, they're not worried about any kind of consequence. Their ungodliness this is filled with an unsatiable, inasatiable lusts they have for the flesh, for the patterns and passions of selfishness. Again, it's a reference back to verse 4 in their sensuality, verse 8 in their defiling the flesh. Even in verse 10, as they walk around or roam around like unreasoning animals. So this is what he wants them to remember. The apostles predicted this again. It's not new, as we've been talking about what they've sent before, that there's going to be these people We should not be shaken, but we should be understanding this is what the apostles had talked about. He's got one more part as he finishes this. And he says, it is these who cause the visions, worldly people, devoid of the spirit. This is his last use of the these in the book. We've been talking about this demonstrative pronoun, these and those. This is his last time using this in the book But these people, you kind of do these three attributes, you're kind of given this little series of character here. The first thing they do is cause divisions. This is a word point that's put together in the New Testament. It's really only used here. We've heard that theme before. Paul talks about divisions, but just the way that this is structured is kind of unique here. It's a compound of two different words and the idea of kind of making a boundary through and cutting off something. So in a sense, the idea is to kind of break off or to separate off something. This is the division. They're not just kind of cutting down the middle, they're cutting in a way that kind of breaks off and fractures or fractions the group. We might call it splintering, but it's this kind of idea or breaking off idea that we get from this. Again, we don't know to what full nature this division was done, but again, Jude focuses on the character, not the content, not what they've done, but who they are in their heart and spirit In terms of the commentaries, the the comment uh commentators have different views on what they're talking about here. It could be that these men were creating groups kind of in the church. One rendering you may have in your Bible says those who separate themselves, meaning they kind of like clicked up in the church. They've kind of created their own little division in that, which could point to some sort of distinction of the church, spiritual and physical. This is, in a sense, not in contrast to the verse 4 declaration of them being in the church. So even though they're causing divisions, they're still in the church. They're kind of in the church, but but broken off, a bit separate, probably heightening them up to be some kind of spiritual power. They're separating themselves to kind of create that division. And this is part of additionally, we talked a little bit about this early on. You know, Jude gives us this great description, but you know, he doesn't have the benefit of you know, 2020 vision back in history um of calling these men what they were is what we would call them. But there's a lot of um understanding that this is again a support point that Jude is likely talking about Gnostics. Gnostics really were kind of people that that was part of their whole their whole shtick, their whole game, was that they were separating people, creating divisions based on kind of spiritual power Some were really spiritually minded, those were kind of the elite. There were some who were kind of struggling. They called them the spiritual. They kind of had some spirit, but they were still struggling in the flesh. And there were some that were just they considered animalistic, like they would never be saved. They're just not even like a human kind of um, or they're just all flesh, no mind, no spirit, as they kind of separated these people. This is probably a little bit what they're talking about here in terms of causing divisions. It's not true, not biblical, but it's kind of how they were separating people. But as we don't have a firm basis of that, he didn't say that here. You can see it's two words, cause divisions. We don't want to read too far into it. There's a lot of evidence. as well that just simply points to what we experience in Corinth, right? The division of the church over wealth, practices, other aspects of the Christian life. This is something that just affects unity, right? So whether it is Gnostics, it's a pretty good case for that, or if it's just people struggling in sin together in the church affecting unity, which could ultimately be the case as well. Unity is essential to the church. And this is what he's pointing to, that this unity, these people are not preserving unity, they're not preserving harmony, they're causing divisions, they're trying to fraction people. And that's part of their ungodliness. He also calls them worldly people. Now when we first read that, and I first read it, it makes a little sense. You think, okay, worldly, we get it, they're kind of of the world. But the the rendering here actually is more of a a word that we would say is like um soul-ish, which is a strange word. Um, but it's it's a way of that Jude is trying to contrast them to from being spiritually minded to being bodily minded. So in a sense the way that the Gnostics, even people in that time used the word soul was more connected to the body. When we think about uh mind and spirit and soul, or body and mind, soul in those different ways, the soul was thought of as being more kind of part of the flesh and part of the human part. than like the mind or the spirit. So when he's saying they're they're kind of soulish people, he's kind of pointing more towards their natural nature. Some um Some uh Bible translations use um kind of naturally minded or natural instincts as a translation here which makes more sense. When we read rolling it kind of throws us off a little bit. We think maybe they're like materialistic or something like that. But that's not the case. There are people who, in a sense, didn't have a spiritual mind. They're more kind of worldly based, like ground-based, like animalistic in a sense. It's really that natural man almost in an in an atom sense without a level of spirituality. But this isn't, in a sense, a new concept. James talks about this when he says, you know, this is not the wisdom that comes from above, but is earthly, unspiritual, and demonic. He points to that kind of way of life or way of thinking. Or 1 Corinthians 2 says the natural person, in this idea of the natural world, does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. So what Jude's talking about here is that contrast between that natural person who can't really discern the things of the Spirit, they don't really have that capacity, or they're just the sin is rampant in their lives. And so that's part of who they are. Again, I just think back to that verse 10, like the unreasoning animals who are just roaming around without any notion of the spirit. And he highlights that here in the last part, devoid of the spirit. This is a pretty harsh claim. The reason for this worldly state, their divisions, all they've been talking about is that they are devoid of the spirit. Without the Spirit, they are incomplete in any context of salvation. Without the Spirit, they had sunk to the level of an animal immoral, producing confusion in the church. You see, there can be no greater offense to a Christian than to be accused of being without the Spirit It is to call them unregenerate, animal-like, but even more so detached or dispatched from God. The spirit is not there. They are devoid. I believe, and hopefully you feel the same way after five, well, four, going on five weeks of Jude, I think he's pretty accurate based on these apostates. He's making an actual claim, a strong one, a strong claim, and I think it's worth saying this is a claim that we should be incredibly careful to make in the body. To doubt someone's faith, to doubt their belief. I hope you have a mountain of evidence before you would do something like that. But anyone with good spiritual discernment can read this, would agree with him on his evidence. And Jude 's going to talk about more of this as we get into the last part as he deals with these kind of um doubting believers. But there's a great difference between these apostates that we've been looking at over these last verses and those who are confused. Maybe uneducated, not discipled. There's a big difference. And we're going to talk about that in our third point. But it's worth pausing on this for a second as we get to this. That he's basically, this is what they say is the nail in the coffin. They're just devoid of the spirit. They are not of God. They do not belong in the church. So he's stir them to remember this, to think about the apostle's word. And so we've we've finished this group, and we're going to move on to the next group, but he's going to continue kind of presenting this sharp contrast. But now we review the fact that the apostles warn them about their coming and the nature of these men. Jude is now going to get to the urging. He's going to urge them. To accept their responsibility for their security amongst the apostates through maturing in the faith Just like fighting a cold, which my family is doing almost bi-weekly, it seems, the best way to prevent yourself from getting sick is building up a strong immune system. And we have that spiritual immune system as we ingest the word and be built up in the faith. This is what Jude is going to press us to as we keep yourselves in the love of God. Let's see what he says. But you, beloved, that's our wonderful word again, building yourselves up in the most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit. Keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. Now maybe you've been kind of wondering why I'm like creative with my indenting on this stuff. I realized after week five, I'm like, I never talked about why I indent things the way I indent them. But I'm trying to indent things on the screen to help break and draw attention to kind of where the main clauses are and where the arguments are. I'm not you know super excellent at this, but it helps me kind of think through things. But this left side kind of shows the main point. And in this verse, this is the main this is his main command. This is the verb. Keep yourselves in the love of God. This is what he wants us to take from this this uh verse. Well two verses. But he has three participle clauses. Two clauses go with this. The first two sets here, oops, wrong pen , are means. Means in which we do this. It's these two. And then the following, in a sense, is this outcome. So we see this kind of construction as we just read through things. Sometimes we kind of we understand it naturally as we're English readers, we kind of get it. But sometimes it helps us to break it up so we can kind of see what The author's talking about or what the main thrust of this is. Without that, maybe we think that it's the building yourself up or it's the praying that's kind of the important part. But this is how we break this up just to help us kind of think through this a bit But he gives these two kind of clauses in terms of the means. He says, first, we're to be building yourselves up in the most holy faith. This term is used widely in the New Testament. It's a metaphor for build like building a building. It's erected. I think I left you a couple of verse references there. The idea here is that we're building upon something. We're building upon a foundation, and that foundation is Christ. Ephesians 2. 19 We see a very similar call to building in 2 Peter 1, where he says this. For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control. and self-control with steadfastness, steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love. For if these qualities are yours and increasing, they keep you from being ineffective and unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. He wants us to build ourselves up. He uses this reflexive yourselves because he wants us to know that this responsibility is ours. It's not the church's job. It is our own job. It's your job to build yourself up in the most holy faith. While we've been given the desire and the ability to do this, it's still within our charge to work out our faith. Philippians 2, 12. Again, it doesn't say build one another up. It says build yourselves up. You know the church body can assist in that. That's why we have our Our church, where we meet together, there's still this inherent responsibility that each person work on their own spiritual growth. But we're building ourselves in that holy faith. This faith holy stands in contrast to those teachings of the apostates. It's not a personal faith, but one that's directed to our object in faith, which is Christ. Your most holy faith, again. indicates that these people have this faith. Right? It's your. Your faith, the faith you had, is identifying them as being believers in this. And this most holy faith is not just like a superlative, like a great faith, but no, it is the holy faith, the one that is set apart, the one that is true, holy, and distinct, the one set apart, and the one delivered to the saints. But it's also holy because it was delivered by God Himself through the Spirit that transmits this faith to us. So we're building ourselves up in the most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit. Praying in the Holy Spirit marks the operation of the inner life of the believer. And it's specific to the Christian faith. Many other faiths will say they pray, but what are they praying to or what are they praying through? We are praying in the Holy Spirit, a distinctive, a distinct command for his people. It's the only place in the New Testament we find this command. There's a couple of those in Jude, which is always interesting to think about. But the character of this praying is demonstrated in that it's enabled and undertaken by the Holy Spirit. The experience and possession of the Holy Spirit inspires us to pray. There's no other way, in a sense, to be praying. I was thinking today, if we're if we're not praying in the Holy Spirit, I'm not sure it's a prayer that God is enabling us to pray. But some have taken this idea of praying in the Spirit, this verse specifically, to be a kind of charismatic prayer. Like this is a special kind of prayer, whether it's speaking in tongues or it's um some other kind of uh you know confusing kind of praying or enabled by a a different kind of uh pneumatology. But I think as we understand the spirit, even in Jude's own letter , This is not the praying that he's talking about. This is a praying that it would be normative for the believer We pray in the spirit all the time. That's what we're supposed to be doing. It's not a special kind of prayer. We pray in the spirit frequently. But there's a sense here as we think about that, as we're challenged by that idea, praying in the Spirit. We are to be in the Spirit. Paul talks about this. Quite a bit in Ephesians. There's a sense that we're always to be in the Spirit. We are sealed by the Spirit. We are indwelt with the Spirit at the point of our conversion. But there is a yielding to that Spirit, to the Word of God, to the Spirit, and the setting our minds on the Spirit. So if we think about this, you know, if we go through our days and we entertain evil thoughts or lustful thoughts In a sense, we've departed from that walking with the Spirit. The indwelling isn't gone, but we've let lost that connection with the Spirit. We've entertained sin, we've thought things, we've maybe even sinned with our hearts or our tongues or our minds. In a sense, we've departed a bit from that. He's calling us to that return to that praying within the Spirit. That filling of the Spirit And it's not about a quantity, but it's about a yielding, a yielding to the obedience and control of the Spirit. It should be our goal to walk in the Spirit each day, to pray in the Spirit, keeping our minds on the godly things, keeping our hearts free from idols, from lusts. Keeping the Word of God in front of us. It is a state of walking in the Spirit that would allow us then to pray in the Spirit more continually. So this is not just a quick call to prayer, like read your Bible and pray. No, he's telling us to build ourselves up in the most holy faith, strengthening us. And to walk that out. Remembering is not just knowing, it's acting. But we are to build ourselves up and walk in the Spirit to be able then to pray in that spirit. Those are the means that we get to this command. Keep yourselves in the love of God. This is a interesting word. We keep ourselves in the love of God this has a lot of different ways of of approaching this, but really as we think about this sentence, this command, I'm sure many of you, your minds are kind of going in different places. What is he trying to say here? There's a lot kind of packed into this. Well, hopefully I can unpack this kind of clearly. But as he says keep yourselves, again he's keeping to that direct Address to the believers, he's really showing a necessity for self-discipline. Keep yourselves. It does not mean that they are providing their own salvation, but they are working with God in His Spirit and His power to work out their faith through God has enabled them to do so. Philippians 2. 13 again. So there's an element here where we are to work this out, to keep ourselves in the love of God. But this love of God can be thought of in two different ways. Could be that we're keeping ourselves attractive to God, like we're keeping our love for God going. Or that we're keeping ourselves in God's love for us. Obviously, there's big implications if we think through that. I know it's Wednesday. We've probably done a lot of thinking already today. But as your mind kind of thinks through that, this is speaking of God's love for us. Because if it was speaking the opposite, it would imply that we're responsible for God loving us. And that would counter many scriptures, not only on saving grace, would be a soapboxed verse for determinism. That you're saving yourselves. Yeah, I'm keeping myself in the love of God, doing the right things. That can't be what it's saying. Jude even contrasts that already in verse 2. Or back to bur uh that started back to verse one even as well. Beloved in God the Father and kept by Christ. See you cannot be speaking out of both ends of his tongue in a sense by saying that you're loved by the Father and you're kept by Christ This verse can't mean the exact opposite, that we're keeping ourselves and we're creating our own love for Christ. No. It is the Father's love for us. Be loved in God the Father and kept by Christ. He's already, in a sense, deposited his theology in the first verse of this book. But what we're seeing here in this keeping yourselves in the love of God , Is the expected result of the love of the Father and the keeping in Christ. That in his love and power we are to pursue him rightly. This command to keep ourselves is the Christian's response to the love of the Father. We do not control the love of the Father, but in a sense, love of the Father has its own communion, its own kind of terms. Judas telling his readers to keep themselves in the love of God as a doctor might tell you to eat healthy food. We're to keep ourselves aware of anything that might interfere In essence, with our obedience to the Lord. Or to keep ourselves in that state. John 15 It says this, as the Father has loved me, so I loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. These things I have spoken to you that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be full. This keeping yourselves in the love of God is this active obedience to the Lord. By his Spirit, by His grace, that we keep His commandments and we walk in them, that we seek Him, that we build ourselves up, we pray, that we pursue Christ in likeness, in obedience. Just like that popular hymn, when we walk with the Lord in the light of his word, what a glory he sheds on our way. While we do his goodwill, he abides with us still, and to all who will trust and obey. This is the command to do whatever can keep ourselves pursuing the love of the Lord through obedience, through a living a word -saturated life. He will continue to abide with us as we seek a closeness to him. Remember, Jude is addressing the church with varying levels of commitment and sanctification. Some of you might be sitting out there saying, Yeah, this is I do this all the time. This is fantastic. But remember, this is a church that, in a sense, has been emotionally and m morally shaken by these apostates. And he says, no, you've been shaken, you're you're stressing out, you're you're having some issues, you're thinking about things differently. Build yourselves up in that one holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit, and keep yourselves in the love of God. Pursue that love of Christ by abiding in his commands. This will keep them, in a sense, falling for false teachers or falling into sin. This is also this was not the intent of these other men. Those apostates were far from obedient, insomuch they were dragging others away from the Lord in their attempts to gain and shipwreck others. This was the opposite of what they were doing. But then he closes, oh boy. Then he closes with this last line, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. This waiting is also a looking forward to. It's that eager expectancy that we're doing all this, waiting for the Lord Jesus Christ and to our eternal life. This mercy is bestowed on all those who are found in Christ in the last day. Note the R Lord, again, talking to the believers. He knows who he's speaking to. And this eternal life is this mercy, waiting for the mercy, that mercy of our Lord leads to eternal life. Again, not by our own works. It is his grace and his mercy that brings us to that eternal life. So Jude sets up this compelling contrast here that we are to stri strive and to work, to build ourselves up, to pray, to walk in the love of the Father, to abide in him. But of course it is his mercy still alone that brings us to the eternal life. Jude wants us to look past of the troubles of this life. to the eternity that awaits and be steadfast in keeping our love for God and obedience to Him Well, I figured it out. It's the clock is dead. It's still 646, so that's why it's not going anywhere. Alright. It's a few minutes left. So last section. Restore the doubting. So we're going to enter these last verses. Jude is going to discuss some new people. We've been talking about those people. We've been talking about those, the apostates and the beloved. Now he's going to introduce kind of a different group of people. We haven't talked about these guys. These people, in a sense, the best way to describe them is that they have been caught in the crossfire. There's somewhere between believing and apostasy. And he has three different groups that he's talking about here. It says, on those who doubt the others and to others. There's three groups he's talking about here. Now this is this is a challenge just as we think about this, as we kind of remember the historical context. And this is one of those books that I think the historical context kind of matters a good bit. But let's remember the implications here, right? Let's imagine you're in the church in this in the 60s. You know, you don't have your own copy of the Bible. Maybe it's read and when you guys get together on your your love feasts, um you've you've sought to memorize it, you sought to think about these truths. So if someone comes to you and says, hey, like you're, you know, the life you're living, haven't you read 2 Peter? Haven't you read 1 Thessalonians? Don't you know the fruit of the Spirit? They may know it, they might not, because they're being built up in the faith, it's still being transmitted, it's still being worked out. So this in a sense, many were coming to faith, and many were first sent first generation Christians as he approached the church. So you can imagine there was those who were strong and many caught in this middle ground, where they they understand some of the faith, maybe they were previously Jewish, maybe they were Gentile and they understand a part of it. Maybe their ha their past it was involved with uh kind of pagan rituals and then Christianity mixed in, all kinds of different dynamics. And so Jude's kind of giving a quick lesson on what to do now that we've set those up, confirmed in the faith, those who are apostates, how do we handle this middle group? So he gives us some commands. This has good applications for this audience and for us. So he says, and here he's just linking that back to his previous commands. So after you've done all those things, and do this. Have mercy on those who doubt. The mercy on those who doubt. Throughout the New Testament, this idea of doubt is translated wavering or kind of floundering. There's a range of applications to this idea of mercy in this verb. Sometimes this word mercy is actually translated like convict or um exhort or convince But this it's a little bit lighter. It said, have mercy on. Have mercy on those who are doubting. It's a milder approach here. These men that he's talking about, these people, he's not appealing to the apostates. He's talking to believers, in a sense, what we what uh Sibbs might call the bruised reed. the the gentle believer, the one who's maybe just confused or kind of mix in some teachings, they in a sense maybe don't have a ill will towards their teachings. They're not out there blasting the teachings. But they're just confused of what's going on. These apostates have been, again, tearing things up in the church for a while. But they've been maybe heard some of these false teachings, they're not quite sure. But the believers are supposed to have compassion as they address them. Have mercy on those who are in doubt. It's not a passive mercy like let them be, but it's one of an active pursual. Or to go have mercy on them, to be an active instructor in nature, or to kind of have the right kind of correcting mercy against what they've suffered under the apostates. So in a sense is the scripture says we go to restore a brother or to go to restore, to work with them, to teach, to admonish, to build them up on those who are floundering in the wake of this destruction of the apostate. Just to go after them, build them up, have mercy on them, treat them gently, but work to restore them in that sense or build them up to a new level But then he says, save others by snatching them out of the fire. See these three groups intensify as they go. These people are a little further down the line. And by his language, what he's talking about is that this group is a little closer to the edge of apostasy. He says, save them, in a sense that this implies that we have the ability to do so. That we can go out there and actually work this and through God's power using his people to bring about the saving work to stop this plot of apostasy. He wants, God wants us to be part of this work. To not just say, hey, let the chips fall where these people are, they've got some bad teachings, let's let it work them out. He says, no, you're to go after them. to save them by snatching them out of the fire. This snatching, this word is used of like a quick, sharp rescue, a decisive action when to snatch something up. That's what he's talking about here. For us to save them by quickly working out of the fire. This fire, of course, is the fire of judgment This is what they're running towards, and there's this kind of rescuing, kind of snatching component here that we still can work on their lives. There's much they may be struggling with, and there's much challenge that they could have, but there's still some hope there's still a level of confusion, possibly a level of humility, but they're really heading in a bad place. And I don't know if I'll get to talk about the applications or not, but you're probably thinking of some in your mind. But this last group needs some attention. He says, to show others mercy with fear, hating even the garment stained with flesh. Now, of course, the last line has to be the most complicated in this study, doesn't it? This has a wide range of thoughts and a lot of different commentators on this. But I'm going to give you to the get kind of right to the point of this verse, because I think it it took me a while to really wrestle with this in my heart and thinking about this. But this mercy here is not the same kind of mercy as in the first verse or the first line here. This mercy is with fear. It's a fear of God that we're coming with. Not a fear of them or a fear of what may happen, but it's a cautious apprehension that we know that God is righteous and worthy of our praise. Because he says, show their mercy with fear, fearing God, hating even the garment stained with by the flesh. This hating term shows that it can be little to know, there can be no indifference in our reaction to sin We can't be kind of half on it. This is a decisive work. It is a complete hating. It's a what they call a polemic. There's a poll. Yes, no, we hate sin. It's out here on the side. We can hate even the garment stained by flesh. This compound of the garment being stained by the flesh is a way of speaking of the acts of a person that are defiled by their heart. So in a sense here, he's not talking about their dirty clothes. He's talking about the fact that their heart is so far into apostasy that it's coming through in their acts. And we must see even the smallest act, in a sense, what they're doing. There's an idea that maybe this fear is in a way that we should be fearing interacting with these people. But I think at the end of this, I think that basically is what he's saying. He's saying that we are to practice great care that this sin does not stain our lives, because this sin that they're in, this apostasy, is not to be underestimated. We're to practice mercy to them, wisdom and prudence, but in all likelihood, the mercy we're to show is one of less action, maybe just prayer. The New Testament regularly calls believers to separate from people who claim to be Christians, but are committed, committed to unbiblical teaching. These folks are the, in a sense, could be talking about the apostates directly, or those that are very close, kind of the circle hovering the apostates. And you can look at 1 Corinthians 5 or 2 John 10 for some thoughts on that. But it's a challenging thought My heart initially, as I read this, was thinking, yeah, we should be very careful, but go after him. But I think Jude is actually putting the brakes on us here. This mercy with fear of being very, very, very careful about how we interact with them because they are Not just confused. This group is actively participating, pursuing that apostasy. Maybe they're not totally out yet. Maybe they have some level of doctrine, but it's on its way out. And we should be very, very careful, if not even just to separate from them. That was actually Luther's view of this verse. Some other Um historical theologians took that uh interpretation as well. But I think it'd be somewhere in that range that we either be very, very careful, it's not for the timid believer, only the very strong believer, to engage with these people, or we just Let the Lord deal with them because we should be hating even the garments staying with flesh to separate from them. Because they're calling themselves Christians. Again, they're not lost. They're Christian. They're calling themselves Christians. So, I'm running out of time tonight. I'll just quickly touch on a couple of these things. But two admonitions for us: keeping ourselves in the love of God. Whether it's Bible reading and prayer, that orthopraxy, the right things, to straighten our words speaking, there's many books on this topic, the means of grace and spiritual disciplines, so many things you can do to sense keep yourself in that right practice But theology and knowledge, heart, desire, love of God, these are the things that are at the root of this, keeping yourselves in the love of God. And contending with the faith in others, as we talked about this, just to I'll try to briefly recap. We should have mercy on those who are immature in the faith. Right? Those who maybe have some false teachings, how they maybe are confused. They're not proposing to be teachers. They may just come at you and say, hey. I always thought the Holy Spirit was a bird. And say, okay, well, let's talk about this. Let's work through this. I'm going to teach you. I'm going to build you up in the right kind of faith. They're maybe just confused. We see that we see that a lot actually. I'm sure you've met people who have parts of the faith, but they're not kind of projected, they're not false teaching in that sense. We should work with them. We should approach them in gentleness and teach them and admonish them and to correct them in that. We should be pursuing all of this. But that second group, they're headed on the path of destruction. Jude says that we can address this with a swift rescue. Compassion should still be the driver, but we need to confront them in love and challenge them in the faith and the doctrines. Remember, we contend for the true faith once for all delivered to the saints, but we're not in control of the outcome. But knowing God has put us in this situation to be an ambassador. Those who are really dealing with sin, who have really some challenges may claim to be a believer, but they're actively pursuing sin in their lives. Something we can address them in love, but still address them very directly and sharply as if we're going on a rescue mission. Maybe this is someone who's kind of blending some new age faith and Christianity together. We can go after them in this heart of compassion to pursue them to Bring them to the true doctrines. Bring them to maybe a true understanding of Christ in that. But this last group, those deeply engaged in apostasy, again, it's more difficult to discern or even imagine this context in our world. It would be very hard to even imagine that in a sense here at Calvary what he's talking about, someone who would come in and claim to be a Christian, but sp spout things that would just you know, startle us all 'cause we are routinely under the word of God and hearing these things. But these scoffers, these last these uh apostasies, um, they are denying the basic theology of Christ and God and the scriptures. They're pronouncing others, trying to persuade others. Remember, they're lacking any declaration of the judgment of God. These are very obvious things, not minor doctrines, but big doctrines. In our common context here, that'd be something that would, if it came into the church here, it'd be something that would probably be held of from an ecclesiastical like our church policy, but even our pastoral theology works. to defending our church in this. I mean we don't have just, you know, pot apostates running in our door every Sunday If that if someone comes in and doesn't have that kind of basis and is a false teacher and is aggressively trying to attack the church or change the church's doctrine, you have shepherds that do this work. We have church membership that helps vet this process out. So it's stranger for us to experience that third level now, but you can imagine back then when the church was forming and growing and moving 3,000 in one day, you know, to the faith, people can creep in. with bad ideas and really distort things. So sorry to have to rush through that last part, but hopefully that was uh interesting and give you some thoughts on how we should think about those because I'm sure you have people in your life that are in those stages. Maybe they're new to the faith or they're confused in the faith. But in most all cases we're approaching them with gentleness, trying to restore them, or speaking directly to them if they're in a sharp direction towards sin and apostasy. So let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you so much for this book and this lesson and this admonition for us to have mercy on those who are doubting and seek them, Lord, especially in this world that is full of false teaching. that is full of errant doctrine, that those who are trying to seek the truth are snatched by these false teachers, Lord. I pray that you would bring true faith through believers. To rescue them, to give them the true teaching of the word, to be those gentle, merciful people to come along them, to snatch them, Lord, before they go into the fire. We thank you for this word and its truth, Lord. May we meditate on it this week and think more about your hand of grace and keeping us in the love of God. And we ask all this in your Son's name. Amen.