If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Judges chapter 7? If you were paying a little bit of attention, you probably noticed that we sung hymns tonight that have kind of a military spiritual warfare theme. And that is because we've come To our place in the narrative where Joshua, not Joshua, where Gideon goes to war in a great battle Some of you may know the name of Peter Drucker. He was an Austrian-born educator and leadership innovator. He's known as the father of modern business management. A lot of the leadership seminars that go around to various businesses are based on his ideas. He founded the Drucker Institute and popularized what he called management by objectives. And he believed that a leader must provide clear, organized goals for those who follow him. And in his writings, he provides five characteristics of an effective leader. He said, first of all, a leader works. That is, he sets an example for the people who are under him. He sees his assignments as responsibilities rather than as rank or privilege. A leader elicits strong, capable, self-assured, independent associates. That is, he recruits people who share his mission and who are very competent. He creates human energies and vision, and he develops followers' trust by his own consistency and integrity. Tonight we come once again to the life of Gideon. And as we come to Scripture, we are reminded again of the importance of properly interpreting the Bible. Now the Bible Tells us that it is always profitable. There's never a portion of God's word where you can say, I don't need any of this this is this has no message for me all scripture is given by inspiration inspiration of God and is profitable But not all portions of Scripture are as easy to discover what that prophet is So how do we understand a narrative portion of God's Word like the book of Judges? How are we to read this book? What are we to take away from our reading? We could very easily just fall into the trap of saying, boy, that's an interesting story. That's fascinating. I remember hearing about that when I was a kid. Of course, there are many different layers of meaning in a sense that we can find in a book like Judges. First of all, I think it reminds us that we desperately need the ultimate deliverer in the Lord Jesus Christ. All scripture points to Christ. And as we see these people of God uh enslaved to foreign oppression. It's a reminder of our slavery to sin. And as God would raise up a deliverer Who would deliver them from that bondage? It's a reminder to what our Savior has done for us at the cross. And we are to always keep that in mind. This book of Judges especially also reminds us of our own fallen nature and our tendency to return to sinful patterns. If you've ever studied the book of Judges at all or ever went to a Sunday school class that mentioned the book of Judges, you know that there is a recurring cycle that you find in the book of Judges again and again. We see the people involved in sin, usually idolatry. And God responds by sending a foreign oppressor who enslaves them. The oppression is is very painful to them, so the people cry out to God in supplication, crying for him to send a deliverer, and God sends a deliverer. He brings, as it were, salvation. And after each of the judges, it generally says that they that this judge ruled for so many years and there was peace in the lands. So there would be a time of peace and prosperity. But as they entered the time of peace and prosperity They would forget about the Lord, fall back into idolatry, and the cycle would begin all over again. And you see the cycle I forget seven or eight times at least in the book of Judges. And so it's a reminder to us. It's a reminder to us of how fallen we are and how quickly we fall back into sinful pattern. But we also find in the book of Judges these very interesting biographical sketches of these judges, these leaders. And in the book of Judges especially, we see that these are real people. These are not idealized heroes. The scripture does not present the men and women of the Bible in a way that we say, you know, they're they're kind of like a superman. There's nothing they can't do and they don't have any flaws. One of the arguments for the inspiration of Scripture is that it presents The heroes of the faith with all of their flaws. It shows them as they really were people like us with weaknesses, with sinful tendencies with fears and doubts. And of course, this is on full display in the life of Gideon. He was a weak man. who was empowered by God to do an impossible task. And in these biblical characters, especially in the book of Judges , We also see not only our weakness, but we see some examples to follow. Now Gideon failed in many areas of his life, and unfortunately we're going to see that in weeks to come. But tonight we're looking at the most significant moment in the life of Gideon. You could say in a way that Gideon's whole life Could be divided up the time before this battle and the time after this battle because this was the defining moment, this one night and the day that followed it. Those 24 hours would define his life. It's interesting to note that there are many people in history that that is the case that one day really labeled them and identified that individual. Now this is an incredible battle that he fights, a battle against the Midianites. It may be the most incredible military victory that is recorded in the pages of Scripture Reminds you again of the odds. Gideon has 300 men, and he's going up against 135,000 Midianites. And it's not just the raw numbers of 450 to 1, but they have chariots They have all kinds of camels and horses, and they have generals, and they have superior weaponry, and they have experience at fighting. They have every possible advantage that you can imagine, except for one, they don't have the Lord on their side. Now most of what we find in the record of Gideon 's life records how God prepared him for this day. And this in a sense is his finest moment. And something that we should remember him for. He's not a hero that we should idealize. But he was a weak man filled with fears and doubts. However, he was empowered by God to do the impossible. But what we see here is how God used him as a leader of his people at this time of crisis. I think we see some very interesting characteristics of becoming an effective spiritual leader. The fact is that in some sense every Christian should seek to be a spiritual leader. Now this is servant leadership. We have to follow before we lead. But whether it's just in a home or whatever it is, we are to be leaders, examples, because all of our lives have an impact on the lives of those around us. So I want us to see here briefly five characteristics of an effective spiritual leader. And the first thing I want you to notice is that effective spiritual leaders cultivate intimacy with God. Now, in verses 9 through 15, which we looked at a couple weeks ago, We read about this time when Gideon is terrified on the night before the battle, and God knows it. And you remember that God tells him to go down with his servants and to go down to the boundary of where the camp of the Midianites were located. And as they come down, God in his providential dealings makes it so where they come and there's two guards there talking. And one says to the other about a dream that he has and about this barley cake that comes down and strikes a tenth. And the other man interprets that. This is none other than Gideon. And Gideon and his forces are going to come and they're going to topple the Midianites, who were nomadic people who dwelled in tents. And it was that revelation that finally convinced Gideon that indeed he would be victorious, and he goes. And he tells the people in verse 15, when he returns, arise, for the Lord hath delivered into your hands the host of Midian. You see, Gideon could not really call on his men to trust in God when he did not really trust in God. He could not call them to courage when he was not courageous. When Gideon hears and sees God's providential power and allowing him to overhear this conversation at exactly the right time. He worships the Lord in verse 15. And it's only then that he is ready to fight. You see, we can never really engage in spiritual warfare unless we're worshiping the Lord. But what we see here is a very obvious and important principle, and that is that you cannot lead people further than you have gone yourself spiritually. So if you want to lead a Bible study, guess what? You're going to have to study the Bible. If you want to lead a prayer group, you're going to have to spend some time in prayer. We can't really pass on anything to others that we haven't first received from the Lord. And the Christian leaders, whom God has used in incredible ways throughout church history, we're all individuals. who first walked with God privately before they led people publicly. Whether that was a Martin Luther or Hudson Taylor or George Mueller Or Jonathan Edwards or Robert Murray McCain, the list goes on and on. , These individuals were men of faith. They were men of prayer. They were men who walked with God. And then that flowed out of them as they ministered to others. We must never outgrow the basics. of the Christian life. Spiritual leaders must collect manna every day from the Word that they may pass it on to others Often parents, when their children are born, or sometimes it's delayed until their children enter adolescence become very concerned. about the spiritual well-being of their children. And they'll they'll come to church and and and they'll want to to send their their child to to classes or to the youth group or something because they need strong spiritual influence and that's great and we're more than willing to help. But the fact of the matter is the most significant impact that a child can receive is from their parents, parents who daily live out their faith before their children Who take time to talk to their young people about the Word of God and what they're getting out of the Word and spending time in prayer with them, there's no substitute for that. You can't get a proxy for you to do the spiritual part of your children. They need to see that this is something that is important and significant to you. Because the only way that your children are going to want to follow your example is they see that it's a real example. That it's not just some attempt of mom and dad to keep their kids out of getting into trouble and embarrassing them, but this really means something to you. And so effective spiritual leaders must first cultivate intimacy with God. Secondly, effective spiritual leaders encourage others to trust and obey. Notice what we have here in verses 15 and following. Gideon begins by saying, Arise, the Lord hath delivered into your hands the host of Midian. And he divided the three hundred men. into three companies. And he put a trumpet in every man's hand with empty pitchers and lamps within the pitchers. And he said unto them, look on me. And do likewise, and behold, when I come to the outside of the camp it shall be that as I do, so shall ye do I think that after Gideon's season of worship, when he comes into their camp of those three hundred men, and he says, Arise, the Lord hath delivered into your hand the host of Midian, I think that he spoke with conviction. I think they could see that this was not some canned motivational speech, but something that he truly believed. And when Gideon said, the Lord hath delivered into your hands the host of Midian, I think he exuded courage and confidence. I mentioned earlier that cowardice is contagious And that in often in great battles in history, when a few men turn and run, there are many that follow them. Well, courage is also contagious. And as Gideon stood up there against these incredible odds, and he spoke with courage, and he said, God is going to deliver them into your hands, they believed it as well. And they were able to follow his leadership. Although they were still greatly outnumbered, Gideon fully convinced them that the Lord would give them the victory. And verse 17 he said unto them, look on me and do likewise. And he's talking here about the strategy that they are going to use. He says, keep your eyes on me and do what I do. Gideon modeled confidence and they followed his example. There is no substitute for sincerity. Christian leaders must be authentic. They are all going to be flawed. There's always going to be This is not an excuse, but they're always going to be if you put any Christian leader of the past or the present and you put their life under a microscope. You will find flaws. You will find, well, he said that we're supposed to do this, but he doesn't do this perfectly in his own life. There's only one exception you'll find to that, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. Get in was far from perfect. But he was sincere, and he did believe, and he was courageous on this point. Reminded Of a story about Benjamin Franklin. Benjamin Franklin, as you know, was a very significant figure in the founding of our country. And he was actually good friends with the great evangelist George Whitfield. And one day George Whitfield was coming to preach in Philadelphia. He would preach to before 20 and 30,000 people without the aid of a microphone. I don't know how he did that. But he had a booming voice. And he was coming to preach And Franklin said to one of his associates that he was going to go and hear his friend preach. And his friend said to him, Why in the world would you go and hear George Whitfield? You don't believe any of that stuff about the gospel or about the Bible? And he said, you're right, I don't, but he certainly does. He knew that this was not a performance. He knew that George Whitfield, whatever he was, was sincere and authentic, and that he was preaching from his heart. And by the way, George Whitfield, often I tell stories and people ask me, what's the rest of the story? Unfortunately, from all that we know, although George Whitfield witnessed to him many, many times, he said that Franklin never took an interest in the gospel and never really received the Lord. Christian leaders must be sincere We see here the power of words once again. Gideon says, Arise for Lord, hath delivered into your hands the host of Midian. One of the most important things that Christians can do is to encourage others with your words. You don't have to be a preacher to do that. You don't have to be a Sunday school teacher. You don't have to be an adult to do that. You don't have to be mobile to do that. You Strengthen others by your words. We often, I think, do not realize the power of words. Just a few words can alter the course of someone's life. And the fact of the matter is that these words of courage that Gideon gave to these 300 men would would would empower them and strengthen them and enable them to follow Him by God's grace. I wonder if you've ever had somebody's words encourage you and give you courage when you were not quite sure that you could do something or get through something. But just a few words or a verse that they share just renewed your strength and gave you confidence and turned your focus where it needed to be. This has happened to me many times. And the fact is that many of you here have ministered to me. It might be the sending of a note, it might be a phone call, it may be a visit or lunch appointments. But a few words can go a long way. If you see someone who is facing a difficulty, if you see someone who is perhaps lacking in courage and they have some great crisis in front of them, You can be the instrument that God uses just by sharing a few words, a verse of Scripture, a note that says, I'm praying for you. That can make an incredible difference in the way they approach things. Proverbs 1021 says, the lips of the righteous feed many. Do you feed people with your words? By giving them God's truth. Ephesians 4. 29 says, let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers. Now often when we hear that verse and we read about corrupt communication, we think of foul language and so forth. And certainly the scripture condemns that, but that's not what Paul's talking about there. In context, the corrupt communication are words that tear people down. Because in contrast, he says, but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers. In other words, our words have the potential of tearing people down spiritually or of building people up spiritually. We have the ability that God has given to us to minister grace, to give And the idea there of grace is, of course, of God's unmerited power that He gives to believers to do His will. We can remind someone of God's truth. And that can be the instrument, the channel that God uses to empower them to do what they need to do. That's a wonderful thing. You don't have to have theological training to do that. You don't have to have an office in the church to do that. Every Sunday, every day, you can nourish people 's faith with your words. And I trust that that is something that we would all endeavor to do. I want you to notice also that effective spiritual leaders teach others a strategy for victory. I'm sure most of you remember this story, perhaps from your childhood. Gideon has a most unorthodox method of warfare, but it is brilliance. He's employing what we might call today psychological warfare. Look at verses 18 through 20. He says, When I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, then blow ye the trumpets also on every side of all the camp, and say the sword of the Lord and of Gideon. So Gideon and the hundred men that were with them came unto the outside of the camp in the beginning of the middle watch, and they had but newly set the watch, and they blew the trumpets. Excuse me, and and break the pitchers that were in their hands and the three companies blew the trumpets and break the pitchers and held the lamps in their hands. And the trumpets in their right hand to blow withal, and they cried, The sword of the Lord and of Gideon. And they stood every man in his place round about the camp. And all the host ran and cried and fled. This is an amazing plan of victory. We see here that Gideon is going to magnify the size of his tiny army of 300. He does this with noise and light. Although this text doesn't say it, perhaps, this noise and the sudden light in the night cause the camels and the horses to stampede. And that added a great deal to the unrest that evening. He also magnified the size of his army by dividing them up into three camps. giving the impression that they were three armies attacking. In the ancient world often when a when a foe felt that they were outnumbered, they would go and they would hire other forces other foreign powers to come and fight with them. And the fear in warfare is that there was going to be other players there that you weren't aware of. And so that's probably what the Midianites thought. They knew the Israelites were outnumbered, but all of a sudden they see lights and sound from over here, and lights and sound from over here, and they say, Oh, who have the Israelites recruited to fight with them? It seems as if we are surrounded. And notice that Gideon is probably Taking advantage of what he had heard earlier that night from the guard who talked about The fact that the Lord had often delivered his people in incredible, miraculous ways. And so when the people saw something, and it indicated that they were a little bit on edge. And when they heard the shout, the sword of the Lord, and they heard the name of Yahweh or Jehovah echoing through the valley. It brought back those memories of the incredible victories that God had given his people in past generations. And so they turned and ran. Notice that Gideon picks the perfect time to launch this attack. Verse 19 says it was the beginning of the middle watch. The middle watch would be anywhere from 10 p. m. to 2 a. m. So the beginning of the middle watch would be around 11 p. m. Now that doesn't sound that late to many of us because we live in the age of electricity. But in the ancient world, 11 o'clock was essentially the middle of the night. People went to bed when the sun went down And so they were in a sound sleep, and all of a sudden there's the crash, the breaking of these pictures, and the shouts of the men, and the light flashing on the horizon. And this would have been very distressing to them. This added to their panic and confusion And verse 21 is very significant. It says, and they stood every man in his place round about the camp. I think this is telling us that they watched in amazement on the sides of that hill, as in the valley that vast host of people fled for their lives. And it's an indication, a very clear indication that indeed the victory was the Lord's doing. Because they didn't even draw their swords yet. They hadn't even engaged anyone in combat. Now they would in the mopping up operation of this battle, but the battle was already won by the Lords And in verse 22, we read that it was the Lord that set every man sword against his fellow, even throughout all the host. And so we see here that it's God who gives the victory. But Gideon has this very effective strategy. Now, we don't know for sure. Maybe the Lord gave this strategy to Gideon. Or maybe Gideon had come up with this military strategy himself. Earlier The angel of the Lord appeared to Gideon and said that he was a mighty man of valor, and it seemed like a bad joke. And I am not trying to give undue praise or glory to Gideon, certainly. He is not worthy of that. But it very well may be that that angel was saying, and the scriptures are telling us, that the Lord knew and had given to Gideon a rare gift. of knowing how to use military strategy. God gives people rare gifts and sometimes they remain undiscovered for a long time until the moment that they are needed. I think of William Carey, that shoe cobbler, a man who was not very educated, who was not very effective as a school teacher. And yet God had called him to the mission field, and people had very low expectations of what he would accomplish there. But when he got to the mission field of India, all of a sudden it was discovered that this man had an incredible genius for learning languages. Who would have known? But he learned over 35 languages. And translated the Bible into many, many Asian languages. He's considered one of the greatest natural linguists of all time. And who know this was a man who was a failure at everything else. early in his life. God sometimes knows gifts and abilities that remain dormant within us, and he puts us in situations so that we can use them. Gideon, although we see him throughout the pages of Scripture as a very fearful man. On this occasion, on this day, he is indeed a mighty man of valor. He is a picture of courage. He is a leader who has a strategy and a plan, and it's clear, and it's organized, and it's timely, and he communicates that to his men. God gave the victory, but God used his servant Gideon to secure that victory. We see also fourthly that effective spiritual leaders seek to involve others. in the battle for the Lord. Look with me at verses 23 through 25. And the men of Israel gathered themselves together out of Naptali and out of Asher and out of Manasseh and pursued after the Midianites And then we read about messengers that he sent in verse 24 to the tribe of Ephraim to come down and help them. Now Most Bible scholars, although the text does not say clearly, believe that these were part of the men that he recruited in verse 23 were probably the soldiers that were sent home, part of that original 32,000 men. Who were fearful about fighting, who were excluded through those two tests that he used. But now he sends messengers and they rally and they come and they have a part in the mopping up of the operation. And then he's going to invite the men of Ephraim to also get involved. You see, Gideon had his army greatly reduced, and it was absolutely clear that it was God who gave the victory because none of these men and even use their swords at this point. But now that the enemy was on the run, he involves other individuals. Gideon wasn't obsessed with who got credit for the victory. He wasn't just seeking freedom from the bondage of foreign oppression. He wanted to unify the nation of Israel, and he knew a good way to do that was to get others involved. This is an important point about ministry. We should always be seeking to share The joy of serving the Lord with others. Did you know that? It's very easy for even good Christian people to become kind of territorial. or an and proprietary about whatever little area of ministry they have. But the fact of the matter is we should Try to enlist the help of others and get more people involved. This is something that I'm trying to do often as a pastor, and many others are as well. The fact is that when When people serve the Lord, when they have a ministry in the church, they feel invested in it. They feel committed to it. They feel they have uh they they want to come and they want to serve and and their heart is in it because they're serving there When individuals come and they never serve and they view themselves as just kind of spectators in a church, there's often not the same level of commitments. And it's it's good for the church and it's good for them. It's good to have a ministry and and to have a place where you can serve. And and those of you who are serving, uh There might be some differences in how effective you can do this depending on your ministry, but you should be looking to elicit and involve other people in it. We have many people who do this. In other words, if you're a Sunday school teacher. And perhaps you're teaching adults, I'm not thinking of the little tiny kids here. But you should be looking for other people that you would like to involve and try to gauge and see if they would be willing or if they have the skills to teach as well. We should all be seeking, as it were, to replicate ourselves. Our ushers and our leaders in that ministry should be looking for other men to involve. and and uh the greeters and and the choir and all down. We we don't say, you know, we just want to have this little group. No, we want to get more people involved and using their skills, their gifts for the Lord's. It's good for the church, it's good for the people of God, and it's good for them. And so effective spiritual leaders seek to involve others. And we see here that effective spiritual leaders finally wisely seek to unify the people of God. There is a fly in the ointment in this great victorious story. It's found in the first few verses of chapter 8. It says in verse 25, the end of chapter 7, that the men of Ephraim did come and they captured these two Midianite princes and generals, Oreb and Zeb, and they slew them upon the rock. And they come and they meet up with Gideon in verse chapter 8, verse 1. And the men of Gideon said unto him, Why hast thou served us thus, that thou callest us not when thou winnest to fight with the Midianites? And they did chide with him sharply. They were not happy. They were not happy that they were not invited. to the battle. So that raises the question of why did Gideon not invite the Ephraimites to come and engage in battle. Now the scriptures do not say give the reason for this. So this is conjecture, but this is sound conjecture that the commentators uniformly suggest. First of all, It's likely that Gidding didn't invite them because he knew they would not have come. We see here in evidence that they were very proud. At this time in the history of Israel, they were the largest tribe. They had the most prosperous region. They had the most people. Get in, and his little area was despised. The idea is that if Gideon called them, they would say, we're not going to follow you. Who are you, Gideon? You're from the least of the tribes and from the least of the families of your tribe. We're not going to follow your leadership. And so Gideon didn't bother inviting them because he knew they would not come. And secondly, he knew that if indeed they did come , They would probably cause contention and division because they would not follow his leadership. They were very proud and they were convinced that they were the leading tribe, and so they would have challenged his leadership at every turn, and so Gideon wisely did not invite them to come with the others. This is an example of obvious jealousy and wounded pride. They felt that they had been snubbed by Gideon Notice how he handles it in verses 2 and 3. He said unto them, What have I now done now in comparison of you? Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Ebizer? He's saying here, listen, you guys are the most prosperous and the largest tribe. I'm not going to debate that You have the best grapes there? What does my home country have in comparison with yours? And he says, God hath delivered into your hands the princes of Midian, Oreb, and Zeb. And what was I able to do in comparison of you? And then their anger was abated towards him and he had when he had said that. He says, yeah We did go to battle, but you guys got the two leaders. You got the two princes who were effectively the generals of that force Now, I don't know what you think about this, but I think this is an example of diplomacy. Now think for a moment of how Gideon could have handled this. He could have said, Who do you people think you are? I'm the one that God called to deliver his people. He didn't call you, he called me. And if you guys were really the leading tribe as you claim to be, why didn't you take a lead in delivering us from the oppression of the Midianites that we've been suffering under for seven years? There was no leadership on your part. He could have said those things. He could have said, you know, God used me and my 300 men. We didn't really need your help. But Gideon was more concerned with healing the nation than he was protecting his status as a hero He uses diplomacy. The scriptures say in Proverbs 15. 1 that a soft answer turns away wrath. His comments are truthful and positive. First of all, he compliments them. This is not vain flattery. He says what is true. Your area is much more fertile than mine. And then he does say that you have a significant part in the victory because you captured the two generals. You captured the two leaders of the Midianites if they had escaped and gone back to their home country. This conflict would escalate and would continue perhaps for years, but you got those two men. Now don't misunderstand me. Their attitude wasn't right. But Gidding was not about to start a civil war because he was going to protect his reputation. We see here that a leader must see the big picture. And Gideon saw the big picture. Yes, their attitude was wrong. Yes, they were proud and arrogant. But they were part of the people of God. This was not the time to rebuke them. And so he is conciliatory And seeks to assuage their anger. You see, a great deal can be accomplished for the Lord when you don't care who gets the credits I'm reminded of one of my heroes of the faith, a man named Robert Murray McShane, who died tragically at the age of 29 of tuberculosis. He was a pastor at St. Peter's Church in Dundee, Scotland, an industrial section. And although he was a very young man , Everyone in the nation knew about his ministry and how God was using him and how people were being converted and how every day, every Sunday, the church was filled to overflowing. And God called him to go to Israel. Now, one of the uh on a missionary trip, and one of the things that he often prayed for is that God would send revival. He longed for revival, and although there were touches of God's grace, there was not really a great revival. And so as he went away for a year to minister in Israel, one of the very first mission trips to that country. He had a friend of his come and fill the pulpit for him. And you know what? A month after that man got there, God sent revival. And on his way back, he read in the papers in Europe of this incredible revival that was taking place in Dundee, Scotland. As all these people were being saved and God's grace was being poured out. And you know what? He wasn't abled to praise the Lord. How easy it would have been for him to say I ministered for all those years, and God never sent revival, and then as soon as I leave, God sends revival to my own church. But that was not his viewpoint at all. Because he was just glad that God had given the victory and he was not seeking to take credit for it. This is the way we must be as the people of God Let's close in prayer. Father, we do thank you for your word. We thank you that all of it is profitable. All of it is instructive for us. And it all nourishes our souls. I pray that you would help us to be the spiritual leaders that we need to be. Help us, Father. to seek to be a blessing to those around us and to inspire courage and confidence in people as they face difficulties. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.