If you have your Bibles, please, would you please join me in John chapter 8, a passage that we read together a moment ago. John chapter 8. One of the most intriguing figures in the history of our nation was a man named Aaron Burr. He is best known for his duel with Alexander Hamilton. He was also the grandson of the great preacher Jonathan Edwards. And his father was also a preacher and the president of Princeton University. Aaron Burr had eight lines of godly preachers in his heritage. He had four consecutive generations of preachers on his mother's side and four consecutive generations of preachers on his father's side. And so it's not surprising that he trained and prepared for the ministry, but he said that it wasn't for him. He was looking for power and wealth. He became a lawyer and then a politician, became the vice president of the United States, nearly becoming president in the year 1800. He was a man filled with ambition. In 1804, he had his famous duel with Alexander Hamilton. He won the duel but lost the respect of the American people. He ended up fleeing West and stockpiled weapons and even conspired with Mexico to take over the American government. He was tried for treason but acquitted. And he lived in exile in Europe until he died an unbelieving and broken man. A godly heritage does not guarantee that you will become a true Christian. This is one of the lessons that come from our text this morning. Today we're continuing to follow Jesus' intense discussion with the religious leaders in Jerusalem. Shortly after the Feast of Tabernacles. The key word in our text this morning is the word Father. Eight times we encounter this term in our paragraph. I want to quickly summarize the flow of this discussion and show you how it centers around this term father. In verse 37, Jesus concedes that these men are indeed the offspring or physical descendants of Abraham. However, they are trying to kill Jesus. In verse 38, he says that this is due to what they have heard from their father. In verse 39, these religious men proudly proclaim that Abraham is their father, and Jesus responds that if that were true, they wouldn't be trying to kill him. These men are angered, and they loudly protest Jesus' suggestion that they are not the children of Abraham. And so in verse 41, they proclaim that they have one father, and that is God. But Jesus denies this claim, since if they were the children of God, they would naturally love his beloved Son. So they didn't love Jesus. They hated him and would soon murder him. So Jesus says, if I were to summarize this paragraph, you're not the children of Abraham. And you're not the children of God. So whose children are they? Jesus answers that question in shocking fashion in verse 44 when he says, you are of your Father. the devil. Why would Jesus make such a provocative statement? He wasn't trying to insult them. He was seeking to alarm them to the reality of their dangerous position. But I want you to know that this designation does not just apply To the people who plotted to murder Jesus. This is the part of our message that becomes uncomfortable. The Bible teaches that we are not all the children of God. This is a very popular misconception. I have heard it often from Christian people. It is, of course, true that we have all been created by God, and we ultimately have our origin in God. That we are all the descendant , we are all the offspring of God. Paul makes this point in Acts chapter 17 on Mars Hill in Athens. And we have all been made in the image of God. But the scriptures do not use the term children of God for all of humanity. It uses it only for those who believe. In fact, John, who has recorded these words for us, Writes the book of 1 John, and in 1 John chapter 3 and verse 10, he says that all of mankind is either the children of God or the children of the devil. We don't like this bivercation of two options. We don't like that when everyone dies they go to heaven or they go to hell. They're children of God or they're children of the devil. We don't like that, especially in our polite modern, sophisticated culture. But it is what the Bible clearly teaches. I know the ramifications of this are immense. Even that wonderful next-door neighbor that you have that is kind and gets your mail for you and watches over your house when you're away. If they have rejected Christ and they refuse to believe in him, they are in fact, according to Scripture, a child of the devil. So the big question this morning is this: Is God your father, or is the devil your father? Every human being is either a child of God or a child of the devil. I want us to consider this morning the characteristics of the children of the devil. that are brought out in this passage in our Lord's discussion with these men. And my first point is this The children of the devil often trust in their religious heritage. Verses 37 through 40 Now, if you look up with me in this chapter in verse 33, these men say that they are the offspring of Abraham. And now in verse 37, Jesus agrees that Abraham is indeed their biological ancestor. This was the very essence of their Jewishness, that they were the children of Abraham, and they were very, very proud of this. Traditionally, they venerated three men in the Old Testament. Moses was their prophet, David was their king, but Abraham was their father. Abraham is referred to ten times in this chapter. He comes up in this debate again and again. To these religious leaders in Jerusalem, he was at the very core of their identity. They were both ethnically and spiritually in their minds the descendants of Abraham. But at the very same time, they were plotting to murder their Messiah. We first read about this conspiracy in John chapter 5 and verse 18, after Jesus had healed a man on the Sabbath day. And it continues throughout this book. We find of their intent to kill Jesus three times in chapter 7 and also three times here in chapter 8. It was not a very well-kept secret. Everyone knew about it. Jesus provides two explanations for their wicked response. He says in verse 37, My word finds no place in you. We'll talk more about that later. And number two, you do what you have heard of your father They were rejecting what Jesus was saying, but they were listening to the instruction of their father. The Bible is clear that the devil was involved very directly in the murder of Jesus. You might say, why would he do this when Jesus would rise from the dead and be exalted and a lot of good things would come out of his death? Because the devil is not omniscient. Only God is omniscient. And Luke channel chapter 13 and verse 2 we read that the devil put in the heart of Judas to betray Jesus. Not that Judas didn't want to betray Jesus and the devil made him do it. No, he was very open to this, but it was the devil who put this suggestion in him. And in verse 27 of that same chapter, we read that Satan entered into Judas. And in Luke chapter 22 and verse 53, when the religious leaders came to arrest Jesus in the garden, Jesus says, this is your hour and the power of darkness. In other words, their arrest of him and their crucifixion was all part of the conspiracy and the work of Satan. They were doing the bidding of their father, the devil. Now look with me at verse 39. They answered him, Abraham is our father. These men are doubling down, they're insisting. I think there's some frustration. They've been saying this, Abraham is our father. And they say it even more loudly, Abraham is our father. And Jesus responds: if you were Abraham's children, you would be doing the works of Abraham. So, what does that mean? Verse 40, but now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did In other words, Abraham received God 's truth, but you men are rejecting God's truth. Most Bible scholars believe that Jesus is referring to an event that's recorded in Genesis chapter 18. I'm not going to have you turn back there, but I think many of you remember this. Three men came to visit Abraham and Sarah. And told them that they were going to have a child. Remember how Sarah laughed in the tent? And one of those men was the angel of the Lord. A pre-incarnate manifestation of Christ. And as impossible and improbable as this was, this message, Abraham believed it. He believed that though he and his wife were very advanced in years, that they would in fact have a child. He received God's word as the truth. And Jesus is saying that's what a true descendant of Abraham would do. But you men are not doing that. You are not receiving God's truth. Let me briefly say and make application here. This is a very important thing for us to consider. There are millions and millions of people in the world today that feel that they are good with God because of their ethnicity or heritage. If you go up, perhaps, to someone in Ireland and ask them if they are right with God, they may very well say, well, of course, I'm Irish, I'm Catholic. If you go to India and you speak to someone, they're very proud of their Hinduism And they will think that part of their national identity is that they're Hindu, and therefore because they're Hindu, they are certainly right with God or gods in this case. The same would be true if you went to Saudi Arabia. They might be insulted if you asked them If they knew God, because of course they are in the very country where Islam came forth. Of course they're right with God. Look at their heritage that they're very proud of. And to bring this on a more personal level, you must never ever think that because you come from and have a wonderful Christian heritage, that therefore you are automatically a Christian. Many of us here have a Christian heritage. We were brought up in a home that was Christian. Our moms and our dads were Christians. Our brothers and sisters were Christians. Perhaps even our grandparents on both sides were Christians. We have multi-generational Christian heritage, and that is a tremendous blessing. But that doesn't automatically make you a Christian. You must have a faith of your own You must have a trust in Christ of your own. You cannot say you cannot depend on that pedigree. You cannot say, well, of course I'm a Christian. My uncle was a preacher, and my father was a deacon. Of course I'm a believer. No. Have you repented of your sins and believed the gospel? This is a message that all of our young people need to hear. It's very easy to grow up in a Christian home and in order to be compliant and do what you know your parents desire you to do to make a profession of faith. And many people who make a profession of faith in their youth are truly born again and do continue to follow the Lord. I know there's many people here who could stand up and say, that was my experience. But there are also many people who, when they come of age and they begin to think for themselves, they reject everything. They turn away from it. Because it was never their own faith. So you must have a faith of your own. The second point I want to make is this. The children of the devil do not love but hate Jesus. Look at with me, please, at verses 41 and 42. Jesus says, you're doing the works your father did. They said to him, we were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father, even God. Now there's some question about exactly what they are referring to when they say we were not born of sexual immorality. There are three three good options here, really. Number one, they might be saying We don't come from an immoral background like you do, Jesus. They could be referring to rumors that were still going around Nazareth. about the unusual circumstances of his birth, because of course most people would not accept the biblical account of the virgin conception of Jesus. Or perhaps they're saying, we have a pure-blooded heritage, unlike the Samaritans. They're going to mention them in verse 48. They say there's no Gentile blood in us. We didn't intermarry with Gentiles. We're pure-blooded. We're not born of immorality. Or it very well might be that they are using the idea of immorality here as a reference to spiritual adultery as the prophets often do in the Old Testament. They are saying we are not apostate. We have held firmly to the faith of our fathers. This would explain why they make a reference in verse 41 to Deuteronomy chapter 6 and verse 4, which is known as the shameless like the John 3. 16 of the Old Testament. to the Jew, where they where it says, the Lord our God is one God. They're very strong monotheists, and it's brought out here in verse 41. So now they recognize that Jesus is speaking to them of their spiritual father, and they turn from their assertion that Abraham is their father to the claim that God is their father. Surely Jesus will agree that they are the children of God. But notice Jesus' response in verse 42. Jesus said to them, If God were your father, you would love me. For I came from God and am here. I came not of my own accord, but He sent me. Jesus rejects their assertion and says they cannot possibly be the children of God because they do not love him, the one whom the Father has sent. Notice how Jesus emphasizes his relationship with the Father three ways in this verse. He says, first of all, I came from God. This was a specific phrase that was often used in their culture for the appearance of deity. It speaks of his divine origin and his pre-existence. Something that John brings out in his gospel. And then secondly, he says, and I am here. This is a reference to his incarnation. He is God in flesh. And thirdly, he says, I came not of my own accord, but he sent me. Now we should not read into this phrase that like Jesus didn't want to come, but the Father made him. He was more than willing to come, but it was the mission of saving people from their sins that he was sent on by his father. So why did they not receive him? Look with me at verse 43. Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my word. The problem was not with Jesus' communication, but with their reception. They, of course, audibly heard his words But they did not receive his message. And often we use the term here to speak of believing and obeying. Sort of like a mom who comes home and the the children's rooms are still cluttered and a mess and before she left she told them You are to clean up your room, and she comes home and she says, didn't you hear me? She doesn't mean, did you audibly hear what I said? She is essentially saying, why didn't you obey what I said? They heard his words, but they did not respond to his message. But I want to comment on their failure to love Christ. This is one of the great litmus test. of whether or not a person is a child of God or child of the devil A person who truly knows the Lord cannot help but love Christ. No exceptions. This is one of his distinguishing traits of a child of God. True Christians love Jesus. On the other hand, if you start talking to a lost person about God General, they might have a somewhat positive response, but if you get specific and start talking to them about Jesus. you'll often see their facial expression change. They don't mind talking about things in a very general metaphorical way, but when you get precise and you start saying that this is the way, this is the Savior, then you start to see the animosity come out. I want you to know the Bible is crystal clear that all true Christians love Jesus. And 1 Peter 1 and verse 8 it says, though you have not seen him, you love him. 1 Corinthians 16, 22, Paul writes, if any man loves not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema or accursed. Loving Christ is the very essence of what it means to be a Christian. What does this mean? What does it mean to love Christ? Let me say, first of all, that it means more than a sentimentality. There's a lot of wicked people in America. That have kind of a sentimental attachment to Jesus. And they might like an old gospel song that has the name of Jesus. It might remind them of their childhood and everything. But everything in their life. Would give evidence that they have no loyalty or allegiance to Jesus. Even though they may have like a fondness for his name and for the cultural connotations of that. So let me ask you, are you embarrassed with hymns that speak of loving Christ, like the one we sang earlier? Today, Jesus, lover of my soul. Does it make you feel uncomfortable? Or does your heart say yes? Jesus does love my soul, and I love him. A Puritan preacher named Thomas Vincent, who died in 1678, wrote a book entitled, The True Christian's Love to the Unseen Christ. And he says here that true Christians are distinguished Not only from heathen and infidels, but also from all nominal Christians by their love to Jesus Christ. This is the litmus test. Do you love Christ? Well, what does it mean to love Christ? Jesus defines this for us in this very book. In John chapter 14 and verse 15, he says, if you love me, keep my commandments. He says in John 14, 23, if any man loves me, he will keep my word. And John 14, 24, whoever does not love me does not keep my words. You've probably heard the children's song, Obedience is the very best way to show that you believe. You know what? It's also the very best way to show that you love Jesus. Not that we approach this like a chore, oh, I've got to obey these things. No, we do these things gladly and willingly because we love our Savior. Our obedience is really the demonstration of our love for Christ. And that brings me to my third point, third characteristic of the children of the devil. The children of the devil reflect the wicked behavior of their father. And now we come to the most controversial and the key verse of this paragraph, verse 44. You are of your father the devil. Just imagine the impact that statement must have had. All right, Jesus is having this intense discussion. It started out Pretty calm and then it just keeps amping up and amping up and amping up and he says, you know what? You're not the children of Abraham. You're not the children of God. You know whose child you are? You're a child of the devil You know, that usually is going to really amp up an argument you're having. It's kind of like saying you're the spawn of Satan, right? So was Jesus just out of things to say, and so he starts insulting them? No. No, of course not. No, he is trying to alarm them. at the perilous situation they're in, and trying to open their eyes to where their allegiance really lies. It's not with God. They're not doing the work of God. They're actually doing the conspiracy of Satan. And he's trying to shake them out of their delusion and show them this reality. I'm going to take a moment just to talk about this. What does he mean you're of your father the devil? Doesn't mean that the devil created them or the devil creates all lost people. That's not true. He's not a creator. The devil doesn't create things. He might copy things and distort things, but he doesn't create things. From the fall that took place through the temptation of Satan, all of humanity is born with a sinful nature. And in that sense, we are under the dominion of Satan. Now, of course, almost every lost person doesn't believe this or is not aware of this. They think they're just making their choices and doing what they want to do and what comes naturally to them, what they think will bring them happiness. And security and joy. They're living life on their own terms. But living life on your own terms is doing exactly what the devil wants you to do. Remember, his original sin was him wanting to be exalted and to have the glory of God and to have the praises of others. And to be the center and to live a very selfish life And so when we think this way, we're adopting his behavior. Jesus refers to Satan in the upper room, a little later in this book, John 14 and verse 30, as the ruler of this world. When I get to that phrase, I'll talk about how God is sovereign and yet Satan is the ruler of this world. They do not contradict. But it's beyond the scope of this message to go and try to explain all that. But he's the ruler of this world. And what that means is The message of the world, the goals of the world, the values of the world ultimately come from him. And they're the same in every culture and in every place. And in 1 John chapter 5 and verse 19, we read: The whole world lies in the power of the evil one. That's an amazing verse. Every lost person, even the best, most conscientious and kind lost person that you can think of. is living in the domain of Satan. That is why we read in Colossians chapter 1 and verse 13, he that is Christ has delivered us from the domain of darkness And transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. The spiritual paternity of the devil is evident in the lives of unbelievers. You've all heard the expression, like father, like son, or the apple doesn't fall far from the tree. And so lost people mimic the sinful character of their spiritual father, Satan. Now, there are many ways in which this takes place, but there are two that are specifically brought out in this text. Look at this. Number one, he was a murderer from the beginning. That is from the beginning of human history. How did this manifest itself? Well It was the devil who tempted Adam and Eve to disobey God through their disobedience. And through their disobedience, death came upon all humanity. Romans chapter 5 and verse 12 says, Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man and death through sin, so death spread to all men because all sinned. And this murderous desire was seen in the very first siblings. It didn't take long for the manifestation of this, of the children of the devil, to be evident. In 1 John chapter 3 and verse 12, we read, We should not be like Cain. who was of the evil one and murdered his brother. When it says he was of the evil one, it's another way of saying that his father, spiritually speaking. was the devil. The devil delights to end human life. Did you know that? He is pleased with murder and violence. He loves the stir of anger and hatred and dissension. He is a big promoter of abortion and euthanasia and suicide. He delights to murder both the souls and bodies of people. Why is it that he likes to murder human beings? Maybe you've never thought of this before. Why does he like to do that? I will tell you why. Because every human being is made in the image of God. And although that image has been distorted and defaced, there still is a little glimmer of that. And when the devil sees every human being, he's reminded of that. And sort of like someone who hates another person goes in and smashes every picture they have of them, the devil delights to murder and to end life. And he likes to do this especially before they have come to believe the gospel so that they are condemned eternally. And because this is true, it's no surprise that he was behind the murder of the Son of God. But what else comes from the devil? Well, the scripture says here very emphatically that he was a liar, that he is a liar. In fact So that you don't miss it. He says it four different ways in verse 44. Look at this. Number one, he does not stand in the truth. Number two, because there is no truth in him. Number three, when he lies, he speaks out of his own character. And number four, for he is a liar and the father of lies. You see, lying is not just something the devil does. It's who he is. He is a deceiver. He is a liar. We see this And the very temptation of Eve and the garden, you shall not surely die. A half-truth. She didn't die at that instance. But she would die physically in the future. This is how the devil achieves his goals. It's through deception. The whole world is filled with lies that lead people to everlasting destruction. We as Christian people have to constantly remind ourselves of this truth The message of the world, the message that ultimately finds its origin in Satan, has not changed through eons of time. The essence of it is the same. The manifestations might be different. So, what are these lies I'm talking about? Well, things like: live for the here and now, forget about God. Don't think ever that there's a place called heaven and hell. And so most lost people live their lives day after day after day after day. without ever having a thought that there's a God to whom they are accountable to. A God who knows everything about them, who knows all of their thoughts. Who knows their attitude in their heart, and that someday they must give an account. That idea is so foreign to the way most people think. The lie of Satan is live for yourself. Live for pleasure. Live for possessions. Indulge in pornography and greed. Live as if you answer to no one. Alive Satan is, this is a popular one today, be true to yourself. Be authentic. This is the great virtue now. Someone does make some horrible decision and they say, I just had to be true to myself. That's nonsense. What if being true to yourself means that you're a serial killer? Does that mean it's noble for you to follow that line of living? No, of course not. Don't be true to yourself. Be true to Christ. And those who like to go around saying they're going to be true to themselves in order to excuse their sins are actually being true to the devil. The devil is so effective at deceiving people. Deceives them into thinking that following Christ is going to bring them grief and sorrow and boredom. So much better to follow the world. Because that's where the joy is, that's where the excitement is when it's exactly the opposite. deceives people in so many ways. But there's a fourth characteristic I want to get to now. And that is the children of the devil continually reject the word of God. Look with me at verses 45 and following. But because I tell you the truth, you do not believe me. This is why these leaders did not believe Jesus, because he was telling the truth while they were controlled by the lies of the devil Jesus challenges them to point out sin in his life, verse 46. Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? And then verse 47, whoever is of God, look at this, hears the word of God. The reason why you do not hear them is because you're not of God. You may have noticed that we've come across statements like this before in this paragraph, this emphasis on the word of God. Look with me up at verse 37. He says, My word finds no place in you. It could be rendered, you have no place for my word. These men were not interested in hearing from Jesus. His words just passed by them, even though he was the greatest teacher the world has ever known. and the embodiment of truth standing right in front of them. Their ears were stopped and their minds were elsewhere, their hearts were connected with their status in society, they could not hear anything he had to say. And that when then we see in verse 43, you cannot bear to hear my words. They didn't want to hear his words. His words were inconvenience. To acknowledge him as Messiah Would mean very likely to lose their positions of power. They would have to humble themselves They would have to admit that what they've been doing for all these years is wrong, that there's great hypocrisy in the way they would live, and that they were indeed plotting to murder him. They were not willing to own those things. They cannot bear to hear his words. And so many people today Rarely, very rarely, do you present the gospel to someone or bring them to church and they hear the gospel the first time and then they are saved. That rarely happens. Because their minds are so full with so many distracting thoughts and so many false ideas. If somehow you could reach in and hear through their ears what they are hearing, you would be alarmed by how little they grasp, by how distorted the message is. Because they're so distracted. Indeed, there might be people just like that here this morning. And then look at verse 47. Whoever is of God hears the words of God. One of the marks of a believer is that the Word of God speaks to us. It's not a closed book. It's an open book. It speaks to us in a way that no other book does. Jesus says later in John chapter 10, verses 26 and 27, you do not believe because you are not among my sheep. My sheep hear my voice. and I know them, and they follow me. This is what Jesus says in this final paragraph. In this final phrase, the reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God. We see an example of this in Acts chapter 16, when Paul went to Philippi to evangelize, and he went by the side of a river, and there were women meeting there, and one of them was named Lydia. And Paul did what he always did. He preached the gospel. And the Bible says that she gave attention to the words that Paul was speaking because God had opened her hearts. This is what we desperately need to do. It's not enough for us to preach the gospel. We have to pray that God would open the ears of the deaf. So that they would actually hear what is said. Because the devil will bring a million distractions in those moments and in their life so that it's all drowned out with the noise. of living and they never hear. So if you're here this morning And I suspect that there are people like this this morning. And you're saying, you know, I'm not really sure if I'm a child of God. Or if I'm a child of the devil, I'm not really sure what should I do. I would say, listen to the word of God as if your very life depends on it. Read it. Study it. Come to the preaching of the word. Because faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of Christ. Now I want to turn briefly to just a few more points of application very quickly. Number one, the devil is no joke. He is a real personal being. Modern man has consigned the idea of a personal devil to the trash heap of history. It's just an old myth. From ancient times it's not true. But the Bible says otherwise. It says that we have an adversary, the devil, who prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. It says that we wrestle not against flesh and blood. And it says that we must not be ignorant of his devices. So the Christian must arm himself or herself every day because every day on this earth we are in spiritual warfare And fiery darts of doubt and temptation are aimed at us. And so we must put on the whole armor of God. Number two, we must reject the devil's lies with the truth of God's word. Do you know that almost all of the counseling that I do or that Pastor Aaron does is simply trying to do this? So often people come to us and they have great problems and often their problems are because they believe the lie. And we try to keep convincing them of the truth of God's word in that situation. So many of our personal issues and our problems that we deal with are because we have latched on to a lie of Satan and we fixated on it. Satan will tell us this sin is a harmless sin. It's no big deal. And then after we have committed the sin and lived in this sin for years, he will say, God's never going to forgive you. You're doomed. The Satan that convinces us that God is finished with us, or that our life is worthless. Or that God has forgotten you and doesn't love you anymore. He's abandoned you. These are some of the very effective lies that he has. Those fiery darts that neutralize us and keep us from walking in joy This is why in Philippians chapter 4 and verse 8, when it has that list of things that we are to think about, the very first thing on the list is whatsoever things are true. Because so often our problems stem from the fact that what we're meditating on is actually not true. I think that someday we're going to go to heaven and we're going to review our lives and we're going to say, you mean to tell me That thing that I worried about and that I was so distraught about for four years in my life that put my life on hold, it wasn't even rooted in truth. It wasn't even a thing. It wasn't even anything for me to worry about or fret about. But I lived in absolute misery because I believed alive, Satan. So don't believe his lies. Number three, Christians should be opposed to the death culture of this world. Did you know that the world has a death culture? Celebrates abortion, euthanasia So increased rates of suicide as people feel isolated and detached and meaningless and with no purpose and no hope. The devil's behind all of that. And we must be opposed to it. Number four, quickly Christians should be known for our truth and integrity. When we lie and deceive other people, we're acting like the devil. But when we tell the truth in love, we're responding like Christ. And finally , If you're here and you would say, I fear that I am a child of the devil, guess what? It's the first step to becoming a child of God. In the prologue of this gospel in John 1. 12 it says, But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become the children of God. How do you become a child of God? You repent of your sins and you trust in Christ. You believe in his name. You rest your all your hope in him alone. And then you can have the assurance that you are a child of God. Let's close in prayer. Father. I pray that you would work through this unusual passage So that those who are yet lost in their sins and under the dominion of Satan, Father, would come to repent and believe the gospel and break free of his dominion. And have freedom in Christ. Oh Lord, would you do this for your glory? For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.