Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to the passage that we read earlier in Luke chapter 2? In the winter of 1914, German and British troops were engaged in fierce combat on the battlefields of Flanders. The First World War was only several months old, but already it was horrific in its mortality. The bloodshed came to an abrupt pause, however, on Christmas Day German soldiers began to set up Christmas trees outside of their trenches and light them with candles on Christmas Eve. They sang their beloved Christmas carol, Silent Night, and the British joined in with their English words. Soldiers on both sides of No Man's Land made up signs that read, Merry Christmas. And so a ceasefire was called for Christmas Day. German and British soldiers met. in the middle and exchanged gifts. They even played a game of soccer together. But towards the end of the day they were ordered by their generals to return to their trenches. and to the business of killing the enemy. Christmas brought peace to Earth for at least one day in 1914. I'm sure that many of you have heard that story before. It's quite famous. It is a beautiful picture of peace. Often this story is followed up with a quotation from Luke chapter 2 and verse 14, which says, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. The point is often made that Christmas is all about uniting people and bringing about perhaps world peace. But that's not what the verse teaches. That phrase could be better translated, peace among men with whom he is pleased. It's saying that God is at peace with people who have accepted his Son as their Savior. There's no doubt that the coming of Christ has brought wonderful blessings to this world. It was brought out in the message of Simeon that was read earlier. If you were with us here last Sunday, we looked at the first part of his remarkable prophecy. Simeon was a righteous man that was told by God that he would not die before he saw the coming of the Messiah. And we, although the scripture does not say his age, it has always been thought, and there's many indicators to point us in this direction, that he was an elderly man hanging on to this wonderful hope. And finally the day came when he saw Mary and Joseph enter the temple. Jesus would have been 40 days old for his dedication, and the Spirit of God tells him, this is the one. This is the Messiah. This is the long-awaited Savior. And so he comes and he takes up the child in his arm. And in Luke chapter 2 and verse 29 we read that he says, Lord, now letest thou, thy servant, depart in peace according to thy word, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation. Which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. This beautiful message proclaimed that this was not just good news for the Jews, but for all peoples. Jesus was born to be the Savior of the world. And Joseph and Mary are amazed by this. Verse 33, we read, and Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him. They were amazed by this wonderful confirmation of the identity of the Christ child. But his message didn't end there. It wasn't all joy. It wasn't all positive. There was also some judgment. And there was a negative aspect that he continues in his prophecy. The second part of his prophecy is known as a prophetic woe. It's in line with the Old Testament prophets who would predict coming judgments. And this is a portion of the Christmas story that is often neglected and forgotten about because at Christmas you want to hear something really positive. You want to hear something that just makes your heart feel perhaps warm and fuzzy. I have to warn you that this passage we're looking at today is not warm and fuzzy. But it is the Word of God. And it is something that we need to hear. As far as I know, it's never been put to music. It's not part of those traditional Christmas readings that you hear in various services. But it has an important message for us. Simeon tells Joseph and Mary that the coming of the Christ child would divide all of humanity. He goes on to say, and a sign which shall not be spoken against. What does that mean? It means that though the Messiah would provide many signs as to his identity The majority of people would speak against them and reject them and ignore them. This is very similar to what John said in his prologue. He came unto his own And his own received him not. And then look with me at verse 35 of chapter 2. The last phrase says that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. Now I've heard sermons and I've thought for myself that what this simply means is that Jesus would work in the hearts of people. But if you look and study that phrase carefully, you will find that the word thoughts there is not a neutral term. It speaks of a negative response. It is saying that Christ's presence would expose man's rebellion, hostility, and unbelief. You can see this even today. Even in our culture that is becoming increasingly secular, you can still talk about God in a very general way without offending most people. We still have uh remnants of our Christian heritage all around us, and it's very evident, especially that this time of year. But when you start talking about Jesus Christ and you get more specific as to his identity and about him coming and dying on a cross for sinners Then you will find people begin to become a little nervous, a little on edge, a little uncomfortable. Because the message of Christ always divides people into one of two groups. On the Sunday before Christmas, I want to focus our attention on just one phrase in this prophecy. It's in verse 34 where he says, Behold, this child is set. For the fall and rising again of many in Israel. The coming of Christ changes everything. How does the coming of Christ change everything? Well, the presence of Christ, first of all, divides all of humanity. Now we don't like division. But the truth always divides. And Christ as the embodiment of truth was destined to divide. I want to invite you to turn with me. If you would please to Matthew chapter 10. Keep a finger here in Luke 2, but let's turn to Matthew chapter 10. And I'm going to read some words that Jesus said. Begin reading at verse 34. Matthew 10, 34, Jesus says, think not That I am come to send peace on earth. I came not to send peace, but a sword. For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, and a man's foes shall be they Of his own household. He that loveth not father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. And he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. Several years ago, after quoting Matthew 1034 , From the pulpit, I mentioned that this was a verse that you would never find on a Christmas card. Where he says he didn't come to send peace on earth. And wouldn't you know it? That year at Christmas time, someone from this assembly Sent me a Christmas card, a homemade Christmas card, with that verse inside. And recently I received a beautiful plaque with the same verse displayed Because they remembered what I said. You see, preachers have to be very careful about what they say in their sermons On a more serious note, Muslim apologists use Matthew 10, 34 to teach that Jesus called his followers to violence, just like Muhammad. However, the verses that follow make it very clear that that's not at all what he was saying in Matthew 10, 34. He was saying that Christ's message would divide people. It would create hostilities even within families because people Would respond like a magnet. Some would be drawn to him, and others would be repelled by him. That would be the result of his coming. Jesus is the ultimate polarizing figure. Ultimately, no one can remain neutral concerning his person and work Undoubtedly you've heard of the continental divide. We have a continental divide which is an invisible line in the Rocky Mountains that divides the flow of water. as it were in our nation. The water that flows on one side of that mountain makes its ways to creeks and to tributaries and to rivers. And eventually it travels thousands of miles till it makes it to the Pacific Ocean. And the water that falls on the other side of that mountain also makes its ways to all those smaller bodies of water until it finally empties out in the Gulf of Mexico and goes into the Atlantic Ocean. That is the continental divide. Well, Jesus is like the continental divide of all human history. And in the providence of God, even our calendar reflects this monumental division. All of history is divided between the time before the coming of Christ And the time after his coming, what is traditionally known as in the year of our Lord. This is in the year of our Lord 2018, almost coming up on 2019. And every time we wake up and we look at a calendar, and every time we write it out on a letter or on a check, we are Giving, as it were, a testimony that Christ has come and has divided all of human history. Now look with me at verse 34 again, Luke 2. 34. The phrase here that I want you to draw your attention to, it says, this child is set. Which means this has been appointed by God for this specific task. What task? Well, for the fall and rising again of many in Israel. Now what does that phrase mean? The fact is those words can be legitimately interpreted in two different ways. Good biblical scholars disagree on this. The real issue is simply this, to boil it down to simplistic forms. Is Simeon when he says about the rising and falling, is he talking about two groups of people, those who rise and those who fall, or is he saying that those who fall will then rise again? And therefore he's only addressing one group of people. And the fact is there are good arguments on either side. And so some would say that those who fall in humble repentance, that's the idea of falling, will be raised up or saved by the grace of God. Why would someone take this view? Well, there are many verses that teach this truth. We have this repeated phrase: humble yourself under the mighty hand of God, that he may lift you up. And although that view has many things to commend it , most biblical scholars Do not feel that that is what is being said here, and I agree with them. I think this verse is teaching that the coming of Christ would result in some people falling or stumbling in unbelief. While others would be raised by God's grace and would trust in Him. And this interpretation seems to be what is being said here because it's in line with the immediate context of this passage. It's the more natural reading of the text. And so that's the way I understand it and the way we will be developing it this morning. This phrase is telling us the presence of Christ divides all of humanity. We see this very clearly in the ministry of our Lord. There are some people who believed and followed him. But there were many people, though they saw mighty miracles , Though they heard him speak as a man has never spoken before, the wisdom of God, they still turned away and said, no, thank you. In fact, usually it wasn't just a polite no-thank you. Usually there was hostility. Remember when Jesus came to his own hometown of Nazareth? The homeboy has returned, this man they've heard about who's made such a stirring in Capernaum. He came back to his own hometown and he preached in the synagogue. And at first they liked what they heard, but as he went on and began to apply the truth of God's word, they were angered. And it says they took him out and they wanted to cast him off of a cliff. They wanted to murder him. That's how strong their hostility was. You know, Pete and especially in Western culture and in our country predominantly, Jesus is quite popular. We have so many songs that make reference to him, and there are millions and millions and millions of people that say that they are followers of Jesus. But what would people's response be if Christ was physically here and he was doing and saying the things that he did in the New Testament time? I want to suggest to you it would be very similar to what you read in your Bible. There would be people who would be so enraged by his demands. That they would want to kill him. The fact is, as the old adage says, the same sun that melts the wax hardens the clay. And the words and ministry of Christ that drew people to him also repelled people away from him. The fact is, no one remains the same after meeting with the Lord or after hearing his truth. The fact is the preaching of Christ always elicits a response. Even here today on this beautiful festive occasion. People look beautiful. People put on their best. We see so many reds and purples and greens out there this morning. And you have your family with you, even in this wonderful, joyous time of the year, the preaching of Christ divides people. And their hearts respond in very different ways to the message of Jesus. It has always been that way. Secondly, I want you to notice with me that the presence of Christ results in some falling. But how does this happen? To answer that question, we need to go back to the Old Testament background of this statement. We're going to return to Luke 2. But I want to invite you to turn back with me now to the book of Isaiah, to Isaiah chapter 8, please. I'd like to look at Isaiah chapter 8, verses 14. And fifteen. I'll begin reading at verse thirteen, Isaiah chapter eight. Sanctify the Lord of hosts himself. And let him be your fear, and let him be your dread. And he shall be for a sanctuary, but for a stone of stumbling, and for a rock of offense to both the houses. of Israel and a djinn for a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And many among them shall be s shall stumble and fall and be broken and be snared. and be taken. This passage teaches us that the Lord would be like a rock But for others who rejected him and did not flee to him for refuge, He would be like a stone that they stumble over or like a trap that ensnares them. I want us you to turn a little bit further back to Psalm 118, where we'll find similar analogy and we're going to bring these things together. Psalm 118 and verse 22 It says this, Psalm 118, verse 22, the stone which the builder refused has become the headstone of the corner. This is the Lord's doing. And it is marvelous in our eyes. The scholars think that this is an allusion to the construction. of the temple. The stonemason would bring massive stones from the quarry to the construction site of the temple. And one stone was brought that was odd-shaped. And the builder on site kind of rejected it and just had it set over there. And as they were building the temple and everything. And that that rock had been sitting there for some time and just imagine like perhaps weeds growing up around it. It's been completely forgotten. But they finally came to the cornerstone that would tie everything together. which demanded an unusually shaped stone. And they couldn't find anyone on the site. And then someone remembered that stone that had come some time earlier that they rejected and thought had must have been a mistake. And they got it and they brought it and it fit perfectly because that was the design of the architect. There's an allusion to this in Isaiah 28 as well, where Christ is revealed as the cornerstone Now, I want to take you to a New Testament passage that incorporates both of these prophecies concerning the stone or a rock. Turn with me, please, to Luke chapter 20. Luke chapter twenty, Verses seventeen and eighteen Luke 20, verses 17 and 18. Speaking of Christ, it says, and he beheld them and said. What is this then that is written, the stone which the builders rejected, the same has become the head of the corner. And then this whosoever shall fall upon that stone shall be broken, but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him. In verse 17, there's obviously a reference, a quotation of Psalm 118. And then in verse 18, we have a reference to the first passage we looked at, Isaiah chapter 8. This probably, verse 18, probably reflects a proverbial saying of the time, which went something like this, what is worse, the fall off a cliff and be dashed on the rocks below, or to have some large boulder come and fall on you and crush you. And the answer was, the meaning of this proverb was, well they're both really bad. There's no good option there. They both result in a violent death. Now it's interesting for us to note that The audience that Jesus is speaking these prophecies to. Look at the next verse, verse 19. And the chief priest and the scribes the same hour sought to lay hands on him, and they feared the people, for they perceived that he had spoken this parable against them. The people who primarily rejected the cornerstone, who rejected the coming Messiah, was the religious establishment of his day People can reject Christ in many ways. There's only one path to salvation, but there's many paths to unbelief. Some of them rejected him because it was taking away from their religious authority that they held sway over the people. They did not want to relinquish that. It was very inconvenient for them to acknowledge that this man would be the Messiah. It's not what they expected. They expected a Messiah that would come and would rescue them from the oppression of Rome. And he didn't seem very interested in that. But there were other people who rejected him who were had also rejected the traditional faith of Israel. That walked away from all that was moral and considered upright. People can reject Christ By following the path of self-righteousness through a very arduous discipline, religious endeavor And people can reject Christ by being absolutely immoral and rebellious and living life on their own terms. Both lead to the same destiny. Sometimes people think that because they reject the authority of God And they dismiss out of their minds what the Bible teaches and the very notion that there is God that somehow then they don't have to worry about ever dealing with God It's kind of like a little child. Some of you may have had children like this. Not every child does this, but some children fall into a a stage in their life where they believe that if they close their eyes they're in And nobody can see them because they can't see. It doesn't work that way But some very smart people seem to think that by saying that there is no God, it makes it true. But it doesn't make it true. They will have to answer to God. Atheism is on the rise in both America and especially in Western Europe. It's sophisticated and celebrated as the way educated people should think. But the word of God still stands that says, the fool has said in his heart that there is no God. And the reason why the Bible proclaims that it's foolish To adopt an atheistic view is because man inherently knows in the depths of his being that there is a God that he must answer to someday Now I want you to turn with me to another New Testament passage that ties these verses, these prophecies together. We looked at it not many months ago in 1 Peter chapter 2, please. 1 Peter chapter 2. I know I'm having you turn to a lot of passages, but we won't have as many here in the near future. 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 6. We've been going through 1 Peter Sunday mornings here, and some months ago we came to this passage, verse 6, wherefore also It is contained in Scripture, behold, I lay in Zion, a chief cornerstone, elect, precious, and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe he is precious, but unto them which be disobedient the stone which the builder disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner And a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient, whereunto also they were appointed. This passage tells us that Christ is either your cornerstone or he is the rock that you trip over He's either the one who saves you or the one who will condemn you. This is true not just when Christ was physically present on earth. But the Bible tells us it's true every time Christ is clearly preached. In 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 18, Paul says, for the preaching of the cross is the pre Is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. And in 2 Corinthians 2. 16, Paul writes to one, We are the savor of death unto death, and to other the savor of life unto life. Every time the gospel of Christ is preached, it divides the audience right down the middle. There are people who say that truth is precious to me. That man is speaking of my Savior, my Lord, the one who died for my sins. And then there are others who say, this is utter nonsense. This doesn't make any sense. Why do people believe in this? In 1 Corinthians 1. 18, the word for perishing there speaks of something that is continual there in the process of perishing. And every day that they live in unbelief and they reject the claims of Christ, they are moving one step further to eternal destruction. Perhaps you're here this morning. You're one of our guests. You're here with family and friends. And you're coming here because your family members want you to come here. But if the truth were known, you would say. . The whole idea of God . becoming man and being born of a virgin, that whole thing is crazy. You feel this whole notion, this whole celebration is kind of ridiculous. The idea that 2,000 years ago some Jewish carpenter died on an old rugged cross somehow that has some relevance to your life today. You don't see that connection. You think it's all kind of superstitious and traditionalism, and you just utterly turn away from it. Perhaps you keep your ideas to yourself because you don't want to offend your loved ones. But really the whole thing is kind of a joke to you. I want you to know that your response is exactly what God said would take place. That there would be some at the preaching of the gospel who would turn away and disgust. And in anger. Your only hope is to become alarmed at the clear warnings of God and flee from the wrath to come. What kind of people perish? All kinds of people. They might be religious like the Pharisees Or they might be irreligious. They might be young, they might be old. They might be men, they might be women. They may be extroverts or introverts. All kinds of people perish, but they all have one thing in common, and that is they turn away from Christ. On December the 26th, 1869, Charles Spurgeon preached from this very text. And he said on that day after Christmas to his vast audience, You are in a solemn position this morning and listening to the gospel of Christ. You cannot go out of this house without a mark having been made upon you, which shall remain there evermore, either for your good or or for your ill. And I issue the same warning to you this morning. You cannot remain neutral to the gospel. Either you will leave here having your unbelief a little more entrenched in your soul, being a little more confirmed, a little more hardened to the gospel, or you will leave here having your heart being softened. And having been drawn to the Savior and coming more and more to believe that perhaps this is so, you will either go one way or the other. So do not turn a deaf ear to the gospel of Christ. It is the only hope of salvation. The same Christ that is precious to those who believe is despised by those who disbelieve. Thirdly, this morning I want you to notice that the presence of Christ results in some rising. Not all fall. Many do But there are those who rise in faith. There's good news in this gloomy prophecy of Simeon. This is a reminder that Simeon speaks of Christ as the Savior of the world. Without the coming of Christ, all of mankind would fall forever from the presence of the Lord. But the coming of Christ and the death of Christ ensures that some will rise again. The word here for rising is a term often used for resurrection. You see, Jesus didn't just come into the world to destroy sinners, but to rescue them. John 3, 17 says, For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world. But that the world through him might be saved. Perhaps you're listening carefully this morning. I hope you are, and you're thinking to yourself, so am I among those who are falling? Is my heart actually getting harder and I'm becoming more entrenched in my obedience, my disobedience and my unbelief? Or am I of those who will who will be raised, who will rise in faith? How could you tell the difference? Well, the verse right before John 3. 17 is John 3. 16. For God so loved the world. that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life A little bit later in the Gospel of John, in John chapter 6 and verse 39, we read this. Jesus says, and this is the Father's will. which hath sent me that of all those which he hath given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day. And this is the will of him that sent me, that everyone which seeth the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life, and I will raise him up. At the last day. So who are those that are raised up? They are those who have seen the Savior and have come to believe in him by the grace of God. What does that look like? I want you to turn with me, if you would, to Luke chapter 8. Luke chapter 8. I won't have you look at any other passages. I want to just settle in here for just a moment. Here we see a very clear division of humanity in what Luke reveals here. Luke chapter 8, verse 9. Luke 8, verse 9. The Lord tells them this parable. I'm sorry, Luke chapter 18. Sorry about that. Luke 18, verse 9. Says this, and he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves. That they were righteous and despised others. Let me pause there a second. If you're here this morning and you say, you know, I'm I'm a pretty good person. I got my flaws, got my weaknesses, my vices. But I'm a pretty good person. I think God will receive me the way I am. I think I'm I'm good enough for God to say, Well then this parable is written for you. Okay Look at the next verse. Two men went up into the temple to pray. The one a Pharisee and the other a publican And the Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. Verse 13, and the publican standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God. be merciful, or literally be propitious to me a sinner. And Jesus says, I tell you that this man went down to his house justified rather than the other, for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased. And he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. We have a parable here of contrasting prayers. The key point here, of course, is that those who are saved who come and are broken over their sin and recognize that they have no standing before God. And they throw themselves down at his mercy. They come and bow at the foot of the cross. But those who think that They're really an exemplary person, and because of their duties and their discipline, God would be happy to receive them into heaven. Those are the ones who actually perish This is something the Bible teaches from cover to cover. Whosoever exalted himself will be abased, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted. Psalm 138, verse 6, though the Lord be high, yet he hath respect unto the lowly, but the proud he knoweth afar off. Isaiah 57, 15, for thus saith the high and lofty one that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell in the high and holy place with him that is of a contrite and humble spirit. And Isaiah 66, verse 2, to this man will I look, even to him that is poor and of a contrite spirit, and trembleth at my word. God resists the proud and gives grace to the humble. God only saves those who recognize they cannot save themselves. That no flesh should glory in his presence. When our salvation is by grace and not by works, there is no room for our boasting. God receives all the glory, adoration. and praise. Luke, who records the remarkable prophecy of this man Simeon, and the parable that we just looked at in chapter 18 also records at the end of his gospel, a remarkable conversion, even while a man was nailed to a cross. And Luke chapter 23 And verse 39, we read, and one of the malfactors, that is one of the criminals Which were hanged, railed on him, that is on Jesus saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing that thou art in the same condemnation And we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds, but this man hath done nothing amiss. And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. Right there at the cross, you have a visual illustration of the division of humanity. On one side of our Lord was a man who was angry, who was mocking the savior on the other side there was a man who at one time was mocking the savior if you look at the gospel record you'll see that but he had a change of mind The Spirit of God worked in his soul, and he began to see that this man that was being crucified next to him was not like any other man he had ever met. Instead of being filled with rage and bitterness, he said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And he came to believe that this man was a king because he said, Remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. He recognized that he was a sinner. He says, we receive the due rewards, but this man hath done nothing amiss. This man is innocent. This man is Sinless. This man is who he claims to be, the sinless savior of the world. And here, this broken, wicked man is saved. moments before he dies. And Jesus said to him, today you will be with me in paradise. What a beautiful picture of salvation. You see, right there at the cross, there is a picture that fulfills the prophecy of Simon that was made some 33 years earlier. That the coming of Christ would divide all of humanity from those who are falling in unbelief and those who will rise to faith by the grace of God. The birth of Christ changes everything. So let me ask you this morning, which one are you? Are you one of those who is falling, who is stumbling, who is tripping at the claims of Christ? Are you one who have rejected the Savior, that even have a hostile response to them, to Him? Or are you one of those who, by the grace of God, has come to believe? and will rise again. Because you have met the master. And that has changed everything. May God help you to consider this important message that we've heard this morning. Let's close in prayer. Father, we pray that you would work in hearts. For those, Father, who have responded even to this message in unbelief, I pray that you would yet convict their hearts and their souls. Trouble them, Father, by the revelation that we've considered this morning. Help them, Father, to come to put their faith and trust in Christ. And in Christ alone, and to see the foolishness of relying on their own righteousness. Father, I pray that you would move in our assembly this morning. And that Christ would be magnified in the conversion of sinners. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen