Give your Bibles, please, you can be turning with me to Matthew chapter 6 again. On a hot Saturday afternoon in August of 1806. Five students from Williams College in Massachusetts met to discuss a very radical new book that had recently come to their attention. It was written by an unknown Englishman by the name of William Carey, and it was entitled An Inquiry into the Obligation of Christians to Use Means for the Conversion of the Heathen. This book was all about the responsibility of seeking to fulfill the Great Commission And so these five students, Samuel Mills, James Richards, Francis Robbins, Harvey Loomis, and Byron Green met together to discuss this book. They were living at a time of revival in this country. People were talking about missions. Small impromptu groups were gathering for prayer. This sense of revival was sweeping through the nation and had touched this little town in Massachusetts. So these five men met in a place called Sloane's Meadow, just north of the college, and they intently discussed world missions, specifically the need of the gospel to go to China. But as they were having this discussion and talking about selections from this book, a severe thunderstorm came upon them and caught them unprepared. And they were scrambling for shelter, and the only place they could find out on this field were a group of haystacks. And there they gathered. amidst the pouring rain and the deafening thunder, and they had a time of prayer. And they prayed there that God would somehow use them. to send the gospel to the ends of the earth. And that small prayer meeting at that haystack changed the course of history. These men continue to gather in that field, pray and discuss the matter of world missions, and in time some of these men in just a few years became instrumental in forming the first foreign missionary board in America. And the first missionary that they sent out was a man named Adonairam Judson. And he went to the country of Burma. And in the years to come, they would send out many more missionary. Good things happen when God's people gather together for prayer. We're continuing our study of the Lord's Prayer. And this morning I want to preach to you about the implications of just one word in our text. It is the word our, our Father, which art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name. Do you notice it doesn't say, my Father, which art in heaven? Because the Lord's prayer is a family prayer. I came across a poem this week that makes this point, and I must provide this disclaimer, this is not great poetry, okay? But it makes the point nonetheless. It reads, you cannot say the Lord's Prayer and even one say I. You cannot pray the Lord's Prayer and even one say my. Nor can you pray the Lord's Prayer and not pray for another. For when you ask for our daily bread, you must include your brother. All God's children are included in each and every plea. From the beginning to the end of it, it never once says me. This truth, of course, does not mean that Christians should never pray individually. If you look with me at Matthew chapter 6 and verse 6, which serves as a preface to this prayer. The Lord says, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy father, which is in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. However, even when you pray alone, you should remember by the intercession that you make that you're part of a community of faith. Have you ever thought about the fact that when you pray to God, that at that very moment there are thousands, perhaps millions, of other Christians around the world and different time zones who are also praying to the same gods. I sometimes when I pray, when I kneel to pray, I sometimes think about that. People all over the world bringing their petitions, pouring out their hearts. Never thought about the fact that there might be somebody somewhere at the same time as actually praying for you? That's an amazing thought to consider. The fact is we may pray individually, but we never really pray alone. Now the implications of this term I think are obvious, and that is that it's the Lord's desire that his people gather for prayer and include one another in their prayers. That is that the prayers not be self-focused about just me. And my needs and my job and my family and my health. It's very easy to become very selfish even in our prayers But what the Lord wants us to do when we pray is to think about the big picture. This prayer starts very big. Hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. And so this must be our focus. I want to begin this morning by asking you a simple question. And that is, do you pray with other believers? Do you regularly join with other Christians in prayer? Maybe you have a prayer partner. Or maybe you have a Bible study that you go to weekly, and at the end of that you have a time of prayer, maybe at the beginning of it. Maybe you come here on Wednesday night for a prayer meeting, or maybe you go to a coffee place somewhere and you have a small group of people gather there for prayer. I hope that is the case. But my suspicion is that for most of you, for many of you anyway, it's a rare occurrence that you really gather with other believers, perhaps beside your family for prayer. One of the things that is rapidly evaporating from our church culture Is the Wednesday night prayer meeting, and it's not at all my intention to berate you about this this morning The fact of the matter is, most churches have long ago abandoned this. There was a time when just about every church anywhere had a midweek prayer service. But they are rapidly going the way of the dinosaur. The vast majority of churches have discontinued those for lack of attendance. And I wish I could say that on Wednesday night these pews are full, but that is far from the truth. We also have, of course, men's prayer breakfast once a month, and we have Ladies for Missions, and we have grandma 's prayer group. And these, unfortunately, are sparsely attended. And I'm not beating up on you this morning. I'm just making an observation. And that is a trend that is not unique to this church or to a few churches or churches in Maryland. That is true throughout this nation. Our culture, our society is becoming more and more individualized, where it's all about me, it's about me and my relationship with God, and we are neglecting the horizontal aspects of it. And so often there's very little prayer. But the Lord wants his people to pray together. It's an essential reminder to us that the Christian life is not an individual sports, as it were. To use an analogy, it's a team sport. We are in this together. We're part of a team. We're part of the body of Christ, the people of God, and we need one another. And a vital Evidence of that is the way that we pray for one another and with one another. It's a tangible demonstration. that we're parts of the people of God. So I'm going to preach to you briefly this morning on this simple truth that Christians should pray together. That we should intentionally pray with our brothers and sisters in Christ. And I'm going to provide several reasons for this from Scripture. The first one is because when we pray together, we are following Jesus' example and instruction. Last week we discovered the Bible does not teach that all human beings can claim God as their spiritual father. Often people think that. Our society often teaches it that we're all the children of God. God is the creator of us all, but the Bible does not use the term Father. To refer to us simply as him as our creator. There has to be a spiritual relationship, and that can only occur through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. But the Lord Jesus Christ taught his disciples to pray together. I want to invite you to turn with me to Matthew chapter 18. And I just want to look at two verses here, verses 19 and 20. The context here is actually that of church discipline. But the principle that the Lord reveals to them here is true of all prayer. He says, verily, verse uh 19. Again I say unto you that if two of you shall agree on earth as touching anything that they shall ask It shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven, for where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them The point here is that God delights to answer the prayers of his people when they gather together and they have the mind of God. They agree about this because this is God's will. This is taught in His Word. This is not a question of people's opinion. It's obviously clearly what God desires in this area. They can agree upon it. And they can fervently pray for it. And God says when that happens, He is there in their midst It may be a small group. It may just be two or three individuals, but God is right there. You may say, I thought that God is everywhere. He is But his presence is more often evident when the people of God are gathered together in prayer. Have you never experienced an increased awareness of the presence of God in a time of prayer with the people of God? I know that I have. I hope that you have experienced that where where you were gathered together with other believers in prayer and you were pouring out your hearts together and you just had this sense that God was right there in the midst. That's a wonderful experience, and God wants the people of God to gather, together and intercede for one another. But Jesus didn't just teach the importance of community prayer. He modeled it. I want you to turn with me ahead now to Matthew chapter 26, verses 36. through 38. This is one of the most touching scenes in the Bible. Jesus, the Son of God. Ask a few of his disciples, the inner circle, you might say, to pray with him. This is the night before his crucifixion. In just a few hours, the Lord Jesus Christ is going to be tried, and then he is going to be condemned, and he's going to be nailed to an old rugged cross. But Jesus is not anxious. He's not fearful about dying. It's the fact that the wrath of God would be poured out on him. That he would be the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. And this thought is completely overwhelming to him. Whatever burden, whatever crisis you might have crushing your spirit this morning is nothing compared to what Jesus felt that night. And you know what he did? He gathered his closest disciples and he went a little ways with them there in the garden of Gethsemane and he said, Would you pray with me one hour? Would you watch with me? And unfortunately, we know what happens. They fell asleep. Came back and checked on them a couple times and they were asleep. But this is an amazing thing if you think about it. Here the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God. wanted his disciples to pray with him and for him. You ever thought about that? The point I want to make is this. If the Lord Jesus Christ felt that he needed the prayers of other believers , How much more do you and I need the prayers of other believers? How much more do we need to gather in times of crisis and adversity and difficulty and bow our heads together And pray for God's help. This is why we have a prayer list. This is why we send out email requests for emergency situations. This is why we gather on Wednesday evening. This is why we have these various prayer groups, men's prayer breakfast. Ladies for missions. This is why the deacons meet with me every Sunday morning before Sunday school and have a time of prayer over here. Because praying together is really important. It's vital for the people of God. But I think that we often neglect this to our detriment. You see, God intends that we bear one another's burdens through the avenue of prayer. And this is a two-way street. Not only do we need to be willing to pray for the needs and the burdens of other people, you know what else we have to do? Some people really struggle with this. We have to be willing to ask people to pray for us and with us as well. There are some people here that And I thank the Lord for you. You are very willing and you are very faithful and you're very eager to pray for the needs of others. But in all the years that I've been here as pastor, I've never received any prayer request from you. Now many have, of course. But my point is that sometimes we don't want people to ever know that we have needs or that we're facing a difficulty or that we have a problem and we don't let the body of Christ or anybody else know we say, I'm going to deal with this burden myself. That's a foolish mistake. If the Lord Jesus Christ felt he needed prayer, if the Apostle Paul felt that he needed prayer, you know what? I think you probably need prayer as well. We have great problems that assault us. And there are things that we can't fix What a wonderful support it is. Do you know the support that it is to know that the people of God are rallying around you and praying for you in a time of crisis? Have you ever experienced that? Maybe you haven't. I remember when my son was born. And they weren't sure that he was going to make it. We had a home church there and Frederick prayed for him, and Pastor Childs was over here, who was my youth pastor over there years earlier. And I know that he had this church pray for him. I have a slip of paper that he left here that was in the files when I came as pastor. of just random pieces of paper. And there was a paper there the day Andrew was born with a prayer request, and they prayed for him that following day on that Wednesday night here. What a comfort that was to know. There were people here that prayed for Andrew, didn't even know who he was, didn't know who I was at the time What a wonderful comfort, what a sense of peace came over my wife and I when we were at that time of crisis to know that there were hundreds of believers who were interceding on our behalf. That's the way it's supposed to be. That's the way it's supposed to work. We have to have the humility to say, I need prayer about this. Then we have to have the love and compassion for others to indeed be faithful in praying for those needs. And by the way, God heard and answered those prayers for my son in a mighty way. Secondly, I want us to turn to the passage that we read together, Acts chapter 4, please. Acts chapter 4. We kind of dipped into the middle of this passage this morning in our reading. And the second point I want to bring before you, another reason that we should pray together, is this, because when we pray together, inevitably our hearts are knit together. This is a uniting exercise. In Acts chapter 4, we have some first here. We have the first persecution in the church. And we have the first prayer meeting in the church. Peter and John had just recently healed a layman. Who was a beggar outside of the temple. Remember the story, silver and gold have I none, but such as I have, give I thee, they said. In the name of Jesus Christ, rise up and walk. This man was a fixture outside the gate, beautiful, particular gate there in the temple. Everybody knew him. They'd always see him there every day. There he was. His limbs were atrophied. He was there for years. And then all of a sudden, one day they see him jumping up and down and running through the temple precincts. Is that the same guy? They could not deny. That's the guy that we've seen for years. They knew his face. And the authorities were very upset about this because the people were intrigued by this. They were Listening now to what the disciples had to say, look with me in Acts chapter 4. I'm going to begin reading of verse 18 They called together Peter and John the Apostles, verse 18, and they called them and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus. But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whither it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye, for we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard So when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding nothing how they might punish them because of the people. For all the men glorified God for that which was done. And then verse 23, and being let go, they went to their own company and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said unto them. And then notice the prayer that comes from this crisis. Verse 24, they pray Lord, thou art God which has made heaven and earth and the sea and all that in them is, who by the mouth of thy servant David hath said, Why did the heathen rage and the people imagine vain things? And the kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ, for of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed Both Herod and Pontius Pilate with the Gentiles and the people of Israel were gathered together for to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done. What a wonderful address By the way, and this is a whole sermon in itself, I can't go into us, but notice how they begin with remembering that God is a king and he is a creator and he's in control. That's what you need to know when you're facing a crisis. God 's in control. This is not a surprise to him. He knows what he's doing And they come to him, they pause to worship, and by the way, notice that this prayer is filled with scripture. There's another good reason to hide God's word in your heart. And notice their request to God in verses 29 and 30. Now, Lord, behold their threatenings. and grant unto thy servant that with all boldness they may speak thy word by stretching forth thy hand to heal, and the signs and wonders may be done by the name of thy holy child Jesus. This is their request. Now what is amazing to me is what is missing in this prayer. Did you notice it? They didn't pray for God to protect them Then say, oh Lord, keep Peter and John out of jail. Keep them from being whipped, scourged. Keep them from being stoned to death. Keep them. No, they didn't pray that way. They said, Lord, give them boldness. Help them not to be to back down from preaching the gospel because of these threats that have been made against them. What an amazing manifestation of spirit-filled individuals. You see, they wanted to spread the gospel more than their own personal safety. But what I want you to focus on, and the reason that we turned to this, was the result of this prayer meeting. Look with me at verses 32 and 33, and the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul. Neither said any of them that aught of the things which he possessed was his own, but they had all things common. This is not advocating or saying that they were practicing common communism or that they lived in a commune, but it says it's saying simply that when somebody when it became known that someone has a need, someone else very quickly met that need. But the amazing thing that I want you to look at is the unity that they had. It says that they were of one heart and of one soul. This crisis and their prayer and bowing their knees before the Creator God and putting this matter at his feet had a sense of uniting them in a common cause. This is one reason why Christians need to pray together. When we pray together , it reminds us that we have brothers and sisters in Christ You know, when you're praying with other believers, if you come here on Wednesday night or you have a prayer group that you go to and you pray and you hear them talk about their needs, you know what it does? It reminds you there's other people that have problems besides you. And there's some people that have much greater burdens than you are currently carrying at this moment. And it draws out your heart to them. There's so many benefits. When your brother or sister is crying out to God and they are fervently addressing him, you know what it does? It invariably spurs you on to pray more earnestly. It reminds you of some things about God. It has a way of building us up. Our mutual suffering drives us to our knees together. I mentioned that one of the problems that we have in this church and perhaps in every church is that believers often do not pray together. This is both a cause and effect in the sense that one of the reasons we don't pray together is because we have our differences with our brothers and sisters in Christ. This is something the Lord brought out. Moments before he gave the Lord's Prayer in Matthew chapter 6. In Matthew chapter 5, he says these words. Ye have heard verse 21. Ye have heard it was said by them of old time, thou shalt not kill. But whatsoever shall kill shall be in danger of judgment. But I say unto you that whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment, and whosoever shall say to his brother Rakha shall be in danger of the counsel. But whosoever shall say thou fool shall be in danger of hell fire. Therefore, if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee, Leave there thy gift before the altar and go thy way. First be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift. The principle here is simple. You cannot really worship God when you are filled with anger at your brother, or your brother is filled with anger against you. This is a disturbing truth to many people. I've had many people argue with me about this over the years. Consider what 1 John 4. 20 says. If any man say, I love God and hateth his brother, he is a liar. And he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? This is something that Jesus emphasized at the end of the Lord's Prayer Verse 12, Matthew 6, it says, and forgive us our debts as we forget our debtors. Picturing our sin here is a debt, a debt that we owe God. God forgive us of our debts just as we have forgiven those who have sinned against us. Now what is amazing to me is the Lord is going to give a further explanation about this. Because he knew his disciples, he knew his original hearers and the millions that would read this in years to come when they would say, oh, you know, that's no big deal, you know What's this about forgiving my debts to my brothers? What's up with that? And so in verses 14 and 15, he has this explanation, this footnote, if you will, for If you forgive men their trespasses, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. Now there's a lot of theology in there and explanation that I would like to give, but I'm going to save that for a future message. But what it obviously and clearly means is that if you do not have a forgiving spirit There's going to be a major roadblock in your ability to effectively pray and to have a right relationship with God. You can't be right with God. And have a fighting, bitter, contentious spirit with your brother and sister in Christ. And you know, prayer is kind of a real test of this. If I were right now, say, all right, we're going to close down this preaching service, but I want everyone now to find two or three people and spend some time and kneel right there in the queue. And I want you to pray to the Lord together. Share your requests one another and let's spend some time in prayer. I wonder what thoughts would go through your head when some of you say, I've got to get as far away from this person over here as I possibly can. Because the last thing in the world that I want to do is pray with that individual. It's not going to happen. I mean, if you were stuck in an elevator with that person for hours, you still would not pray with them. Because you do not want to be around them. If there are people like that that flash immediately into your mind, something's not right. Something's not right. God wants his children to be united. Prayer is both a means of uniting us and a test of whether or not we are united. That brings me to the third reason that we should pray together. And that is because when we pray together We are reminded that we are in a battle together. Would you please turn with me to Ephesians chapter 6, please? Ephesians chapter 6. Most of you know the second half of Ephesians chapter 6. is the Bible's great passage on spiritual warfare. I'm going to be leading up to just three verses at the end, but I want to get a running start. In Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 10, finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers. against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God that he may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith you shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked, and take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word. of God. And notice how this passage on spiritual warfare ends. Verses 18 through 20 praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. and for me that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in bonds, that therein I may speak boldly as I ought. to speak. Christian friend, we are engaged in spiritual warfare. And if you are a Christian, you are a spiritual warrior. And you will face struggles. You will face temptation. This is why we desperately need to band together in prayer. Our families are being attacked by Satan. He delights in breaking them up. Our children are being enticed by the charms of this world. Our young people are being placed in very vulnerable circumstances. Our nation is in a time of great moral decline. We desperately need to pray for one another. Notice it says here in verse 18 that we are to pray for all saints. That doesn't mean that we should pray, Lord, bless every Christian in the world. Means that we should be comprehensive in our prayers. We should pray for our families. Moms and dads, you should pray with your children. Husbands and wives, you should pray together. I'm amazed when I hear Christian families that have lived together Marriages that have been 20, 30 years long, and when I ask them, do you, your husband and wife, do you spend time each day in prayer? And the answer is no. Are you kidding me? We're in a spiritual warfare. And you're both together in this, and you have there are great stakes, and you're not praying together? But it's not enough just to pray with our children and for our children and for our husband and wives. Of course we must do that. But we must pray for the family of God. We must pray for the body of Christ. It's like concentric circles. You just keep working your way out. This is one reason why we publish a prayer sheet every Wednesday and why we have a church directory. This is why we have missionary prayer sheets out here and a condensed list of all of our missionaries. Those missionaries are on the front lines. They desperately need us to uphold them in prayer. And we should especially pray for those who preach the gospel. I know this sounds perhaps self-serving. Well this is what Paul says here in verses 19 and 20. He prays. He asks the people to pray for him that he might speak the word boldly, that he might preach the gospel boldly as he ought to speak. On at least several seven other occasions Paul prays or requests that believers pray for him. That's an amazing thing. Think about this. Paul was a great scholar. One of the greatest minds the world has ever produced. He was a writer of scripture. He penned under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit 13 books. He was a spiritual giant. But he was constantly going about to these churches and begging them and saying, would you please pray for me? Why was Paul like that? Because he knew he was in the midst of a great spiritual struggle. So I encourage you especially to preach, to pray for preachers of the gospel. And I'm going to give you two reasons. Number one, because preachers of the gospel under special attack from Satan. Paul speaks of himself as being attacked by a messenger of Satan. One of the greatest problems we have in the church today is that we have so many men who are going out of the ministry. We have so many of my friends that I went to seminary with, men who were very talented and very gifted. are not in the ministry today. Some of them haven't been for years. We have a huge dropout rate. In every community you visit, you will find stories of pastors who have disgraced themselves. And when that happens, so often people become disillusioned and the enemies of Christ use it. to further their own agendas. I'm told that the average pastor in America today only stays in a church for 3. 7 years. It's not good for the health of the churches. It's not good for the pastors. It's not good for anyone. I spend more time than perhaps you imagine talking to other pastors, many of them with small congregations. facing very, very difficult and challenging circumstances. It's a huge battle Another reason you should pray for preachers of the gospel is because preachers of the gospels are human. They're just like you. I'm often amused sometimes when I talk to people and they'll say things, you know, I know you've probably never been tempted with this, and I know you're probably never discouraged, I know you're probably never. What? What do you think I'm made out of? No, I'm just like you. I'm weak and fearful and discouraged and Don't respond sometimes the way that I should, and often wonder what I should do next about situations. So you need to pray. Pastors, evangelists, missionaries desperately need the prayers of God's people. Paul at times was afraid. In Acts 18, the Lord comes to him with a vision and says, Be not afraid, but speak. Hold not thy peace, for I am with thee, and no man shall hurt thee. Why did God send an angel to tell Paul this? You know why? Because Paul was afraid. He was worried. 1 Corinthians 2. 3, Paul says to the believers at Corinth, I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. He wasn't this confident celebrity. He wasn't striking a power pose and trying to give this reflection that he had everything under control. They saw a weak man. And in 2 Corinthians chapter 1, Paul says he was so discouraged. He thought that his ministry was over. You see Preachers are people too, and they're weak and they're vulnerable and they desperately need the prayers of their people. And we desperately need to pray for one another. I'm not too proud to say, I need your prayers. I need your prayers We're all in this together. If you're here and you regularly attend this church, in other words, you're not a visitor here this morning or something. I pray for you. And I would ask that you pray for me. It works both ways. We need the prayer support of one another. We need to be upholding one another in prayer. You need to pray, you know what you should pray for me, one thing? What Paul says to pray. Pray that God would give him boldness. It is very hard being a preacher because every Sunday I make people angry and upset about something. And sometimes some things that make some people really happy make other people really angry. And vice versa. And so you know what ever you know I'm a human being. You know what every human being is? Maybe not every human being is like this. I think some people genuinely like to offend people. I'm not one of those individuals. But you know, if you say things and they're offensive to people, you know what the natural response is? I'm just not going to say those things anymore. I'm just going to back off from that But then are you being faithful with what the Word of God says? So every pastor, every preacher faces this conundrum Every week, am I going to fear man or am I going to fear God 's? And every preacher I'm convinced that has ever lived at times Has feared man and not said everything that he should have said. I know I have. And that's why I need you to pray for me that I would be bold. And preach the word as it stands. We need to pray together. I was thinking back as I was preparing this message to this past year, you may recall that our missionary Paul Schleylein was engaged in a debate with a Muslim scholar. before a large number of Christians and Muslims. And he asked that people would pray for him. So one of the men of our church came to me and he said, you know, Pastor, what day is this? And what what's the time difference? And we we figured it out, and it happened to be on a Saturday, uh just uh like an hour or two after our men's prayer breakfast. concluded. And so we said, this is convenient. This will work out well. So we had a group of men and we met over here in this library. And we spent time together for several hours in prayer during the time that Paul Schleylein was debating. And you want to know what? Those couple of hours flew by like that. And our hearts were engaged in prayer. And there was a unity in that room. There was the presence of the Lord in that room. There was power in that room. And I know the Lord used it to strengthen him. And it strengthened us as well. I use this as an illustration. This is what we need to do on a regular basis. We need to gather together with our brothers and sisters in Christ and pray earnestly. This is what Jesus taught us. This is what brings unity to the body of Christ. This is something we must do because we are in a great battle and the stakes are high. The devil wants to destroy this church. He wants to destroy our families. He wants to destroy our nation. So the people of God must come together and pray. When I read this passage here in Acts chapter 4, I often wonder what it would be like to be there. What an amazing thing to think about. You know, uh the Lord died and then he rose again, and then ten days later you have the day of Pentecost. And people are getting saved by the thousands and they're gathering to worship every day and they're spending hours in prayer, and then this persecution comes. And they gather together, they pour out their hearts before God, and it says the place was shaken. Wouldn't that be something to witness? What an amazing thing. May God help us to be a people at prayer. Because this is what the Lord would have us do. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father. We are your children, and we are weak And we are unable, Father, to battle without your power. And we're unable to battle the world and the flesh and the devil alone. We need to be actively engaged with the body of Christ. And so I pray, Lord, that you would help us. To heed your word. Pray that we would not seek to be Lone Rangers, but that we'd be part of the army of Jesus Christ. That we would truly intercede for and with our brothers and sisters in Christ, that we would allow their burdens to become our burdens. And their earnest prayers to become our earnest prayers. I pray that you would unite our hearts together And that you would work revival in our midst, Father, because this is our only hope. We thank you, Father, for your word We pray that you would use it in practical and specific ways in the lives of individuals today. Help us, Father, not just to nod our head and walk out of here, but to think practically. of who we can gather to pray with and the importance of gathered prayer in our lives. Use Father what is said today, perhaps to cause some to pray with their families and with their spouse and to seek reconciliation. Oh Father, Help us, Father, to live in light of eternity, in light of these wonderful truths. Lord 's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.