If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to John chapter 13? John chapter 13. In the 1980s, there was a new bumper sticker that came out that you probably saw if you were live during that time. It said, he who dies with the most toys wins. The saying has been attributed to the billionaire Malcolm Forbes. Malcolm Forbes was the editor of Forbes magazine from 1957 to 1990. And he lived up to that motto. He did gather many toys. He was famous for his collections of great arts and yachts, Fabergé eggs, hot air balloons, Harley Davidson motorcycles. and homes. In fact, he owned a castle. He was a symbol of American narcissism. He lived for money, for things, and above all for self. But in 1990, at the age of 70, he died of a heart attack, and he left it all behind. I once heard a preacher say that Jesus' message to his disciples after washing their feet Could be described this way. He who dies with the dirtiest towel wins. This morning, as we continue our study of John's gospel, we come to Jesus' explanation for the washing of his disciples' feet. Let remind you of the setting of this event. It's Thursday evening. Jesus and the disciples are celebrating the Passover. It is the night before our Lord's crucifixion. In just a few hours, he's going to be arrested. He's going to be tried through the night. He is going to be nailed to the cross at 9 a. m. Darkness will come, and he will die and then be buried the next day. Jesus is going to unburden his heart to his disciples in the upper room. But as they enter that upper room that night , The disciples are not doing very well spiritually. They've just had an argument about who is the greatest, probably Started by the seating arrangements around that table. They all wanted the position of honor close to Jesus. And then no one took the initiative and washing the disciples' feet. And so Jesus gets up from the table, takes off his outer robe, wraps a towel around his waist, and begins to wash his disciples' feet. They are all ashamed, embarrassed, and quiet until he comes to Peter. And Peter says what the other disciples are thinking This simple act was actually a parable of both our Lord's incarnation and his approaching death on the cross. Because there was something even more shameful in their culture than washing someone's feet, and that was being nailed to a cross. When Jesus washed his disciples' feet, it was a foreshadowing of Jesus' atoning death that would occur the next day And in his degrading death, their sins would be washed away. They would become completely clean. In this simple act, we see the glory of the gospel. The righteous one dying for those who are unrighteous. And his death would be the basis for their sanctification and their ongoing ability to have fellowship with him. Which is what he says the foot washing in a sense symbolized. They didn't need a bath ever again because they had been cleansed spiritually at the cross, but throughout their earthly walk, with the Lord, they would need to wash their feet. They would need to confess their sin. They would need to restore fellowship with God. That is the theological explanation for his actions. And now he's going to give the practical meaning of his actions. Preachers always love it when you don't have to wonder what the meaning of the text is because it's interpreted right there, and that's what we have this morning. Look with me at verse 12. When he had washed their feet and put on his outer garments and resumed his place, he said to them, Do you understand what I have done to you? Verse 12, John is introducing the next scene in this drama. When a rabbi would sit down, it was the posture of teaching. And good teachers from rarely the beginning of time have used questions to get their students to think. That's what the rabbis did. That's what the Greek philosophers did. This is what Jesus does. Do you understand what I just did to you? And then Jesus is going to provide a thorough explanation with application. And he's calling his followers to do what he has done, that is, to humbly serve one another. And in his explanation, Jesus is going to provide four reasons why they should humbly serve one another. Why should Christians serve one another? I want to give you four reasons from our text this morning. Number one, as followers of Christ, we are obligated to serve one another. Look with me at verses 13 and 14. fourteen. You call me teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I am. If I then your Lord and teacher have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. Jesus here is arguing from greater to lesser. He's making comparison. If this is true, then this must be true. This was a very common way that rabbis argued a case. He says, you're right. I am your teacher. I am your Lord. The word teacher is the equivalent of rabbi. He is their instructor. And the Lord testifies to the fact that his disciples had come to believe that he was the Christ, that is the Messiah, the Son of God. Jesus is the man they have been following now for three years, and he is the one that they trust in. And if their Lord and Master has washed their feet, then certainly they are obligated to wash one another's feet. Notice in verse 14, he says, you also ought to wash one another's feet. That word aught is signaling this is an obligation. Jesus isn't making a suggestion. He's not saying, you know, it might be a good idea if you did this. He's saying this is what you ought to do. This is what you are called to do. Speaks of a God-given obligation. Now I suspect that if Jesus asked them to wash his feet They would have fought with one another to do that. But that's not what he asked them to do. He asked them to wash one another's feet. In the New Testament, we have this expression that you will find many, many times, one another. It's reflecting one Greek word, a lelon. And it expresses A mutual obligation that believers have with one another. It does not mean that we can never do any of these things to unbelievers But whenever you encounter that expression one another, it's talking about the community of faith. He's going to say just a few moments later in the upper room, by this all people will know that you are my disciples. If you have love one for another. In fact, all of the one another commands can be summarized with that one command, love one another. including humbly serving one another. When we humbly serve one another, we are demonstrating that we love one another. If you have read our church covenant and constitution, you know that we have this right there spelled out and great specificity Of what we must do. These are the obligations that we have to one another. And it's not a one-way thing. It's not like I'm just obligated to serve you. But you're obligated to serve me. Every one of the one another commands is a mutual obligation. Not that we should be demanding that people do this to us. but that it is to work both ways. So we have things like respect one another and edify one another and accept one another and care for one another and Serve one another, be patient with one another, be forgiving of one another, pray for one another, comfort one another, fellowship with one another, and that's not even half of them. And the Lord Jesus Christ modeled all of these, including here in the upper room, serve one another. As followers of Christ, we are obligated to serve one another. That may have never crossed your mind before. But this is exactly what Jesus is teaching in the upper room. If you are a true follower of Christ, that you have been born again, you are a believer. You have been called by Jesus to serve one another. Well, there's another reason given here. As followers of Christ, we are obligated to imitate his pattern of service. This is what we find in verse 15. For I have given you an example. That you also should do just as I have done to you. And notice the details there, just as I have done to you. Now it's important for us to know that a rabbi in the first century was not like a professor today. There's similarities, but there's very big differences. Professor comes and lectures in class, but a rabbi was a man who taught you, but whom you also lived with. You were with your rabbi 24 hours a day, seven days a week. When he traveled, you traveled with him. When he went to the market, you went to the market. And the idea is that by watching them and imitating their lifestyle, you would learn a great deal, and every moment would become a teachable moment. And everything they would encounter would have become an object lesson. It wasn't that there were so much a lot of formal hour-long lectures. As there were just nuggets of wisdom interspersed throughout the day And this is the way it was with the Lord's disciples. They saw throughout his earthly life his pattern of service. And now as he washes their feet, this is the last act that they will ever observe him do. And he says, you're to do just as I have done to you. Now, based on what Jesus says in verse 15, there are millions of Christians who believe that Jesus was inaugurating an ordinance here. That is a religious rituals that Christians are obligated to fulfill There are denominations such as their groups of Mennonite, Pentecostal churches, holiness churches, free will Baptist churches, Moravians, and brethren churches that practice footwashing. as an ordinance. We believe in baptism and the Lord's table. They have another one, foot washing. Alright? Now Let me just say that I greatly admire their desire to follow the Lord and to be willing to do humble things. But I don't think that's what Jesus is doing here. And of course, we don't practice foot washing as an ordinance here. Let me give you some reasons why. Okay? Number one. Footwashing was a practical need in their culture. As I said to you last week, if you were here, they had dirty, dusty roads, people wore sandals. If you traveled from place to place on foot, which was the only way most people traveled, your feet would get dusty. And so when you entered someone's home, it was a practical need that you have your feet washed. Today it is not a practical need. I'm hoping that everyone here today to some degree has clean feet. You have shoes, you have cars, we have paved roads, we have sidewalks. We don't practically need to wash our feet every time we enter a social occasion. Another reason we don't do it. The early church did not practice foot washing as an ordinance. In other words, the disciples around that table that night did not take with them. Oh. We are supposed to wash one another's feet as an ordinance. This is what we do every time we have the Lord's table. Because as they went around the world taking the gospel, they did not take that practice as something that was part of their worship. Number three, there's no indication in the rest of the New Testament that Jesus was making foot washing an ordinance. There is only one other place where it's mentioned, and that's in 1 Timothy 5 and verse 10, which is a list of qualifications for widows who will be supported by the church And it says that if she has shown hospitality and has washed the saints' feet. Clearly in context there, it's not talking about something done in a church service. It's talking about the fact that as she had people from the church over to her home showing hospitality, she would also wash their feet. It was it became symbolic of hospitality. And that's how it's being used there. Number four, this verse does not call us to do what Jesus did, but as Jesus did. If you look carefully at the wording of verse 15, for I have given you an example that you should also do just as I have done to you, not what I have done to you. In other words, it's not the act of footwashing that he's making normative for believers. It's the heart of worship that's willing to do menial tasks for one another. that is in view here. But it's not enough to explain what a verse doesn't mean We have to explain what it does mean. He says, just as I have done to you. So what are some things that we can observe in what Jesus did that should guide us in following our Lord's actions? Number one. We should serve one another graciously. Graciously. Let me ask you a question. Did the disciples deserve to have Jesus wash their feet that night? No, they did not. They did not deserve it. He's been teaching them about humility for three years and this very night. They're arguing about who is the greatest, and one of them is going to betray him, is going to leave the upper room in just a few moments, and the another one, the leading apostle Peter, is going to deny that he knows Jesus. And all of them are going to flee in the night when he is arrested. And they failed to wash one another's feet. They did not deserve this, but Jesus washed their feet anyway. My point is this, if we are going to follow Jesus and minister to one another, we don't ask ourselves, is that person worthy of my ministry? Are they worthy for me to serve them? No, if we're going to minister like Jesus, we we do it graciously, even when they don't deserve it. Number two, we should serve one another initially. And that what I mean by this is that Jesus took the initiative in washing their feet. As we serve one another, we don't wait around for someone to serve us, and we don't wait around for someone to instruct us or tell us that we really need to serve that person. No, we see a need and we meet that need. So often, especially if you're hurting and you're going through a difficult time, it's very easy for you to want ministry from the body of Christ. But never enter into your mind ministering to others. You might have come to church here today saying, you know, I hope someone talks to me. Because I have a lot of heavy burdens and problems that I want to talk about. I hope someone greets me warmly. I hope someone prays for me. And I hope that someone does those things for you as well. But the question is, do you ever are you ever the one who's looking to help people like that? You see, it works both ways. Are you looking to pray for someone? Are you looking to minister to someone? Are you looking for someone who looks a little lost or looks a little down and you can tell that they're not their their normal self today? Something's going on in their life. And you and you go to minister to them? Or do you just take the approach, I'm just going to mind my own business, I don't want to know, I don't want to get involved, I don't want, I just want to live my life with as few problems as possible. We must serve one another thirdly practically. This was a practical need. Sometimes people want to serve in ways that are not helpful or needful, but in ways that they want to serve. They demand to serve in a certain way. That's not a good a good look. That's not the way Jesus was. He did what practically needed to be done. Number four, we must not serve one another only in ways that require a special gift. The Bible does speak of spiritual gifts. We have listings in four places in the New Testament. And it is an important consideration for us. But I want you to know that there's no gift of footwashing. You don't have to be a very talented and skilled individual to do this. No one is going to have great admiration for your skill. When Jesus washed his disciples' feet, they weren't saying, did you see the way Jesus controlled that flow of water and how he dried up every drop with that towel. No, that's ridiculous. He just washed their feet. So you must never think that unless I have a spiritual gift in that area, I don't have to do that. No. We do what needs to be done, whether we're skilled or gifted in that or not. And number five, we should not think that we only serve the Lord in ways that we find fulfilling. If you are gifted in some area, And you serve the Lord in that area, it very well may be fulfilling to you. You might feel appreciated. You might feel respected. You might have some sense of status in the Christian community because of that. But we don't serve the Lord because of the way it makes us feel. Having said that, let me just say there's joy in serving Jesus. It's a wonderful thing to serve the Lord and to do things in his name, whether it's in public or whether it's behind the scenes and no one ever sees it but the Lord. There's joy in doing that. But we don't do it primarily out of a sense of fulfillment of how it makes us feel. We do it for the Lord because we love Him. And we want to serve him. Number three, as followers of Christ, we are obligated to yield to his authority and serve one another. He's going to wrap it up kind of in verse 16. Truly, truly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. Jesus is going to press home what he's been saying. He's going to just reiterate what he's saying. He has one of these truly, truly sayings. We see something like this 25 times in the Gospel of John. It's John's way of highlighting the important sayings of Christ. To get the reader's attention. And here he uses two analogies. A slave is not greater than his master The ancient world was not very egalitarian. People were not all on the same level. It was a stratified society. There was a hierarchy. There were the top, there were elite, wealthy people who did nothing for themselves, who had servants who did everything, and at the bottom there were slaves who did the lowest tasks. But everyone was under the authority of someone. And so the idea of a slave rejecting his master's will just didn't happen. It wasn't an option. We live in a society where people have rights and they they stand up for their rights and they demand their rights. If you were a slave in the first century, you didn't have any rights. You didn't demand any rights. And Jesus is saying that he is He is our leader. He is our owner. And he has called us to serve him. We don't have the right to say no, thank you, Lord. This thing about serving you by ministering to others, I'm going to pass on that. That's ridiculous. He's your Lord. And the second is this the messenger was not greater than the one who sent him. Today, of course We don't have many messengers. We can send emails and text messages and so forth. But in the ancient world, if you want to get a message to someone, you had to send a messenger. And that messenger was under your authority. They didn't have The freedom to change the message or to say, you know what, I think I'm not going to deliver that message. No. That was their job. That was their sacred duty to deliver that message. Because they were at one under authority. And we are under the authority. We have been since. This same principle is mentioned by Jesus many times to his disciples. In Matthew chapter 10, verses 24 and 25, he says, A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master. It is enough for the disciple to be like his teacher and the servant like his master. Luke chapter 6 and verse 40, a disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone, when he is fully trained, will be like his teacher. You want to know the ultimate measure of your spiritual maturity? You want to know how far you have progressed in your walk with Christ. How much are you like Jesus? And if you've growing to become more and more like Christ, you're going to be one who serves others as a part of your life. 1 Corinthians 6, verses 19 and 20, Paul says, You are not your own, for you were bought with a price, so glorify God in your body. And in 2 Corinthians 5 and verse 15 it says, And he died for all that those who live may no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sakes died and was raised. So let me ask you a very plain question. Are you following Christ? Commands. Are you serving one another? Are you using your time, your talents, your energy, your resources? To be a blessing to other believers. That's what Jesus has called us to do But I think it's one that we often never even consider. Our minds have been so molded by this world that tells us You can do what you want to do. It's your life. Live it your way. And so, and it also tells us you need to look out for yourself. You need to look out for number one. You need to be true to yourself. We hear these kind of mantras and nonsense and everything. But the Bible tells us, no, none of that is true. You have to do what God, what your Savior has called you to do, and He has called you to serve one another. This is something that we struggle with. I know that we all have different bandwidths in what we can do, right? Some of you are incredibly busy You have jobs, you have children, you're involved in other things, you're running hither and yon, you're almost never at home And by the way, one solution might be you need to simplify your life. If you don't have time ever to obey what God's called you to do, then something's got to give. And it's not what God's called you to do. Whenever you talk about serving the Lord, people always instantly talk about how incredibly busy they are. But you know what? Human beings have never had more discretionary time and money than we do right now. We have all these time-saving devices and things that our ancestors could not have dreamed of. We have electricity, so we can stay up past six or seven o'clock at night. We have so many abilities and so many resources. And the Bible says that someday we're going to have to give an account What did you do with the money and the time and the energy that God gave to you? Did you use it just to feather your nest and to do things that you find really fun and fulfilling just to relax and enjoy life? Or did you listen to the words of Jesus and recognize that the night cometh when no man can work and that I have to give an account and that he has called me, both in word and example, to follow him in serving others. There's another reason that he gives here. As followers of Christ, we should gladly serve one another, because this is the path of blessing. Look how he concludes this section of thought in verse 17. If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. He starts out by saying, if you know these things, the form, the grammatical form that he uses implies that indeed his disciples did know these things because he's been teaching them for three years. You see, often we laugh at the bumbling disciples, but they're just like us. There's a lot of things that we know that we're supposed to do that we don't do What Jesus is teaching here, and I I feel like I'm like over explaining the obvious Right? This is not some complex doctrinal thing that we're like scratching our head saying, I just, I'm not sure I get it. No Serve one another just as I have served you, Jesus says. Not hard to figure out. This is not some advanced concept. This is discipleship 101. Sometimes I ask visitors when they attend our church and I follow up with them what they think of our services. Tells me some things about them, and I'm genuinely curious. And I would say that probably The most common comment that I get, especially about the preaching, is this. They say, you know, it's kind of like going to school. There's all this instruction. There's going through verse by verse, and there's this doctrine, and often they'll say, and I'm not used to that in a church. I want you to know that we make no apology for that approach. But there is a danger. Even in doing the right thing. And the danger is this. We could think that because we are learning a lot of facts , And we're learning the teaching of Scripture. And because we know the order of the books of the Bible, and we can find a passage really fast, and we've memorized a lot of verses. And we've got a lot of Christian lingo in our heads. We think that we're really spiritually mature. But the real test is, are you doing it? The real test is, are you doing it? God didn't give us his truth so we would debate it and discuss it and dissect it. He gave us his truth so we would do it. This is what the Word of God says. Some of the most terrifying verses in all of Scripture are found in Matthew chapter 7, verses 21 through 23. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name? and do many mighty works in your name, then will I declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. These are the people that did not do his will. In Luke chapter 8, we read of an incident where Jesus' mother and his brothers, his earthly brothers wanted to see him for some reason. We don't know why. And he says to the messenger that came to him, my mother And my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it. And in John chapter 8, verse 31 Jesus said to the Jews who would profess to believe in him, if you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples. So let me ask that hard question. Are you demonstrating that Jesus is the Lord of your life by the way you are serving your brothers and sisters? Is there people that could stand up and give testimony in this assembly or somewhere else? That lady, that lady, she ministers to me all the time. She always has time to listen to me. And she has helped me so many times. Or that guy, he always prays with me at work when I have a big problem. He's always been there for me. He's always willing to drop whatever he is doing. I remember that time he helped me when I was moving or when I had a situation with my car. He dropped whatever he was doing to minister to my needs. Are there people like that anywhere who could give testimony that you have a selfless heart of service? Or would we be hard-pressed to find anybody who could give any kind of a testimony like that? There's one final bit of text to deal with, and this is the incentive, this is the blessing. Notice what he says at the end of verse 17: Blessed are you if you do them. This word blessed, we don't really have an exact English equivalent to this Greek and Hebrew term The Greek term blessed that's used here is the one used in the Beatitudes that Pastor Aaron's been preaching through. Begin Matthew chapter 5. And it's rooted in the Hebrew word, Ashrah, which is the origin of the name Asher. That begins the book of Psalms. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. What does it mean to be a blessed person? Well, the Hebrew word originally had the idea of a person who is envied, or a person that people would say, that guy's really fortunate. speaks of the holistic nature of their life that it looks as if every area of their life has been blessed by God Not that they're necessarily wealthy or that they have great health, but God is with them. And a result of that that is evident is they have the joy of the Lord. They have a stability and a peace. And a joy that's unusual that stands out as if God is favoring them because he has indeed blessed them. This is the opposite of the way the world thinks and the opposite of the way we think in the flesh. We think the person to be envied and the person to strive to be like is the person that has people who do everything for them. Did you know that the elite people in our culture don't do any menial tasks? They don't go grocery shopping They don't pick up their dry cleaning. They don't cut their grass. They don't do their gardening. They don't clean their house. They have servants and assistants who do all those things because they are an important person. They're a person of status. And people serve them, and they certainly don't serve other people in menial tasks. That's unthinkable. But Jesus here calls us to follow his example of what is true greatness. And that is of serving others, not getting others to serve us So let me ask you, are you striving to be like Malcolm Forbes or Jesus? Are you getting your towel dirty? Or are you just feathering your nest, living a life of comfort and ease, whiling away the time? Trying to minimize your problems and maximize your pleasures, oblivious to the needs that surround you. I'm gonna make an application here, just off the cuff. You know, one of the things that is very common that people struggle with is depression. People are depressed. And they get depressed about being depressed. I'm not trying to be funny, it's true. And it's a real thing. And I do not make light of it. And all depressed people have one thing in common. And that is they become intensely self-focused. They're thinking about their problems, their issues. And often I will ask people who come to me and speak about depression, I say, Who are you ministering to? Who are you serving right now? And there always is a blank look on their face. Uh no one. And I said, did you know that Jesus says that happy are those Who do what he commands, and that's found in the context of serving others. Do you know how much good it would do for you if you got your mind off of your problems and tried to fix and help other people and their problems, you know what you would find? You would find that maybe for a few moments you forgot about your problems. And he found joy in helping someone else and meeting their needs. This is the way God designed it to work. This is the way he made us This is counterintuitive. This is not the way we think it works. And often we think, you know, I've got to get all of my problems solved before I can ever be a help to anyone else. Well then you're never going to help anyone. Because you're always going to have problems and issues in this fallen world And so we we have our issues, we all do. We have our insecurities, we have our inconsistencies, and we minister to other people. And it's not like I'm reaching down to you because I've got everything figured out. I'm so much better than you. No, we're both struggling, but we're helping one another. It's so easy to become, have tunnel vision, and just be focused on the problems that just assault you and that come to you and keep you up at night. And you're surrounded by a lot of other people just like that. And what God wants you to do is to minister to one another. And what better place to start than in the body of Christ where you worship and where you have a community of believers who care for you? But I must conclude with one final thought. This message, of course, has been primarily for believers because Jesus is talking to his disciples. But I don't want anyone to come in here this morning and think that by serving others in humble ways you can earn your way to heaven. That is not true. If you are thinking that way, then you do not know the gospel. And you have never been washed in the blood of the Lamb. Your heart has never been changed. You have not been regenerated. And you need to focus on the cross, what would occur the very next day when Jesus would die in place of sinners. You need to go there before you can go around washing. Other people's feet. May God help you to see the gospel and to see the beauty of our Savior. And may God help us to follow Him by serving one another