Isaiah 53 during the war between Britain and France nearly two centuries ago Men were conscripted into the French army by a type of lottery system. When someone's name was drawn, they had to go to battle But there was one exception, a person could be exempt if another were to voluntarily take their place. On one occasion , authorities came to a certain man. Who was among those who had been chosen the lottery to serve in the military? He refused to go saying, I was shot and killed two years ago. They questioned his sanity, but he insisted that he had been conscripted two years previously, and there was a man in his hometown. Who said, listen, I'm unmarried. You are married and have a large family. Let me go in your place and you can remain here. And so that's exactly what he did. And he was shot and killed in the line of action. This case was eventually referred to Napoleon Bonaparte, who decided But the country had no legal claim on the man because he was free, another had died in his place. An essential part of the gospel is the wonderful truth that Jesus died in our place. This is brought out, of course, in many New Testament passages. And in several Old Testament passages, including most explicitly in Isaiah chapter 53, verses 4 through 6. Since surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. In verse 4, it says, We did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. It's saying that most of the people who surrounded the cross and walked by it that day. interpreted that event as the judgment of God upon a blasphemous man. But that assumption was dead wrong. This is why verse 5 begins. But in contrast to this, the reality is he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. At the very heart of the gospel is the truth that Christ died in our place. This is known by theologians as the substitutionary death or the vicarious atonement. It is one of the boundaries of orthodoxy. It's one of the lines that separates liberals from evangelicals or conservatives. And it actually distinguishes man-made religion from God-revealed religion Those who are liberal will often say that Jesus died as an example, a wonderful example of self-sacrifice. But the scriptures teach something else. They teach that he died as our substitute and that he bore the wrath of God This is the only religion in the world, Christianity, that teaches this truth. In every other system of belief, it is man that works his own way in some fashion of merit with God. This doctrine shines a bright light on some very vital gospel truths. The doctrine of vicarious atonement shows us man's helpless depravity. Reveals that man cannot save himself. Obviously, if man could save himself, there would be no reason for the Father to send his son and to die upon the cross. It also reveals that salvation is by grace alone. Jesus paid for all of our sins at the cross. It's not that he did his part. Pay for some of our sins and we do our part and pay for some others. No, he died for all of our sins. It's a very humbling truth. We do not contribute to our justification. And this doctrine also points to the sinless sacrifice of Christ. It indeed confirms that Jesus is the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. The understanding of this doctrine is truly a matter of life and death. If you don't understand this point, Then you don't understand the gospel. I'm going to focus this evening on the central verse of these three, verse five. And I want you to notice. The importance of the pronouns in this verse. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. If you had no other verse in the Bible that taught the vicarious death of Christ for sinners, you could still clearly find that wonderful truth clearly revealed in verse 5. This is a very rich verse that is worthy of our meditation. Spurgeon preached five completely different sermons from this one text. There are three parts to verse 5. There's the first part, but he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. It reveals the revelation of his suffering for us. And then there is also the reason that is given also within this first phrase. That it was for us and not for himself. And then the results of this suffering. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. I want to speak to you tonight briefly on the suffering servant died in our place. I want you to notice, first of all, revelation of the suffering servant. We have in the first part of this verse four terms used to describe the extent of our Lord's suffering for us. Says, first of all, he was wounded. The focal point here, I believe, is upon our physical suffering The word actually means to be pierced through. It's a very violent term. It expresses a piercing that results in death. A great German Hebrew scholar of the 19th century says that this word is the strongest term. for a violent and excruciating death in the language. The scriptures reveal that Jesus was pierced in several ways when he died on the cross. His brow was pierced with the crown of thorns. His hands and feet were pierced with the spikes that held him to the cross. And his side was pierced with a Roman sword. Psalm 22, verse 16 predicts this. It says, they pierced my hands and my feet. Zechariah 12, 10 says, They shall look on me whom they have pierced. These brutal wounds were taken for us. And then we read that he was bruised. And I believe this focus here is on the emotional suffering that he has taken for us. Term literally has the idea of being crushed or shattered or broken to pieces. It refers in the Old Testament on one occasion to a person who was trampled to death. It refers to something that is utterly destroyed. What's interesting is this term is almost always used metaphorically in the scripture. Just like we would say that someone was crushed by a certain event, we're meaning that they are emotionally devastated by that. And that is usually the way this term was used. The same term was used twice by David in his great Psalm of Confession, Psalm 51. David was overwhelmed by guilt. The guilt of adultery and murder, and this had some emotional repercussions in his own life. His sin was ever before him. Although our Savior was innocent, He did have an emotional response to bearing our sin on the cross. When our Lord cried from the cross, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? It was the expression of a crushed spirit, a heart weighed down with the guilt of humanity. But there is good news in this dark truth. Psalm 51, verse 17 says the sacrifices of God Our broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. Isaiah 57, verse 15 says, I dwell in the high and holy place with him that is of a contrite and humble spirit. The Lord was bruised for those who recognized that they are bruised and need a Savior. Third phrase that we come across here is the chastisement. This term refers to voluntary suffering. It can have the idea of correction or discipline or even instruction, but it most often has the sense of punishment, and that's the way it is used here. It is saying that Jesus Christ took our punishment that we deserve at the cross. I have often heard Christian people say when some tragedy comes into their life that God is punishing me for the sins of my youth. Or for something that I have done in the past, and God is justly punishing me for that. But I want you to know that that is not true. It is not an artificial distinction when I say to you, the scriptures reveal that God chastens his children, according to Hebrews chapter 12. He corrects them in a loving way, but he does not punish them for their sins. Because that punishment was taken by Jesus Christ. And so it is incorrect to say that God is punishing me. That's important that we understand that the Father did not force his son to die for sinners. The scriptures reveal that Christ laid down his life willingly. It was a voluntary act. John chapter 10 brings this out. Very clearly. Our Lord's death was not some senseless tragedy. It was a voluntary act by our loving Savior. He willfully took our punishment. And then we have this reference to stripes. This is a reference to judicial suffering This word speaks of a welt. A deep bruise left by the quick blows of a whip. It's not so common today, but it was almost universally true in the ancient world that when a person received stripes , A flogging. It was an official punishment brought about by some government authority. That was true, of course, for the Jews. And Jesus received 39 stripes. His punishment was our penalty. It refers to the judicial suffering that he bore for us. And now I want to turn to the reasons for the servant's suffering. There are two really implied in this scripture. One is because we are sinful And mentions our transgressions. He was wounded, it says, for our transgressions. The word transgressions has the essential meaning of rebellion. It pictures someone deliberately violating God's law. Our problem is not that we make mistakes or exercise poor judgment. The fact is, we have defiantly chosen to disregard God's instructions and live life on our own terms. People do not like to think about themselves as being angry at God or being defiant or rebellious. But if you were to closely analyze their life and probe their thoughts, you would see that indeed that is the case Lost people are fine with individuals who believe in God, but when the demands of that God are brought home to them, they rebel. with strong defiance. And this often explains much of the animosity that is reflected towards Christians. And then we have this term iniquities. The idea of this word at its root is that of being twisted or perverted We still speak today of perversion and a pervert, but not nearly as often as was once said A pervert is a person with a twisted sense of values. The scriptures reveal this. What the scripture condemns, they think is good. And what the scripture says is good, they think is wrong. The fact of the matter is that we all have to some degree a warped and bent nature as part of the very fabric of our beings. We are the opposite of righteous, which means to be straight every sin we commit. is a perversion of God's righteousness and demands satisfaction. So one reason Why he had to bear our sins is because we are sinful. The other reason that that is not explicitly stated in this passage, but is implied, is because God is holy. If God through his love can just overlook our sins, as many seem to think today, then Jesus died on the cross for nothing. Many, many people believe that Jesus can just that God can just forgive our sins But the scriptures reveal that there had to be a just payment for those sins. Romans chapter 3 explains That the cross was the only way that God could be just and the justifier. The only way that God, the judge of all the earth, who always does what is right , could retain his status as being absolutely righteous and holy is because The law's satisfaction, law's demands were satisfied through the death of Jesus Christ. One of the fundamental reasons that Christ came and died is because God is holy. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. And then finally, we have the results of the servant's suffering. In this passage, they are found at the end of verse 3. Speaks of peace, the chastisement that brings about our peace Twice in the book of Isaiah, in chapter 48, verse 22, and in chapter 57, verse 21, we read, There is no peace, saith the Lord, to the wicked. There is no ultimate peace. This does not mean that every lost person is severely agitated and anxious. If they knew the reality of the situation, they would be. But it doesn't mean that that's the way they are. Neither does it mean, unfortunately, that every Christian is always at peace. And it's saying that the lost are not reconciled to God. And that they are facing the wrath of God. Isaiah compares the loss to a restless sea. People desperately want to be at peace. But peace is only found through being right with God. Now the word that's used here, the Hebrew word, is a Hebrew word that everyone knows here. It's the word shalom. It was the highest blessing that you could offer a person. It means so much more than our English word expresses. It does not refer to the cessation of hostilities, but really to wholeness. Healthcare professionals today use this term wellness. to refer to uh a broad sense of wholeness about a person. And that's really a pretty good definition of this. is the person who is at peace, is at peace in their hearts. They are complete. They are whole. The New Testament informs us that we are complete in Christ. Ephesians 2. 14 says that he is our peace. And then we have this beautiful paradox in Scripture that stands out like a bright gem. And with his stripes We are healed. From a literary standpoint, Isaiah was the greatest of the Hebrew writers. His turn of phrase, his expression, his analogies are beautiful. And this is certainly one of the most beautiful with his stripes we are healed. It is only through the death of Christ that a man can be fully restored This is one of the great paradoxes of Scripture. It is by his welts that we have been made whole. It's through his bruises that we have been blessed. It's by his stripes that we are saved. It's by the crushing, his crushing that we have been made complete. This passage is quoted by Peter in the New Testament. I'd like to read for you 1 Peter chapter 2 Verses 21 through the end of the chapter. This is an application of this wonderful truth given for us. Peter writes, For even hereunto were you called. Because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow his steps, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. Who when he was reviled reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. who his own self bare our sins and his own body on the tree that we being dead to sin should live unto righteousness, by whose stripes ye were healed. For ye were as sheep going astray, but now are returned unto the shepherd and bishop of your souls. In verse 24, it says, by whose stripes ye were healed? The whole argumentation here is that we should be willing to suffer for him and follow his example Because we have been saved by his stripes. I mentioned to you earlier that Charles Spurgeon preached five sermons from this one verse. I'm going to read a brief quote from one of those sermons that was preached on September the 1st, 1872. He says, whenever a man is healed through the stripes of Jesus, The instincts of his nature should make him say, I will spend the strength I have as a healed man for him who has healed me. Every stripe on the back of Christ cries to me, thou art not thine own, thou art bought with a price. May God help us to remember this wonderful truth this evening by his stripes. We are healed and we are healed that we may go forth and serve Him. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word We pray that you would help us to consider it tonight and meditate on it. Help us never to get tired of thinking about the cross. and about what our Savior has done for us. Help us never to think that we are our own. Help us to remember that we have been bought with a price by the precious blood of Jesus. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.