Give your Bibles, would you open them to Luke 17 if you're not there already? One of the most fascinating individuals in the history of the church. was John Newton, the author of the famous hymn Amazing Grace. Newton was a seafaring man. His dad was a captain. And in time he became a captain himself. Went to sea as a very young man and After being there for a while, he made it got an offer from a man in Africa to come and work for him. This man was quite wealthy and offered him a good living, and so Newton went to work for this man. But he fell out of favor with this man pretty early on. And Newton discovered this man was incredibly cruel. He chained him up. and made him his personal slave. His living conditions were deplorable, and he nearly died. He lived under these harsh conditions for over a year. But by the providence of God, he was amazingly released. Incredibly, he went back to the sea, and for several years he made his living as the captain of a slave trading ship. Eventually, through a series of events, he came to faith in Christ. and eventually became a preacher of the gospel and an outspoken opponent of the slave trade. He published the accounts of his experiences as the captain of a slave ship. And those compelling books turned public opinion against him, against it. And in February of 1807, just ten months before Newton died, the British Parliament finally passed the Slave Trade Act, essentially making slavery illegal in the British Empire. This morning, as we continue our study of the parables of Jesus, we come to a brief parable that touches on the issue of slavery. This parable is not very well known. In fact, it's often passed over in books that address the parables of Jesus. And I think it's ignored for three primary reasons. First of all, it's brief, only covering four verses. It's often classified as a mini-parable or a parabolic illustration. Another reason that it's ignored is because it's confusing. One might take from these verses that God is a slave driver, or that if someone does not perfectly obey God's commands, He would be viewed as nothing more than a worthless servant. And does this parable suggest that God takes no notice of our labors for him and that he never gives any rewards for what we have done for him? The answer to all of these questions is no, but I think you can see how these few verses can easily be misunderstood. But I think the third reason that no one calls this their favorite parable is because it describes Christians as slaves. I wonder what you think about that. Would you ever think of yourself as a slave of Jesus Christ? Probably not, because when we hear the term slave, we are instantly confronted with a wave of negative images and emotion. When we hear the term slavery, we think of racism, oppression, abuse, violence, and shame And so we might wonder why the Lord would speak of his followers as slaves. Let me first mention that slavery in the first century was different. From the slavery that took place in our nation before the Civil War. Number one, slavery in the first century was not a racial matter. There were slaves of every race in the Roman world. Slaves in the first century were often educated. There were slaves who were doctors, professors, and teachers Thirdly, first century slaves were sometimes paid for their services and could buy their way out of slavery. Some slaves had better lifestyles than non-slaves, such as day laborers. And in the first century, people sometimes sold themselves into slavery to pay off their debts. Having said that , Being a slave was not an easy life. Slaves were owned by another human being, and they had no legal rights. But in this brief parable, Jesus is not commenting on the morality of slavery, but simply using a common situation that his original audience would have completely understood. So let me go back to the question that I asked you a moment ago. Would you ever think of yourself as a slave of Jesus Christ? I want to suggest to you this morning. That according to this parable, it's not only acceptable to think of yourself as a slave, it is essential. The Bible describes the Christian life with a wealth of metaphors. We are called followers, disciples, pilgrims, soldiers, ambassadors, saints, just to name a few. But the most common description of believers in the New Testament is that of slaves. At least 40 times Christians are described as slaves in the New Testament. Perhaps one reason why this fact has not confronted you before is because the Bible translators tend to translate the Greek term for slave as servants. And that's because the term servant doesn't carry the cultural baggage that the word slave does. But make no mistake about it, the Bible uses the term for slave. to describe our position before the Lord. Typically the apostles Paul, Peter, and John all begin, at least some of their writings, acknowledging that they were slaves of the Lord Jesus Christ. So I'm going to speak to you this morning from this brief parable. on the reality that Christians should understand that they are slaves of the Lord. So let's look at this parable to begin with. Let's look at an exposition. of verses 7 through 10. Look with me at verse 7. Jesus says, but which of you having a servant, plowing or feeding cattle, We say unto him, by and by, when he has come from the field, go and sit down to meet Notice that this verse begins with the word but. This means, of course, that it's connected to what precedes it. So let's quickly examine the context. First of all, I want you to notice specifically the audience that Jesus is speaking to. Look with me at the first phrase in verse 1. Then said he unto the disciples, Jesus here is specifically addressing his disciples. And in this opening paragraph, he's going to talk to them about the life of a disciple. He's going to describe it in four ways. First of all, The Christian life is a life that is full of offenses, or we might say, temptations. He says it is impossible, but that offenses will come in verse 1. And then he shows us that the Christian life is to be a life of forgiveness. In verses three and four, he says, Take heed to yourselves, if thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him, and if he repent Forgive him. Thirdly, we see that the Christian life is a life of faith. The apostles respond by saying, Lord, increase our faith. And then the Lord says, In verse 6, if you had faith as a grain of mustard seed, you might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the roots, and be thou planted in the sea, and it should obey you. And then we see in this brief parable, fourthly, that the Christian life, the Christian disciple, is called to live a lifestyle of obedience. So what exactly is the connection between the previous passage and the parable of the improfitable servant? Well, I want you to notice how the disciples respond to Jesus' call to forgive their repentant brother seven times in a day. They say, Lord, increase our faith. I think there's almost some humor in that, like, Lord, I don't have enough faith to forgive someone seven times in a day. And Jesus' response in verse 6 could be summarized this way. He's saying you don't need a great faith. You just need faith in a great God. He talks about that if you had a tiny amount of faith, the faith the size of a grain of mustard seed that was proverbial for being very small You might say to this tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea, and it should obey you. Of course, this is all contingent upon the will of God that God would want this to occur. But suppose a Christian did exercise what we might call a mountain-moving faith, what would they be tempted to think? They might be tempted to think that they were somehow special, that they were very powerful, that they could even command God to do whatever they wanted And so the Lord provides this brief parable as a corrective to spiritual pride that can develop so quickly in his disciples. Now I want you to notice that this brief parable is structured around three rhetorical questions. There's a question in verse 7. A question in verse 8, a question in verse 9, and then in verse 10, we have our Lord's conclusion from this parable. So the picture here is of a man who owns a small farm and one slave. The slave would work out in the field plowing the ground and tending to the animals But then he would come in and serve his master as well. Now let's seek to answer the first question that Jesus asked his disciples. Look at verse 7. But which of you having a servant ploughing or feeding cattle will say unto him, by and by, when he has come from the field, go and sit down to meet Let me put this in simple language. If you had a slave who worked on your farm, would you as the master prepare a meal for him at the end of the day? Now you might be tempted to say yes. That would be a nice thing to do. But the reason why you would respond that way is because you don't understand in an experiential way the relationship between a master and his slave. Slave owners did not fix meals for their slaves. That would be unthinkable. That would be to turn the nature of this relationship on its head The answer to the first question is a resounding no, and every one of the Lord's disciples would have responded internally with this answer. Of course not. Of course he wouldn't prepare a meal for them. Now let's look at the next verse. And will not rather say unto him, Make ready wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself and serve me, till I have eaten and drunken, and afterwards thou shalt eat and drink. Now let me inform you of one fact concerning the cultural background of this parable. Because this man owned only one slave , The slave was required, we might say, to do double duty. If a man owned several slaves, he would generally have slaves who worked domestically in the home and slaves who worked in the fields. They each had their sphere of activity. But when a man owned only one slave That slave was required to do double duty, whatever his master asked him to do. Just imagine this. This man has been working out in the fields Drained of his energy, sweating, tired, dirty, he comes home and his master says to him, Fix me my dinner The man would have to go and clean up and put on the change of clothes and prepare the meal for his master. He would there stand by his side waiting for him like a waiter for any instructions that he would have. His master would take his time and eat the meal, and only when he was finished eating his meal would then be his slave dismissed to go and prepare his own meal because very likely he wouldn't be eating the same quality of food as his master. Notice the question mark at the end of verse 8. So let me ask you, what is the expected answer? The second question in verse 8, to you and to me it may seem unthinkable, but all the disciples would have said a silent yes in their minds. Now we have a problem with this. And it's because we are all used to the employer employee relationship, not the master-slave relationship As an employee, you have certain rights. You decide for whom you will work. And you agree to a certain pay scale and benefits package. And if you feel that your boss is being unfair, you can bring a complaint. to the HR department or file a grievance or perhaps speak to your labor union. And if that doesn't work, you can always quit your job and get another one. But a slave had no such rights. If the owner asked him to do double duty and to work 14 hours a day, He had no recourse. He could make no complaint because he was the slave. He simply had to do what he was told. Now look with me at verse 9. Doth he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him? I trow not Here we come to the third rhetorical question. Does the master thank his servant for preparing his meal? The King James Version has an interesting word here, tro. We don't use that word at all. It has dropped out of the English language. It has the idea of I suppose not. All the disciples would have agreed with this negative response. You see, masters customarily did not thank their slaves. Because it's not like the slave really had a choice in the matter. Now perhaps you would object and say But I thought the Bible encouraged us to be thankful. Indeed it does. In fact, in the very next paragraph of Luke chapter 17, we read about one leper in ten who returned to give thanks to the Lord for healing him. Yes, the Bible is the world's premier book on the importance of thanksgiving. But Jesus is not discussing the importance of thanksgiving in this parable. But he's illustrating the nature of the relationship between the master and his slave Let me just say that if you're truly a child of God, you are a slave of the Lord. But what does this practically mean? So now I want us to turn to the application of this parable. It would be easy to draw some false conclusions from this parable. So we have to We have to try to understand what is it that Jesus is trying to get across and what are the superfluous ideas in here that really don't apply to this relationship. The first thing I want you to notice that I think is brought out in this parable is that Christian disciples are owned by God. Did you know that if you are truly a born-again believer, the Lord owns you? That should not frighten you But comfort you. The Lord is both your creator and your redeemer. You might say that he has a double right to your service. The scriptures bring this out in many passages. In 2 Corinthians 5. 15, we read, He died for us, not that we should live unto ourselves. But unto him which died for them and rose again. In 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 19 and 20, we read this, what? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which you have of God, and ye are not your own, for ye are bought with a price. Therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit which are gods. But perhaps the most significant cross-reference for this truth is 1 Peter chapter 1. Verses 18 and 19. For as much as you know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. So what does this radical truth mean? It means that God owns all of you, your time, your money, your talents, your life. Now, I think that this is not the way we tend to think of our relationship with God. Because we have in the back of our minds still the employer -employee relationship. And when you work for a boss, you have your rights. You have time off. There's certain things he should not ask you to do. There's certain things that are not required of you. You can negotiate with your boss. You can quit working for your boss. And so I think there are many Christian people who think that part of my money belongs to God, but most of it belongs to me. That some of my time belongs to God, but most of it is mine to do with as I please. That my talents, my abilities, my skills Some of these things I will loan to the Lord, but I can do with them primarily what I want to do. But this little parable and a multitude of other scriptures tell us that is not the case We are not our own. Everything that we possess belongs to God's. We are the slaves of God 's. Now we tend in our modern era in a diabolical way to turn the tables in our own minds. This is true especially among unbelievers, but it permeates even the thinking of Christian people. And that is, we think of God as our servants, or as one prominent theologian put it, our divine bellhop. We have been told that God loves us and has a wonderful plan for our lives. And so millions of professing Christians think That it's God's job to give us a comfortable, fulfilling life. That the God who made us and saved us is responsible to give us our best life now. This would explain why so many Christians tell their pastors that they are disappointed with God. Because they have a false understanding of who God is and of who they are. You see, in the ancient world, a slave would never come to his master and say I want you to know I'm a little disappointed in the arrangement that we have. That is ludicrous because that's not the nature of the relationship. Now I suspect that as I have been preaching, that there are some of you that are thinking of a passage of the scripture that you might think refutes much of what I've been saying from this parable. So I want you to turn to that passage. It's John chapter 15. Turn with me, please, to John chapter 15, verses 15 and 16. Look with me at verse 15. Jesus says here in the upper room, henceforth I call you not servants. For the servant knoweth not what his Lord doeth, but I have called you friends, for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you. Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained that you should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain, and that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, He may give it you. Now, we like thinking of Jesus as our friend. This is a very popular concept. And indeed, Jesus is our friend, as long as we understand what that means. It doesn't mean that Jesus is our peer. And I can prove this from this passage. Look with me at the previous verse, John 15, verse 14. Jesus says, You are my friends if you do whatsoever I command you. Just imagine your best friend said to you with a straight face, we can stay good friends if you do exactly what I say. You would either get angry or you would laugh at them. Because that's not the nature of a friendship. So what does Jesus mean when he says that we are friends? He doesn't mean that we are buddies. No, he means that we are people with whom he shares his hearts. This is exactly what Jesus was doing in the upper room. He was telling them what was about to occur, how that he was about to die, and how that the Holy Spirit would come and empower them and that the work would go on and that Christ would build his church. He is sharing his future plans. This is the way in which the master servant relationship is not exact in our relationship with the Lord. You see, if a master said to his servant, go and get my horse ready. I'm about to make a trip. He did not feel in any way constrained to tell his servant where he was going or how long he would be gone. Everything was on a need-to-know basis, and he didn't need to know. But when you have a close relationship, a personal relationship with someone, you share personal details with them. Because that's the nature of the relationship. Jesus shares personal things with us. So we have to look at this in a nuanced way. There's a sense in which we are still slaves of God, and there's a sense in which we are not slaves of God. And I hope to distinguish that more in the future. Now there's a sense in which our relationship as the servants of God continues Because the apostles, both Peter, Paul, and John all referred to themselves and other Christians as servants of Christ. And so there's a sense in which this continues. But with the coming of the Spirit, there's a sense in which the relationship has changed as well. Jesus is saying that we are more than slaves, but we're certainly not less than slaves. That brings me to the second point. of application here. And that is that Christian disciples must obey the Lord. Now we're not saved by our obedience to God's commands. But Christians are those. Who should be known for their obedience to the Lord. Jesus said, my sheep hear my voice, I know them And they follow me. Jesus said, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. And one of the most powerful passages concerning this is found in Matthew chapter 7. I invite you to turn with me if you would like, if it's convenient, to Matthew chapter 7, verse 21. Jesus says, not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Let me pause there. That's speaking of obedience. He that does my will. The f will of my Father in heaven. Verse 22, many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, or we might say, Master, Master, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works, then will I profess unto them I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. Then notice what he says, therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, that's obedience. I will liken him unto a wise man which built his house upon a rock. And the rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. And every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not shall be likened unto a foolish man which built his house upon the sand. And the rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. This is the conclusion of the Sermon on the Mounts, the most complete sermon that we have of our Lord. And he concludes that message by saying that obedience should be the lifestyle of the Now, one of the most common ways that we address God is with the words Lord. This has become like one of those religious words that everyone uses, but we have completely forgotten the meaning of it. What does it mean when we address God as Lord? Well, the term means Master. This is exactly the word a slave would use to refer to his owner. Jesus said in Luke chapter 6 and verse 46, why do you call me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? Now, I'm not suggesting that any of us obey God perfectly. But what I am concerned about is the common notion of many professing believers. that they can live life on their own terms. They will frankly tell you that there are many areas of their life where they're not obedient. And they're frankly not that concerned about it. Let me make a distinction here. It is one thing to have a besetting sin that you struggle against, that you cry out to God for victory. That you do whatever you can to put into place to assure victory in your life, but yet you still stumble and fall and struggle with that sin. And you weep over your failure. It's another thing when you say, Well, I know these things are wrong, and I'm disobeying God and this, this, and this, but I'm just going to do it. Because that's what I've decided to do in my life. This is not, my friends, the biblical description of a disciple. Now perhaps there's someone listening to this sermon who is thinking, all this talk of obedience sounds very legalistic to me. Sounds like it's all duty-based. It's all follow the rules or else. I want you to notice that the Lord wants us to serve him not out of fear. Not out of a sense so much of obligation, but out of love. Jesus said, if you love me, keep my commandments. When we reflect on all that Christ has done for us at the cross, we will be ready to present our bodies, Paul says, as a living sacrifice. We should not be like a slave who has because of circumstances in his life become the slave of a cruel man and he hates what he does every day but this is his lot in life that is not a picture of the Christian life No, we are to voluntarily and joyfully submit to the will of our fathers. Our father, because we love him. I read the story years ago that I think brings out this truth. There was a woman who was married to a harsh and unloving man. And he made up a list of demands and wrote them on a piece of paper. His wife was to rise at a certain hour. She was to prepare his breakfast just the way he liked it. She was instructed to have dinner on the table at a specific time each evening. She was to clean the house in a very specific way. There were other demands that he made that I will not mention. This poor woman complied because if she failed in any respect, she was beaten by her husband. After several years of sheer torture, this despotic man died And shortly afterwards, she was introduced to a loving Christian man who married her. One day after being married to this man for several years, she reached her hand into the pop pocket of an old sweater And she discovered the crumpled-up list that her first husband gave to her. As she read his demands written, his abusive language She was surprised as she realized that she was now following nearly every item on that list for her second husband. However, now she was doing it not out of duty or fear, but out of love. This is how we should obey our Lord and Master. Thirdly, and I think most significantly in this parable, Christian disciples must recognize That our relationship with God is all a matter of grace. Now I hope that you've seen As I've tried to pick apart this parable, that there are some points that where the master is like our God and that he has the status as our owner, but there are other aspects of the parable where our father is not like this master. He is not cold and thoughtless. And he does take note of our sacrifices. He remembers the smallest actions done in his name like the giving of a glass of water. Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 10 says, For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love which you have showed toward his name, and that you have ministered to the saints and do minister. Our master abundantly rewards those who serve him. He says that he will reward us a hundred times over whatever sacrifices we have made. But this is very significant. But he rewards us and blesses us not because He is obligated to us, but because he is gracious. This is the main point that Jesus is making in this brief parable. Look at the conclusion in verse 10. So likewise ye. When ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you, say , We are unprofitable servants. We have done that which was our duty to do. Now it's essential that you understand that the term unprofitable does not mean worthless or useless. No, the term unprofitable has the idea of undeserving or unworthy here in this passage. Christian disciples should never approach God with the attitude that we deserve his favor because of what we have done for him. Even when we feel like we have done double duty, like the slave in this parable that we've worked, you might say, overtime, we should never think now God is really indebted to me. I mean, he really owes me because of the sacrifices that I have made To think that way is to misunderstand the nature of our relationship and the foundational doctrine of grace. This is very applicable to everyone, especially in the ministry. And I have to share with you that this was very convicting for me to study this week. It's very easy for those in ministry, for pastors and missionaries and evangelists who work long hours to develop a complaining spirit. Or a spirit of self-pity , as they have demands made on their times night and day, day after day. And sometimes servants of Christ can think that God owes us. And in a worse case There are some servants of Christ who over time their spiritual life falls apart and they begin to think that the rules don't really apply to them because they've put in all these years of faithful service so they should be able to disobey a few things here and there because I mean look at all the good things that they've done. And when a person begins to think that way, they misunderstand grace. God is not indebted to you. God does not owe us anything. You notice that the slave in this parable worked long hours. He did double duty serving his master in the field and the house. But he didn't think for a moment that his master owed him something because he was obligated to do whatever his master asked him to do. One application I take from this parable is that sometimes our Lord will ask us to do difficult things. Things that stretch us. Ministry demands that require self-denial and patience and grace. That's sometimes going to be the cost of following our Lord and Master. But we should do it gladly. Because he has done all for us. I often think of David Livingston, the pioneer missionary. to Africa, a man who helped to chart and to map uh regions of Africa so that missionaries could follow in his footsteps. He endured a great deal of dangerous circumstances and sickness and anxiety once he was attacked and mauled by a lion. And when he returned to Scotland, his one arm was really not functional anymore. And everywhere he would go and he would speak He would be introduced as this man who made these tremendous sacrifices for the Lord. But when he got up to speak, he would always say, I have made no sacrifices for my master. I have laid down my life gladly because he has done far more for me. Now I want to make one final application this morning, and that is the Christian disciples should follow the example of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Perhaps you're here and and you've been following along and you say this idea of me as a slave of God still doesn't sit very well with me. Still not very compelling or very inviting to me. Well, I want you to know that our Lord and Savior was the ultimate servant of the Lord. And yet he was also the son of God. And there's a sense that we are also at the same time both slaves of God and the sons of God. Jesus perfectly obeyed his father. He always did those things that pleased him. And in John 13 and verse 4. We read of Jesus putting on the garments of a slave and washing the disciples' feet. Jesus said, I'm among you as one who serves. Luke 22, 26. Philippians 2, we read the summary He took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men, and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Jesus is not like the callous master in this parable. He is meek and lowly. His yoke is easy and his burden is light. And our Savior is so much more beautiful and compelling than this slave owner. We read in this parable that after the man had been working in the fields all day, the master said to him, Come, fix my meal. He would not for a moment think of fixing his slave Emil. But in Luke chapter 12 and verse 32. We read these astounding words from our Lord and Savior. He says, Blessed are those servants whom the Lord when he cometh shall find watching. Verily I say unto you. That he shall gird himself and make them sit down to eat, and will come forth and serve them. This is the humility of our Lord and Savior. Though He is God in flesh, yet He says that He will come someday and He will serve us. The same God man who washed his disciples' feet and was patient with them, even though he was their Lord and master. Will someday serve us. He does so not because we have earned this kind of favorable treatment, but because he is gracious and kind. And compassionate. Here is the gospel. God became man. Jesus became the servant of the Lord who died in our place. He came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. This is a Savior and whom we can trust. This is a Savior and whom we can follow Love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, I pray that you would remind us of who you are and of who we are. That we are not employees, that we are not free agents, but we are slaves of Christ. And I pray, Father, that we would be compelled to follow his example of humility and obedience to his Father. I pray that you would help us to be disciples who obey and do so gladly because we love our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And Father, for those listening today who have never put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, who have sought to live life on their own terms as their own master. Pray that today they would bow the knee in humble repentance and cry out in faith that they might be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.