If you have your Bible, you can be turning to Matthew chapter 26. Tonight, as we prepare for the Lord's table, I want us just very briefly Meditate on the prayer of our Lord in the Garden of Gethsemane. The word Gethsemane means oil press. And it was so named because for many centuries there was an abundance of olive trees that Grew on that ridge and they produced olive oil. And in that garden, doubtlessly at one time there was a press where that was produced. Many scholars believe today that there are still eight olive trees in the Garden of Gethsemane that are the descendants. Of trees that were present on the night of his agonizing prayer. And just as oil was pressed from the olives in that ancient grove, so The Spirit of Christ was sorely pressed on this night before his crucifixion. It may surprise you to know that the Bible records more about the suffering of Christ. In the Garden of Gethsemane than on the cross. Many preachers, many poets, many painters for centuries have magnified The suffering of our Lord on the cross to give the listener or the viewer a sense of his torment and agony there But when you read the gospel accounts, they're very discreet and give us very little sense of the suffering that he faced. I'm not in any way minimizing that suffering. I'm just Mentioning that the gospel writers do not emphasize his pain and his suffering at the cross. They emphasize the meaning of the cross. But we have in the record of Gethsemane some very interesting and descriptions worthy of our meditation about the suffering of our Lord on this night before. In Matthew 26, I want to begin reading at verse 26. I want us just to get a sense of the succession of events that occurred that night. Matthew 26, 26, and as they were eating, Jesus took bread and blessed it. And break it and gave it to the disciples and said, Take, eat, this is my body. And he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it. For this is my blood of the New Testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. But I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine until the day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. And when they had sung a hymn, They went out into the Mount of Olives. And the hymns that are referred to here undoubtedly would have been from the Psalter. Very likely from Psalm 113 to 118, because that's traditionally what was sung at the Passover. The Lord has been with his disciples in the upper room. We have the fullest account of that in John's Gospel, John chapter 13 through 17. There the Lord washed the disciples' feet, which was really symbolic of the entire incarnation, as he took upon him the form of a servant. During that time, shortly after that, Judas has left the company of the apostles, and the Lord gave his final lecture to his disciples. We know it as the upper room discourse. He began with these words, let not your heart be troubled. It's difficult to know exactly when the Lord with his disciples left the upper room and began walking toward the Garden of Gethsemane. Many scholars believe It was before that discourse was over. He was perhaps walking and talking with them as they made their way to the garden. And Jesus there predicts that they will soon desert him. If you look with me At Matthew 26 and verse 31 we read, then said Jesus unto them, All ye shall be offended. Or shall stumble, we might say, because of me this night, for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad. But after I am risen again, I will go before you into Galilee. Peter answered and said unto him, Though all men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended. Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee this night before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. Peter said unto him, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples. And then we come to the Garden of Gethsemane, verse 36. Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane. And he said unto his disciples, Sit ye here while I go and pray yonder. And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful even unto death, Tarry ye here and watch with me And he went a little farther and fell on his face and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. And he cometh unto his disciples and findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter, What? Could you not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray that you enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. And he went again A second time and prayed, saying, O my Father, if this cup may not pass away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done. The Bible records at least 26 occasions when Jesus prayed. Of course He prayed more, a lot more than that during his life, but the Holy Spirit saw fit to record these occasions for our edification and instruction. We read of him praying at his baptism, at his transfiguration, at the resurrection of Lazarus. We read of him praying in the upper room But no prayer was like this prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane. And I believe that this prayer tells us a great deal about our Savior. You know, you can tell a lot about a person from their prayers. You can learn something of their church background. You may be able to discern something of their level of education or how long they have been a Christian or how comfortable they are with praying to God. But most importantly, a person's prayers are often an indication of their walk with God. I want us just briefly tonight to meditate on what we can learn from our Lord's prayers. What do they really reveal to us? The first thing I would want you to consider is that Christ's prayer in Gethsemane reveals the nature of his intimacy with his father. We see that it reveals that close connection that he had with him. Turn with me, if you would, to Mark's account of what we just read. Mark chapter 14 and verse. 36. Mark gives us a detail that the other gospel writers do not. Mark 14 I'm going to begin reading at verse 32. And they came to a place which was named Gethsemane. And he saith unto his disciples, Sit ye here while I shall pray. And he taketh with him Peter and James and John, and began to be sore amazed and to be very heavy. And he saith unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful unto death. Tear ye here and watch And he went forward a little and fell on the ground and prayed that if it were possible the hour might pass from him. And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible unto thee. Take away this cup from me, nevertheless, not what I will, but what thou wilt Only Mark records that Jesus addressed his father with this term Abba. Abba is an Aramaic word for father. For all we know, it may have been the first word that Jesus said as an infant. Often babies' first words are very simple sounds to produce, and often they are the names of their mother or father. And so if you were to go even to parts of the Middle East today and you were to visit a home where there were infants there, you would hear an infant saying Abba. which is kind of the equivalent of daddy or papa. It's a term of endearment , Now what's interesting about this is that no Jew would think of using this name for gods. We don't read of one of the prophets or one of the kings or one of the priests of the Old Testament in their prayers addressing God with this term. Because it was considered too familiar, it was considered too intimate, too presumptuous to use this term This intimate term, this family word for God. But this is the word that Jesus used to address his father, and this is the only time. that we see him using that word. And it's also found twice In our epistles, you might conclude from this that this is something perhaps that only Jesus should rightly use. But you would be wrong because we, as the followers of Jesus Christ , can claim a close relationship with our Father Turn with me to Romans chapter eight , and verse fourteen This great chapter of triumph. Verse 14 says, For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit itself bears witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. And a very similar passage is found in Galatians chapter 4, verses 6 and 7. We have these familiar verses in verses four and five. But when the fullness of the time was come , God sent forth his son made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. And because ye are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father. Wherefore thou art no more a servant but a son, and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ. Yes, we are the servants or the slaves of Christ. He is our master. But that imagery doesn't completely fill out our relationship with him because we do not have a relationship where we serve him with fear and trembling without any sense of intimacy. We can call him Abba Father because of the Spirit's work in our hearts. In the Garden of Gethsemane, when our Lord was weighed down with the enormity of what was going to transpire in just a few hours. It's like that crushing load. Pressed him so that what came out from his lips were the words of a child, and he cried out to him, Abba. And so it is with us as the children of God. When trials and difficulties come crushing down upon us and they press upon us, we can cry out. Not to some distant God who has no interest in us. We can cry out, Abba Father. We can cry out with this term of endearment, this term that speaks of our access to Him through Christ and the intimacy that we can enjoy through the Spirit of God. I want you to notice secondly that Christ's prayer in Gethsemane reveals his full humanity to us. Turn with me if you would. to Luke chapter 22. Luke chapter 22. His prayer reveals his full humanity to us. A famous Bible scholar of the past said of this prayer that nowhere else in the gospel tradition is the humanity of Jesus so evident. as here. Sometimes Christians think that we should not talk about the humanity of Christ very much. Because somehow they believe to talk of his humanity is to diminish his deity, but they are mistaken. He is revealed in Scripture as the God-man, 100% God and 100% man. And because of his humanity, we have a great mediator. We have a sympathetic high priest. We have someone who can identify with us in our struggles to do the will of God. Here we see his humanity on full display. Think about it, his desire for companionship in a time of crisis. He asked the inner circle of the disciples if they would come and pray with him. Haven't you ever felt that way before when you had a great burden on your heart that was crushing you? You wanted your brothers and sisters in Christ to surround you and to pray for you. That's a very human feeling. You need the support, the emotional support of others, and that's what Jesus wanted that night in the garden. We see him responding with a great emotion emotional outpouring, a sense of weakness. We see his agonizing prayers of surrender to God. Sometimes when we read And the Old Testament especially of the great God Jehovah, who dwells in light and accessible, the great I am. We feel that the distance between us and God is so great that he can have no understanding of who we are and of what we face in our daily lives. But when we consider Christ in the garden and the crisis that he faced, And the emotions that poured out of him, we have something that we can truly identify with. And what a wonderful blessing that is. We all know what it is to face a crisis That feels like we are being crushed to face a situation that seems impossible. But I want to remind you that none of us have ever faced a situation quite like this. Look with me at Luke chapter 22. I want to read starting in verse 42. Verse 41, and he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast and kneeled down and prayed, saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will but thine be done. And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him. And being in agony, he prayed more earnestly. And his sweat was, as it were, great drops of blood falling down to the ground. What a strange scene. Angels who were created to worship and serve the Lord, to sing his praises. And the heavens are now sent to strengthen him. Apparently the emotional and physical strain was so great that the father sent an angel to support him. There are some scholars have speculated that Jesus would have died in the garden if this father had not intervened. And they base this on Christ's cry in the garden, my soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even unto death. I do think this is going too far. Jesus said in John chapter 10 that he had the power to lay down his life and he had the power to take it up again. Jesus was sovereign, and he would determine the precise moment of his death. And he would not die until he could cry, it is finished. And say with a loud voice, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirits. Jesus did not die in apparent defeat in the garden, but on the cross after his work of atonement was done. But the Father did send an angel to help his beloved Son. But Jesus was not delivered from that trial. He was strengthened to face that trial. There's text and texts in Hebrews that really comment on his humanity in relation to this. I want to invite you to turn with me to Hebrews chapter 4. Stay with me on this. It's going to tie in to the Garden of Gethsemane. Hebrews chapter 4, we have these wonderful words that are familiar to us at the conclusion of Hebrews chapter 4. Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 14. Seeing then that we have a great high priest. That has passed into the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Now look with me at The very next chapter, verses one and two. For every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sin. who can have compassion on the ignorant and on them that are out of the way, for that he himself also is compassed with infirmity. He's saying that these Old Testament priests had empathy for the people who came to them because they were human beings. They knew what people face. And then we drop down to verse 7 of chapter 5, speaking of our Lord. It says, who in the days of his flesh when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared Though he were a son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered. And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him. You see, this is part of his work as our great high priest. The Garden of Gethsemane, if I can put it this way, should be Something that draws us out and entices us and motivates us and compels us to come to God in prayer, especially when we're facing a crisis. We're not coming to some being who cannot sympathize with us. We're not coming to someone who is detached from our experience. We are coming to someone Who knew what it was to be bowed down with a great burden, to cry out to his father with strong crying and tears? And he is more than willing to help us. And so we can come to his throne of grace. And know that we have a sympathetic high priest who is touched with our weakness His beautiful humanity was on display in the darkness of Gethsemane. Thirdly, I'd like you to consider that Christ's prayer in Gethsemane reveals the extent of his agony for us. the extent of his agony for us. There are seven different descriptions found in the scripture of the Lord's suffering in the garden. In Mark 14, 32 and 33, we read, and he began to be sore amazed. The words reflect something of a sense of shock You might say, well, didn't Jesus know that the cross was coming? Yes, he did. We read, especially in the Gospel of John, of him Frequently saying, my hour has not yet come. He knew how this was going to end. He knew that he would be despised and rejected and he would die on an old rugged cross. But it's one thing to know something, it's another thing to experience that. These words denote the horror and extreme distress that he faced. And then we read that he was very heavy. These words are similar. They describe a person who's confused and shocked and stunned. Have you ever seen a person after they have received really, really life-changing news like you're going to die of cancer? Or your son has just passed away, or something equivalent to that, they are stunned and shocked And that's what we find described in Scripture. And then we read in Luke 22, 44 that he was in agony. And this is a transliteration of the Greek word. The Greek word there is agona. It was a word that comes from the realm of athletic competition. When there would be a great expenditure of energy that would completely exhaust a person so that they were now in weakness and in pain. It speaks of a contest, an epic contest that is going on. And there was a mighty contest taking place in the garden that night. I don't think we should think of it as just the Lord there communing with his Father. He said in Luke's Gospel that this was a night of darkness, and the powers of darkness were at work. And then we read, of course, only Luke records, Dr. Luke, that he sweat, as it were, great drops of blood. This describes the enormous strain that he was under. And there's some debate among scholars about exactly what this is saying. There are many, and it may well be right, who say that it's saying that he was under such distress that there was blood mingled with his perspiration that night. And medical doctors tell us that this sometimes occurs when a person is under incredible stress. And that may be what Luke is reflecting. There are others who say no, it says sweat as it were great drops of blood, and it's saying that he was sweating so profusely that it looked like he was almost bleeding because it was coming so rapidly. Perhaps on this side of glory we can never describe that. But what we do know, it does denote the incredible stress he was under. Because remember, this was a cool night. Do you remember when we read about the trials that took place that night? They started a fire and everyone wanted to be around the fire because it was cold. But Jesus just a few hours earlier was in the garden and he was sweating profusely because of the strain that he was under. It was not because it was a warm evening. And then the text in Hebrews 5, which speaks of him crying out with strong crying and tears, it reveals the intensity of his sorrow that night. He was crying out like a desperate, inconsolable child to his father. And then we read in Matthew 26, 37, it says that he was sorrowful. All the sorrows that he had ever felt. throughout his 33 years of earthly life were like nothing compared with the dark weight that fell on him that hour And this is why Isaiah prophesied that he would be a man of sorrows. And then Perhaps the most extreme statement that we read is when he said, My soul is exceeding sorrowful even unto death. It is as if the Lord could not keep these thoughts bottled up. So he tells the inner circle of the disciples. Now I want you to understand that Jesus was not exaggerating. We all know people that when they have a scratch or bruise, they exaggerate. Sometimes a little child will cry out like they're about to die over the most minor of injuries. And even some adults. Are not very tough. And every ailment seems to be the end for them But Jesus was not like that. Jesus was not exaggerating. He was not using hyperbole. He was not trying to draw attention to himself. He was speaking the truth. His soul was that sorrowful, even unto death. Christ's suffering for us. was not just limited to Calvary, it also occurred in the garden that faithful night Fourthly, I want you to notice that Christ's prayer in Gethsemane reveals his perfect loyalty to his Father's will. As difficult and as painful and as agonizing as that evening was, Jesus was completely loyal to his father. In Matthew 26 and verse 39, we read of his prayer. O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. And then we read that he fell on his face. His loyalty to his father is demonstrated not only by the words of his prayer, but by his posture. He fell right down on his face with his face on the ground. We don't tend to pray like this. But this was the prayer of the posture of a servant. When a servant Was making a request of life or death. They would come before their master and they would throw themselves on the ground with their face on the ground. It showed absolute submission to his authority. And that is what Jesus was doing that night in the garden. His posture revealed his utter submission to the Father's will. Even though the thought of bearing the sin of the world and the rejection of his father was unthinkable, he bows to do the will of his father. The Bible records that there were three periods of prayer in the garden. In verse 39 of Matthew 26, he says, Let this cup pass. And verse 42, if this cup may not pass away. And the Greek text is indicating that Jesus is acknowledging that the cup is indeed his Father's will. And then in verse 44, we find that he says the same words the third time. I want you to know the Lord's obedience was never in question. He was not a double-minded man. He delighted to do his father's will. And we see the courage that he drew from this time of prayer because we read of him coming up and facing His captors, Judas and the mob that was behind him, they came to the garden moments after this prayer to arrest them. He did not hide behind some tree. He did not run from them. He went out and he met them. And he met them as the sovereign of the universe and he cried out, I am, and they fell backwards. And Christ's prayer of Gethsemane reveals, fifthly, his heartfelt sympathy for us. I read earlier for you that text in Hebrews 5, with the connection with his work as our great high priest and the fact that he cried out with strong crying and tears in the garden. This is not saying that Jesus learned to obey because he was punished with suffering. That's often how we learn to obey But Jesus never disobeyed. What this text is saying is that with his suffering in the garden, he learned experientially through his obedience what it was like to really suffer in facing temptation. This is a wonderful consoling truth for us to consider tonight. Do you ever feel like you have the weight of the world on your shoulders? The will of God seems well-nigh impossible. Do you ever feel a sense of real weakness? Like you have faced a crisis that you are not going to walk away from? Have you ever faced a situation where doing what you know God wants you to do seems so costly and so impossible that you cannot even bear the thought of it, but yet you know that you must yield to it? Jesus knows exactly what that's like. He was touched with the feeling of our infirmities. And he yielded fully to his father's will, and so can we, by the grace of God. What a great Savior we have!