To turn with me in your Bible to the text that was read a moment ago in 1 Peter chapter 3. Helen Keller was born in Alabama in 1880. At the age of 19 months, she contracted an unknown illness that left her deaf and blind. But she refused to be defeated by her disabilities in time. Of course, she was taught by a remarkable teacher named Ann Sullivan. learned to use signs and began to communicate with her family. She became the first person to ever graduate from college who was both deaf and blind. Time she became an accomplished writer, philosopher, and political activist. She inspired people around the world with her triumphant spirit. of determination that overcame seemingly insurmountable obstacles. She once wrote, although the world is full of suffering, It is also full of the overcoming of it. This morning, as we conclude 1 Peter chapter 3, we come to a passage that reminds us of Jesus' victory over suffering and especially the forces of evil. Let me remind you The context of this passage is of Christians who were suffering because they were doing the right thing, because they were following Christ. And they were being persecuted for it. This is what we have when the verse is coming up to our text. It says in verse 14 of chapter 3, but if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye. And be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you. a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear, having a good conscience, that whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse you of your good conversation in Christ. For it is better if the will of God be that you suffer for well-doing than for evil-doing. And then in verse 18, Peter presents Jesus as the ultimate example of righteous suffering. This is intended to inspire them and encourage them. in their tribulation and difficulty. Look at verse 18. For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit. Now in the verses that follow, Peter continues to look at the example of Christ. But now the reference is specifically to his victory over the forces of evil. Look with me at verses 19 and following, by which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison. which sometimes were disobedient when once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah while the ark was a preparing, wherein few that is eight souls were saved by water The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God by the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who has gone into heaven and is on the right hand of God, angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him. Now I have a question for you this morning. Did you understand all of that? Thank you. An honest man. The passage that I just read for you is widely considered by Bible scholars to be the most difficult passage. In the New Testament to interpret. Martin Luther writing 500 years ago said, a wonderful text is this and a more obscure passage, perhaps, than any other in the New Testament, so that I do not know for certain just what Peter means. And I want you to know that I sympathize with Martin Luther. I must confess to you that this passage nearly prevented me from preaching through the book of 1 Peter. As you know, I'm an expositional preacher, and before I pick a book and preach to it, I read through it multiple times and think about how I'm going to approach things. And so I very well knew When I started this exposition last year, that there would be a day that I would come to this passage. And today we have come to that passage. I spoke to someone recently and said, well, what do pastors do who preach through the first Peter? And this individual said, normally they just skip over those verses. But we're not going to skip over these verses because all scripture is profitable. There is profit. There is instruction. There is something here for us. Now, before we consider this passage , I want to address the reality that there are verses in the Bible that are hard to understand. Let me first of all say that the Bible is written to be understood. Okay? There are some people who view the Bible as a book filled with mysterious codes or dark riddles or fanciful allegory. That is not the case. The Bible was written so that ordinary people, through careful reading and comparison with other scriptures can understand God 's message. Theologians call this characteristic of the Bible the perspicuity of Scripture. However, there are passages in Scripture that are difficult to grasp. In fact, Peter, in the next book that he would write, would say in chapter 3 and verse 16 that some of Paul's writings are hard to be understood. But we can say today to Peter, some of your writings are hard to be understood. Now, why is this? Why is it that there are passages in the Bible that are hard to understand? Well, I'm going to give just two reasons. Number one, because the Bible is the revelation of God It reveals to us the mind of God, and it touches on the most profound truths in the universe. And the Bible says, Paul says in Romans 11, 33, O the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments. and his ways pass finding out. And the idea of the Greek there is that you cannot track him. Like you're tracking an animal that comes to a place where the tracks fade away and you can't track that animal anymore. We cannot fully understand God. Sometimes I will talk to skeptics and agnostics and they will say, you know, I I uh I can't completely understand God, therefore I don't believe God exists. Well If God is who he claims to be in Scripture, how He's revealed Himself, why would you think that with your finite mind you could figure everything out that He has said and done? It's just illogical, it doesn't make sense. But another thing that I think we do not give very much thought to is that though the Bible is a timeless book, yet it was written in a time and a place and in a culture and in a different language. And there's some 2,000 years between our time and the time that this was written. I'm not so sure that the people who first read this had difficulty understanding what Peter was talking to. About. They came from a different culture. They had different points of reference. They had a different background than you or I have. And Bible scholars do our best. to understand the setting and the environment of the first century, but it still is not a substitute to actually live in the first century yourself. And so sometimes we come to a passage that reminds us of the gap between our world in the 21st century and their world in the first century. The point of reference of the reader is very different. Now this reality that there are difficult and dark portions in the Word of God should impact our Bible study and reading in two ways. First There are difficulties that we encounter that should spur us on to more diligent study. There are many things in Scripture that if you do some research and you look up some references and you study the meaning of those words, that if you keep hammering on that nut, as it were, it will crack. And you will be able to understand what this passage means. And so sometimes I think one of the reasons that God has put difficult passages in the Word is so that we would dig deep. so that we would study, so that we would diligently seek to understand what he means. But secondly, these difficulties that we find in the Bible should humble us and keep us from being dogmatic and arrogant about our understanding of Scripture. Now, of course, there are many things that we can be dogmatic about. All the essential truths are clear and apparent, and Christians have held to these truths down through the centuries. But there should be a certain amount of humility in the way we approach difficult passages that scriptures, that Christians differ over. Have you ever met Christians who think they have absolutely everything in the Bible figured out? I sure have. I hear from some of them at time to time. They know a whole lot more than I've ever studied or learned in different passages. There's a humility that we should have when we come to Scripture and when we come to passages that are truly difficult to understand. So I come to you today saying that I've studied this passage for some time. I've looked at it carefully, but I don't pretend to have absolutely everything dogmatically settled in my mind. And you are free to disagree with me about my conclusions. Now the larger meaning of this passage is very evident. We may not know all the details or what every word or phrase means, but we know what this paragraph is talking about. It is saying that Jesus' victory over his unjust suffering should encourage and inspire us because we will by his grace triumph over our suffering. That's what these verses mean. And that is not in dispute. All students of Scripture who read through this and study this and meditate on it come to that same conclusion. And let me remind you again that all scripture is profitable. So let's seek to find the profit for our souls in this today. The theme of this passage is that suffering Christians should fix their minds on the triumph of Christ. And I have two main points I want you to consider with me this morning. First of all, Christ's triumph is seen in his proclamation of victory over the evil spirits. Look with me. And verse 19, it says, by which also he went, referring to Christ, and preached unto the spirits in prison which sometimes were disobedient. Now, I want to try to do my best to understand this very difficult passage. And so I'm going to ask for your attention. You need to put your attention meter on high, or else you're gonna drift away There are many questions that come to us from this passage. When did Jesus preach to these spirits? What was the content of his message? Why did he preach to them? Who are these disobedient spirits? And what is this prison in which they are kept? And all of these questions are difficult to answer. The great Baptist preacher of the 20th century, W. A. Criswell, says that there are more than 90 interpretations. of that phrase that I just read to you, 90. Okay? I'm not going to give you all 90. But I am going to give you the four leading interpretations by Bible scholars down through the centuries from the earliest days until now. First of all , There are many good Christian people who believe that this is a reference to Christ preaching through Noah while he was building the ark. This view was championed by Augustine and has had many supporters to this day. So what support does this view have? Well, earlier in 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 11, we read that the Spirit of Christ Which was in them, that is, the prophets did testify of the sufferings of Christ and the glory that should follow. And so there's a reference there to the Spirit of Christ empowering prophets. And in the very next book that Peter would write, 2 Peter, we read of Noah being described as what? A preacher of righteousness. So we know that he was a preacher. That's found in 2 Peter 2. 5. And the reference to prison here, some would interpret as an illusion to the fact that almost all of humanity was in bondage to sin right before the flood. And so they would say This is simply saying that Christ preached through Noah in the days right before the flood. But there are some serious problems with this view. Our text in 1 Peter 3. 19 speaks of Jesus going to these spirits, which doesn't make much sense if he is really just speaking through Noah. And the term spirits is almost never used of the spirits of human beings in Scripture Instead, it is consistently used to denote angels or demons. In fact, there's only one reference in the New Testament, Hebrews 12, 29. that uses the term, the Greek term for spirit there in reference to human spirits. All the other references are to demons or angels. Let me go to a second view. Another prominent view is that in between Jesus' death and resurrection, he descended to Hades or Hell and triumphantly delivered the Old Testament saints. This view was supported by John Calvin and many others. But it's not without its problems. Once again, you would need to identify the spirits here as people, which is a very unusual way of referring to the deceased in Scripture More importantly, these spirits are described as disobedient in verse 20, which would not seem to be a fitting description of the Old Testament saints. And let's remember that Jesus said to the thief on the cross, Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. A third view is so problematic that I hesitate to even mention it, but I will. This view states that Jesus went to hell and preached the gospel to all those who perished before the flood. effectively giving them a second chance at salvation because they lived at a time when there was very little gospel light. Others have taken that principle, that interpretation, expanded it, and have said that Jesus periodically will go to hell even today. and preach to those who have perished, giving them a second chance. However, the Greek word that's used here for preaching in verse 19 is not a word that Peter ever uses for the preaching of the gospel. It is a more general term that refers to a declaration or a proclamation. But more importantly, the Bible never holds out the hope of a second chance to those who die without Christ. In Hebrews 9. 27 we read, And it's appointed unto men once to die, but after this. The judgment. And so now we come to our fourth view. I hope you're still awake. And this view teaches that sometime after his resurrection Jesus, by the power of the Holy Spirit, proclaimed victory and judgment over fallen angels. This is the majority view among evangelical scholars today. Now, why would they come to this conclusion? Notice that this preaching takes place not between his death and resurrection, but after his resurrection, because at the very end of verse 18 it says, but quickened by the Spirit, and that We agree is a reference to his resurrection. And then the very next phrase says, by which also he went and preached unto the spirits. I said a moment ago that the spirits here is likely a reference not to deceased people, but to fallen spirits. That's the way the Bible consistently uses this term. Now the reference to them being kept in prison leads us to two significant cross-references That you might have in your Bibles. I know many of you have studied Bibles. You may even have some of these interpretations there and these cross-references. So let's turn just a few pages back in our Bible to 2 Peter chapter 2. And verses four and five. It says, For if God spared not the angels that sinned But cast them down to hell and delivered them into chains of darkness to reserve unto judgment, and spared not the old world, but saved Noah, the eighth person. a preacher of righteousness bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly. Now if you move even further back, almost as far back to Revelation, to the book of Jude, that little One chapter book, there is another reference to this. Jude verse six. It says, and the angels was kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation. He hath reserved an everlasting chains and under darkness, under the judgment of the Christmas. of the great day. So these two passages seem to tie in, at least in the estimation of many scholars, Because they talk about these spirits being held captive, being kept in chains. And here we read in 1 Peter chapter 3 of them being in some sort of prison. So, who are these fallen angels that were cast down to hell because they kept not their habitation? There are two possibilities. One is that some of the angels Here are the angels that fell with Satan when he was cast out of heaven. Remember, when Satan was cast out of heaven, he took some of the angels with him. And we call these fallen angels, of course, demons. Others believe that the fallen angelic beings here refer to an obscure incident that's recorded in Genesis chapter 6, verses 1 through 4, right before the flood narrative, which also happens to be the most difficult passage in the Old Testament to interpret. This passage records that shortly before the flood, the sons of God, which most scholars take to be angels or fallen spirits, took wives of the daughters of men, and the result was that they produced a race of giants. A great deal of ink has been spilt over that going back before the time of Christ by the rabbis. And I'm not prepared to be dogmatic about the identification of these fallen angels. And by the way, I do recognize that Jesus said that angels neither marry neither are given in marriage. However, many Bible scholars believe that that does not prohibit them taking on bodily form, inhabiting someone like someone is demon-possessed, and then cohabitating. Now many of you have given up following me a long time ago. But remember this truth The bottom line is this, Jesus in his death and resurrection was victorious over all the spiritual forces of darkness. And the New Testament alludes to this in several passages. In Colossians chapter 2 and verse 15, it says that Jesus spoiled principalities and powers that he made a show of them openly triumphing over them. And that reference to principalities and powers is a reference. to the powers, spiritual powers of darkness. And the more famous passage, Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 11, we read this, we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. You see, the real enemy of the believer is not the lost world, but the spiritual beings that empower the antagonist of the gospel. We live in an increasingly materialistic and secular society. When I speak of materialism in this vein, I'm not talking about people getting more and more stuff. I'm talking about more and more people who believe that all that there is, the only meaning and significance is what you can touch and you can observe and feel with your five senses, that there's nothing else beyond that. And therefore they live the way that they live, as if there is no God, there is no heaven, there is no hell, there is no eternity. Why is it that this Aggressive secularism is taking over Europe and now is infiltrating our country and many other parts of the world. The ultimate answer is it is a stratagem of the powers of darkness. The devil and his host are perpetrating this and promoting this. Why is it that so many churches are falling apart and closing their doors? Why is it that there are fewer and fewer ministers of the gospel who faithfully proclaim the truth of God's word? Why is it that there is a moral decline and a moral crisis and a real destructive truths coming falsehoods coming into our lands? And changing the very culture before our eyes ultimately goes back to the forces of darkness But what we need to remember is that ultimately they will all be defeated. Because Christ defeated them at the cross. In fact, this passage concludes. We're not going to get to verse 22 today, but you'll notice, look with me at verse 22, who is going into heaven speaking of Jesus. And is on the right hand of God angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto Him ultimately The devil and his demons may seem that they can do whatever they want and that there's nothing that can stop them, but that is absolutely untrue. They are still under the sovereign control of Jesus Christ. And we need to remember that. when we face the antagonism of the world and the suffering that comes from following Christ. Secondly I want you to notice that Christ's triumph is seen in the salvation of his people. Look with me after the first phrase in verse 20, it says. When once the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah while the ark was of preparing, wherein few that is eight souls were saved by water. The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Unfortunately, we are not finished dealing with difficult texts. It seems that Peter is now explaining that this act of disobedience by the fallen spirits took place. during the time period when Noah was building the ark. This is a further reason why many students of the Bible connect this incident with Genesis chapter 6 But what I want you to notice is that Peter is now going to draw some parallels between God's salvation of his people during his own time in the first century And God's deliverance of his people through the ark in the days of Noah. Notice in verse 21, Peter uses the term figure. which refers to the similarities or parallels between God's saving of Noah's family and the salvation of his persecuted church. So let me draw out some parallels very quickly for you First of all, Noah and his family were in the midst of a wicked and hostile people. The same was true of Christians in the first century. Do you recall how the people viciously mocked Noah and his followers while he was building the ark? Well, the first century Christians were frequently the subject of mockery, ridicule, and slander. We know even from the ancient literature of the time of the horrible things that were said about them. They were hated and despised by nearly all. And Peter here is reminding his persecuted readers That they have good company because that preacher of righteousness, Noah, many centuries before faced the same kind of slander and ridicule when he was doing the will of God. We should not be surprised that Christianity is under assault And that it's becoming more and more unpopular and politically incorrect, because this has been the situation with most Christians in most places throughout the history of the church. We have enjoyed a period of rest from what is the norm for Christians. And now we are going to be experiencing, undoubtedly in the days ahead, more of what Christians have experienced like Peter's readers in the first century and even in many parts of the world today A second parallel is that Noah witnessed boldly to the loss despite the opposition that he faced. We read that he was a preacher of righteousness. He tried to warn them of the flood, of the judgment of God that was coming, but they mocked and laughed at him. And you may recall just a few verses earlier in verse 15, Peter calls on his persecuted readers. He says, But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and be ready always. to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. A third parallel is that God did not bring immediate judgment upon the wicked in Noah's day, but gave them time for repentance. And so it is true today. I'm sure that there were readers of these warnings of coming judgment in the first century who believed that God's judgment would come on their persecutors within their lifetimes. But you know what didn't happen. Here we are 2,000 years later, and the Lord has not returned. Why is that? Because the same God that gave those scoffers in the days of Noah many, many years to repent. And to enter that ark is the same long-suffering God that remains gracious in his dealings with sinners today. Our God is a patient God. Fourthly, we read that of all the human beings on the planet in the days of Noah, only eight were saved. And so the message to Peter's persecuted readers is that though their numbers may be few and unimpressive, yet the Lord will save those who trust in him. He has not forgotten them. He will deliver them in his way. And a fifth parallel is that those who were saved in Noah's day entered the Ark by faith Just as those who will be saved eternally must come by faith into Christ alone. Now the real interpretational problem comes into view in verse 21, which has that phrase, baptism does now save us. One could easily lift this phrase from the Bible and teach that baptism is necessary for salvation. Indeed, there have been millions of people who identify as Christians throughout the history of the church who have taught what is called baptismal regeneration. And that simply means that when a person is baptized, they are born again or converted. But this is not what the Bible teaches. The best way to understand what Scripture means is to compare it with other scripture. You've heard me say many times that the best commentary in the Bible is the Bible. By comparing similar phrases, similar words, similar truths elsewhere. We have a better understanding of what is being said in this rather dark context. The Bible repeatedly declares unambiguously that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. When the Philippian jailer fell down before Paul and Silas and said, What must I do to be saved? Paul responded, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. We read in Romans chapter 3 that we are saved by faith alone. The Apostle Paul says in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 17. For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. And there he is saying there is a difference between baptism and the good news that saves an individual. You know how zealous the Apostle Paul was. If baptism was necessary for a person to be saved, Paul would be baptizing people left and right. But he mentions in that chapter that he intentionally did not baptize that many people because he didn't want people to feel that somehow they had a loyalty to him or they were superior to others because they were baptized by the great Apostle Paul. Now there are clear indications even in this difficult passage that salvation is not ultimately by baptism. Notice the analogy here. Look with me And verse 20, it says that eight souls were saved by water. Let me ask you, did the water actually save them? No, it did not. What it's indicating is that they were brought safely through the water, but of course it was God that saved them. by giving them the warning and by allowing them to build the ark that floated on top of the water, but the water did not somehow save them. In the Greek text, the parallel to being saved by water is that phrase at the end of verse 21 that says, by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. I want you to notice that that is that where it says at the end of verse 20, by water, and that is intentionally intended to parallel the last phrase in verse 21 by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And of course where we read of the resurrection implied in that is also what? The death of Christ, because you have to die in order to be resurrected. So this is a reference to the death and resurrection of Christ, which is the ultimate ground, the basis, the means by which , and the standing by which we are saved. And so it's important for us to understand that. And I want you to notice that Peter is quick to qualify his statement that baptism doth now save us. He provides two phrases immediately after this statement that qualify what he means by that. Notice in verse 21, right after he says, the like figure whereunto even baptism also now saveth us, then in my Bible I have a parentheses, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh. But the answer of a good conscience towards God. Those two phrases, one that's negative, one that's positive, are intended to explain or qualify the statement that he just made. Peter realizes it could be misunderstood, so he wants to qualify what he is saying here. Baptism is a picture of the death and resurrection of Christ. It's symbolic of our union with Christ And it's this union that saves us from the judgment of God, just as the Ark saved Noah's family from the judgment of God. Now let's consider these two words in parentheses. First, he mentions this negative qualifier, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh. Peter is quick to correct anyone from thinking that baptism somehow magically washes away. That's what he means by the filth of the flesh. He's not talking, by the way, in a very literal sense of someone's dirty in baptism, they get kind of cleaned up because all the dirt's washed off of them. No, that's Not what he's saying. What he's saying is it doesn't wash away their sin. That water, when they go down to the water, does not wash away their sin in some magical way, in some mechanical way. The hymn writer had it correct when he wrote, What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. And then Peter provides a positive explanation. But the answer of a good conscience toward God. Now what does that mean? The key to understanding this is the meaning of the word answer. This is a term that if I remember correctly, it's only used here in our New Testaments. Some render this word as pledge And they believe it hearkens to the fact that in the first century the candidates for baptism were often asked questions, such as, do you acknowledge that Jesus is Lord? That was the earliest confession of faith. Jesus is Lord, and it was a radical statement because everyone in the Roman Empire said Caesar is Lord. The early Christians boldly said, Jesus is Lord. And they were asked at their baptism if that is what they truly believed. We would say today that they were asked for a profession of faith. It was both a profession of what God had done in their lives and bringing them to faith. and a pledge or a prayer that God would help them to live for Him. They had to have a faith to profess. And they were not just the mouths and words, but this declaration was a sincere expression of their faith in Christ that says the answer of a good conscience towards God. In other words, this was sincerely coming from their heart. It wasn't just that they were, all right, I'm supposed to say this part now. It really reflected what they believed and what they had committed to. Now pardon me for being a Baptist here, but I can't help but notice that we find that candidates for baptism must be able to profess a faith of their own. That's what was that was the way they baptized in the first century, and that seems to me to be what the New Testament teaches. Now as we conclude, I want you to remember, if you remember nothing else from this passage, that Jesus triumphs over all opposition. He triumphed over his suffering, the most severe suffering that you and I or any human being could face. Jesus triumphed over those evil spirits. Remember what he said in the Garden of Gethsemane? He said that this was the night of the power of darkness. Satan and his forces were very active the night of Christ's death. They were entering into the heart of Judas. They were empowering those religious leaders to yell out, crucify him, crucify him. But Jesus at the cross, unbeknownst to them, was defeating all of them. And in his resurrection, He triumphed over them and he proclaimed his victory to them. And because he has defeated all of these foes, which are also our foes , We know that we can be triumphant through Jesus Christ. And I want to talk more about that next week in verse 22. But I want to conclude this difficult passage by asking you this one question. What is the basis of your claim to be a Christian? For millions and millions of people throughout the world, it is that they were baptized. Many, many times I have witnessed to people, and I have asked them if they know where they're going to go when they die. And often they would say that they do know, or they're at least hoping, that they will someday go to heaven. And I will ask them, why is it that you have this hope? Why do you think that you very well might go to heaven. And perhaps the most common answer is, because I was baptized. Because I was baptized, and in many cases is when they were baptized as an infant , these individuals do not attend church. No one would identify them as a Christian. They don't pray out to God. They don't read their Bibles. Their lifestyle does not reflect the morality of Scripture. But yet they think that because they did something or something was done to them years and years ago that they're okay with God, they've got that checked off on their list. Human beings instinctively seek to find a way to make what is spiritual something physical. We always want to make that which is the invisible working of the Spirit of God into something that we can see and something that we can do. This is true in every religion of the world. This is true in every type of Christian church. We always want to consolidate what it means to be a Christian to certain things that we do. Or certain things that we don't do. And that becomes the sum and substance of what it means to be a follower of Jesus Christ. But that is not what the Bible teaches. No religious ritual, no matter how biblical, can save your soul Don't get me wrong, baptism is a good thing. It's an act of obedience. It's something that absolutely every Christian should do. But it does not save your soul. Going to church is a good practice. It's commended in Scripture. But going to church doesn't save you. Going to communion is the right thing for believers to do. Jesus said, do this in remembrance of me. But celebrating communion does not save you. And walking the aisle at the end of a service may be the right response to the preaching of the word. But apart from a sincere faith in the finished work of Christ, it will not save you. We must be very careful against thinking, I know I'm a Christian because I did this No, it's not what you have done. It's what Christ has done. It's not something That you achieve it's something that you must receive So let me ask you this morning, do you know that your sins have been forgiven? Are you trusting in Something that you did, or is your focus on what Christ has done for you When someone questions you, a preacher, or someone else questions you about your faith, do you think of Christ and what he did at the cross and the fact that he triumphed over the grave, rising on the third day? Is that what comes to you that Jesus has done everything for me and all that I've done is place my trust in him. Or do you think, you know, I'm a pretty good person. I go to church a good bit. I even give money to the church and I've memorized a bunch of verses when I was a kid. I'm good because I have these religious trappings in my life. I've been brought up in a good home. Or my parents were Christians or my grandfather was a preacher. So obviously I'm okay This is how so many people think, but we're saved by faith alone in the finished work of Jesus Christ. Can you say with the hymn writer, Jesus paid it all? All to him I owe. Sin had left a crimson stain. He washed it white. As snow. May God help us to trust in the finished work of Christ, in his triumph over Satan and over death, and over demons and knots. In anything that we have done. Let's close in prayer. Father, I pray that you would help us to be encouraged by the triumph of our Savior. Pray that it would strengthen us, Father, even as we face difficulties and struggles and burdens in this life. To know that we know the end of the story. And that because we're with Christ, we will triumph at last Father, my heart goes to those here this morning who might be religious, who might have a servant's heart and might be good folks, but yet they're lost. Because they've never truly been born again. They've never been changed from the inside out. They've never had the Spirit of God do a work of regeneration in their lives. O Father, I pray that today they would consider their standing before you and that they would seek the Savior while he may be found. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.