Give your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to the book of Philippians? Book of Philippians, please, chapter four. In case you didn't know it, we live in a very commercial society. I'm told the average American, of course, it varies greatly, but Most folks who track this sort of thing say that we are exposed to between three to seven hundred advertisements every day We see them in magazines and newspapers and billboards, computer pop-up ads, as well as commercials on radio and television Now some of these ads, of course, are simply promoting their project, but some of them also very subtly try to incite a certain level of discontent with what you have. Your car is not quite good enough. Your phone is not quite as advanced enough. Your clothes are just slightly out of style, and so you must get something much better. It is not enough for advertisers to say you need this, but they must appeal to your greed and your envy and your desire to keep up with others. You know, it's interesting to consider that hundreds of years ago our ancestors were not bombarded by this. There were no billboards. There were very few advertisements they would ever encounter, and they went to town and they bought what they needed. But today we live in a culture where a significant part of that culture is to raise a level of discontent with what you possess. But it has not always been that way. However, this issue of contentment that our text addresses has always been something that humanity struggles with. If you know me well, you know I love the Puritans. And they often address subjects that we do not address today. And one such topic was this matter of contentment. There was a great Puritan preacher named Thomas Watson who wrote a book entitled The Divine Art of Contentment in 1653. And in this study, Watson says, For my part, I know not of any ornament of religion that doth more bespangle a Christian or glitter in the eyes of God and man than this of contentment. The language is a little antiquated, but the thought is still valid, and that is that we tend to be envious or perhaps impressed by those who can face hardship and difficulties in life and yet are content with their lot in life. There's a second Puritan work on this topic by a man named Jeremiah Burroughs. It was written in 1648 and it's entitled The Rare Jewel of Christian Contentment And even in his day, in 17th century England, he would observe that contentment was a rare commodity to find among the Lord's people. What's interesting about these two Puritan classics is that they were both expositions of Philippians chapter 4. and verse 11, the latter part of that verse where Paul says, For I have learned in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. This is one of the most magnificent statements that Paul ever made, and it's one of the most challenging. Let me remind you where we are in our study of Philippians. We, of course, have been away from this now for some time, and we return to it today, and we begin a new paragraph. In chapter 4, verses 4 through 9. Paul is calling on believers there to go further in their Christian experience and to really exhibit the fruit of the Spirit. But now beginning in verse 10, he starts a new paragraph that runs through verse 20. And this paragraph is primarily a thank you note. Part of the reason that Paul wrote the book of Philippians was to thank this assembly for their generosity towards him while he was in prison. They were the only church that really took up an offering and sent it to him. And he was very grateful for that. And so he kind of saves the best for last. One of the primary reasons he wrote this was to thank them for what They had sacrificially given to him. Now what's very interesting in this paragraph is that Paul is very delicate and very sensitive. Because he wants to maintain a balance. He wants to be thankful for indeed their giving to him, but he also does not want them to think that somehow he is subtly encouraging them to give more in the future. He was very, very sensitive about financial matters. Remember he when he would go around and plan churches, he would make tense lest anyone would say, well, you know, he's really in it for the money and he really gets a a great deal of financial gain from his ministry. He never wanted to follow the path of false teachers, and so he was very, very careful about how he received money. And so in this paragraph, which encompasses verses 10 through 20, He goes back and forth saying, thank you so much for giving to me, but I want you to know that God takes care of me. I really appreciate your gift, but I don't want you to think that I'm dependent on you for your gift. A lot of Christian organizations do not follow this example. And they will send out letters all the time saying that if you don't give, we will have to close our doors, we will have to end our ministry. And we absolutely want you, you just have to give to us, and they just pull it out of you. Paul was never like that. He basically says, God's going to supply my needs. And the implication being is that if you didn't give it, God would burden someone else to give it. I'm not dependent on you. My dependency is on God, not on people's financial resources. So he's very, very careful about that. Now, verse 10 is kind of the opening verse of this paragraph, and I just want to very quickly make one comment about it because it could be misread as if Paul is saying here, it's about time you gave something. You see what it says? But I rejoice in the Lord greatly that now at the last your care of me hath flourished again, wherein ye also are careful, but you lacked opportunity. What he's saying here is that they have given, as it were, finally, but not that he's been sitting there waiting on this gift. It's just in the providence of God it has not occurred. Not that they didn't want to give earlier. Now, why is it that they didn't give earlier? The answer is we don't know for sure. It could be that they simply did not have the financial resources. It could be they didn't have a messenger who would make that long journey. They had no one step forward originally. Or some scholars think that Paul told them, listen, I want you to hold off on giving. I don't want you to give right away. We don't know for sure why it was delayed in coming. But it did come. And Paul rejoiced in it, but he didn't rejoice so much that, oh now I've got this money and now I can buy more provisions and I can do this. He was rejoicing in the fact that it was an expression of their spiritual growth. That this church that he had founded some 10 years earlier God gathered their resources, sacrificially gave, and sent it to him. That was a tangible expression of their spiritual growth in Christ, and that was what he was rejoicing in. Now, embedded within this paragraph where he's thanking them for their gift, We have the Bible's classic statement about contentment. Paul says, I've learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be contentment. Content. I have to tell you, I find myself almost um feeling guilty about preaching to you about contentment because it could easily come across as almost being cruel and unsympathetic because I know that so many of you are facing difficult times. And as I mentioned to you last week, what I know is simply the tip of the iceberg. But what I do know is crushing. The kind of burdens that people hear this morning before me and these pews, the kind of burdens That weigh on your souls. And I don't want anyone to think that this message is me saying, hey, listen, it's no big deal. What you're facing is not really a hardship, it's easy. That is not the case. Some of you are facing really difficult situations that can alter the very course of your life, and I do not minimize the suffering that you are facing. But God's word is true. And Paul here, through his own personal example, is once more in this epistle. setting up for them how a mature believer in Christ responds to situations in life. One writer said that contentment is the aroma of a mature walk with Christ. It is the indication that you have truly grown in grace because it is not natural to be content When you face difficulties and hardships in life. So let me ask you this morning, would anyone ever describe you as being content? This is indeed a rare jewel. But it's not a virtue that you should just quickly dismiss and say, well, you know, that may be for the spiritual giants, but it's not for me. I don't need it. I don't want it. I'm just going to go on the way I am. The fact of the matter is it is essential that you develop some level of contentment if you're going to really be successful and really enjoy the Christian life. It really is a very significant part of growing in grace. So often I find that Christians have become unwittingly victim of their own circumstances. And they have either become discouraged or they've become jaded And cynical, or they've become bitter at God, or they become depressed because of circumstances and difficulties that have just come one after another in their lives, and they have become a victim of their circumstances. But what we see here in this incredible example of Paul is that he is not a victim of his circumstances, but he is a victor over his circumstances. And he can say, riding from a prison in Rome, I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. So I want you to notice with me this morning from our text that Christians should strive to be content in Christ. But what does it mean to be content in Christ? I want to explore that this morning. First of all, would you notice with me that Christian contentment is different from the world's understanding of contentment? Paul here in our text borrows a word from Greek philosophy that was often used by the Stoics. It is this word content. I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. And that word literally means to be self-sufficient. Self-sufficient. The Greek philosophers taught that the way to live life is to become incredibly self-sufficient so that you don't need anyone or anything. You have all your resources in yourself. And your Circumstances in life, whatever they may be, should not rock the boat too much, but there should be a certain stability a stoicism. You have to learn to discipline your emotions emotions so that you do not respond. And we still use the term this way. If we say someone is stoic, it means that they do not exhibit very much emotion. This was very popular among the Roman soldiers in the day of the Apostle Paul. In fact, as he was writing this, the man he was chained to very well may have espoused this kind of philosophy. But this is not Christian contentment. God made us with emotions. God made us to feel and to reflect. on the experiences of our life and simply to become disconnected from our feelings is not God's way of handling our situations. Would you notice with me that Christian contentment is not a matter of your temperament? There are some people who are just naturally quiet and laid back. They won't complain about anything. You know people like this? I know people like this. It's great that God has given us people like this in the world. If everyone was high, strung, and intense , it would be a very difficult place to live. But God has given us a balance of different personalities. And some people are very laid back, nothing seems to bother them much very much. But that's not what Paul's talking about. How can I know that for certain? Because that's not the way Paul was. If you study the book of Acts, if you study the epistles of Paul, you will see that there is a man here who is very intense. He is driven. He has goals. The grass did not grow under his feet. He was a passionate person. It comes out in his writings everywhere. And yet Paul, who was set on evangelizing the world, is there in a Roman prison where he has been kept a captive now for several years. And yet he says he has learned to be content. That was not easy for him to do. He wanted to get out there. He wanted to go and preach and plant more churches, but he was not able to do so. But he is content. with that situation. Christian contentment is also not complacency. The Bible does not forbid us from seeking to improve our situation in life. God does not say, you know, if you're ignorant, you should just remain ignorant. Doesn't say that if you're poor, you should do nothing to better yourself. You shouldn't get an education. You shouldn't get job training. The Bible doesn't teach that. In fact In most cultures in the world where there is poverty, really abject poverty in the world you will find there's not much of a Christian influence on the worldview. The Puritan work ethic of of having dominion over creation and of working hard and of being honest and being frugal and everything that is still a part in some respects of our the fabric of our culture Makes all the difference in the world and many cultures of the world. And if you haven't lived in third world cultures, you may not be aware of this, but the thing that really strikes Americans when they go over there is why don't they do something? They're just sitting around in poverty and no one's bothered about it. Okay The Bible here is not saying that that should be our approach. Things will be the way they are. Just sit around and sit around the fire and and just while away the hours. No, that's not God's will. That's not what he's calling on us to do here. Also, Christian contentment is not resignation. Paul's not saying that after all that he has been through, all the hardships, he's just given up. You know, he's not going to try anymore. Sometimes you encounter a person in life who have been so beat up through their difficulties and their hardships that they've just given up. It's not going to try anymore. They're not going to exert any effort anymore. They're not going to cry. They're not going to weep. They're not going to show any emotion. They Just going to be resigned to this is the way my life is That is not Christian contentment. So Christian contentment is different From the world's views of contentment. I want you to notice that Christian contentment is something that can be learned. Paul says, I have learned. to be content. This is a summary statement. And Paul here is saying to us that this is not something that develops quickly. There are some things that occur automatically when we are saved. We are justified. We are sealed with the Spirit. We become a child of God. We have eternal life. There's all kinds of things that occur instantly and automatically when we are saved. This is not one of them. This is a growth and grace. This is a fruit of the Spirit. This requires prayer and surrender and knowledge and growth over many, many years. This is indeed why Jeremiah Burroughs called it the rare jewel of Christian contentments. Just because you've been a Christian for a long time does not mean that you will attain this. It's very, very easy. It's very easy, especially for those who are elderly, to become a little disenchanted with things in life and to become discouraged And if they're not careful to fall into a complaining spirit. And I'm not pointing at anyone here. And maybe I'll be the worst grouch of them all when I'm an old man. Okay? That's my disclaimer. But it's very easy and understandable from a human perspective. to have all of your aches and your pains and your limitations to adopt that kind of approach to life. But that's not what God wants for his people. Contentment is not something that happens easily. It's not something that happens automatically. It is something that often comes as a result of our proper response to the difficulties in our lives. Paul here is going to say in the verses that follow, in verse 12, I know both how to abase, I know how to abound everywhere, and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry. both to abound and to suffer need. I think there is a connection between Paul's level of contentment and the way he faced his trials in life. This again is not automatic. Just because you've gone through a lot of difficulties in life does not mean that you've learned to be content. Because sometimes you can respond in unbelief to the difficulties of life. The fact is that complaining is our natural human reaction to adversity. And you'll recall, if you've been with us through our study of Philippians, that I brought a message on this very thing where we have the negative aspect of contentment here. where he says that we are to do all things in chapter 2 without murmurings and disputings. There was one of our senior saints that was on their way out. I heard this from them. And someone asked them right after that message, how are you doing today? And he said, Well you can you can be certain I'm not going to complain after I preached a whole message about having a complaining spirit. Well, what's the opposite of having a complaining spirit? It's having a spirit that's content. That's content. And this is what Paul had learned to develop. over the years. It's not easy, it's not automatic. It takes a work of grace and a constant yielding to God and his purposes. in order to develop this wonderful jewel of Christian grace. I want you to also notice with me that Christian contentment is not based on your circumstances. Now in verse 12, Paul is going to talk about the fact that he has had extremes in his life He says, I know both how to be abased and I know how to abound. That is, I know how to be brought low. And I know how to ride high, as it were. He goes on, everywhere in all things I am instructed both to be full And to be hungry, both to abound as to have everything going your way, or to suffer need. So the fact of the matter is, is that Christian contentment I think one of the best ways to think about it is it's kind of like ballast. You know what ballast is? You know, when a ship, especially a sailing vessel, would go out into the ocean, sometimes it would be too light. and would be blown around and tossed around by the waves, and so they had to put some ballast in it, some weight that would kind of hold it in place so it wouldn't rise too high in the waves and it wouldn't sink too low. It would have some ballast to it, some stability to it. Contentment is like ballast in our Christian experience. It gives us spiritual equilibrium so that our lives are not like this. So that we are not just living on a roller coaster or going up and down depending on what the day may bring. God wants us to have a measure of balance and spiritual ballast in our lives, and that comes through this virtue of contentment. Now what we see here, which may surprise you, is that Christian contentment is needed in good times. Paul here describes good times as abounding and being full. There were times in his life like that where things were going really well. Now, why do we need contentment when things are going well, you may ask yourself. Well Two reasons. Number one, you may be tempted to make your circumstances the basis of your happiness. In other words, you have everything going for you Your bank account is swelling, your career is rising, your family is doing, your wife is happy, your health is strong and steady, everything seems to be going great in your life There's a sense in which we need to be measured in our response to that and recognize that life will not always be this way. And we should not have our hearts rooted in those wonderful circumstances, because that is sifting sand. It will not remain there forever. That's not the way life is. In the book of Ecclesiastes, we find that God has put our lives together like a patchwork quilt. And there are good days and what he calls their evil days, and they're one right against another. So we should not set our hearts on our circumstances and make that the basis, the foundation of our happiness and contentment, because those things will change. But there's still another danger of being discontent when things are going well, and that prosperity can fuel more greed and discontent in our hearts. You know, some of the most discontent people in the world are very well-off people. We would describe them as affluents. They have so much, they have huge homes and large pieces of land and all kinds of vehicles that are status symbols, and yet many of them are not content at all. They want more And in the circles they run with, they're not the top guy. The world's first billionaire. was John D. Rockefeller back when a billion dollars was really a billion dollars. And he was once asked, because the man was driven to achieve more wealth, how much more money he needed, he said, just a little bit more. And every year he would have a little bit more, but he still was never satisfied. He was never content. We need to be careful. When things are going well and the checks are rolling in, that we do not view that as an opportunity to fuel more greed in our hearts. Because God can just as quickly take that away. That must not be our foundation. But of course, when we think about contentment, we think not about good times, but about bad times. And Christian contentment is desperately needed in bad times. Paul here speaks of being abased, of being humiliated. of being hungry. Paul knew what it was to really be hungry and not have food for his meals. He knew what it was to suffer need, to not have adequate garments at the end of his life. In 2 Timothy, he's in a prison cell and he says, tell them to bring my cloak. He was cold. He needed his basic needs met. And he says that he's learned this everywhere and in all things. In other words, there's no exception to this. I wonder what you think about that. I wonder if you have a good grasp of the kind of hardships that the Apostle Paul faced. I'm not going to take the time to read it, but in 2 Corinthians chapter 11, verses 24 to like 29, there's a description at that point in his ministry of some of the hardships he had faced. He talks there about five times being receiving stripes, that is, 39 stripes. There would be 13 stripes in the front in your chest area and 26 in the back. And we know from writings of the day that one such flogging often resulted in death because of all the bleeding and the damage or infection that would follow. Paul endured that five times. He talks there about being beaten with rods. This was a Roman punishment. They would take birch rods and they would beat a person who was bound with those birch rods, leaving welts and bruises and contusions all over the body. He mentions there about being stoned at Lystra and being left for death. This is a Jewish form of capital punishments. They thought he was dead. He was unconscious. He was bleeding. But he lived through that. No wonder. He says in 2 Corinthians chapter 4 that his outward body was perishing. I mean, I think if you saw the Apostle Paul, he had scars all over his body. He had many broken bones. He looked like a mess. And let's remind ourselves of where Paul was writing from. He is writing from prison And when he wrote this, he didn't know if he was going to be executed right away or if he would be released. We know now from our perspective that he would be released for about another six or seven years before he finally would be executed. But he didn't know that. He was in a Roman prison where he had been for some time because the officials were probably waiting for a bribe. And we know that Paul had no wife. He was lonely. He had no money to speak of. Have you ever thought about this? He had no salary. He had no retirement. He had no health insurance. As far as we know, he owned no home. And you might say, well, at least he was a living legend. I mean, that's got to compensate for a lot. Well, he is today, but in his lifetime there were many people who were maligning him, even the believers there at Rome. They slandered him and said all kinds of things about him, and many people in the early church question the fact that he was an apostle. This man who at one time was a great persecutor of the church, a lot of people held him all of his life with a grave sense of suspicion. So Paul did not have the ideal of the American dream going on. He had numerous health issues. He had no wife. He had no financial resources. And he was mistreated by many of the people that he ministered to By the way, that's one of the most difficult lessons, and I don't know how to teach it to people without them going through it. But if you are going to really minister to people, you are going to be mistreated. That's the way it always has been, the way it always will be. So what are you experiencing right now in life? Maybe a job loss, I know some of you are. Maybe a profound sense of loneliness, maybe chronic pain that you live day and night with as your constant companion. Maybe you have a parent who is dying from Alzheimer's, and it breaks your heart to see how they are falling apart and not the person that you grew up with. Maybe you have a spouse suffering from terminal cancer or a wayward child or a loveless marriage, and the scenarios go on and on and on. And I've just scratched the surface on situations that I know about. Let me say again that there's nothing wrong with trying to solve these problems, trying to find counsel and solutions. But so often in life, so often, the most vexing problems that we have, we are unable to solve, right? There's not a thing you can do about it. You can't go in and change that person's heart. You can't go back and change what happened in the past. You can't really convince someone that this is true, even though you know it's true. You're helpless to change anything. So what do you do then? What do you do then when you cannot, with your wisdom and with your resources, change that vexing situation in your life? Well, you have a few options before you could become incredibly worried and anxious. And live your life with this mindset of what if, what if this happens next? Or you could become incredibly depressed and withdrawn. And l live your life in despondency. Or you could become angry and complain Where anger is just always just kind of involuntarily coming out of your mouth because whenever a situation confronts you, because there's so much bottled up inside of you, it just comes flowing out And for many Christians, unfortunately, they respond by becoming bitter at God. Oh, they will rarely admit that. They'll rarely say I'm bitter at God, because they know that's wrong. They might try to describe it in some other way, but there are so many Christian people that I encounter who are bitter at God's. They are angry. They are bitter. They feel that God has failed them. They did their part and they feel he has not done his part. And they may stop going to church, they may stop serving the Lord, or they may soldier on, but there's an emptiness, there's a joylessness to their life. Because they feel they've gotten a rotten deal. That's not the way Paul responded, oh. By God's grace you can learn to be content. Paul did. And as I went over just very briefly some of the situations he was facing in life, I think you would have to admit. They were not easy. They were not comfortable. And perhaps they far eclipse what you are facing right now in your life. But Paul could say, I have learned to be content. There's a very interesting word in verse 12 where he says, I am instructed. Do you see that there? I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry. This word instructed was a word that was used of the mystery cults of the first century and before. You may never have heard of the mystery cults, but just as they are cults today, they're outside of the mainstream. of our traditional religious groups. There were cults in the ancient world as well. Groups that secluded themselves from the mainstream and met in secrets. and had extreme views about various situations. And many of these cults were very secretive and very careful about who they allowed into their groups And they had initiation ceremonies. These are in some ways similar to what folks faced perhaps when they would join a fraternity or something at a college. They were often crude and humiliating and brutal. And Paul says, I've been initiated. I've been there. I've done that. My contentment is not because things have gone so smoothly in my life, or it's been like such an easy ride. No, I have been initiated. But I have learned to be content. And it doesn't matter if things are going great and the churches are growing and they appreciate me. and my financial needs are met and I feel good physically, it doesn't matter if that's my situation or if I am poor and forgotten. and slandered and living in pain and hungry. If that's my lot, whether it's up here or down here, I'm content. Because my contentment has nothing to do with my circumstances. Well, that begs the question, what is the basis of his contentment then? And the answer is found in this very well-known verse, verse 13. I suspect many of you have memorized it. You know this verse? I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens me. I can do all things through Christ. That brings me to my last point. Christian contentment is developed through a relationship with Jesus Christ. Let me show you right off the bat that this level of contentment that I've been speaking to you about this morning is not something that you can achieve on your own. It's not something that you can just buckle down and you can achieve this. You can become disciplined and to the place where you are content. No, it can only come through Christ. And this is a wonderful promise, a wonderful example for us, because it's open-ended. I can do all things. Let me pause here in a second. This has become kind of almost a motto for many Christians in the modern age. I say I know many Christian athletes who put that up on their mirror or things of that nature, and I'm not saying that's sinful or wrong. But understand that when Paul wrote this verse from prison , He wasn't thinking of some junior high kid scoring 40 points in a basketball game. Okay? And you this is not the power of positive thinking. It's not saying that if you can dream it and you can bring yourself to believe it, then it will happen. That's not Christianity When he says I can do all things, he's saying the all things that God has brought into my life and that he wills for me to face, I can face that with a contented heart. Okay? Now my question is, do you really believe that? That may take a lot of faith for you to believe that. Do you really believe that God can give you enough grace so that no matter what the circumstance is, you can become settled to the place where you are content In Christ. Paul says it's true. He writes under inspiration here. We're not strong enough to accomplish this on our own, but we can through our union with Christ. I love this word here. Strengthen. I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens me or empowers me. He infuses his power in me and enables me to conquer my difficulties. And subdue my spirit by a power from within that comes through him. This is a power the same word he uses of spiritual warfare in Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 10, where he says, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his mights. We sang together this morning. I sing the mighty power of God. We have an all-powerful deity who loves us and cares for us. And his power is available to us if we will trust him Whatever situation you may be facing, God will strengthen you to face that burden, not just that you will endure it with a broken and crushed spirit, but so that you can even come to the place where you triumph over it and you respond with joy and with contentment. Remember what this book is all about. 16 times Paul talks about the joy of the Lord. He was not putting something on for these believers. That was truly his reality, and it was through the power of God. Now, Paul would be released from prison not long after writing this epistle. He would go on To be involved in other ministry, but he would end up in a Roman prison at the end of his life. The last book that he wrote was the book of 2 Timothy. And he was alone. He was in prison. And this time he knew what the outcome would be. He wasn't going to get a slap on the wrist and be released. No, he was now considered too dangerous a man to the Roman Empire, creating too much instability. He was too much of a revolutionary. And so he was going to be executed. He was going to be beheaded. That's how the Roman government would execute their citizens. And he knew it was just a matter of time. And so he writes one last book to his protege, Timothy. In chapter 2 and verse 1, he makes this plea. Think of him sitting there in that dark prison. It was cold. We know it was cold, but because he says that they would say, can you bring my cloak? It was dark. It was damp. It was inhumane where he was being kept at this time because he was awaiting execution. It was much more difficult than his imprisonment while he was writing the book of Philippians. And he says in 2 Timothy 2. 1, thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. He says to Timothy, be strong. And the grace, what is he talking about? What is the power that enables us to face all this? Well, it's another word for grace. Paul says of the ministry in 2 Corinthians chapter 3, who is sufficient for these things? And the answer is no one is. But God's grace is sufficient. That verse comes to my mind all the time in the ministry. Just about every Monday morning I get up and I say, who is sufficient for these things? And don't feel sorry for me. It's that way with every pastor I know. It comes with the ministry. It feels like an impossible situation, an impossible task you've been given to do. And there's so many grave difficulties and problems that you cry out, Lord, who is sufficient for this? And the answer is, we're not sufficient, but by the grace of God, we can find his sufficiency. And then in the final chapter of this book, in 2 Timothy chapter 4. We have these moving words. Verse 16 speaks about Something he'd written earlier at my first answer, no man stood with me. But all men forsook me. I pray, God, that it may not be laid to their charge. Let me pause there for a second. So here is this man, this legendary man. This brilliant man who was trained as a rabbi and had this gifted mind and was at the feet of Gamalia, his prized students, who then has that Damascus Road experience, and you would think the church would say, this is our champion. But this man, by a large part of the Christian community, was never accepted. And at the end of his life, this man who has planted so many churches and has written 13 books in our New Testament has nobody with him. He's there alone in that dark cell. But notice what he says, verse 17. No one was with him, notwithstanding, verse 17, the Lord stood with me and strengthened me. It's the same word again. God strengthened him even to the end. And you know what? Paul was content even in that dark cell awaiting execution. He says that by me the preaching might be fully known, and that all the Gentiles might hear. And I was delivered out of the mouth of a lion. And look at verse 18. And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work and will preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. You see, Paul died content. He died triumphant. He didn't die as a man who had been broken and defeated by the adverse circumstances of life. He dies triumphant, saying, God will preserve me, God's work will continue on, and I will now go to my heavenly home. That's the way God wants us to finish our course triumphantly with joy. With contentment. And that can only come as we develop our relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ and we walk with Him and we find our contentment and our joy and our peace in Him. Not in the gifts that he has given to us. So much of our thankfulness to God is not for him, but for the gifts that he has given to us. You know, when a child's really young, they might want to go to grandma's house because she gives them little gifts and she bakes cookies and things for them. That's very understandable for a toddler. But when a child grows up, hopefully the reason they want to go to grandmother's house is because their grandmother is there and they love her and they want to spend time with her. We may start following the Lord because of the blessings that he gives to us, but as we grow in grace, it should not be the gifts and the goodies that he gives to us. It should be him. That's why we seek him. That's why we worship him. That's why we pray to him. Paul was not the first or the last believer. to languish in prison. The author of Pilgrim's Progress, John Bunyan, spent 12 years of his life in prison. He was a man like the Apostle Paul who was driven to preach the gospel, but he was hindered from doing that. He could not minister to his congregation. He could not provide for his family because he was in prison. And it broke his heart. He had a blind daughter named Mary. And he wanted so much to improve her situation in life, but he couldn't do it because he was behind bars. But you know what? In that prison cell in Bedford, England, he learned to be content. He learned to accept his situation, although it was very unfair, and the authorities had not dealt faithfully with him But from that prison cell, of course, he would write Pilgrim's Progress. And although he could not preach any sermons yet, his pen spoke for him. And he would write this verse, he that is down needs fear no fall. He that is low no pride. He that is humble shall ever have God to be his guide. I am content with what I have, little be it or much. And Lord, contentment still I crave, because thou savest such. He's not saying that by being content we are saved. He is saying that those who are saved learn to be contents. So let me ask you this morning, are you content with Christ? Are you content with what God has providentially brought into your life? Have you responded in faith to your circumstances? Have you come to the place where Christ is your treasure? And because of your relationship with him , You can be content. May God help us to be able to say with Paul, I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. Let's pray. Father, how desperately we need your grace for this. This is so beyond us. This is beyond me. This can only be done by a work of grace. This can only be accomplished through years of walking with Christ. Help us, Father, to exhibit to our family and our friends, our co-workers, that our joy, that our peace, that our contentment is not based. on the circumstances of our lives, but on the rock, the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, use these words to minister. to someone this morning. And Father, if there's someone here who is lost in their sins, help them to know that yet they cannot begin to be content without Christ. And so I pray that they would seek him today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.