Have your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to Matthew chapter 5, concluding this morning our series on the Beatitudes, and we come to the final Beatitude. Verses 10 through 12, blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake, rejoice. And be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you On March 27 , 1987, a group of believers met in a small village in the Sudan. Suddenly their prayer meeting was interrupted by a mob of Islamic terrorists carrying guns, swords, and clubs. Seven believers were killed in the streets, and a dozen of their homes were burned to the ground. The next morning, over a thousand believers were preparing to flee from this village by train. When a mob of Muslims came and killed many of them, some of the Christians were knocked to the ground, mattresses were thrown on top of them, and then set ablaze. The fact is, incidents like this occur all over the world almost every day. You may not hear about them because they may be in some remote place But they do occur. Sometimes think that people think that persecution is something that happened long ago. But the fact of the matter is that historians tell us that more Christians died for their faith in the 20th century than in all previous centuries combined. And this violence against Christians has not subsided in the 21st century As we come to the last Beatitude, I think most of us would have to admit that it seems out of touch with where we live. Christians persecuted? We live in a country where many people still sing God Bless America, or you see it on a bumper sticker somewhere. We have a president who claims to be a Christian. We open our sessions of Congress with prayer. We have well over a hundred thousand churches in this country. And when was the last time that you were really persecuted for your faith? There are three main reasons why this seems so distant from us. One is that the church in America has been insulated from persecution. This is in large part due to our Christian heritage. We were founded by the pilgrims and the Puritans who came here for religious freedom. And they brought with them their Christian faith. And even though we are in evil days in many respects, there are still a large number of evangelical Christians in this country compared to most nations of the world And so we kind of live in a bubble. We think, of course, that this is normal, that this is the way it is everywhere, but in fact it is not And we often don't realize how blessed we are to have the heritage that we possess. But I think a second reason why this seems out of step with our perception of reality is that In some cases, the church in America has been isolated from persecution. That is, we have developed, in some cases, a fortress mentality. We come to church. Perhaps we go to other Christian institutions, but we have very little contact with unbelievers. Perhaps you know your neighbors, perhaps you don't. I wonder if you know what their spiritual state is. It's very easy for us to have all of our friends just be Christians and we interact with Christians and our our our children's friends are all Christians and if we really don't know unbelievers or interact with underbelievers very much at all. And so there's very little persecution. There's also the sense in which We're kind of isolated. So much of our news focuses on our nation that we are often not connected with what's happening globally to Christians. And so it seems very remote to us. But I think a third reason is that in America, much of the church has been assimilated by the worlds. We have become so soft and so much so that Christianity doesn't mean much. And it's cool to be a Christian. In fact If we had, if you were running for a national office such as president, you were to say, I'm not a Christian. In fact, I I I think they're wrong, they're evil. I want nothing to do with them. It would be difficult at least today for you to be elected. It would be a liability to be anti-Christian, at least explicitly as a candidate. We have entertainers and athletes and celebrities that all say that they are Christians. And in many respects, we have adopted the world's values, and so we never make them feel uncomfortable This beatitude is indeed unique. I don't know if you've noticed, but it's different from all the beatitudes that we have been studying in the past few weeks. Notice how this beatitude and the first beatitude ends with, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. These two expressions are like bookends that mark the parameters of this portion of God's word. This is also the only beatitude that has given further explanation. We have verses 11 and 12, which explain further what is just said in verse 10. None of the rest have that additional explanation. And this beatitude changes the person. And all the way through, it's blessed are they. But if you look at verse 11, it says, blessed are ye or blessed are you. It goes to the second person. It's making it more personal. It's as if Christ is speaking to every persecuted believer throughout the ages in a personal way. And this is the only beatitude that's not really describing a character trait. It doesn't so much say who Christians are, but how they will be treated. This last beatitude is revealing to us the normal response of the world to those who truly exhibit the character described in the previous verses. So let me ask you this morning, have you ever in your life in any way, shape, or form, encountered any opposition? Any persecution, any ridicule, any mocking, anything that could be considered persecution because you are a follower of Jesus Christ. I'm going to preach this morning on this truth. Christians are persecuted for following Christ. And so my first point under this is that Christians should expect to be persecuted. Christ is presenting here the norm, the way it is, the way it will be for his followers. I'm going to remove some false ideas before we really get into an explanation of this text. Jesus, first of all, is not saying that everyone who is persecuted is blessed. There are people all over the world who are persecuted for many reasons. It might be their race. It might be their political affiliation. It might be any number of things, but this verse is not applying to them. It's talking about blessed are they who are persecuted for what? For righteousness' sake. This is not a blanket endorsement for all who are oppressed. And Jesus, secondly, is not saying that every Christian who is persecuted is blessed. The fact is that some Christians bring persecution upon themselves. I've known Christians who have presented the gospel in a very offensive way And people were angered by them and may have said something mean to them, and they would say, Well, you know, the Bible says you'll be persecuted for righteousness' sake. Not quite. That's not what the Lord was referring to. I have heard of pastors who have stubbornly refused to comply with basic firecoats and the officials have come in and padlocked their doors and they would proclaim from the rooftops that they were being persecuted for righteousness' sake. Not true. That's not what Jesus was saying What does he mean here by righteousness? Well, I've mentioned to you in previous messages that the key verse to this entire sermon is chapter 5 and verse 20. For Jesus said, For I say unto you that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the fair of the scribes and Pharisees ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. And what he's talking about there is not an external righteousness, but an internal righteousness, a righteousness that issues forth from the hearts. It's that internal righteousness that he has described in these Beatitudes. When he says poor in spirit, he's talking about those who recognize They are spiritual beggars, not people who put on that they're poor or take a vow of poverty, but people who are poor from the inside out. When he says, blessed are they that mourn, he's talking about those who are disturbed and who are sorrowing over their sin. When he speaks of the meek, he's talking about those who are humbled, who serve others rather than self. When he says, blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness, he's talking about those who long to be more holy. When he speaks of the merciful, he's talking about those who treat the miserable with kindness. And the pure in heart are those who are sincere before God and others. And the peacemakers are those who seek to bring about reconciliation. And you know what happens when Christian people truly demonstrate This change of heart, this radical transformation of character, the Bible says that the world will hate them. Did you know that? Is that shocking to you? You may ask, why would the world hate people who are like this? Let me give you several reasons. Number one, because we are so different Every single one of these character traits or beatitudes that we have here are exactly the opposite of the way the world thinks of as what is important or what is natural or what is good The world says you don't mourn over your sin. Guilt is a useless emotion. You just go on. You're not meek. You don't serve others. You serve yourself because no one's going to look out for you. You don't hunger and thirst for righteousness, you hunger and thirst for money or for status or for power Every single one of these is diametrically opposed to the way the world views things, and so we are incredibly different. And we tend to have a natural aversion to something that is really, really different from us. They can't figure out our values. They don't understand why you go to church. They scratch their head at the idea that you would actually week by week put money in the offering plate. They say, you know what you could do with that There's another reason that they hate us, and that is because our lives are a rebuke to them. I didn't say that we go around rebuking them, but our lives speak for themselves. Our kindness makes them feel cruel. Our purity makes them feel dirty. Our peace highlights their turmoil. I heard the story once of a famous preacher who was playing golf, a foursome. He was world famous, and this one golfer was uh was a notorious wicked man, a man of the world. And at the end of the round of golf, he confided to another man. He said, I can't stand that guy. He says, why? He said, did he witness to you? No. Did he rebuke you for something you did out there? No He says, why do you hate this man? He says, when I am around him, I just feel so dirty. I feel so wrong. There's a third reason the Bible tells us that the world will hate us, and that is because our lives reflect Christ. I want you to turn with me to John chapter 15. We're going to come back here. Turn with me, please, to John chapter 15, verses 18 through 20. This is our Lord speaking to his disciples the night before his crucifixion. I want you to notice what he said. John 15 verse 18, if the world hate you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own, but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world Therefore the world hateth you. Remember the word that I said unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also. So the Lord here is telling his followers that night in the upper room that the more that we reflect him The more that Christ is seen in our lives, the more hatred we will encounter as Christian people. In 2 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 13, it says, Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Now you may say, well, I've never experienced any persecution. Well, there's two explanations for that, possibly. Number one, maybe you don't understand all that's encompassed in persecution. And number two, our text says, all that will, all that set their will to live godly. So maybe you're not reflecting Christ. You're not living in a godly way that would be a rebuke to anyone. So you experience absolutely no antagonism because most of your lost friends and associates don't even know you're a Christian Let me ask you about that pointedly. Do your co-workers, do they know that you're a Christian, those people in those cubicles around you, or those people at the shop? Do they know that you are a Christian? I didn't ask if they knew if you were a right-winger or if you liked shooting guns. I ask if they knew that you were a follower of Christ. Or do you keep it a good secret? Do your neighbors know that you're a Christian? Because you have shared the gospel with them. You have spoken to them about spiritual things In the Cold War era, Christian preachers used to ask their congregations all the time, if you were put on trial for being a Christian , Would there be enough evidence to convict you? Is that true? Would there be enough evidence to convict you? Would they be able to go through the effects in your home? Would they be able to look at your schedule? Would they be able to interview your co-workers, your neighbors, your friends? Would they all say, oh yeah, I tell you, he is a real Christian, no doubt about it Or would they say that guy Christian? I never would have guessed that You see, this is a major reason why we have absolutely no persecution, because we're undercover Christians But Christ says that if we follow him, we will experience some type of persecution. That brings me to my second point. Christians should understand how they will be persecuted for following Christ. Look at verse 11. Matthew chapter 5 and verse 11. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. You'll notice we have here a second beatitude, a second blessing. One Puritan writer said that Jesus pronounces the second blessing because most of his hearers and readers don't believe it the first time they hear it. It's even often hard for us to imagine that God would desire or even commend persecution. For his followers. But that is the consistent teaching of Scripture. Now, I want you to notice something that might be interesting to you. I want you to notice in verse 11 that there are three types of of persecution that are delineated here. And I want you to notice that what is in view here is not so much that people are going to be burned at the stake Or that they are going to be beaten and thrown in prison. But most of what is referred to in verse 11 is verbal persecution. In other words, most commonly, Christians throughout the world, throughout the history of the world, have been persecuted by what people will say about them. Let's look at these three varieties of persecution that are given here. The first one is if you follow Christ, you will be insulted. That's the idea of the term rebile. It literally means to cast in the teeth. It's referring to an insult. If you tell people at work that you go to church Or you steer the conversation to God, it is very, very likely that if not to your face, at least behind your back, they'll start calling you preacher or holy Joe, or they say, hey That guy down there, you wouldn't believe what he said to me. If you try witnessing to them They might get angry, call you an extremist, a fanatic. If you don't laugh at their dirty jokes, they might call you a prude or something worse. If you stop partying with your friends, they will speak evil of you. That's what we find in 1 Peter 4 and verse 4. They'll think something's wrong with you. What happened? You used to go out with us. You used to party. Used to be the life of the party. Look at you now Have you ever been insulted for following Christ? Has anyone ever called you a name? Have they kind of in a humorous way kind of derided you? And and they weren't mean about it, but there was just a little bit of an edge to it. The second variety we see is this: if you follow Christ, you will be harassed. This word persecuted in our text has the idea of being chased or pursued. The fact is that many of the early Christians were pursued and chased from one country to another. They were hunted down like dogs. They were exiles without a home. But this word also has the idea of being harassed. It might include something as minor as vandalism. Or as significant as using the legal apparatus of a country to make life miserable for Christians. The fact is, this happens every day all over the world. I have known Christians who have lost their jobs because of their testimony, because they refuse to do what their boss asked them to do. I know a man who worked in an auto parts store. A customer came in, he said things were very rough for him financially, and he needed generic brake pads. He did not have the money to buy the regular brand, and so Uh the the man at the desk said, I'll go back and see what we have. He went back there, he saw them there, he brought them out, he sold them to customer, his boss was watching all this. And he said to his employer, You did wrong. You should have told him we don't have any generic break paths And this Christian man said, but but we do. He says, that's beside the point. We're here to make money. We don't make hardly any money on those break paths. And he lost his job. Persecution takes a variety of forms. The last variety here is this: if you follow Christ, you will be slandered. That's the idea of say all manner of evil. This is not a reference to what they say to you. This is a reference to what they say about you to others. This was something that the world did to the early church. We know from historical writings of the time. That the early Christians were rumored to be cannibals because they partook of communion, which represented the body and blood of our Lord. They were considered immoral because they had secret meetings and they called one another brother and sister. They were called unpatriotic because they refused to call Caesar Lord. The early church was slandered in every imaginable way. That is what he's referring to here. Gossip, slander, character, assassination. And the fact of the matter is, if you look and listen carefully, Christians are still slandered collectively today. We are said to want to legislate morality because we are opposed to the murder of the unborn. We are called people of hate because we are opposed to same-sex marriages. We are called ignoramuses because we believe in the Bible's description of creation. And we are called dangerous extremists because we believe that there is only one way to heaven. And that is through Jesus Christ. Now the question is, how should we respond to this treatment? That is what is brought out in verse 12. Look at what it says. Rejoice and be exceeding glad. For great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you Now, what is shocking about this verse is what is not mentioned. I want to mention three ways that we would commonly respond to any degree of persecution. First of all, it says that we must not retaliate. The Lord's going to mention this a little bit later in this very sermon. Turn with me to Matthew chapter 5. And look with me at verse 38. These verses are sometimes misunderstood and sometimes controversial. He says in Matthew 5. 38, ye have heard, it hath been said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. But I say unto you that ye resist not evil, but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also. Let me just say this verse is not saying that we can't defend ourselves. It's not saying that a nation should not have a defense force. But it means that we as Christians do not meet force with force. When people persecute us, we don't come back with a mob and persecute them. This is how the testimony of Christ has been soiled at times in the past. Christians have resorted to violence. To perpetuate what they believe to be righteous. And it's never ever worked out well A second response that we might have to persecution is we may not do anything violently But we might hate people in our hearts. And the Lord addresses this in Matthew 5 and verse 43. Look with me He says, ye have heard it hath been said, thou shalt love thy enemy and hate, love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, pray for them that despitefully use you and persecute you. that you may be the children of your Father which is in heaven, for he maketh his son to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and the unjust. This is an amazing thing. You may say, well, this is so unnatural. Exactly. God wants us to be people who are controlled by his spirit and not our flesh. There's a third response that we might have that's not mentioned here, and that is that we might become alarmed or surprised. We might be shocked. That the world would persecute us. First Peter 4 and verse 12, Peter writes this way: Beloved, think it not strange? concerning the fiery trial, which is to try you as though some strange thing happened to you. So what happens if 10, 15, 20 years from now our nation's government strips all churches of their tax-exempt status? And begins to tell preachers that there are certain things that they may not say in the pulpit. They can't preach against Same-sex marriages. They cannot ever imply or explicitly state that Christianity is the only way because that leads to violence. What would be our response? Well, I will say this much: our response should not be, we should not be shocked and dismayed and surprised and say, what is this? This is unbelievable. How could this happen? Jesus said, this is the normal lot of his people. We have lived in a little bubble For so long that we think that's normal, but it's not. And so we should not be surprised. How are we to respond? Well, our text is very direct. Rejoice and being exceeding glad. This is amazing, isn't it? It says, rejoice. This is literally a command to be happy God commands you to be happy. You know, you go, you stand up for what's right, and you lose your job. What you should be your response You should be happy about that. You should rejoice about that. You should be calling up your friends and saying, listen, you won't believe what happened to me today. I lost my job because I refused to lie for my boss. Isn't that great? And it says, be exceeding glad. This term is only used here in the New Testament. And it means to be elated. Or literally, even kind of to take pride in it. How would we take pride in that? Because we would wear that badge of reproach with honor This is the consistent teaching of Scripture. Romans 5 and verse 3 says that we glory in our persecution. 1 Peter 3. 14 says, if you suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye. 1 Peter 4. 14 says, if ye be reproached for the name of Christ, Happy are ye. James 1, 2 says, Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. And this is not just what the Bible teaches. This is not just talk. We have example after example of Christians actually responding this way In Matthew chapter 5 and verse 41, we read after the apostles were beaten and imprisoned for preaching Christ, it says, and they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing. That they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his sake. You know what? I think those apostles remembered what Jesus said that day on the mount. And they said, this is exactly what our Lord said. Our Lord, who was crucified , we're sharing in his suffering. And he said that we should rejoice, we should wear this as a badge of honor, and that's exactly what they did. And who can forget in Acts chapter 16 we read of these two missionaries, Paul and Silas. who were beaten for preaching Christ and they were thrown into that prison in Philippi and their feet were held fast in those stocks very rigidly. They couldn't move. It's a very uncomfortable situation to be in. And how do they respond? They sang praises to God at night so that everyone heard them. They rejoiced in the Lord's. And history is filled with multiple examples of Christians responding this way. But why should we respond to the persecution of the world this way? Our text in verse 12 gives us two reasons. Look with me. For great is your reward in heaven. Great is your reward in heaven. I don't have time to elaborate. We could go through different scriptures that talk about various rewards But you know what? Even if I did my very best to explain this, I don't think we could really grasp it But I do like this word here. Great is your reward. Not just you're going to get rewards, but your rewards will be great. I do know this much. I do know that no one 's going to get up in heaven someday and say, you know. I was just kind of hoping for a little bit more. You know, yeah, this is nice. It's a nice place and things, but Uh, you know, I guess in my mind, I just kind of thought it would be better than it was. A lot of things that we prepare ourselves for And they turn out not to be as great as we think they're going to be. But the Bible tells us that we can't begin to imagine how wonderful it's going to be to be with the Lord in heaven. And how those rewards will be. And the Lord tells us many times in this word that none who trust in him Will be disappointed. No one's going to say, you know, if I had it to do all over again, I think I just would have stayed in my sins and lived it up for the short time of my life. No one will say that. But we will say it will be worth it all when we see Jesus. But there's a second reason given in verse 12 why we should rejoice. It says For so persecuted they, the prophets, which were before you. In other words, you are demonstrating by the persecution that you endure That you are in elite company. What is the most prestigious club or group in the world? I don't know Sometimes they talk about the President's Club. You know, they had recently had the dedication of a library, and all five living presidents were there. That's a pretty exclusive club. When you can say, I've been the President of the United States exclusive Or you might join some club of people that are in some organization like Mensa for the super intelligence Look at me. Or you might make Fortune 500 's list of the most wealthy people in the world. People who have multiple billions of dollars. Elite group of people Or you're with an elite group of athletes, some of the greatest athletes on the planet. But I want you to know that in light of eternity, all of those groups, all of that distinction will mean absolutely nothing But this group will. If you can say that you're part of those who followed in the footsteps of your Savior. And you suffered in some way on his behalf, you're an elite company. He says, you're like with the prophets, you're like Isaiah. Who's dismembered, killed, sawn in half. Jeremiah was thrown down in that muddy cistern and later killed. Or Daniel. Or how about the apostles? All of them, but one died as martyrs, and John died as an exile on the Isle of Patmos. And the countless host of believers, most of whose names you've never heard of Tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people who have died and others who have been in prison and falsely accused of things You're going to be connected with them. People like Polycarp, who was killed in the amphitheater, John Huss, who was burned to death, and William Tyndale, the translator. Who died so that we could have the Bible in our own language. And other men like Hugh Latimer and Nicholas Ridley. On October the 16th , 1555, these men, these Protestants, were burned at the stake under the reign of Bloody Mary. These men refuse to bow to the false doctrines of the Roman Catholic Church. And on that fateful day, they were paraded through the streets and taken to the town square in Oxford, England. Have a little plaque there, the spot today. They were chained to a wooden stake and a container of gunpowder was placed around their necks. And as the fire was being lit at their feet, the older man, Hugh Latimer, saw to his young companion, who looked a little piquant, a little fearful, he said to him, Be of good cheer, Master Ridley, and play the man. For we shall like this day A candle by God's grace in England, as I trust, shall never be put out. And they burned for their faith in their Lord's. So the next time you're ridiculed, or someone rolls their eyes at you at work , Rejoice because you're in company with people like this, people who died for their faith. People who wear that badge of reproach with pride, this signifies that I am a follower of Jesus Christ. Philippians 1. 29 says, For unto you is given in behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to suffer. I just want to apply this just a little more broadly than our text this morning. Sometimes we think that following Christ just means good things are going to happen. All we have to do is believe. That's all that's involved. The Bible is consistently clear that following Christ will involve suffering. Whether that is for us following Christ or just a normal part of living in a fallen world. But God does not promise that when we follow Him, when we trust in Him, that all of our problems and all of our difficulties will go away. The fact of the matter is that often when we follow Christ, in some respects there is more suffering in our life. Because the Lord is purging us of our sin and our self and remolding us and remaking us in the image of his son. We need to respond in faith and trust in what God is doing in our lives. Let's have every head bowed and every eye closed. I ask you this morning, are you a follower of Jesus Christ? Does anybody at your workplace in your neighborhood, does anybody know that? Is your testimony clear and conspicuous? Have you ever in any shape or form Suffered persecution because of your commitment to Christ Scripture says all who live godly in Christ will suffer persecution. And dear Christian friend, how are you responding to your suffering? Are you taking it from the hand of a loving father? Or are you becoming bitter and angry and distant? Dear friend, do you know the Lord? Have you truly been born again? Are these character traits, these evidences of a transformed life evidence in you Are you like the Pharisees who were only changed on the outside? May God help you to see the truth. Father, I pray that you would work in our midst today. I pray that you would draw sinners to the Savior and you would draw saints, Father, that we might be closer to our Lord. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.