Give your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Matthew chapter twenty-six? Matthew chapter twenty-six An experienced minister of the gospel was once asked about questioning candidates for the ministry. This man had served on many ordination councils throughout his life. He said that if you ever sensed that the candidate was proud and overconfident He would question the man about his prayer life. Because he said this was a sure way to humble the man Perhaps there's no area in which we fail in our spiritual obligations more often than in our prayer lives. And yet, if you think about it, we really don't have a good excuse for this failure. We've been taught how to pray in the scriptures. We've been given a model prayer by our Lord. We have heard countless sermons about the importance of prayer. We have promises in Scripture, incentives given to us to pray. We own books about prayer. I suspect that you have some at home. We have prayer cards for our missionaries. We have prayer meetings on Wednesday night. We have prayer lists and prayer chains and prayer apps. And yet we fail to pray. as we ought. This is perhaps one of the most embarrassing aspects. of our Christian lives. And I suspect that some of you are intentionally seeking to improve your prayer life in 2023. And I commend you for that I want you to know that struggling in prayer is not a modern problem, but something that Christians have always found difficults. This morning as we prepare our hearts to celebrate the Lord's table, I want us to consider a passage that presents a vivid contrast. In the Garden of Gethsemane, we find our Lord agonizing in prayer while the disciples are fast asleep. Excuse me. For several months now, when we celebrate communion, we have been considering the biblical record of our Lord's Passion. I've entitled this series The Suffering Savior. And this morning we continue to look at what was occurring in the Garden of Gethsemane. Look with me to begin with at verse 36. Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane. And he saith unto his disciples, Sit ye here while I go and pray yonder And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. It is the night before our Lord's crucifixion. The disciples have just come out Of the upper room, where the Lord gave perhaps the most memorable address in their lives, what's known as the upper room discourse or the farewell discourse. In a short time Jesus will be arrested, and all the disciples will flee into the night. Then Jesus will endure six unjust trials Before corrupt leaders. And the next morning, about 9 a. m. he will be nailed to an old rugged cross But before the suffering at Calvary, there was the agony in the garden. Jesus was born to die, and he predicted his approaching death on several occasions to his disciples. But now in the garden, the reality of what was about to transpire came crushing down on his soul. The next day he would die alone in the darkness of Calvary and bear the sin of all mankind This thought was staggering. And so Jesus says in verse 38, My soul is exceeding sorrowful even unto death. This was no childish exaggeration, but the absolute truth given by the only man who never lied And so Jesus, in the midst of this crisis, unlike any crisis that we ever read of in the rest of his life , Calls on the inner circle of his disciples. Peter, and then it says in our text, the sons of Zebedee, that would be James and John. He calls on these three men to tarry here and watch with me. He had never made such a request to them before. Certainly the disciples must have picked on, picked up on the fact that Jesus was facing an agony. And seemed different than at any other time they had spoken to him. He had never made such a request of them before And if you did not know the rest of the story, if you had never read your Bible before, you would have expected that of course The three leaders of the twelve would have commended themselves well. They would have prayed earnestly for the next hour As their Savior was facing a crisis in his soul like never before. But that's not what happened While the Lord was praying, the disciples were sleeping Our text emphasizes this contrast. We read of the Lord coming to them. Look with me at verse 40. It says of Jesus, and he cometh unto his disciples and findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter. There are three verbs that I just read there for you, and they're all in the present historic tense. It's referring to something that happened long ago, but Matthew has chosen to put it in the present tense to make it more striking and perhaps for us to kind of visualize and understand of what it must have been like when this actually occurred. He comes, he finds them asleep, and he says unto Peter. But the text also emphasizes their failure in another way. And that is, we read that not only did they fall asleep once , But that this was a recurring problem. We read about it again in verse 43, and he came and found them asleep again, for their eyes were heavy. And then in verse 45, he cometh to disciples and saith unto them, Sleep on now, which obviously implies what? They were still asleep. And these three incidences are set in contrast to the three agonizing prayers of our Lord, which are interwoven with these episodes of their sleeping. And so Matthew, the author of this gospel, is wanting to highlight to his readers this vivid contrast. The suffering Savior at prayer. And the Lord's leading disciples asleep. What should we learn from this vivid and embarrassing contrast? I think we want to focus on Christ's response to disciples who fail. And I have two main points that I want to bring out briefly this morning. The first one is that Christ's response to his sleepy disciples reveals his sadness over the failure of his people. We have this very haunting words at the end of verse 40 when Jesus says to these three men, What could you not watch with me one hour? I don't think that Jesus said this with an angry shout. I don't think he was infuriated with their failure. No, I think he said this with sadness and disappointment in his voice. What? Could you not watch with me? One hour? He obviously expected more from them. This was the supreme crisis of his life And they failed to support him. I suspect that those tender words that Jesus uttered that night haunted the disciples in years to come. What? Could you not watch with me one hour? I think they would look back and see that as a missed opportunity To show their love and their devotion to their master. But that opportunity was gone on this night. When they fell asleep. I want to pause for a moment and consider why the disciples were so sleepy this evening. First of all, it was a long day. It had been a long day. They're there at the Passover season And you know how it is when you are away from home and out of your regular routine. You don't sleep as well, you don't rest as well. It was a long and draining day. Filled with momentous events. We know that they celebrated sometime earlier The Last Supper, or you could say the first communion. And then the Lord gave the upper room discourse that's recorded in John chapters 14 through 17. This incident took place late at night. It was probably about midnights. And in an agrarian culture where people went to bed with the sun and got up with the sun, Midnight would seem a lot later than it does to many people today. So they were tired. And this day was filled with emotional tension. Jesus had revealed some very disturbing things this night. He said to the twelve that one of them would betray him. That was kind of disconcerting. One of the twelve would betray him. And then he said that one of them would deny him. And he predicted that all of them would spiritually stumble this very night. But perhaps the thing that was most troubling to them is that he told them that he was going away in the upper room. And indeed their hearts were troubled. This is why Luke, in his account of this event, says that they were sleeping for sorrow. They were discouraged. They were sad. They were distressed. They were emotionally drained and exhausted by all the monumental news that they had heard this very evening. But having said all that, I want you to know that none of those factors excuse their sin. None of those factors make their sin less horrible than it truly was. In fact, I want to take a moment to remind you of several factors that magnify the enormity of the spiritual blunder. First of all, I want you to consider those who failed this night. In verse 37 The Lord takes with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, James and John. This was the inner circle of the disciples. This was the leadership of the twelve. These men were the cream of the crop. They were the best of the twelve disciples. When we read in verse 40 that he comes to his disciples, it doesn't mean that he came to all twelve of the disciples. It means that he came to these three disciples. That's how are we to understand the context? Initially in verse 40, you'll notice his words are directed to Peter. But when it says, What? Could ye not watch with me one hour? That word ye is indicating the plural. In other words, he's addressing all three of these men. He is saying what? Peter, James, and John, my leaders, these men that I poured my life into, you could not watch with me for one hour Just consider these men. Peter was, of course, the natural leader of the twelve. And we already know that this night the Lord has revealed to him What's about to happen? And Peter has not received that message. Verse 33. Peter answers and said unto him, Though all men shall be offended or stumble because of thee, yet will I never be offended. He says, Lord, you know, these other disciples, I can see how they would fail you tonight, but it's not going to happen to me. He was so filled with pride, even though Jesus, throughout the three years of his ministry with Peter and these other men, constantly taught about the importance of humility. And here on the last night that he would have the master before his death Peter, the leading disciple, fails miserably. He's filled with pride and self-confidence. He's ready to take on the world. He thinks there's no way he could ever fall. Then we have James and John, these men that were likely related to Jesus. Through his mother Mary. We cannot be absolutely categorically certain of that, but it's very possible that that indeed was the case. And yet they failed him horribly. These three disciples had special privileges and training They were with the Lord on the Mount of Transfiguration. Remember the other disciples were down at the base, but these men got to go up with Jesus On that mountain. And there they saw a radiant light as bright as the noonday sun shining out of Jesus' divine being. It's not that there was a light shining on Jesus, no, there was a light coming out. of Jesus. And that even after that incredible experience They failed him horribly. Sometimes people think, you know, if I had some kind of miraculous experience, I'm all it would build up my faith and I would I would follow the Lord really, really faithfully. Not true. Look at these disciples. Here. They had the most spectacular experience you could imagine. And they fail miserably here. They were with the Lord when he raised Jairus' daughter from the dead. Only the three were there for that. They saw this girl who was completely dead come back to life. And not to mention all the other miracles and sermons and events and conversations that they had with the Lord over the last three years. They were privileged men. How many people in the history of the world have had that privilege to live with the Son of God? These men had more of that privilege than any other human beings who have ever walked on the face of the earth. And yet they failed horribly at the most important juncture. The Lord had taught them earlier, to whomsoever much is given of him shall much be required. The Lord had the right to expect much more from these men, but they failed him miserably. Their status magnifies the enormity of their guilt. So what spiritual privileges have you been given? You have a Christian heritage? Do you own a Bible? How many sermons have you heard in your lifetime? What answers to prayer have you seen the Lord do? What miraculous things has God wrought in your life? And yet how much are we like these sleepy disciples? Perhaps you are you are tempted to say, you know, if I was there that night. And the Lord had come to me with his heart filled with a burden and had asked me to pray. I mean, I want you to know I would have been faithful and I would have prayed for that hour earnestly. If that's what you think, you don't know yourself very well. But there's another factor that magnifies their failure. Consider what he asked them to do. He simply asked them to pray. He didn't ask them to do something incredibly difficult. He didn't ask them to fight against the mob that was coming to arrest him. No, he simply asked them to pray. But they failed him in the most basic of Christian duties. And of course, the thing that magnifies this more than anything else is the person who's making this request. It was the Lord. He said, watch with me. The one who had lived with them now for over three years asked them to stay up and pray with him. This man who never failed them. Who always treated them with love, this man who was so patient with their blunders, this man who was always praying for them. And this man who had been a perfect example for them. Do you remember in Luke chapter 11, the disciples specifically asked Jesus, teach us to pray as John taught his disciples? And Jesus gave them this model prayer, which is like an outline of the kind of elements that should be in our prayers to God. And it's not that they had just a great teacher, they had a perfect example. They had the greatest teacher who ever lived, and the only man who perfectly lived out the truth of his lesson, and yet they still failed in prayer. And consider the duration that Jesus expected of them. One hour. I don't think this is speaking perhaps of exactly sixty minutes people in ancient times We 're much less precise about time measurement than we are in the 21st century. It's referring to a longer period of time. But whatever exactly it was, it was not too much to ask. How many hours had the Lord spent in prayer for these men? And now he asks of them for an hour. And then consider the significance of this hour. This was not just any hour. This was the beginning of his death. This is what is referred to in John's Gospel as his hour. If you know your New Testament well, you know that the Gospel of John refers seven times to our Lord's coming hour. It begins with the very first miracle, the wedding feast at Cana. Where he says, My hour has not yet come. And throughout the Gospel of John we find this expression, my hour has not yet come. But then in the upper room. For the first time in John chapter 13 and verse 1, Jesus acknowledges that his hour has come. And in his great high priestly prayer, he says, Father, the hour is come. This was what all of his life was pointing toward. This hour, this night, this Time when he'd offer up his life as a sacrifice. And all of this would climax in the darkness. of Calvary. And in this hour, there was great warfare taking place. Alexander McLaren, a great Baptist preacher of a century ago, says that the cross was the convergence of three great forces. The wickedness of men, the sovereignty of Christ, and the attack of the devil. Satan was very involved this night. We read that he entered into the heart of Judas Iscariot. And a few moments later the devil would trip up the leading apostle Peter. The Lord would say, when that mob came to arrest him, he would say to Judas, this is your hour and the power of darkness. These religious hypocrites and Roman soldiers were really the agents of Satan and his host of darkness. And Satan's mind. This was his hour, the long-awaited moment when the Son of God would be put to death. But in this fateful hour, the Son of God would be victim. Victorious, as he would die and reign from the cross. And in this fateful hour, this hour that all of this life had been pointing toward , This is when the disciples had this colossal blunder, when it counted most of you. Sometimes you can make a mistake, and it's inconsequential because There's nothing writing on it. There's nothing significant about it. It's not a very important event. But when you have a colossal blunder at the most important moments How it is magnified. And that's the way it was with these disciples. What an accurate and embarrassing portrait of Christ's followers But secondly, I want you to see that Christ's response to his disciples reveals the greatness of his love for his People. He says in verse 41, watch and pray that you enter not into temptation. The Spirit indeed is willing. But the flesh is weak. What's missing here is there's no brutal rebuke. The Lord is not making excuses for their sin, but he is sympathetic to their plight. We see here a beautiful truth. Jesus is sympathetic with disciples who fail him. He acknowledges that they were willing to pray for him an hour. They didn't say to his request, no, we're not going to pray for an hour. We're really tired and we need some sleep. I suspect, although it's not recorded, that when the Lord asked these three disciples to pray for him, they said, yes, Lord, we'll watch and pray with you. They intended to do the right thing, but they failed. Now the word flesh is used in several different ways in Scripture. Paul often uses this term to describe our sinful nature. There's some debate about this, but here In verse 41, it probably is referring to just the body, the human body. In other words, there are weaknesses of the human body that often lead us to fail in what we intend to do for the Lord. Jesus knew this. He knew what it was to be hungry and thirsty and yes tired. He knew exactly how it feels when you can't seem to keep your eyes open. This is the very reason the author of Hebrews explains to us and exhorts us to come boldly to the throne of grace in time of need because we have a sympathetic high priest. He can sympathize with our weakness. Sometimes people think of God as a stern judge without any kindness or sympathy. But in Psalm 103, we read that God pities us as a father pities his children. He knows our frame. He remembers that we are dust. And Jesus is the perfect representation of his Father. He is filled with pity and compassion for us. I want you to notice with me secondly that Jesus is patient with disciples who fail him. How many times have these men failed Jesus? And yet he loves them to the very end. Even this very night they were arguing about who was the greatest according to Luke's gospel. They were probably fighting over the seating order around the table. After three years of instruction, they still had failed to learn this fundamental lesson. But look at how Jesus patiently responds to these three men, these three leaders who Have failed him. Look at verse 45. He says, Then cometh he to his disciples and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest. Behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. There's some question among commentators about how we should take these words. Some scholars suggest that Jesus is being ironic or even sarcastic. That he was saying something like, you're sleeping on now and taking your rest at this time when I'm about to be betrayed? But that seems to be out of character. I think that Jesus is indicating that he no longer needs them To watch and pray for him because he has already gained the victory through prayer. And so he allows them a few more moments of sleep Because he knows that they will get no more sleep this night. I think this is a beautiful thing Jesus here is like a shepherd keeping watch over his sleeping flock by nights. And shortly after this statement He sees the torches of soldiers in the distance. And so he calls for his disciples to meet Judas who has come to identify Jesus for his arrest. He says in verse 46, rise, let us be going. Behold, he is at hand that doth betray me. And in just a few moments, Jesus would be arrested, and his disciples would flee into the nights. Because they were unprepared to face this crisis. Because they slept. Rather. Then pray. Now how would you respond if you had a very good friend, perhaps your closest friend? friend and you were facing a life or death crisis in your life. And you reached out to them, something that you rarely do, and you asked them to pray For you to stay up a little bit at night and to intercede about the situation that was such a burden to your heart. And then you discovered But they didn't do that at all. Instead they slept. You might be very angry. Certainly Profoundly disappointed. I can even see how it might be the end of your friendship with them. You might say, Well, I guess I've discovered who my true friends are, and it's not this person I'm not going to have anything to do with them anymore. But that's not what we see in Jesus' response to that. These sleepy disciples. What is evident is that Jesus forgives them for their failure. He forgives them for their failure. How is it that Jesus could forgive these men who have failed him? At this hour of crisis? And how could God forgive them for how they have treated his beloved son at this most important of times? The answer is because in less than twelve hours, Jesus would die on a Roman cross for their sins and absorb the just wrath of God against their transgressions. This morning as we come to this table, you might be thinking, I have failed the Lord again. I have not done what he has commanded me to do, such as pray, and the things that he has forbidden me to do, in some cases I have done. And there's different ways that we can respond to that reality. One common way that Christians respond is by By keeping their distance from the Lord. And just saying, you know, I just can't seem to do this Christian life thing. I think I'm just going to kind of stop going to church and stop trying because I'm sure the Lord is profoundly disappointed with me and he's probably done with me. I want you to notice from our text that's not the way he is He is patient, compassionate, and forgiving. Not because our sin is not a big deal. No, it's our sin that sent him to the cross. But because at the cross, he made provision for all of our repeated failures. Coming to this table is a bittersweet time. It does remind us Of our failures. We are to, we're called upon to examine our hearts, and how can we examine our hearts without discovering our failure? Before the Lord. But this morning let us remember that we are also commanded to do this in remembrance of Him. We are to keep our focus on Christ. And if we keep our gaze on ourself and on our performance, and on our progress, my friend, you're going to be perpetually disappointed with yourself. And that disappointment can very easily leads you to drift further away from the Lord instead of coming close to the Lord. And if that is what you have sensed in your life Life, my friend, you need to look at the cross. You need to remember our Savior and remember what He has done for us. Remember how willing He is To forgive us. The more we are discouraged by our own sin, the more beautiful our cross should become the cross should become The more we are reminded of how weak we are and how often we fail, even though we have known the Lord for years and have a multitude of advantages. The more beautiful it should make our Savior, and the more glorious the forgiveness that He provides through His shed blood and broken blood body. May God help us to find grace, to find joy, to find hope in our patient , compassionate and forgiving Savior. Let's pray. Father, I pray that you would meet with us today. Pray that as we gather at this table, That our focus would not be on ourselves, but on you and on all that you have done for us. Help us, Father, to keen our focus on the cross and remember what was transpired there. And Father, for those who are here who have never been born again, who have never been been saved, who do not understand the meaning and the significance and the beauty of our Savior, I pray that today their eyes would be opened and they would come to trust in Christ alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.