We are finishing up, I said this last week, we're finishing up Isaiah 65. And I was hoping to do that last week, but I was not quite able to. So we, Lord willing, will be finishing up Isaiah 65. Especially from verse 20 to the end. And we'll be looking at the millennial kingdom. As we remember where we are in the book of Isaiah, the theme is to return and rest in Yahweh. For he alone is salvation. And you'll see as we go into chapter 66, this continues to be the theme, that it is not in works of righteousness which we can do, but in the Lord alone that is salvation. We rest in him and not in ourselves. And we'll see that theme brought up all the way to the very end. We are here at the very last where we have comfort through eschatology, and we have the anointed warrior that brings us deliverance. And if you remember, we read last week, beginning in verse 17, where he said, For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come into mind. But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create. For behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy, and her people to be a gladness. I will rejoice in Jerusalem and be glad in my people. No more shall be heard at the sound of weeping and the cry of distress. No more shall there be in it an infant who lives but a few days, or an old man who does not fill out his days. For the young man shall die a hundred years old, and the sinner a hundred years old shall be accursed They shall build houses and inhabit them. They shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit. They shall not build and another inhabit. They shall not plant and another eat. For like the days of a tree shall the days of my people be, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands They shall not labor in vain or bear children for calamity, for they shall be the offspring of the blessed of the Lord, and their descendants with them. Before they call, I will answer. While they are yet speaking, I will hear. The wolf and the lamb shall graze together. The lion shall eat straw like the ox. And dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, says the Lord. We looked at this last week and we noticed that there in the beginning is a description of the new heavens and the new earth. And then we said there were some characteristics of what is described beginning in verse 20 that don't fit perfectly with the new heavens and the new earth. And they describe a period that we call the millennial kingdom, 1,000-year reign of Christ. I just actually put together a few quotes from early church fathers that describe this reality, their understanding of of the eschatological view of the millennium. Is it a literal millennium that would be enjoyed in Jerusalem? For example, Justin Martyr, who was an early church father, he said, but I and others who are right-minded Christians on all points are assured that there will be a resurrection of the dead in a thousand years in Jerusalem, which will then be built, adorned, enlarged, as the prophets Ezekiel and Isaiah and others declare. So we have Justin Martyr, a second century believer who had connections with the Apostle John through Polycarp, and he says this is what Christians believe. And it's known by church historians that most of the first and second century believers, even into the third century, believe in a literal physical millennium with in Jerusalem where Christ reigned. Another quote by Justin Martyr. And further there was a certain man with us whose name was John, meaning John the Apostle, one of the apostles of Christ Who prophesied by a revelation that was made to him, that those who believed in our Christ would dwell a thousand years in Jerusalem And that thereafter the general, and in short, the eternal resurrection and judgment of all men would likewise take place. And so in this early quote in a uh argument or dialogue with Trifo, he's describing the view and the faith of early Christians. If we look at the idea of the millennium, the main passage that we find describing the exact time period is of course in Revelation chapter 20. But just kind of a quick review where we were last week. We said there are four passages of Scripture that explicitly describe The new heavens and the new earth. Remember, we looked at that last week, these passages that describe the new heavens and the new earth. This is the very first one that we find in Isaiah 65. The next one we find is in the next chapter at the very end of the book of Isaiah. For as the new heavens and the new earth that I make shall remain before me, says the Lord. so shall your offspring and your name remain. Then when we come to the New Testament, we go all the way to 1 Peter chapter 3. I'm sorry, 2 Peter, that should be. 2 Peter chapter 3, verse 13, where we see the new heavens and the new earth being described wherein righteousness dwells. And then the last place is in Revelation 21. Look at that. This is the same slide from last week. Revelation 21, verses 1 through 4. Where John describes seeing a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And he describes the new heaven and the new earth. And we looked at those verses and we saw that the new heaven and the new earth is a place of joy. That's why he begins this by saying But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create. It's a new creation, that is a creation that should bring joy, that will bring eternal joy. They're also described as eternal states This is often called the eternal state. The new heaven and the new earth are eternal, whereas the millennium is not. It is A millennium. It is a thousand years. They follow the destruction of the current heavens and the current earth, which is destroyed by fire, as 2 Peter describes. They're a place of perfect righteousness where there is no more any sin that comes into it. It is the home of the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven, adorned as a bride For her groom. And in it there is no death. And so when we read these things, these descriptions of the new heavens and the new earth, and we read what we just read here in Isaiah 65, you're going to see we saw Clearly, there are some distinctions between the new heavens and the new earth and that which is called the millennium. Because we find in this description in Isaiah 65 That there is still sin that takes place. Although it is greatly reduced, there is still the reality of sin. It is not entirely eliminated. There is still death that is uh around, not not common, but it is still uh it does still take place. For in verse 20 it says that The young man shall die a hundred years old, and a sinner of a hundred years old shall be accursed. We also describe children being born during this time. Whereas in the new heavens and the new earth, Jesus said there will not be marriage, and there will not be the giving in marriage, and there will not be the bearing of children. And so that reality will no longer be in existence. But in the millennial state, we read here that the descendants are described in the New Heavens or in the Millennial State. So we see a difference. The millennial reign of Christ is described here. It's described in Isaiah 11. It's described in Isaiah 2. It's described in Zechariah 14. It's described One of the most significant passages is actually in Revelation chapter 20. And it's there where we find the six times that the thousand years is mentioned. I'd like us to turn to Revelation 20. very briefly and just look over this passage of scripture before we jump into ours this evening so we we have an understanding of how they connect together and what is being described here. In Revelation chapter 20, we read this, beginning in verse 1. Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven, holding in his hand the key to the bottomless pit. and a great chain, and he seized the dragon, that ancient serpent, who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years. and threw him into the pit, and shut it, and sealed it over him, so that he might not deceive the nations any longer until the thousand years were ended. After that he must be released for a little while. Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom the authority to judge was committed. And I also saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the Word of God, and those who had not worshipped the beast or its image, and had not received this mark on their foreheads or on their hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection. Over such, the second death has no power. But they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand years. And when the thousand years are ended, Satan will be released from his prison and will come out to deceive the nations that are at the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them for battle. Their number is like the sand of the sea. And they marched up over the broad plain of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints in the beloved city. But fire came down from heaven and consumed them. And the devil who had deceived them was thrown into a lake of fire and sulphur, where the beast and the false prophet were. And they will be tormented day and night, forever and ever. So when we look at this passage of scripture, I mentioned that six times in this passage of scripture we have the reference to a thousand years. And that's where we get the the actual number of years that is the millennium and six times is a significant amount of references to it. Um and there are those that would say that this is just figurative, but when I look at this I'm challenged to say, how could God express a thousand years in a way different than the way he expressed it here? If he wanted to say a thousand years, how else could he express it than the way that he did express it. So if it really if it doesn't mean a thousand years, then I don't know how we can understand language. Language has to mean something. And so in this case He is describing, I believe, a literal 1,000-year reign of Christ. And what's so significant about this 1,000-year reign of Christ is that Satan is entirely bound and unable to deceive the nations any longer during that thousand years. when Christ physically reigns on the earth. The description is given of a great chain and of him being seized by the angel and thrown into a pit or the abyss, the bottomless pit. And it's described specifically that he will not be able to deceive the nations during that thousand-year reign of Christ. So as we live on this earth. There is much demonic activity. Demonic activity empowering things in politics and in entertainment. And there's demonic activity that is overt and covert. We saw demonic possession and oppression when we lived in Tanzania. And we see the the demonic uh oppression and and the fascination with demonic even increasing in our world, especially at times like Halloween. But during this time that's described, there will be no more oppression by Satan. It will be entirely removed from the earth. That's not to say that everyone is a believer But there won't be outside influences for saying this. And we'll see that how that impacts even war and the the nations and how they deal with one another. We also are told that saints are given authority to rule and to reign with Christ. In verse 4, he says, I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom authority to judge was committed. Even the question comes up sometimes just who is going to be in the millennium? Who is going to be living in the millennium? Even after the rapture in the vast judgments that come during the Great Tribulation, there will still be many people left on earth. There are those who look at this and say, this is probably one of the great challenges to figure out who actually comes into the millennium. However , I don't think it's a really big challenge at all because actually Zechariah chapter 14 answers the question in plain English. Well, plain Hebrew in Zechariah 14, but it's translated into English. It makes it very easy for us. In Zechariah 14, it describes the coming of Christ. When his feet will step foot on the Mount of Olives, and the Mount of Olives will split in two, and he destroys the armies that have come up against Jerusalem. And then in verse 12 of Zechariah chapter 14, it describes the great plague that Christ will strike the armies, and he says, in which their flesh will rot. while they are still standing on their feet. Their eyes will rot in their sockets and their tongues will rot in their mouth. That's a pretty horrid description of what's going to take place against the nations that come in battle against the Lord to Jerusalem. Then in verse 16 it says this. Then every one who survives of all the nations that have come up against Jerusalem shall go up year after year to worship the king, the Lord of hosts, and to keep the feast kibbutz. So we're told that there are those who are non-combatants, you might say, that did not participate in the war that took place in Jerusalem. And all those who survived, they survived the tribulation. They survive, they're not judged in this way. They come year after year to worship the king, the Lord of hosts, and to keep the feast of booths. in Jerusalem. And so we we are told who these people are that come into the millennial kingdom. And as we saw in Revelation 20 verse 4 There are those who rule and reign over them. Thrones are established, and those who are seated on them are those to whom the authority to judge was committed. The reality of believers reigning with Christ is something that Jesus himself described during his earthly ministry. Remember in Matthew 19, I think I have it in your notes, Matthew 19, verse 28. It says, Jesus says, In the new world, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And so Christ himself says, you will judge the 12 tribes of Israel. So he tells the apostles, you will have specific authority over judging not the nations here, but the 12 tribes of Israel. And in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, the Apostle Paul says, when he's asking the question about why are you taking brothers and sisters to court? Don't you guys have enough wisdom to make decisions to judge between right and wrong within the church? He says, Do you not know? that the saints will judge the world? He says, don't you understand? You will be sitting on thrones judging the world. How is it that you can't judge Right and wrong within the church. That doesn't seem to make any sense. So we see here, saints are given authority to rule and reign with Christ during this time. And as such, there is great peace that is maintained on the world. And then we read here as well that the millennial kingdom is followed by a final rebellion. It's a rebellion which is terminated by fire from heaven coming and consuming all of the rebel combatants. And the devil will be thrown into a lake of fire to be tormented eternally. And maybe as you read that you think, why would anybody living in a perfect world with Christ as king, where righteousness reigns, why would anyone rebel against Christ? At the end of the millennial period, well, it just goes to show you just how great our depravity is. How great our love of self is and our hatred of Christ apart from his transforming work being done in our lives. Some people wonder why the millennium is important. It's important because it demonstrates Jesus' ultimate victory and his worthiness to rule the nations. Because he rules and reigns with full authority. Millennium is important because God demonstrates his faithfulness by fulfilling the promises that he made to the nation of Israel and to New Testament believers. I think it's also important because it will reveal the depths of man's rebellious nature That's one of the realities that it shows, and it shows the justice of God's judgment, that even after a perfect environment wherein righteousness is enforced, The nature of mankind in its fallen depreciate still loves wickedness, still is prone to rebel. And it's not the result of the environment. So many times people say, well, you know, he's had a a difficult background and they've had a bad environment. Man is basically good. If it wasn't for his environment, he'd be so much better off. Well, even in a perfect environment. We're shown to be broken and rebellious and recalcitrant, and God's justice is seen as being right And so we see that in that final rebellion, even after a thousand years of righteousness, where Christ Himself reigns physically. on the earth. So let's go back to our passage of scripture this this evening. With that kind of as a background, we're going to jump into this passage of scripture. And there are four major transformations that are described in this passage of Scripture about the millennial reign of Christ. And they are causes, or they should be causes for us to rejoice. They should be causes for us to just be thrilled and delight in the fact that Christ is coming again. He will establish his earthly reign and he will establish righteousness on this world, and the curse will be reversed. Let's read here in verse 20. I kind of like beginning in verse 19, the second half, where we have the first no more. No more shall be heard in it the sound of weeping and the cry of distress. No more shall there be in it an infant who lives but a few days, or an old man who does not fill out his days. For the young man Shall die a hundred years old, and a sinner a hundred years old shall be accursed. The first thing we see is a greatly increased lifespan a vastly increased lifespan. And the first thing that's brought out is that the elimination of infant mortality. One of the sad realities of life in this fallen globe is the heart-wrenching sorrow of burying an infant. On several occasions I have performed a funeral for a grieving mother and a grieving father with a casket the size of a shoebox. And I've spoken with numerous parents over the course of my life who when I asked them how many children they had, they said, Four alive and three in heaven. Or three alive and two in heaven. Throughout human history, infant mortality was somewhere near 40%. That's a hard number for us in the 21st century to even wrap our heads around. Many, many families throughout human history could ex could give testimony to losing all of their children before adulthood. Currently, in the world we live in, infant mortality is somewhere around three percent. Not in America, but worldwide. Some nations, seven times or more that, where infant mortality is in the 20%. But praise God in the millennial kingdom, he says, No more shall there be in it an infant who lives but a few days. And that is a cause for great rejoicing. That is a cause for much praise to be given to God. And along that same line, he says, someone who dies at a hundred years old will be considered a child. Now, we had the privilege of celebrating Lonnie Wright's birthday a few years ago when he turned a hundred years old. And it was a time of great rejoicing because very few people make it to the century mark. Just this past week I was reading two weeks ago I guess it was I was reading about the oldest woman in the world had passed away and the new reigning uh Moving on. Ethel Catterham is the reigning oldest person in the world at 115 years old, 259 days. And I must say she looks rather good. That's quite impressive. That's an amazing accomplishment. But what does he say here? In that day The young man shall die a hundred years old, and the sinner 100 years old shall be accursed. I believe that these last two lines of verse 20 are actually parallel lines, and it seems to indicate that there will still be death in the millennial kingdom, but it will be the direct result of sin. So there there will be The consequence of sin that is described, there will be a curse for their sin. He says that the young the man who dies a hundred years old will be accursed. And we saw that we actually, if you continue to read in Zechariah chapter 14, this is what is described, that there is still a remnant of sin, because those who come into the millennial kingdom, not all of them are believers. And then children who are born during the millennial kingdom are born of redeemed sinners, but not in glorified bodies, and therefore they are born sinners, just like our children are born sinners today. So there will be many, many many unbelievers that come into the millennium and live in the millennium. In Zechariah 14, it actually kind of describes this reality. In verses seventeen and eighteen it says, If any of the families of the earth do not go up to Jerusalem to worship the king, the Lord of hosts, there will be no rain on them. And if the family of Egypt does not go up and present themselves, then on them there shall be no rain. There shall be the plague with which the Lord afflicts the nations that do not go up to keep the feast of boots. And so Christ will be reigning and the nations will be coming to keep the feast of booze on a yearly basis. But if a nation chooses to rebel against God, there will be a direct and immediate consequence of that. There will be punishment. The Bible says that Christ will be reigning with a rod of iron, which means that he will be stamping out sinful rebellion during that time. There will be a swift punishment that is meted out in those days. And so there will be the death of people in the millennium, though much curtailed. And a person who lives to 100 years old and dies will be considered, ah, it's because of his sinfulness and rebellion. Probably during the millennium lifespans will return to like that of the pre-flood era. If you've ever read the book of Genesis, it probably strikes you as you're reading through the ages of those pre -Noaic uh humans like Adam. Anyone know how long Adam lived, what his lifespan was? Nine hundred and thirty. Nine hundred and thirty years. It's a pretty long life. Or Methuselah. We live 969 years. So probably very likely during the millennial reign these lifespans will become normal again. Things that happened at that time will now be restored. So we have this greatly increased lifespan. The second thing we see in this passage of Scripture is that the futility from the curse will be lifted. Notice what he says. In verse 21, they shall build houses and inhabit them. They shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit. They shall not build, and another inhabit, they shall not plant, and another eat it. For like the days of a tree shall the days of my people be, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands. This is a beautiful passage of scripture because throughout history, wars and famine and plagues and death have caused people to plant. and to build and to not be able to enjoy the fruit of their labors. This is one of the vanities that's described in the book of Ecclesiastes What a horrible thing it is to build a building and plant a vineyard, and then to see your oppressor come in and take over your home and eat your crop. And take your family captive. We know that the Millennial Kingdom will be a rule of righteousness and peace like this world has never known. If you look at the world, these orange spots and yellow spots are places where there are active conflicts in the world currently. It's not exactly a peaceful place Current conflict zones like Ukraine and Gaza, Israel, Myanmar, South Sudan, their gangs and terrorism warlords. We live with corrupt politicians. that steal and destroy and imprison illegally. But that won't happen. And so there will not be someone who builds a house And then his house is taken away from him. Or builds a house and war breaks out and he's killed and he can't even enjoy the house that he's built. Deuteronomy 28, verse 30 described that one of the results of the curse that would come upon the nation of Israel if they were to reject God's commandments. and serve false gods would be this. He says, You shall betrothe a wife, but another man shall ravish her. You shall build a house, but you shall not dwell in it. You shall plant a vineyard, but you shall not enjoy its fruits. So one of the curses that came upon the nation of Israel was they were taken out of the land, and another nation came in and enjoyed the fruits of their labors. But when we studied Isaiah 2, we saw this, where it says of Christ that he shall judge between the nations and shall decide disputes for many peoples, and they shall beat their swords into plowshares. And their A ten warthogs will be crop dusters, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not rise up, not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. That's cause for rejoicing. If you listen to the news or read anything in the news at all, all we hear about is war, missiles going off in Sana 'a and in Israel and Ukraine and in Moscow and all over the world there is war and there is death. And there's famine, but in that day that will be no more. And that is cause for great rejoicing. It says they will not die before they can fully enjoy their labors. I remember when I was in Tanzania, I planted a lime tree, a mango tree, and a grapefruit tree. And I tended those little boogers with great delight. And I was so eager, I saw them flower and bloom, and then the fruit died before I could enjoy it the first year and the second year. And then we had to move. And I never got to enjoy my mango and my lime and my grapefruit. And I was and the funny thing is they've never seen grapefruit before. And so Now the people that moved in are like what is that fruit that massive looking fruit and then they taste it like it's terrible it tastes horrible it's so bitter But that's a kind of a minor a minor burden in my life. But there are those who have labored and planted and worked for decades and they've not been able to enjoy the fruit of their labor because of death or because of disease or because of things like war or corruption. But he says that in verse 22, they shall not build and another inhabit, they shall not plant, another eat. For like the days of a tree shall the days of my people be, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands. The idea is that they will wear out the things that that they have made. We have a little stool or a child's chair in our our dining room that my grandfather's great-grandfather made. And it 's now passed on down, and my grandson has had a chance to sit in it. So we've got many, many generations have been into it. But here what's being described is you'd be able to see all those generations. Enjoying the work of your hands. My grandfather will never see that, and his father and his father will never see that. But in this time they will. Many people when they come to a certain age will purchase a car and say, This car will outlive me. But that won't happen in a millennium. Because we will outlive those things Isaiah describes their lifespan as to that like a tree. When we think of long-living organisms, the longest living organisms in the world are trees. I remember when we lived in Tanzania, our church had a piece of property at the very corner of it. was a giant Bayabob tree, and it was estimated to be over a thousand years old. And it was fascinating to think of when that tree came alive. and was planted that what was going on in the world at that time. The oldest tree in the world is this beautiful tree named Methuselah appropriately It's a bristlecone pine tree in California, and it's 4,854 years old. It is the oldest living organism in the world. And he says, my people have a lifespan like trees. They will live a long time. They will wear out. the things that they build and purchase, they will live longer than their stuff. And that is cause for rejoicing. That is something to delight in. Futility is a major theme in the book of Ecclesiastes. In Ecclesiastes chapter 2, verses 18 and 19, he says. Solomon says, I hated all my toil in which I toil under the sun, seeing that I must leave it to the man who will come after me. And who knows whether he will be wise or a fool? Yet he will be master of all for which I toiled and used my wisdom under the sun. This also is vanity. And I don't know if Solomon is thinking, oh, Ray of Bone. He is just a fool. And he's gonna have authority over all my stuff. And maybe he was a bit uh using foresight here seeing what would what would happen with his son where his kingdom would be be torn apart from him, be left with just two tribes out of the twelve, and much that Solomon had labored for was destroyed in the very next generation. How many people can describe that in our own lives as we've observed it? Someone labors and toils and accumulates a mass of wealth and of possessions and their children inherit it and they squander it. In a very few years. And he says, in that day, that will not happen That vanity will be gone. You will continue to enjoy those things that you have labored for because the lifespan will be greatly increased. Another thing we see is in the millennium, believers will enjoy the immediate answers to prayer. In verse 24, it says But they will call, before they call, I will answer. While they are yet speaking, I will hear. In this life, numerous things lead to difficulty in our prayer life. Competing desires and responsibilities can arise and they can confuse us in our praying. We're often kept from earnest, single-minded prayerfulness by different desires that are at war within us. At other times, wandering thoughts. Or even our own sin intervenes between us and God. We saw this in Isaiah fifty-nine, verses one and two, when the Lord says, Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save, or his ear dull, that it cannot hear. But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he does not hear. Throughout the entire book of Isaiah, there have been these times when there have been prayers, and the question is, how long? Lord, when will you do? When will you fulfill? When will you answer your prayers? Remember even in Isaiah 63 where he says, Look down from heaven and see from your holy and beautiful habitation, or oh that you had rent the heavens and come down. O Lord, be not so terribly angry, O Lord, and remember not iniquity forever. Behold, please look, we are all your people. These are these earnest, ongoing prayers for the Lord to intervene. But he says, in the millennial kingdom, righteousness will reign, Satan will be bound, and Christ will be quick to answer. Notice what he says here. Before they call I will answer. Before they call, I will answer. While they are yet speaking, I will hear. Now you may have some experiences in your life where you can say, even before I prayed, God had prepared the answer and God had answered. That does happen. And I can testify to that at different times in my life. But there are other times when I have had to labor in prayer and persist in prayer and persevere in prayer. And to ask and to seek and to knock. For years Before we see the Lord answering. But during that day, he says, While they are yet speaking, I will hear. There will be that close, intimate fellowship with God and immediate answers to prayer That's hard to really wrap our minds around, but that is cause for great joy And the last thing we see is a radical transformation in the animal kingdom. These verses here in verse 25 says, The wolf and the lamb shall graze together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. And the dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain. This is very reminiscent of what we read already in Isaiah chapter 11. Where it says the wolf shall dwell with a lamb. I don't know about you, but I always thought it was the lion will dwell with a lamb. But if you go back and read it, it's actually the wolf will dwell with the lamb. The wolf will dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the young goat, and the calf and the lion and the fatted calf together, and a little child shall lead them. The cow and the bear shall graze, their young shall lie down together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox The nursing child shall play over the whole of a cobra. Mothers with children. Can you imagine that? I remember we had cobras on our property in Tanzania, and it was like, okay, we've got to eradicate these quickly. Can you imagine your child's playing over the hole of the cobra? No problem. And that's cause for panic. That's cause for terror today. And the wean child shall put his hand in the adder's den, and they shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. That is a radical transformation. It's described in other passages like Hosea chapter 2, verses 16 and 18, where a covenant is being described. God makes a covenant with the animals. So that they no longer destroy. They're no longer a threat. Currently all creation groans together in the pains of childbirth. But then that will be ended. I just sat this week even just watching birds attack birds, and I said to my wife, you know, there is warfare going on constantly in the animal kingdom. But that will be eliminated. And part of the warfare is the result of lack. But there won't be lack. There will be abundance. There will be plenty. I was reading actually this past week from a quote by uh a second century Christian. And he's quoting a first-century Christian who was born around AD 60 and who knew the Apostle John. And he quotes these verses. He says When prophesying of these times, therefore he says, Isaiah says, the wolf also shall feed with the lamb, and the leopard shall take his rest with the kid. The calf also and the bull and the lion shall eat together, and a little boy shall lead them. The ox and the bear shall feed together, and their young ones shall agree together, and the lion shall eat straw as well as the ox. And the infant boy shall thrust his hand into the asp's den, into the nest also of the adder 's brood, and they shall do no harm, nor have power to hurt anything in my holy mountain. And he continues to quote these other verses going to even Isaiah 65, the passage we're looking at today. And he says He says this indicates the large size and rich quality of the fruits. For if that animal, the lion, feeds upon straw. At that period, of what quality must the wheat itself be, whose straw shall serve as suitable food for lions? He's saying there's going to be such abundance, there won't be any fear. And even the nature of these animals will be restored back to the way they were. Charles Spurgeon said of this, let us rejoice that Scripture is so clear and so explicit upon this great doctrine of the future triumph of Christ over the whole world. We believe that the Jews will be converted, and that they will be restored to their own land. We believe that Jerusalem will be the central metropolis of Christ's kingdom. We also believe that all the nations shall walk in the light of the glorious city, which shall be built at Jerusalem. We expect that the glory which shall have its center there shall spread over the whole world. covering it as with a sea of holiness, happiness, and delight. For this we look with joyful expectation That is the blessed hope. That is what we long for and we pray for. We should be filled with joy as we anticipate the return of Christ and the establishment of his righteous reign on earth We should live for the advancement of Christ's kingdom because we know, we are assured that he will be victorious. And so our efforts are not in vain. Let us seek to advance the kingdom of Christ because he will be victorious. And we should live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives as we wait for the blessed hope and the appearing and glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. Because he is coming again. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you have told us the end. You've not made us to wander wonder, but you have given us assurance of what you are doing. And Lord, we long for that day. We pray, Father, for that day when at the name of Jesus every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that he is Lord When all the enemies of Christ will be placed under his feet and he will rule and reign. And Lord, we ask that you would bring this to pass quickly, for his namesake. We pray in Jesus' name, amen