It's good to have you with us this morning. If you would turn in your Bibles to John chapter 11. John chapter 11 One of the great pioneer missionaries of the 19th century was a Scotsman named John Payton. John and his wife Mary. Went as missionaries to a chain of islands in the South Pacific known as the New Hebrides Islands. These islands were very primitive and very dangerous because they were inhabited by cannibals. In fact, the missionaries that preceded them were killed and eaten on that island. That might be like a discouragement for you to want to go there. But John and Mary were made of sterner stuff, and they went and ministered there for some time. They faced great hardship and danger, especially in the first six months they were there. And after six months, John's wife Mary contracted malaria, and she died. And three weeks later, his infant son died. And he was left on the island alone to bury his wife and his son. And he writes in his famous autobiography, if it had not been for Jesus and the fellowship of his grace I am certain that I would have gone mad or died beside their lonely graves. John Payton here testifies to the comfort that Christ brings to his people in times of sorrow. This morning, as we continue our study of John chapter 11, we come to the place where Jesus speaks to Martha about the death of her brother Lazarus. Let me remind you that Jesus and the disciples were away from this region of Judea. They were ministering in the Transjordan region. when they received word that Lazarus was seriously ill. But unexpectedly, Jesus did not drop what he was doing and go back immediately. He remained there for two days. before he headed back to Bethany, which is a suburb of Jerusalem And according to verse 15 of this chapter, he did so because he wanted his followers to believe. Now his disciples were already believers. But he wanted them to trust more. Now Jesus' delay was confusing to Martha and Mary. They were not only his followers, but they were close personal friends. When he would go to Jerusalem, he would stay with them And they knew that he loved Lazarus, but they couldn't understand why he didn't hurry home and their brother died. And so this passage reveals to us their confusion and their disappointment when they first meet Jesus. And so the next two paragraphs in John chapter 11 record Jesus' conversation first with Martha and then with Mary. Which are like preludes before the main event of this chapter, which is the resurrection of Lazarus from the dead. Now these conversations are not ancient history, but biblical revelation that is relevant and helpful for all of us. John has structured things in his gospel so that people, the readers, will come to believe. This is almost impossible for us to imagine, but just imagine if you didn't know the rest of the story. If you didn't know that Jesus was going to raise Lazarus from the dead. And you're reading about his delay, and you're reading about his comments, and you're reading about his words to Martha and then to Mary, you might come to ask yourself, wait a minute, what's going to happen here? And there's all these clues in the text in what Jesus says, and you might say, wait a minute, is Jesus going to raise him from the dead? Is that what's going to happen? And that's indeed, of course, what does happen. But before we come to that triumphant seventh and final sign in the Gospel of John, I want us to notice how Jesus Comforts Martha, who is grieving. We see here the heart of our Savior for people who lose loved ones. I know there are many people who have lost loved ones in 2025. That has been my experience. I lost my mom in April, and I know it's the experience of many others in this assembly. We had a funeral a week ago. We had a funeral yesterday, and I suspect we'll have a funeral this coming Saturday. There are often many funerals in the life of the church. We are constantly confronted with our mortality. The fact that we will someday die. This passage shows us how Jesus comforts grieving people. I want us to first of all see that Christ comes near to us in our time of grieving. Look with me, please, at John chapter 11 and verse 17. Now when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. Now, just reading that verse, you might think that Jesus didn't know that Lazarus has died. But we know in the previous verses indeed he did know that Lazarus was dead. He knew exactly when Lazarus died. This is simply informing us that he has been told that Lazarus has died, but he already knew this. Now, the reference to four days is significant. Because we know that some rabbis at the time taught that the soul of a person would linger around the tomb for three days hoping to be reunited with the body. This is superstition. This is not what the Bible teaches, but it's what many people believed at the time This belief probably came about because, as I've mentioned to you before, in the ancient world, they were often imprecise in determining whether or not a person had died. And so there were times that people had been put into a tomb, not buried under the ground like we do it, but in a stone-hewn tomb, and they revived And the people it seemed like they had come back to life, like their soul had reunited with their bodies. We know that's not really the explanation. The explanation is that they were never really dead. But here, Jesus, as I mentioned to you last week, intentionally waited because he wanted there to be no one who could say, oh, Lazarus wasn't really dead. He just revived. His soul went back to him because it wasn't his time yet. No, Jesus waited for four days because everyone believed that after four days There was no hope the person was going to revive or the soul was going to be reunited with their body because after three days the soul went away and the body began to decompose and we read later in this chapter that indeed his body had begun to decompose. So Jesus was waiting for things to become impossible before he raised Lazarus from the dead. Now John goes on to provide some background information as a setting for this conversation for his readers who are not familiar with this geography. He says Bethany verse 18 was near Jerusalem about two miles off. Bethany was a suburb, a little village outside of Jerusalem, near the Mount of Olives. The Greek text actually says 15 stadia. The reason our translators haven't put stadia in here because you wouldn't know what a stadia is, right? It doesn't communicate. It's about 1. 7 miles is 15 stadia. A little less than two miles. But why does John include this detail? Well, two reasons. Bethany's close proximity to Jerusalem explains the many people who came to mourn with Martha and Mary. There weren't many people living in Bethany, but people got word in Jerusalem that Lazarus has died, and so the mourners have come out to comfort the family. But secondly, John is alerting the reader that Jesus is very near Jerusalem where the authorities want to kill him. And it's his clue to the reader, we're getting close to the end of the story when Jesus will be crucified. Now the fact that many people came from Jerusalem to see Martha and Mary, many commentators believe indicates that they were people of means and status. This may partially explain why Mary in the next chapter is able to anoint his feet with very costly perfume. It's because this was a wealthy family. And then we come to verse 20. Look with me at verse 20. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him, but Mary remained seated in the house. Someone informs Martha that Jesus is outside of Bethany. He hasn't reached the village yet, but he's on his way. A runner comes and tells her he knows that she would want to know. Martha is a person of action. She instantly leaves and goes to meet Jesus before he arrives at the family home. This is true to her nature, and Mary remains, describes her as being seated. This was the traditional way that people received mourners Now let me explain some things to you here because our culture treats death much differently than the Jews did at this time period. When a person died, first of all, they were almost always buried the day they died. They would talk about the facts. that in the morning a man could be thriving, but by sundown he could be in the tomb. They did not wait for family to gather. They did not have the ability to embalm people. It was a warmer climate than what we have. They buried people right away. And that began a seven-day period of intense mourning. And during that time, the immediate family members would be seated And people would come in to mourn with them, to talk to them, to greet them And they would stay with them. This is mind-boggling to us in our fast-paced society of people staying with people who mourn for seven days. But this is why it describes Mary as being in a seated posture. She was in the posture of a mourner. And then many times, especially if it was an important person , They would stay after the seven-day period of intense mourning, they would stay another thirty days for less intense mourning We can't imagine that today in our culture, but that's what they would do. So I say all that to say this. This explains why four days after the funeral, there's still all these people there at their home. It's because this is the way the Jewish people mourned the loss of a loved one. They stayed for at least a week. But I want to make the point as I finish up this first point here is that Jesus comes to minister and comfort the grieving, these two sisters. And although Jesus does not come to us physically today to comfort us, he does draw near to us. We have the testimony of John Payton that I mentioned earlier. And I'm sure there are many people here that could give testimony. I could give testimony how the Lord's presence is so comforting and so sustaining in times of loss. To know that He is sovereign, that He is in control, and that He has a good purpose. The Bible says the Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit. It says that he binds up our wounds. He is a gracious and comforting Savior to us. But secondly, I want you to notice that Jesus comforts us. By giving us promises to believe in times of grieving. Notice how Jesus, notice the beginning of this conversation in verse 21. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, If you had been here, my brother would not have died. Now, there's a little bit of debate about how we should understand This statement. When you're reading something, you don't really know the tone of a person's voice or the expressions on their face. So the debate is this. Was she complaining? Was she kind of rebuking Jesus, saying, oh Lord, where have you been? If only you had been here, my brother would not have died. I don't think she was rebuking her Lord. I do think that she was expressing her disappointment and confusion. Unless you come down hard on Martha, I want you to notice this is exactly what Mary says as well. Look with me ahead to verse 32, when Jesus meets with her. We read, now when Mary came to where Jesus was, she saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. And what I take from this is that this is not a coincidence, but this is what the sisters were discussing again and again as they waited for Jesus to come. Where's Jesus? If only if Jesus would have come and he could have healed our brother and he wouldn't have died. Why is he delayed in coming? This must have been very confusing to them. Often when people die, loved ones People will play the if-only scenarios. If only they had caught his cancer sooner. If only when his pain started he had gone to the doctors right away, or if only he had taken better care of himself. We start down that road, and that's exactly what the sisters have done here. Undoubtedly, these sisters had witnessed Jesus healing people, and they they they know he has the power to do this. But now Jesus arrives seemingly too late. But look at how Jesus responds in verse 22. No, first of all, let me notice how Martha follows this up. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. So she's just expressed like Oh, if only you had been here, but now she is more positive. But I know that whatever you ask God, he will give it to you. Now, at first glance, this verse Seems like she believes that Jesus could still raise him from the dead. It's a great expression of faith. The problem is, is it doesn't seem to correspond with what we read later in verse 39. Look with me at verse 39 ahead in the story. Jesus said, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days. Does that sound like an expression of faith? No, it does not. This was only probably hours earlier. So how do we understand this? Well, there's really only two options. Either she changed her mind, and here she's kind of expressing a wonderful faith. Whatever you ask God, he's going to do it. But later she kind of loses that faith, as it were, in him. Or what she says in verse 22 is kind of like a good and pious thing to say. But she hasn't really applied it to her situation. You know how we're often like that? We'll quote a Bible verse or we'll say something that's That's true and wonderful and appropriate for the occasion, but we don't really believe that God's going to do something about it And I think that's what's going on here. And then notice how Jesus responds to her in verse 23. He challenges what she's just said and he says, your brother will rise again. Notice Jesus doesn't rebuke her unbelief. Instead, he gives her a promise, your brother will rise again. But he does it in an ambiguous sort of way to prove and test her faith. How are you going to, Martha, interpret what I just said? Are you going to cling to it as a promise that I'm about to raise your brother from the dead? Are you going to dismiss it as something that's far off in the future that really doesn't help me now at all? And unfortunately, she takes the ladder up approach. Look at verse 24. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection of the last day. And she was right. That is what the Old Testament teaches That is what Jesus taught earlier in this book. She's absolutely right. But her faith doesn't go far enough. This may have been something that pious Jews would say to one another when someone died. Your loved one will rise again at the last day. And they would say, yes, I know. That's comforting. We say things like that when people die. I'm not rebuking people for using these expressions. I've certainly done it myself, but often When people have gone through funerals and they've gone through viewings and people come up one after another, there's a long line of people and So often the the grieving will say, you know, everyone just says exactly the same things. They say , well, at least her suffering is over. Or at least you know she's in a better place. And they they don't know exactly what to say, but they say those things. And they're well received, but after about the 70th time that they've heard those They they start to wear a little thin. Yes, I know. And some suggest here, and again, we we can't see her face or hear her tone of voice That when Mary says here to Jesus, yes, I know he will rise on the last day, she's saying, Yes, Jesus, I know these things. I know, I know this is not the end. I know But she doesn't derive the great blessing of that promise. Your brother will rise again. Just imagine if she had truly believed those words at face value as being applied right now Her grief and her sorrow would have come to an end. What we see here is so often when we are in the midst of a crisis, the promises of God seem distant and far away and sometimes unreal. Yes, I know my brother will rise again at the last day. It doesn't seem of much comfort to her right now But what we see here is that we need to apply the promises of God to our current situation. And it's the promises of God that feed our faith. Do you know what it is to appropriate the promises of God in a time of crisis and of difficulty? Do you know what it is to read God's word in the midst of a crisis and you find a verse and that verse is like it was just written to you and you cling to it and you latch hold of it? And maybe you write it out on a card. I've certainly done that before and I'll keep it in my pocket. And when I'm tempted to worry and to be afraid and to despair, I look at that promise and I say, no Lord, I'm going to believe this promise. I'm going to believe what you said so often is one of the great anecdotes for the Christian life for dealing with sorrow and anxiety and fear and discouragement is to fill our minds with the promises of God I commend it highly to you. But there's a third way that Jesus comforts Martha. Christ gives us a greater revelation of himself in our time of grieving. Now we turn to the most famous verses in this passage, verses 25 and 26, verses that are often read. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. This is the fifth of seven metaphoric I am statements in the Gospel of John. He says, I am the bread of life, and I am the light of the world, and I am the door, and I am the good shepherd, and now I am the resurrection and the life. Let's consider for a moment what Jesus is not saying to Martha. Jesus doesn't say to her, I'm about to raise your brother Lazarus from the dead. He could have said that, and it would have been true, because he's going to do that in just a little while But he doesn't say that because he doesn't want her to focus on the miracle itself, but on him, the one who is performing the miracle So he says, I am the resurrection and the life. He's saying, Martha, don't focus so much on the death of your brother. Focus on me. Remember who I am. This is where we so often go wrong. In the midst of our crisis, in the midst of our sorrow, we focus on our loss or we focus on our problem and we forget about the Lord and his promises and who he is. And Jesus doesn't say, I am the one who teaches you about the resurrection and the life. That would be true. He did teach about it, and he will continue to teach about it. But even the Pharisees could say that they taught about the resurrection of the body on the last day. And Jesus doesn't say, I am the one who has the ability to raise the dead. Again, this would be true. Jesus has already performed two miracles, the widow's son Etnain, and Jairus ' daughter. These two individuals, the Bible records, he brought them back from death. But instead, he says to Martha, this very precious and comforting revelation that has comforted millions of believers down through the centuries I am the resurrection and the life. He is the source of life This is why Jesus in the gospel record, anytime he encounters death, he disrupts it and he brings the dead to life. Why? Because he is the resurrection and Now I want to mention five implications of this famous statement. I am the resurrection and the life. Number one, it's an expression of deity All of the metaphoric statements, I am the bread of life, I am the light of the world, all of them are ultimately pointing back to Exodus 3. 14 when Jesus says, when God says, I am. And the Lord's adversaries understood that. That's why they so strongly objected to him saying these things. When he says, I am the resurrection of the life, that is nothing less than saying, I am God. He is the one who has authority over life and death. He is the one that has the keys of death and Hades. It is also a revelation given to Martha that Jesus will raise Lazarus from the dead. If she applied what he said about his very person, she would know that that's what he's going to do. Thirdly, and it's also an indication that Jesus will himself conquer death and rise from the dead. It's not a coincidence that John records this at the very end of Jesus' ministry because he's preparing Reader for even a greater sign than the raising of Lazarus. And that is when Jesus rises from the dead on the third day. These words are also an indication That Jesus will resurrect our bodies on the last day. What Martha said was right. In John chapter 6 and verse 40, Jesus says, For this is the will of my Father. That everyone who looks in the sun and believes should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. I don't have time to answer all the questions that people have, mainly because the Bible doesn't give us a lot of answers about this, but it tells us this is so Your body might be buried in the ground, but someday at the return of Christ it will rise again and it will join with your spirit and soul and it will be a glorified body The Bible teaches that death does not have victory even over our bodies. But this is also clear reference to the fact that Jesus has the power to bring the spiritually dead to life. The resurrection of the body is a picture of the spiritual work that the Holy Spirit does in our hearts when he takes a person who is dead and trespasses and sins. And gives them new life, regeneration. And we know that this is what is in reference here, at least partially, because it goes on to make this connection. Notice What he says, I am the resurrection of the life. And then he goes on to say, whoever believes in me, though he die, speaking of physical death, yet shall he live. This is the great promise that every believer has. for their Christian loved ones. Yes, they may die, but they will live again. Because they believe in the Savior. And then in verse 26, he essentially says the same thing Just in the with a different emphasis and different words, and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. This is why we do not sorrow as those who have no hope. This is why Christian funerals are different. From the funerals in other cultures of the world where they have no hope. Because we believe that those who place their faith and trust in Jesus Christ will indeed live forever in the presence of the Lord. And this incredible revelation that has brought so much comfort to so many people over the centuries was first given to this one grieving lady, Martha Jesus often gives us a greater glimpse of himself in our mourning and sorrow. He wants us to understand who he is more in our grief. If you want to know why has the Lord brought this tragedy into my life, why has the Lord allowed this loved one to die. One reason is he wants you to know him better and he is going to show you things that you would not learn otherwise. In our tears, we see his glory more clearly and we experience the comfort that only Jesus can give. But fourth and finally, Jesus comforts us by challenging us to trust him more in our time of grieving. What is Jesus doing in this conversation with Martha? Can I put it to you this way? He is trying to draw out her faith. He is making statements and then he's waiting to see how she responds. Is she going to grasp what he is saying and understand that what he's predicting is he's going to raise her brother from the dead And so he says in verse 23, your brother will rise again. But she doesn't interpret his words to be a promise. That she can immediately appropriate. And now in verses 25 and 26, Jesus gives Martha an amazing revelation of himself. I am the resurrection and the life. And then he follows up what he says with these words, do you believe this? Do you believe this? You see, if she truly believed this, if she truly believed that Jesus is the resurrection and the life She would have concluded that Jesus was about to raise her brother from the dead, and her sorrow and grief would have been gone. But that's not where she is. And she doesn't understand this. Now what she does say in the final verse of this paragraph, verse 27, is wonderful and commendable. And it's a wonderful confession of faith. But she didn't, she didn't latch hold of the fullness of what Jesus was revealing to her. So often we're like this with his word as well, aren't we? We see things and and and and we we understand certain things about God's word and about his promises. but we didn't really latch hold of the fullness of it. And sometimes only years later we realize, wow, there's a lot more in that verse than I thought was there. There's a lot more comfort. There's a lot more grace than I ever thought. But I didn't really take advantage of it. I didn't grasp hold of it. Now what do you think of Martha? I think Martha has suffered from bad press due to an incident recorded in the last paragraph of Luke chapter 10. You remember that scene where Jesus is there in their household, and Martha that says in the King Jesus is cumbered about much care. She's She's frustrated. She's trying to get food together. And Mary doesn't seem like she's helping. She's sitting at Jesus' feet where we always find Mary. listening to his word and so she wants Jesus to rebuke Mary and and Jesus gently rebukes Martha instead. And so the the message that many pastors and preachers have given is don't be a Martha, be a Mary. But that's not a good way of interpreting that. Martha was a wonderful Christian woman who had a different nature from her sister. You know, we've we've got different types of personalities. Some people here, you're incredibly active, right? I have to give you things to do or you're going to create trouble in the church. All right? You just have so much energy. All right. You can't sit still. And then there's other people who are much more contemplative and reflective and thoughtful. We're all different. Martha and Mary were sisters, but they were very, very different. But Martha here has one of the great confessions to the identity of Christ that is found in the Gospel of John. John has many different ways. of turning his readers' attention to the person and work of Christ. He has the miracles. He has the teaching of Jesus. He has the I am statements. But he also has these confessions. that we find scattered throughout the book. Like John the Baptist who says, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. That's a confession of faith. We have Andrew who finds his brother Peter and says, we have found the Messiah. And then Nathaniel who says, You are the Son of God, you are the King of Israel. And the Samaritan woman who says, Come see a man who told me all that I ever did. And then Peter, who in chapter 6 says, you have the words of eternal life, and we have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. And the blind man in chapter 9 who says, one thing I know that though I was blind, now I see. And now we have Martha who has the best confession of faith so far in this gospel is going to conclude by the way with a confession of faith by that man Thomas who says, my Lord and my God after the resurrection of Christ. This is a wonderful confession of faith. Look with me at verse 27. She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. It should sound familiar to you because her confession is the stated purpose that John gives for writing this book in chapter 20 in verse 31. He says, these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. So Martha is a believer. She knows the identity of Christ. She is trusting in him. But if her faith had gone a little further, she would have had much more comfort at this moment. Let me make a few observations about Martha's confession of faith. Number one, We see here that saving faith begins at a point in time. The tense of the verb for believe here is the idea of I have believed. Something that started in the past and continues to the present. I have believed. Every person who is born again, their faith began at a point in time. Not everyone can identify that point in time. Not everyone can turn to a date and a time and say, this is when I was saved. Many people can. Many people can't. But what you must not say is that I've always been a Christian. Or I've always believed Sure. I mean I was born into a Christian home. Of course I'm a Christian. No, no. Your faith began at a point in time. Number two, we see that saving faith is a personal relationship. Notice the personal pronouns. I believe that you are the Christ. This is a personal relationship. She's not trusting in some abstract doctrine or some theological proposition. She is trusting in a person. The Christian life is a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. I was talking to an atheist this week who came to see me and we had a nice cordial discussion and I just said, I don't know how you go through life. I said, I go through life and I'm constantly talking to the Lord. Thanking him for the day, thanking him for the beauty of creation, asking him to intervene in this situation and save this person's life. And do this. The whole day is like a conversation. I can't imagine not having that. Because the Christian life is a personal relationship. And notice that saving faith, thirdly, is based on divine revelation. It's theological. There has to be some theological content. It's not a feeling. I just feel really spiritual. No. What are you trusting in? Tell me about this person. Notice she believes that Jesus is the promised Messiah, that he has fulfilled all those Old Testament prophecies. She believes that Jesus is the Son of God, God in human flesh. And she believes that Jesus is the coming one that is one of the titles in the Old Testament for the Messiah. She has a right understanding of the person of Christ. And so must everyone who is truly born again. Now I'd like to conclude with just a couple points of application. For those of you who are mourning the loss of a loved one, I encourage you to consider how Jesus comforts Martha in this passage. First of all, he gives her his presence. And his promises. He gives to her a greater revelation of himself. And he challenges her to trust him more. You might be here this morning and you might be a believer. And that is wonderful. But that doesn't exempt you from difficulty and trial and the death of loved ones. Why would Jesus bring those things into your life? There's many reasons, but one reason is this. He wants you to come to trust him more. To be more dependent on him But one more thing of application I want to make is this. Do you have a personal confession of faith? This woman Martha did. She had a right understanding of the person of Christ, not a full understanding, but what she did know was right. And we have this wonderful promise that is given to Martha here, that whoever believes in Christ, whoever has come to rest in him, to trust in him, not just an intellectual belief, yeah, I suppose there was a Jewish carpenter who died a long time ago on a rugged cross. No. but a belief that he is the Son of God, the sinless Savior of the world, who died in my place, who took upon him all of my sin, and bore the penalty that I deserve for my wickedness. He absorbed the wrath of God, and therefore God is able to justly declare me to be righteous. And his righteousness has been imputed to me. It's been credited to my account. Therefore, God can be just and the justifier of the one who trusts in Jesus. So do you believe that whoever believes in Christ will never die This is expressed emphatically in our text will never ever die, uses a double negative. You can be absolutely confident This is why Christians can die with confidence. This is why we can grieve, but we don't grieve as those who have no hope because When our believing loved ones die, we have confidence that they are absent from the body, that they are present with the Lord. And it gives us great joy to know That that will last forever because they have received the gift of eternal life. We live in a world where death is inevitable. And the only way we can be prepared to meet it is to place our trust in the one who conquered death, the one who is the resurrection and the life. Let's close in prayer. Father, what a great Savior you've given to us. Thank you for this beautiful picture of how he comforts those who grieve in time of loss and how he turns them away from the problem to himself. And we thank you, Father, for the comfort that it gives us to know that those who trust in Christ will live with him forever. Father, I pray that you would use these words today to comfort those who grieve and to challenge those who are yet in unbelief and have yet to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I pray that they would not leave here today without seeking the Lord and repenting of their sins and trusting in Christ alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.