If you have your Bibles, you can be turning to Luke chapter 23. And all four of the Gospels. We read that there were two criminals who were crucified with Jesus, one on his right hand and the other on his left. There are many legends surrounding these men. The Roman Catholic Church says that the names of these two thieves were Dismas and Gestus. Supposedly these two bandits accosted the Holy Family when they made their journey to Egypt, and now they have met the master again at the cross. Supposedly it is Dismas that is saved, and he is known today by Spanish Roman Catholics as Saint Dismas. The Arabic Church and the Russian Orthodox Church have different names and different stories for each of these men. It's interesting to note that in all of these traditions, there's always the thief on the right that is converted. While it is the thief on the left that is condemned, people in the ancient world considered the left to be the side of cursing. My apologies to all left-handed people. In fact, our English word sinister has at its root those who are left-handed Now, obviously, we cannot put much stock in these ancient stories, but we do find a record of The fact that there were two criminals crucified with Jesus in all four of the Gospels. In Matthew 27, 38 and Mark 15, 27 and 28. In Luke 23, verses 32 and 33, and in John 19, verses 17 and 18, all of them record that there were two other criminals that were crucified with Christ. and that one was on his right hand and the other on his left. It would seem that the Holy Spirit considered this to be a significant detail so that anyone who reads any of the four Gospels would encounter this fact. And we are not reading into this fact any kind of spiritual significance because the scripture itself makes a point. From this. Look with me at Luke 23, verses 32 and 33. It says, And there were also two other malfactors led with him to be put to death. And that when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on his right hand, and the other on his left. You've undoubtedly heard the expression before, a man is known by the company he keeps. This is nowhere more evident. than at the death of Christ. I want to speak to you briefly tonight on Christ's companions in crucifixion. What is the significance of the fact that Jesus died with two very sinful wicked men? I want to bring several points of significance from this. First of all, Christ was identifying with sinners. There can be no question about this because the scriptures make this point. Turn with me to the previous chapter, Luke chapter 22, and I want you to look with me at verse 37. Jesus speaking to his disciples says, For I say unto you that this that is written must yet be accomplished in me And he was reckoned among the transgressors, for the things concerning me have an end. And now if you'll turn back with me to the Gospel of Mark, This is very explicitly stated in Mark chapter 15, verses 27 and 28. Notice what it says. Mark 15, verses 27 and 28. And with him, they crucify two thieves. the one on his right hand and the other on his left. And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, he was numbered with the transgressors. The Lord here is quoting from the most detailed prophecy of the death of Christ in the Old Testament. He's quoting, of course, from Isaiah 53, specifically verse 12. What's fascinating about this is that with all of those many prophecies in that chapter, this is the only one that Jesus ever cited from Isaiah 53. And so I want to ask you to turn with me there for a moment, Isaiah 53, and the last verse in that chapter, verse 12. This, of course, is one of the most famous chapters in the Old Testament. It's filled with prophecy of our Lord's death. And it concludes this way, therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he hath poured out his soul unto death. And he was numbered with the transgressors, and he bare the sin of many and made intercession for the transgressors. Now in the Hebrew text it has the idea of that he allowed himself to be numbered with the transgressors, the idea being that this was all part of God's plan. It was God's plan that Christ would come to earth and that he would identify himself with sinners. You see this truth all throughout the Gospels. Jesus was numbered in the Roman census. When he was born in Bethlehem, he was known by the people of Nazareth as the carpenter's son. Jesus was baptized in the Jordan River by John the Baptist. And it was a baptism of repentance, even though he had no sin to repent of. Why was he baptized, people ask, is because he was identifying with sinners. And throughout his earthly ministry, he was derided by the Pharisees because they called him a friend of sinners. He sought out Matthew the tax collector. He rescued notorious sinners like Mary Magdalene, and he ate in the house of Zacchaeus, the tax collector. Why? Because he came to seek and to save that which was lost. He came not to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. And so we should not be surprised that at his death He is surrounded by notorious sinners. Jesus is indeed the friend of sinners. And he died with sinners. The great Baptist preacher of a century ago, Alexander McLaren, said he numbered himself with transgressors that they might be numbered with his saints. Christ identified with sinners. But secondly, I want you to notice that Christ was enduring the shame of sinners How did Jesus end up being crucified with these two criminals? I want to submit to you that this was undoubtedly part of Pilate's revenge. against the Jewish leaders. I want you to listen to the words of a famous Dutch scholar named Klaus Schilder who wrote A three-volume work on the death of Christ, he says we may accept with certainty the fact that Pilate wanted to mock the Jews by his actions in this matter. He thought it rather a happy idea. The king of the Jews, the sentimental Jesus, ought to have the escort of two bandits. You see, Pilate was very angered that these Jewish religious leaders pressured him into crucifying an innocent man. You remember how he washed his hands before the people? But he did not like being controlled by them this way. And so he had a chance to get back at them, and so he insisted that over top of him the inscription would read, This is Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. You may recall they said, No, Pilate, don't say that. Say that he said he was the King of the Jews. And Pilate said, What I have written, I have written. But he also mocked them by having their king die with such a company, because here it was, it says right over top of him that he's the king of the Jews. And on his right hand and on his left are two capital criminals. These were not petty pickpockets. These were not just men that had sticky fingers that would steal every once in a while. These were terrorists. These were dangerous men who would probably shed blood. In their quest to emancipate Israel from the oppression of Rome. All four gospel writers are very clear about two details. Number one, there were two criminals crucified with him. And number two, there was one on his right hand and the other on his left. Kings in the ancient world always had men of the strongest character at their right and left hands. The monarch wanted to be seen with men of impeccable character, men of renown, men who were leaders, because it all helped to enhance his image. Do you remember when the mother of James and John, our Lord's disciples, came to him with her request? It was that her sons could sit on his right hand and on his left. Why? She wanted her sons to have that treasured, honored position. Because if Jesus was indeed the Messiah and he was going to reign as a king, how wonderful, how proud she would be to have her sons up there, right next to the king. But what kind of men does this Jewish king have on his right hand and on his left? He has thieves, bandits, and probably murderers. You see, crucifixion was not only designed to inflict great pain, it was intended to humiliate and degrade a person. This is why Jesus and these men were crucified outside the city gates on a major road so that thousands of Passover pilgrims would see the horrible sight. We know that the Jews and most ancient peoples place a great importance on how a man dies. We don't tend to do that in our culture at all, but in the ancient world, an honorable man died, an honorable death, surrounded by family and friends. And he would speak to them. He would encourage them. They would sit there and they would write down his words. Has he often exhorted them to continue on with the family name, with the family business, whatever it might be? But when a man died a violent death, and his remains of were disposed of in a dishonorable way , Everyone assumed that man, that person was cursed of gods. And so Jesus Christ died. with the dregs of humanity as a capital criminal absorbing the insults of every segment of society. Indeed, the Old Testament pronounced a curse in anyone who died hanging upon a tree. These two criminals originally hurled accusations and curses upon Christ. The religious leaders mocked him continually. The crowd said he saved others himself he cannot save. There he was, broken, bleeding, naked, stretched out on the cross, which, as the hymn writer puts, was the emblem of suffering and shame. Why did Jesus have to die such a shameful death? The answer is because sin is the most shameful thing in the universe. And Jesus was now bearing the shame of sinners. We sang a moment ago, bearing shame and scoffing rude, in my place, condemned he stood. Jesus was bearing the shame that you and all I have earned through our sin. And that brings me to this final point. Christ was dying in order to save sinners. In three of the Gospels, we read of the response of some of these criminals. All of the gospel writers put significance upon the arrangement of the crosses. The fact that there wasn't like Christ on the side and two next to him, but that he was in the middle and that there was one on either side of him. And most scholars and preachers of the centuries have felt that the reason for this is symbolically it reveals the fact that all of humanity is divided into two parts. And they're divided by Christ. They're divided by the cross. They're divided by their response to what took place on that cross. These men are representative, first of all, of all of us. They were not just a little bit wicked. They did what the government officials concluded was worthy of death, and not just any death, but death on the cross. Reveals to us our own depravity. It reveals to us that we have not just a little bit come short of the glory of God's. We haven't even come close. And the fact is that we would all be doomed to perish with no hope of salvation apart from the cross. But we do see that there was a change that took place. Initially, both men were railing on Christ. Both men were angry. And we're joining in with the crowd and mocking the Savior. But Luke records that one of them had a change of mind. One of them had a turnaround. In Luke chapter 23 and verse 39, we read, and one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us. But the other, answering, rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, saying thou art in the same condemnation? It's very interesting to note this man who has a change of heart. We see in verse 41 he recognizes that he is a sinner. He says We indeed justly. In other words, we are being condemned. We are being put to death justly. We have committed horrible crimes. We deserve what we are getting right now He recognizes that he's a sinner and that he deserves this judgment. But he also recognizes that Jesus is the sinless Savior. He says, this man hath done nothing amiss. This man is not like us. This man has not earned this. This man has done nothing to warrant this punishment. And he goes beyond that. He believes that Jesus is a king, he says, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. I've always been amazed by that statement. He was perhaps the only man on the face of the earth at that moment who believed that Jesus was still a king. The disciples had fled into the night. A few of them were there. A few women were there, but they were just weeping over him. They certainly didn't think of him as a king on that cross. The rest of humanity is despising him and mocking him. But this man nailed next to him says, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. What was it that opened his eyes? We don't know. The scriptures do not say. But what we do have, of course, is our Lord's very memorable response. Which is known as the second saying from the cross, verily I say unto thee, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. It reveals to us the great salvation, the cross secured. Notice it's a certain salvation. Verily I say unto thee, truly, he's saying, listen to my words. Truly I say unto you, notice it's an immediate salvation, today thou shalt be with me. Not after you've spent centuries in purgatory, not after you have somehow paid for your transgressions, but today, this very day, you will be with me in paradise. And notice it's a personal salvation. Thou shalt be with me. That's the essence of paradise of heaven, isn't it? That we'll be with the Lord. It's not about the streets of gold or the pearly gates. It's not about the fact that our loved ones are there. Yes, that's a wonderful thing. It's not about the fact that we'll be free of pain and suffering and problems and worry. What's great about heaven is that Jesus is there. Today thou shalt be with me. And he calls it paradise, a place of rest. A place of joy. This is a wonderful example of God's providential dealings in the affairs of men. Pilate's scheme to embarrass the Jews has been used by God to bring a sinner to salvation. He could have had the Lord crucified alone, but despite them, he puts these notorious criminals next to him to get one last dig at them. And that political maneuver is used by the Lord to open this man's eyes in his final hours so that he is saved. And what a wonderful thing this is. It shows us that no man is beyond the reach of God's grace while he is yet alive. He may be the worst of sinners, but the blood of Christ can wash the violence clean. So which side of the cross are you on this evening? In 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 18, we read this, for the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. The cross indeed divides all of humanity. There are people who look at the cross, who hear the gospel message, and say that's nonsense, that's foolishness. They may not say it because they do not wish to offend us, but that's what they're thinking. This is nonsense. You're saying that a man who died 2,000 years ago is going to change my life and somehow pardon my sins because he died in my place? That doesn't make any sense to me. That's nonsense And the scripture says there that they are in the process of perishing. That's the road they're on, the path to destruction. But there are some who when they hear the gospel message, it is not foolishness to them They believe it. They receive it. They trust in it. They delight in it. They love the Savior, though they have not seen him. Because the gospel is the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes. Augustine, the greatest of the early theologians in the church, said three very different persons hung together on the three crosses of Golgotha. One was the Savior of sinners. One was a sinner soon to be saved, and one was a sinner soon to be damned. A British Baptist preacher named Tim Schenton gives a verse to each of these men. He says Christ's verse on the cross is this, Come unto me, all ye who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. The repentant thief would give as his verse, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's what he did. But the other thief would say, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish The gospel is what the cross is all about. Christ died for sinners like those thieves. Christ died for people like us who have earned nothing but the wrath of God. And what a wonderful truth it is to know that as we gather around this table tonight, we can rejoice. That in the grace of God we have been on the side of that dying thief who said , Remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. And Jesus said to him, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. I love the hymn by William Cooper, There is a Fountain. He says there in that one verse, the dying thief rejoice to see that fountain in his day. And there may I, though vile as he, wash all my sins away. It's a wonderful truth for us to treasure tonight. The blood of Christ washes away all of our sins. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for the cross. We thank you for What it means to us. We thank you that these details that we read of in the Gospels have a profound significance for us. We thank you that Jesus was numbered among the transgressors. And I pray that you would help us, Father, tonight to honor our Savior by the way we reflect and remember what he has done for us. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen