Luke chapter fifteen. In eighteen thirty-nine, two famous Scottish preachers Visited Israel. One was Robert Murray McShane and the other was Andrew Bonar. They were very close friends. And through the mutual study of scriptures, they came to a burden of taking the gospel to the Jews. And so they went on an exploratory missions trip to the Holy Land. By the way, this trip is considered by historians to be the beginning of modern Jewish evangelism. And while they were in Israel. They visited the traditional site of Jacob's well in Sychar on June the twentieth of that year. This is where Jesus spoke to the woman of Samaria. And while they were visiting there, they Andrew Bonar went down the staircase. to a lower level where you could look into the well very carefully. And as he was bending over to look into that well, his treasured leather-bound Bible and his coat pocket fell out. And he heard a splash in the water. He tried to retrieve it, but in vain. And this was A loss to him because it was the Bible that he took with him to the Holy Land, and he put notations in it, and it was to help him remember this very special trip in his life. Four years later, a Dr. John Wilson from Bombay was also visiting Jacob's well. On that particular day, the water level was much lower, and this man hired a young Samaritan boy to go down to the well and look for any artifacts that he might find. And this young man brought up a Bible. It was cleaned off and dried, and when he opened it up, he saw the name of Andrew Bonar, and he said, I know that man. He's in Scotland, and so sometime later he returned the Bible to the famous preacher. And Andrew Bonard said that he treasured that Bible because he thought for certain it was lost forever. And today that special Bible is in the museum in Scotland. Have you ever lost something That was special to you. Surely you have? We all have. It's part of our human existence. Some people lose things more than others. Perhaps you've lost a cell phone or car keys or your wallet. These things can make life difficult. The fact of the matter is that all sorrow stems from an awareness of loss. It might be the loss of health, or the loss of wealth, or the loss of a close friendship, or the loss of peace, or loss of your youth, or the loss of a job. Or the loss of a loved one. I challenge you to conceive of a depressing scenario that does not have its roots in a sense of loss. But just as a sense of loss brings profound grief, so finding what was once lost brings unbridled joy. This chapter that we're looking at this morning, Luke chapter 15, is often referred to as the lost and found of the Bible. Just as churches and schools have lost and founds, so does the Bible. By the way, we have a lot of stuff back there and are lost and found. Please check it on your way out. Luke chapter 15 is a unique chapter. J. C. Ryle said that he estimated that more people perhaps have come to Christ through the preaching of verses in this chapter than any other chapter in the Bible. This chapter contains two verses of introduction. And then it has three parables that are linked together by three themes. These themes are like threads in a fabric that are woven through these three stories and bind them together We first of all have the theme I've already mentioned the theme of lost and found. We see this again and again in verse 6. The shepherd says, I have found my sheep, which was lost. The woman says, a few verses later, verse 9, I have found my peace, which was lost. The prodigal father exclaims in verse 24, My son, which was lost, is found. This is why it's called the lost and found of the New Testament. But there's a second theme. And that follows naturally from this. The joy of finding. Look with me at verse five And when he had found it, he laid it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost. I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth more than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance. We see this rejoicing in verse nine when this woman who lost this Silver piece finds it, and she tells her neighbors in verse 9, Rejoice with me, for I have found the peace which I had lost. And we see it, of course, in the parable of the prodigal son. In verse 24, the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe and put it on him. And put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet, and bring hither the fatted cat, and kill it, and let us eat and be merry, for this my son was dead, and is alive, he was lost, and is found, and they began to be merry. But there's a third theme that's not quite as prominent, that is also woven into the fabric of these three parables, and that is the theme of repentance. Look with me at verse 7. He says, I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth. And now look with me at verse 10. Likewise I say unto you, there's joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. And although the word is not used in the parable of the prodigal son, it is described in very powerful language in verse 17 when it says of the prodigal, and when he came to himself, That is a description of repentance. This chapter has been called by Bible scholars the heart of Luke's gospel. We see here a theme that Luke develops in his book. That is that the gospel is for outcast. In the next chapter, chapter 16, you will read of a crooked manager. In chapter 17, we encounter 10 lepers. In chapter 18, we read of a tax collector who prayed, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. And in chapter 19, Luke records the timeless story of a short tax collector named Zacchaeus. All of these individuals were outcasts, but the gospel went to them. Now I want us to look at the opening verses of this chapter that provides the setting for this brief parable. And I want us to see today in this brief but beautiful parable, Christ's love for lost sheep. Let's look at the setting to begin with to make sure we understand the point of this. Look with me first of all at the very last phrase in Luke chapter 14. This is verse 35. And it says this. Jesus says, he that hath ears to hear, let him hear. Now look at the very next verse, chapter 15, verse 1. Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. Who were the people who wanted to hear more from our Lord? They were the publicans. and sinners. Let me remind you the publicans were tax collectors who were universally despised by all the Jews for at least two reasons. Number one, they were considered traitors. because they helped the Romans oppress the Jewish people. And if that wasn't enough, secondly they were hated because they were crooked. They collected more taxes than the Romans required, and they kept the rest for themselves. Now the next description of these outcasts is that of sinners. This was a catch-all term for the riffraft of society. These individuals tended to be members of the lower strata of Jewish culture. They were often sexually immoral, drunkards, disabled individuals like Jesus mentioned in chapter 14. Often they were people who made no attempt to observe the Jewish law because they felt rejected and unworthy. But contrary to all expectations, Jesus ministered to these people. He listened to them, he spoke with them, and he even ate meals with them. Now, in the ancient world, eating a meal with a person was a big deal. It expressed some degree of friendship and acceptance. Now it's important to realize that Jesus never condoned their sin. But he did show them that he cared for them as individuals and he gave them his attention. The Pharisees had a real problem with Jesus' practice. Look with me at verse 2. And the Pharisees Scribes murmured saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. We read of this reaction often in the Gospels. I'm just going to look at the others that are found in the Gospel of Luke. So turn with me, if you would, please, back to chapter 5. And verse 30. Keep a finger in Luke 15, but look with me at chapter 5, please. And verse 30. It says, But the scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do you eat and drink with publicans and sinners? Now turn with me ahead to chapter 7. Chapter 7, verses 34 -35. Jesus says, The Son of Man is come eating and drinking, and you say, Behold, a gluttonous man and a wine bibber, a friend of publicans and sinners. But wisdom is justified of all her children. And then we look at one more case in the circumstances surrounding Zacchaeus in chapter 19. Turn with me to chapter 19. Verses 5 through 7. And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and saw him, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste and come down, for today I must abide at thy house. And he made haste and came down and received him joyfully. And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying that he was gone to be a guest with the man that is a sinner. So on several occasions the Pharisees described Jesus as a friend of sinners. They regarded this as an insult But it has been transformed into a gracious title for our Savior. So let me ask you this morning, why did the Pharisees have such a problem with Jesus eating with sinful people? Their problem was rooted in theology. See, the name Pharisee, most scholars believe, comes from a root word that means to separate The Pharisaic movement grew out of the Babylonian exile when they were in pagan lands and And these men rose up to try to preserve the faith of their fathers, a very noble thing. And so they said, we must separate ourselves from heathen and pagan practices. And so they were known as the separatist. Their separation was noble. It was rooted in the holiness of God. Indeed, God is holy. But the Pharisees went a step further and reasoned that since God hated sin, he must have no love for sinful people. He must simply reject them. And so their disdain for notoriously wicked people reflected what they thought was God's perspective. But the Bible teaches that God is not only holy, He is also revealed in Scripture as a God of loving kindness and tender mercies. He is a God of compassion and pity. He is a God of love. You see, the Pharisees believed that Jesus was wrong in eating with sinners because they wrongly believed that God wanted nothing to do with sinful people. And so Jesus responds with three memorable parables that answer the question of why he loved sinners. And the answer in these three parables, if you were to boil it down and condense it to one statement, would be this. God delights to rescue lost, repentant sinners. That's why he gave them attention. That's why he ate with them. That's why he spent time talking to them. Because God delights to save people like this. And by the way, the only kind of people that God ever saves are people who are broken and repentant and acknowledge that they are lost. You see, Jesus' response was a demonstration of the heart of his father The Pharisees' demonstration was a distortion of what they believed was the theology of God. Now let's look next at the meaning of this parable. This parable is known as the parable of the lost sheep, and there's something very similar to it in Matthew chapter 18. It was given on a different occasion, and the focus there seems to be not on someone who is spiritually lost, but on a believer who has wandered away. And is restored by the grace of God. This imagery of God as our shepherd is ancient. It's rooted in the Old Testament. In Psalm 80 and verse 1, we read, Give ear, O shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock. In Isaiah 40 in verse 11, we read this beautiful verse. He shall feed his flock like a shepherd. He shall gather the lambs with his arms. But the most famous reference, of course, to a shepherd in the Old Testament is the 23rd Psalm, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. But Jesus was not just speaking of ancient history. Shepherds were still a common aspect of daily life in Israel. Notice how Jesus makes this parable personal. Look at me at verse. four of chapter fifteen. He said, What man of you? He says to his audience, the men there, what man of you? And by the way, in the next parable he's going to have a a story that connects with the women that they could all identify with. But this first one, he's specifically speaking to the men. What man of you He's making personal application. Like all of Jesus' parables, the story is grounded in a real-to-life scenario. An average size flock of sheep would be about a hundred sheep. And of course, the problem of a strayed sheep is proverbial. It's very well known, it's very common. One sheep just has to look and see some vegetation that they want to feed on, and then they see some beyond that, and beyond that, and before you know it, they are far away from the flock. So what does the shepherd do when he discovers that a sheep is missing? Well, he goes looking for it. Why would he do this? I mean, he still has the 99, right? It's only a 1% loss. Why would that cause alarm for him? There's two answers to this. First of all, each cheap is valuable. There's some ancient evidence to suggest that when a shepherd lost a sheep, that he had to pay the owner for that loss. But I think another reason is that shepherds often developed a relationship with their sheep. They became like pets to them. We read in scripture of them naming the sheep and numbering the sheep. And you know, animals, just like people, have their own personality and their own characteristics. How many people here have taken into pets and maybe there was someone in your family who was really, really for it, but you weren't so convinced? And then they bring that pet in, and before you know it That animal has become important to you. It's a very common thing, and it was true of the shepherds. Let me explain something, first of all, that may seem strange to you. In verse 4, we read that the shepherd left 99 in the wilderness to go look for that lost sheep. This is not meant to indicate that the shepherd had somehow abandoned his responsibility to the flock and they left them unprotected out in the wilderness to die. That would be a wrong reading of this parable. Undoubtedly, the shepherd had a helper who watched the flock while he was in search of the lost lamb, and the term desert here has the idea of an uninhabited place, not a dangerous wilderness where they would perish. Now, who is the shepherd in this parable? Of course, it is the Lord Jesus Christ. Remember, Jesus is explaining to these Pharisees his own ministry philosophy and this series of parables. Turn with me, please. to John chapter 10. Keep a finger here in Luke 15. Turn with me to John chapter 10. I'm going to read what Jesus says here. John 10 verse 11. Jesus says, I'm the good shepherd. The good shepherd gives his life for the sheep. But he that is a hireling and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth, and the wolf catcheth them and scattereth the sheep. The hireling fleeth because he is a hireling and careth not for the sheep. I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep. and am known of mine. As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. And other sheep I have which are not of this fold, them also I must spring. And they shall hear my voice, and they shall be one fold and one shepherd. We see this beautiful title of our Savior as the Good Shepherd. The term good here doesn't really have the connotation of morally good. Of course that's true, but it has more the idea of that which is beautiful. This parable presents a beautiful portrait of Jesus as our good shepherd. We see here that lost sinners are a priority with the Savior, so much so that he leaves the 99 sheep to find the one that is lost. And we see here a very important aspect of our salvation. In Luke 15, we have different aspects of salvation that are pictured in these different parables. In the parable of the lost sheep, Jesus is seeking loss. But in the parable of the prodigal son, it's the lost son who comes to himself and returns home. The theological reality is that no sinner returns home without the Savior finding him. We love him because he first loved us. And all whom the Savior finds are those who repent and return home. Now I want you to notice how the Savior searches for the lost sheep. There are four brief truths I want to bring out of this. First of all, notice his pursuit of the lost sheep was a priority. He left the 99 to find the one. What we see here is a truth that is emphasized in Christianity, but not in other faiths so much. And that is that every individual is significant and precious to God. Every individual. He doesn't just love the world. He does, of course, but he loves each person in the world We read in the Gospels of his seeing the multitude and his heart being moved with compassion, but we also see him seeing a single individual and his heart being moved with compassion. He doesn't make a calculation and say, well, there's multitudes that are following me. I'm not worried about the rest. He loves the individual. And this is something that Christianity reflects. In many other belief systems, the individual is unimportant. In many nations of the world, their perspective is they can afford to lose millions of people. through disease and famine and so forth. But Christianity has taught that each individual's life is precious and sacred. And that's why we have hospitals and medical clinics And we will spend so much time and energy to save one person's life. And many places of the world that is not the case. We see here that his pursuit of the lost sheep was costly. The shepherd in this parable Probably lost some sleep and perhaps a meal going after this lost lamb. But it cost our Savior far more. The good shepherd gave his life for the sheep. And the old Sankey hymn taken from this parable, we have a verse that refers to the cost paid. by the shepherd in finding his sheep, it says, None of the ransom ever knew how deep were the waters crossed, nor how dark was the night that the Lord went through ere he found his sheep that was lost. His search was costly. Thirdly, his pursuit of the lost was persistent. Look at the last phrase in verse 4. It says it's beautiful. Until he The Lord doesn't give up on poor wandering sheep. He pursues them until he finds them. And fourthly, we see that his pursuit of the lost sheep was successful. We have these beautiful verses in verses 5 and 6, and when he found it, he layeth it on his shoulders. rejoicing. What a beautiful picture this is. Perhaps he was holding it up there so that it wouldn't stray away, or perhaps it was so weak. And malnourished that it had no strength to follow him. And so he picks it up and he puts it around his neck. A beautiful picture of his care and compassion for this lost lamb. But what was really striking and what is emphasized and what takes up so much space in this little brief parable is the rejoicing of the shepherd. Did you notice that? Look at verse 5. And when he found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. You can just see him perhaps singing or being joyful with a smile on his face as he returns to the village. And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost. You see, when you really enjoy something, when something really stirs your heart, you know what you have to do? You have to share it with other people. You know? If you find something that you had lost, you want to tell other people about it. When something wonderful and unexpected happens You want to share that with others. And this is what we see with the shepherd. He comes and he's telling everybody in the village, hey, I found that lost lamb I told you all about that it wandered away. I didn't know that I would ever find it, but here I finally have it. Rejoice with me But that's not the end of the rejoicing. Look with me at verse 7. I say unto you, likewise, joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repents, more than over ninety-and-nine just persons which need no repentance. We know from ancient rabbinic writings that these Jewish religious leaders said that God found great delights In judging the wicked. And here we see Jesus saying, God finds great delight in rescuing the lost. So what is the point that Jesus is making in this parable of the Pharisees? Remember, he kind of is addressing to these men when he says, verse 4, what man of you? He is saying this: if you would all acknowledge that the recovery of a lost sheep was a reason to rejoice, how much more should you rejoice at the conversion of a lost soul? That's what this parable is saying to those Pharisees. And he argued in this manner many times with them. It's a very simple parable to understand. And so now I want to move on to application. The first thing I want us to understand is we must realize that those who do not know Christ Are lost. All who do not know the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior are lost. This is one of the biblical descriptions of the unsaved. And it's rooted in the reality that sheep have a horrible sense of direction. A dog can find his way home, but a sheep never does. Isaiah fifty-three, verse six says, All we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him. the iniquity of us all. Everyone here under the sound of my voice has either been found by the Savior or you're still lost. It's one or the other. And everyone that we meet in our daily lives is either found or lost. I want to make an important point here. You must never think of salvation as something that is true for you, but not for others. This is a worldly philosophy that was started really in the Enlightenment, but it's picked up steam. And it's something that is pervasive in our popular culture, in the way educated people especially think and discourse with one another. And the idea is that there are like two types of truth. There's a private truth and there's a public truth. And they would say that public truths are things that are always true for all people, like gravity. All right? Gravity works whether you believe it or not. And people put science and mathematics in this category of public truths, things that are verifiable things that are always true. But then there are things Philosophers would say that are private truths, that are only true for you, the individual And people invariably put religion in this category. And so sometimes when I share the gospel with people, they will say something like this: I'm glad that works for you. But that doesn't work for me. I'm glad that truth, that personal truth that you have, helps you, but I don't need that. And I'm saying this today because I want you to understand that that is a false dichotomy. It is true that there are some things that you believe that may be a matter of opinion. And are not rooted in truth. We all have different things that we like, like a favorite sports team or a certain make of car, and things like those. Those are personal preferences. But things that are revealed in Scripture, like the Trinity, like the Deity of Christ , like the blood atonements. Things like this are not a matter of private truth. They are true for everyone everywhere, whether or not they acknowledge it as so. Heaven and hell do not exist if you believe in them. They exist whether you believe it or not. So this is important in the sec the growing secular world that we live that we think clearly about this. Your agnostic co-worker is lost and headed for hell unless they are rescued by the Savior. And your kind and thoughtful neighbor is lost unless they respond in faith to the good news of the gospel. Number two, we should realize that sinners can do nothing to save themselves. Sheep are helpless creatures. They can't defend themselves from predators. They have no sharp claws or powerful jaws. They can't outrun their enemies. They are relatively slow. And they're not very clever. In fact, they have been described by many as stupid. And when a sheep gets lost It doesn't find its way home like many other animals. A lost sheep is utterly dependent on the shepherd to find it. And I want you to know this morning that if you're here this morning and you are lost, you can do nothing to save yourself. You cannot earn your way. You cannot clean up your act. You cannot try a little harder and say, maybe if I just start coming to church more often and I cut these things out of my life, then I can save myself. You can't save yourself. You can never merit salvation. You must simply put your trust in the good shepherd. and allow him to rescue you. Thirdly, we must realize that only those who are who discover that they are lost will be found. Now there's one interpretational matter that I have not dealt with that some of you that are thinking and reading carefully may have thought of. Look with me at verse 7. What did Jesus mean by that last phrase when he said, more than ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance There are two possible solutions to this dilemma. It's possible The Lord is simply referring to saved people who have already repented and been saved and declared righteous in Christ When he speaks of the 90 and 9 who need no repentance. And there are many fine scholars who hold this viewpoint, and it may be right, and I won't give you all the reasons for and against. However, that's not the view that I take. I think that Jesus, in context here, is speaking ironically to the Pharisees. The ironic interpretation would mean that Jesus is using the Pharisees' estimation of themselves as those who are righteous. When he speaks of the 90 and 9 which need no repentance, this was their self-righteous judgment of themselves. And I want you to turn back with me to a passage we looked at earlier, and that is Luke chapter 5, because here Jesus addresses this issue using a different analogy that is helpful for us. Look with me in Luke chapter 5, verse 29 It says, and Levi made him a great feast in his own house. And there was a great company of publicans and of others that sat down with them. But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do you eat and drink with publicans and sinners? And Jesus, answering, said unto them, They that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance You see, the Pharisees never came to Jesus the great physician because they never believed that they were sick. And they were never baptized by John's baptism of repentance because they believed they had no sin to repent of. The Bible teaches, however, that we are all sinners, that we are all inherently unrighteous. We are desperately ill. We are all lost and ready to perish. But until we see ourselves as lost and ready to perish, we will never come to the shepherd. You will never be found until your eyes are open so that you see that you are lost. And my fourth application and final that I want to make from this brief parable is that we should actively pursue The salvation, get this of notoriously wicked people. I wonder how that strikes you. Do you know any notoriously wicked people that people in your community say, stay away from that person? They're a bad person. They're a wicked person. The question we have to ask ourselves when it comes to this, and this is a little bit outside of our comfort zone, is do we tend to respond like the Pharisees? Or do we tend to respond like Jesus? What do I mean by notoriously wicked people? I'm talking about drug addicts and homosexuals and child molesters and murderers and rapists. You see, even lost people would deplore people who have this kind of character and practice these things. One of the ancient rabbis wrote something that reflects the mindset of the Pharisees. It says, Let not a man associate with the wicked. Not even to bring him the law. The Pharisees' position was this: our reputation is more important than their salvation. Now, the Pharisees, believe it or not, did believe in converting the lost. In fact, Jesus speaks of the Pharisee missionaries, believe it or not, in Matthew 23 and verse 15. The Pharisees were very excited about converting Gentiles. It made them feel really good. Our religion is superior. These heathen had finally seen the lights. But Jewish people who were fallen and did not observe the law and were living wicked lives, that were obviously condemned in the Word of God, they had no time for them because they should know better. The response to them would be: when you clean up your act and you start to live like a respectable citizen, then come see us and we'll talk about the law. But until then, please keep your distance. They believe in the principle of guilt by association. But that was not Jesus' perspective. To their dismay and utter astoundment, he went and spoke to them and ate with them in their homes. Because that was his mission. He came to seek and to save those who were lost. And if we are to follow our master, we must do the same. Let me ask you This morning, who do you know that is perishing? Who is it that you rub shoulders with all the time That is perishing and lost. Maybe it's a person next to you in that cubicle. Maybe it's your next door neighbor. Maybe it's your spouse. Maybe it's your child. Maybe it's For parents We all know people that are perishing. It's a very uncomfortable truth We would rather put it out of our minds and never think about it and never meditate upon it. It seems much better to take a secular approach and say, well, listen. They got their own way of living and I guess that works for them. And I've got my own thing. You know, I've trust in Jesus and I've got this thing. Because there's contention, we just never talk about it. We never mention it. You keep your private truth to yourself, and I'll keep mine. If we have the heart of the Savior, we can't adopt that approach. We have to recognize that they are lost sheep who desperately need the shepherd. They need to be found. And so we need to be faithful in reaching out, not just to people who are middle-class, educated Americans like us, but people who are very different from us. We need to reach out to them with the gospel of Jesus Christ because the gospel is for outcasts. Let's close in prayer this morning, Father. These words are rebuke to us. Because far too often we think more like the Pharisees than Jesus. We worry about a reputation. We don't like to be around people who are dirty and filthy in mind and body. We like to feel safe and comfortable. But Father, you've called us to something greater. You've called us to emulate our master, Savior, and to seek the lost And express to every human being that they are significant and important, that they are made in the image of God, and that they have a soul that will live somewhere forever. Help us, Father. To have the eyes and the heart of our Savior, and to seek to reach those who are difficult to reach But Father, I pray that you would also be with those here today who are lost sheep, who do not have the shepherd. I pray that they would come to him today. That they would hear his voice and they would follow. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.