Have your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to John chapter 5? John chapter 5. Beginning a new chapter today. Many years ago, off the coast of Massachusetts, there was a submarine disaster. An S -4 submarine was inadvertently rammed by a ship and quickly began to take on water. In a few minutes, the vessel was at the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean. The technology at the time made the feasibility of rescue impossible. After several hours, a diver was dispatched to the doomed vessel. He saw little signs of life, but he heard a faint tapping noise. And as he listened carefully, he began to understand that it was Morse code. And this individual inside the submarine kept tapping the same question again and again. Is there any hope? In a very real sense, this isn't a great question of all humanity. Is there any hope? Life is hard. Our problems are many. They often seemed insurmountable. But the Bible's answer is that there is hope in Christ. We come to the fifth chapter of John's Gospel. This is an important chapter. It has our Lord's third sign or miracle that's recorded in this gospel. It has his first serious opposition from the Jewish religious establishment. And it has the first unit of teaching or discourse from our Lord that is found in this chapter. Now let me remind you, the first half of John's gospel is structured along seven signs or seven miracles that point to the identity of Jesus Christ. This is the primary reason that John has recorded this miracle in his gospel. He had many to choose from But he chose this one to make the point that Jesus is indeed the Son of God. But there are additional reasons that he includes this miracle. This miracle took place, we read, on the Sabbath day, and this would become a flashpoint that would continue throughout this gospel. between Jesus and the religious leaders. This miracle also reveals the inability of false religion to truly help people. And thirdly, this miracle demonstrates the power of Christ even in hopeless situations. It's been said that humanity can live 40 days without food and three days without water and about eight minutes without hope, but only a second without hope. But I'm not sure this is accurate because there are many people who seem to survive without any hope. This morning, the man that we encounter in this gospel is in a truly pitiful state. This disabled man has no hope of a better life. But Jesus comes to him. And changes everything. Because Jesus delights to rescue hopeless people from their misery. Perhaps you come to church this morning And you've got heavy burdens and cares. And you have no hope that these will change. There are a lot of hopeless people in the world. I want you to know that there is hope in Christ. And I want you to see there's hope in Christ because he is the Almighty Son of God. The first point I want to bring before you this morning is that Jesus cares for hopeless people. We're going to look at the first five verses that are the setting for this miracle. Look at the first verse. After this, there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. The chapter begins with the words after this, that is, after the healing of the nobleman's son that's recorded at the end of chapter 4. Now it's likely that there are actually several months of time between the end of chapter 4 and beginning of chapter 5. If you look at the other three Gospels And try to put them in chronological order. There were many events that happened in between these things. John tends to not focus on our Lord's Galilean ministry. Probably because Matthew, Mark, and Luke spend most of their time talking about that region of his ministry. Instead, John focuses. on what the other gospel writers omitted, and that was his ministry in Judea or in the region around Jerusalem. So the whole point of verse 1 is to Provide the setting of why Jesus is in Jerusalem. He's been up north in Galilee performing miracles and teaching, but now he comes down for a feast day In the Old Testament, there were several feast days or festivals that Jewish men were required to attend. But we don't know which one this is. It could be Passover or Tabernacle or Pentecost. Scholars have tried in vain to discover which one this was, and there's all kinds of speculation, but the fact is we simply don't have enough information to say, ah, it is this one. Now in verse 2, we are told the place of this miracle. Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheep gate. a pole in Aramaic called Bethesda, which has five roof colonnades. The sheep gate is mentioned here. That is mentioned here is also mentioned in Nehemiah chapter 3. It was an ancient place, and it was a place where sheep were brought to be slaughtered. Now this gate, near this gate there was a pole known as Bethesda. It had five roofed colonnades. Now, for many years, unbelieving scholars mocked this description and said that no such place existed, that John just made it up. But several decades ago, archaeologists located this pool when they were doing some renovations on an ancient church building. This church known as St. Anne's, and they discovered the ruins and remains of these five colonnades. And of this pool. It was about the size of a football field. And it was essentially a public bath. Now, in the modern Western world especially, we don't have public baths anymore. And I'm very glad we don't But in the ancient world, this was a common thing. In all the major cities, they had public baths, and this was a public bath in Jerusalem. Well, what sort of people are at this pool? Verse 3 answers that question. And these lay a multitude of invalids, blind, lame, and paralyzed. You should not imagine that there were just a few people there. We read a little bit later that Jesus and this man are separated because of the crowd. There was a crowd of people there. Hundreds and hundreds of people around the sides of this pool. There were very few pools in Jerusalem because water was scarce. And this was a shaded public area, so a lot of people congregated here. And the people who congregated here are what we would describe today as those who were disabled. They're described here as blind and lame and paralyzed. And there would have been probably many homeless people there as well. Many of these individuals made their living as beggars. They did not have security nets. The government did not help out with people with disabilities in the ancient world. And if your family could not afford to help you or did not help you, you had to beg for a living. My point is that these individuals that were at this pool were on the lowest rung of society. One writer said that this would have been on the other side of the railroad tracks. This is a region of Jerusalem where polite citizens didn't go. But Jesus, apparently by himself, went to this pool. We don't read of the disciples being with him Perhaps he got up early that morning and he went out there and he went out specifically to speak to this man. So why did this disabled congregation assemble at Bethesda? The answer may be found at the end of verse 3, continuing into verse 4. And we read today, I read these word, these words were read, waiting for the moving of the waters. For an angel of the Lord went down at certain seasons into the pool and stirred the water. Whoever stepped in first after stirring of the water was healed of whatever disease he had. Now I must take a moment to comment on these words. These words are not in the text of the Bible that I am using Which is the ESV. It is found in a footnote at the bottom of the page. And almost all Bible versions that have been translated in the last century or more. have either placed these words in brackets like we did in our scripture reading today, or they put them in the margin or in a footnote. So, why would these translators and editors do such a thing? Let me give you four reasons. Number one, these words are not found in the best and oldest manuscripts of the Gospel of John. The Gospel of John is one book of the New Testament that we have many ancient, ancient copies of that were just written literally, that were copied just decades after John wrote it. And we have complete copies of the Gospel of John. And the oldest manuscripts do not have these words in them. Older versions that were translated centuries earlier, like the King James Version did not have access to those manuscripts, those really ancient manuscripts, because they were not discovered until the 18th or 19th century. They made use of the best manuscripts they had available to them at the time, but not the most ancient ones. Number two, about twenty manuscripts which do contain these words. are marked with an asterisk by the scribes to indicate that they did not think that they were part of the original text of John. This is how they would indicate that. And so there are about 20 manuscripts that have that in. Number three, the vocabulary and expressions used in this verse are not used by John in his other writings. John also wrote 1st and 2nd, 3rd John. And the book of Revelation. We have quite a body of work by the Apostle John. Well, the vocabulary and the expressions do not look like they're his writing. And number four, the theology found in verse 4 is unlike anything that we find elsewhere in the Bible. Have you ever read verse four and scratched your head? Does this seem like the way God works, that he randomly sends down an angel to stir the water and the first disabled person who jumps into the water is healed. This seems odd and unfair to people who can't get into the water quickly. It also seems that that person has sort of earned their miracle by being right there, ready to go, and they've contributed to that miracle. So that may raise the question to you, how do these words get into the traditional text of the Bible? And the answer is no one knows for sure, but it's likely that some scribe wrote a marginal note to explain the cultural context of this miracle. And over time it got cop it got placed into the text. And then when those manuscripts were copied, it continued that way. So I don't think that these words were probably originally written by John. But I've chosen to place them in brackets in our scripture reading and for us to read them because I wanted to address this issue and also it helps us to understand why this man was at the pool and why he says what he says in verse 7. that he had no one to put him into the pool. The early church father Tertelion tells us that the story of the angel stirring the waters was a superstition. a folk religion of the common people at the time. Now in verse 5, we are introduced to the unnamed man who is the recipient of this miracle. Look with me at verse 5. One man was there who had been an invalid for 38 years. Now what is significant about that statement is that he had been in this condition for 38 years. That is a very long time. And it's placed here to indicate that this man was a permanent fixture at the pool. Right? You know how some people are fixtures at place You go to McDonald's in a certain location, a certain time, you're always going to see this guy there. All right? Because that's part of his routine And there are other places like that. This man, when you went to the pool, people would undoubtedly knew his name. Oh look, there he is. He's always there at his place. There's his mat spread out. He's always there waiting. This went on for decades. Now some people have looked at the 38 years and they say there must be some symbolic significance here. Maybe in Deuteronomy it talks about uh the the the Jews wandering in the wilderness for 38 years, so maybe that's a reference to this But I don't think that's really what John has in mind. I think he's just saying this man was here for 38 years, a really, really long time. And that number is there. To suggest how hopeless this case was. Have you ever heard the expression that insanity is doing the same thing again and again and hoping for a different result? Right? This man was doing the same thing and again and again, but he wasn't getting a different result. He was getting the same result. He was never healed. He never got better. But he kept coming. He was determined. He was desperate. This is a hopeless situation. And Jesus is going to come and he's going to do something about it. So my second point is this. Jesus challenges hopeless people. Look with me at verse 6, please. And when Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time, he said to him, Do you want to be healed? I want you to notice that the Bible says that Jesus saw him there. I'm going to do a little speculating here. I think that Jesus looked upon him with compassion. So often in Scripture we read about the look of Jesus to different individuals and people. And often we read when he saw them, he was moved with compassion. And I think that Jesus was moved with compassion at this man because he was absolutely in a hopeless situation. Jesus knew this man. He knew his innermost struggles. In John chapter 2, we read that Jesus knows the heart of every person. He knew this man's heart and his disappointment. In verse 7, we read that no one was present to put him into the pool. This would indicate that he'd probably been rejected by his family. He was a very lonely individual. He had no one there to help them. So he was hopeless and helpless, and this touched the heart The most common emotional reaction that we read of in the gospels concerning Jesus is that he was moved with compassion. That is, he had pity. For those who were hurting. But Jesus didn't just feel bad about it. He did something about it. And so he goes up and he engages the man in conversation. Just like Jesus engaged the woman at the well in conversation. He initiated things. He started things off. But he begins his conversation in a very unusual way. He says, do you want to be healed? This is Jesus challenging the man. Just imagine a stranger coming up to a disabled person and saying that. Perhaps you would wonder why he would ask this question? Of course the answer is obvious. Of course, he wants to be healed. Some people have suggested that perhaps he was a very effective beggar and he didn't want to give up his way of living, so Jesus asked him this question, but I doubt that that is the answer. I think implicit in that question is a ray of hope, like I can do something about this. Do you want to be better? Do you want to be healed? And this man, I think, in verse 7 assumes that the help that Jesus is offering Is that he will wait with the man and help him into the pool so that he can get in first and get the healing that he has craved for 38 years. Look at verse 7. The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, and while I am going down another steps before me His response reveals that he thinks Jesus is offering to help put him into the pool But notice that this man was not really trusting in Jesus. He was trusting in the supposed miracle-working powers of the water. In ancient times and still today in places there are people who think that certain water in certain locations has healing properties and can perform miracles. There are still places in the world today that people go to and will travel for thousands of miles to go there because they think that water is sacred, that water will do something for them. I want to be clear. I don't think that anyone was being healed at this pool by the water. But a lot of people believed it. There's a lot of people who believe things that have a track record of never being effective, but they still really believe in those things. But this man, my point is, he wasn't trusting in Jesus. He didn't know who he was. He didn't think Jesus was offering to heal him. His hope is in a mere superstitious, which has really contributed to his hopeless state. It's very likely that the leaders in Judaism did not endorse the superstitious practice. I think if you ask Nicodemus, do you think this is a real thing? Do you think people should go there? He would say no. This is not what the law prescribes. But many Jews mix their faith in Yahweh with folk religions. That often included miracles performed by angels. And we know from other writings of the time that many people were obsessed with angelic miracles in the first century. Now when people take what is true and they mix it with other religious beliefs that are not true, we call that syncretism. It still takes place in every corner of the globe. In Africa, Christianity is often mixed with animism and the prosperity gospel to produce a dangerous blend of truth and error. In Haiti, Catholicism is mixed with voodoo practices to create a unique heresy. And in America, evangelical belief is often mixed with certain tenets of the prosperity gospel that turns God into someone who serves us and our needs when we need him This is what was happening at the pool in Jerusalem. This man, I'm sure if you ask him if he believed the Old Testament, he would say yes. But he also believed in some superstitions. And part of the reason why he is hopeless is because he's trusting in something that can never deliver. But Jesus cares for this man and he challenges this man. And thirdly, Jesus cures this man because Jesus can cure hopeless people. How does Jesus respond to this man's misplaced trust? He gives him three brief commands. Look at verse 8. Jesus said to him, get up, take up your bed, and walk. Try to imagine the scene. It's hard for us to know exactly what his problem was. The text doesn't say. Perhaps he was paralyzed or partially paralyzed. He seems to have been able to move somewhat because he talks about in verse 7 about people getting in before him. So he can, he can't, he has some mobility, but it's it's it's very Uh it's very limited and it's very slow and it's very laborious. We don't know if this was a nerve issue or what. But suppose his legs were atrophied. They looked like broomsticks. There was no muscle tone whatsoever. But the moment Jesus said these authoritative words, get up! There was power that came to this man, and he was healed. And with these words He was instantly restored to normal function. And that could mean something he'd never experienced. He'd had this for 38 years, which could be a way of saying he'd been like this since he was born. Certainly for most of his life. And Jesus gives these authoritative words. And then Jesus tells them to take up your bed. Now why would Jesus say that? Why would that be necessary? This bed was not like your $3,000 mattress. It was a straw mat that could be rolled up and carried on your shoulder. It was known as the bed of the poor. It was very firm, by the way, which is what people look for today. Why did Jesus tell him to take up his bed? Because everything was different now. And his days of lying by that pool hoping for a miracle were over. He would no longer be a permanent fixture there. A one man that everybody knew would always be there by the pool. And Jesus commanded him to walk. This was a demonstration of how complete his healing was. He couldn't just stand up. He couldn't just move a little bit. He could walk. He could move like a person who is fully healthy. He had no limitations to his mobility. Now there are three facts that really stand out about this miracle. Number one, it took place instantly. He didn't get gradually better. It happened in an instant. Number two, it was a complete miracle. In other words, if Jesus were to heal the cause of his paralysis , And he indeed had atrophy, as you would expect, he would need a long period of rehabilitation, right, before he would ever walk again. This man never went to rehab. All right. Instantly, he was better. He was restored completely. This was a miracle. Number three, and this is the most startling thing about this miracle. This miracle was performed without any faith on the part of the lame man. I want you to look carefully at verse 9. It says, at once the man was healed, and he took up his bed and walked. It doesn't say that the man believed that Jesus had healed him. And so as he was trying to get up, God gave him strength and healed him so that he would walk. No, I I suspect, I can't prove this, I suspect that he felt this surge of power come through his body, and he looks down at his legs, and they look completely different than they did an instant before. They are fully fleshed out. The muscle tone is there. The strength is there. And he's astounded. And so he stands up and he begins to walk. And I suspect that he was also making quite a racket. of praising God and everyone at the pool heard about it. This was no act of faith. Another evidence is that we see after this story that he didn't even know who Jesus was. Look with me at verses ten and following. So the Jews said to the man who had been healed, It is the Sabbath. It's not lawful for you to take up your bed. But he answered them, the man who healed me, that man said to me, take up your bed and walk. And they asked him, Who is the man who said to you, take up your bed and walk? Now the man that had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn as there was a crowd in the place. It's not that he said, oh, this is the promised Messiah. This is the one that the Old Testament prophets foretold. This is My Messiah and I will trust in him. He didn't know who this man was. He was just a stranger. So this is unusual because the vast majority Of our Lord's miracles, the Lord asked for a response of faith on their parts. And often when a person was healed, it was also the moment they were converted, where they put their faith and trust in Christ. And it's often used as a picture of conversion. But this man doesn't even know who Jesus is. Now let me just say, I believe that later on, when he meets with Jesus in the temple, that he does know who Jesus is, and I like to believe that he does put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And he became a believer. But Jesus chose to do this miracle without this man exercising faith. And I think doing so helped to demonstrate his absolute authority and power. Jesus has absolute authority over sickness, disease, and death. The words that he spoke are to remind the reader of the Creator who spoke, and it came into existence. It is a reminder when Jesus called for Lazarus to come out from the grave and said with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. It is also a preview of what Jesus will say to all the dead one day. Look with me at John chapter 5 and verse 28, a little later in this same chapter. In this discourse that we're going to get to in due time, Jesus says, do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice. and come out those who have done good to the resurrection of life and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. This is a reminder to us that the miracles that Jesus performed were not primarily to relieve the suffering of the individuals. They did do that. But that's not the primary reason they were done. They were done to demonstrate his unique identity as the Son of God. This is John's purpose in recording this miracle. But it also is a wonderful reminder to us that Jesus is able to give hope in the most hopeless of situations. He has power to heal any disease. He has the authority to mend any broken marriage Jesus can bring the spiritually dead to life. He can save your adult child who has walked away from their faith and wants nothing to do with Christ. Because there is nothing too hard for the Lord. And I'd like to make some final applications Number one, we should be moved to relieve suffering of those we encounter Let me ask you a question. Do you have a compassionate heart? When you hear of some tragedy or some difficulty that someone is facing, somebody that you know in your circle. Do you do anything about it, or you just say, oh, that's too bad. That's awful. Boy, I'm so glad I'm not that person. Or do you try to minister to them? Do you try to help them? This can this is applied in many different realms. I know that sometimes helping The homeless is something that people can get easily jaded by because you can easily be taken advantage of. I it's happened to me before. But that doesn't stop me from trying to help people. And by the way, the people who are willing to take advantage of you are indeed people who need your pity and your help spiritually. If we are going to be like Christ and we are by His Spirit being transformed into His image Part of that means that we will not be cynical and hardened to the suffering around us, but that we will seek to do what we can to help people. And this is especially true in the household of faith, with our brothers and sisters in Christ who encounter difficulties. How we should surround them. And yes, we must pray for them. But if possible, perhaps we can get more involved and help them in ways that God has called us to do. Number two, I want to take this opportunity to say that we should recognize that Jesus' healing ministry was very different from so-called faith healers. And let me be clear about what I'm saying. I do believe that Jesus, that God answers our prayers. And still performs miracles. We have seen people in this church who I believe God did miraculous things. They were at the point of death. And the doctors told them it was a hopeless circumstance. And it looked very healthy today. Because God heard the prayers of his people. And he worked in their lives. But if you look at faith healers and those who are on your TV Different channels, you will find that their healing ministry doesn't line up with the kind of miracles that Jesus and the apostles were doing. You don't see them healing those who are paralyzed for 38 years They might claim to, but I assure you that if you investigate, you'll find it's not the case You'll find a lot of fraud, you'll find a lot of deceit, you'll see a lot of salesmanship. I remember talking to a man years ago when I first became pastor here And I was out visiting and I went to this man's house and he was in a wheelchair and he told me this story how that this real famous faith healer came to Baltimore and he and he and he brought the people in wheelchairs and and anybody in firm, they they brought them up and they had a special room for them close to the platform. And the faith healer was doing all of this stuff, and he looked in this room where all these people in wheelchairs and he goes, Oh, I can't do that stuff. And he went to deal with some other people. And this man said, I had all my hopes resting on the fact that this man was going to heal me, that I was going to get better, and it was all a scam. The people that he was healing had psychosomatic illness or whatever, but nothing that could be verified Be very careful. A lot of well-meaning people support ministries they should not support. Send money to people who are living literally as millionaires because they are millionaires. And they're living off of the sacrificial giving of well-meaning people. One of the main reasons why I'm a cessationist and I believe that the That there are temporary gifts that were given for the founding of the church that no longer exist is because the miracles and the descriptions that we have in Scripture of the miracles are not what these individuals do. They don't line up. And it's not because God is somehow weaker today than he was years ago. It's because God does not, I believe, grant people special power in their hands or in their words to perform miracles, but he does work through the prayers of his people. Number three, we must remember that God's grace or favor is never given because we have earned his blessings. We're coming to Thanksgiving, right? Where we rightfully give thanks to all the blessings that we have. Don't let it ever occur to you, well, you know, part of the reason why I'm blessed is because You know, God really likes me and I've worked really hard and I've really impressed him and that's why I've got a really good thing going here. No This man did absolutely nothing to earn this miracle. He didn't talk to Jesus first. He didn't ask for a miracle. He didn't believe that Jesus would perform a miracle. He didn't know who Jesus was. This was all of grace, unmerited favor, a life-changing blessing that he did nothing to deserve. And then this, we must never forget that Jesus delights to do what seems impossible. We find promises often in Scripture. Like Jeremiah 32, 27. Is there anything too hard for me? Or Matthew 19, 26, with God all things are possible. Or Luke 1. 37, for nothing will be impossible with God. Or Matthew 9. 23, all things are possible to him that believeth. Or Matthew 17, 20. And nothing shall be impossible unto you. The scriptures in the Old and New Testaments has all of these statements like this. Why did God give us these statements? Because he wants us to cling to them and to pray for them, to pray that God would do what seems impossible for us to do. So many people find themselves in hopeless situations. And they think that God can't handle this. That God cannot do anything. And so they don't pray. They just resign themselves to a certain level of misery. My friends, we must not be like this. We must come to God in prayer, believing that He is the God who can do the impossible. And so when we have a family member or a close friend that we have witnessed to for years, and they are antagonistic and hard-hearted, and they completely reject everything that you're saying. And they seem antagonistic to the gospel itself and they mock Christianity, you should not think, well, that person just can never be saved. No, God can work in their hearts. Keep praying, keep trusting, keep witnessing. And maybe you're here this morning and you're not a believer and you believe that you're a hopeless situation. Because God can't change your life. There's so many people that have, they believe lies Maybe they're in the bonds of iniquity. They have an addiction problem. And they've tried, they've gone to treatment, they've gone to counseling, and nothing seems to help And they say to themselves, this is just going to be my hopeless life, and God and no one else, no one can do anything to deliver me. My friend, God can deliver you. You must come to him. You must trust in him. You must rest in him. God delights to do the impossible. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, I pray that you would allow your word to feed our faith and to strengthen us and that we would not believe. The negative lies of Satan that are designed to tear down our faith and lead us Into a path of despondency. Help us, Father, to walk by faith and not by sight, to trust in your word and not in the lies of Satan. For it's in Jesus' name we pray.