Give your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to First Peter chapter two? So let me ask you this morning, are you the kind of person that puts off unpleasant tasks? Or do you like to get them done right away? People tend to approach Decision's an unpleasant task in generally one of two ways. You know, today, April the 15th, is a date often known as Tax Day Although this year, because of when it falls, it's actually the 17th, I believe. But I assure you that there are millions of Americans who have yet to file their taxes Because they will wait the last minute. And I know for some people it is a deliberate strategy, but for many people it is just something they would rather not think about until they absolutely have to. One of the best examples we have in Scripture Of someone putting off a difficult task and a very important decision relates to Pontius Pilates. Pontius Pilate's a very interesting man to study. He was, of course, the governor of Judea. And the Jewish religious leaders arrested our Lord, but they did not have the power to execute him, and so they pressured Pilate to do so. Pilate was compliant with them because he did not want there to be a riot. He did not want there to be a bad report given to his superiors. But he did do everything he could think of to try to put off this decision. Remember, he tried to get the people to choose Barabbas to be released instead of the Lord. He felt certain that they would choose the Lord, Jesus Christ, because Barabbas was a dangerous criminal, but They did not comply with his wishes. And then he had Jesus scourged and beaten, hoping that this would soften their hearts and the people would say, oh, well, that's enough punishments. And he would be able to release him, but that was not the case. And then of course he had him sent to Herod, hoping that Herod would take care of this thorny political issue. But Herod sent him back to Pilate. And finally Herod made the proclamation, but he famously washed his hands. saying that this guilt of condemning an innocent man would not rest on his head, but on the people who demanded it. But in the end He sentenced Jesus to die on an old rugged cross. There's an old hymn that uses this as a metaphor for the fact that we must all make some choice concerning the Lord Jesus Christ. It was written by A. B. Simpson, the founder of the Christian and Missionary Alliance Church. It starts out talking about Jesus standing in Pilate's hall, but what is always haunting to me is the course of that. It says, what will you do with Jesus? Neutral you cannot be. Someday your heart will be asking, what will he do with me? This morning we come to a passage in 1 Peter chapter 2. That reminds us that all of humanity is divided up into one of two groups, into two groups Now, you may recall that we are in 1 Peter chapter 2, but we have not been in our study of 1 Peter now for a month And so I'm eager to get back to it. We are looking at a paragraph that extends from verse 4 to verse 10. And in this paragraph We have a very deliberate reminder of who we are, that is our identity in Christ. And verse 5, we are described as living stones. We are part of the temple of God. We are priests who worship and serve God in that temple. In verse 6, Peter confirms and continues this imagery of stones by revealing that Jesus is the cornerstone that was mentioned by the prophet Isaiah. And now in verses six through eight, Peter is going to emphasize that there are two contrasting responses to the revelation concerning the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm going to read these three verses and I want you to notice the clear contrast. Look with me At 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 6 it says, Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone. Elect Precious. And he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe he is precious. But unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builder disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient, whereunto also they were appointed. So as we begin our study of this passage this morning, I want to ask you, what is your response to Jesus? What do you think of him? Perhaps you would be here and you would say the right answers that are according to Scripture. But the question is, is that truly the belief of your hearts? Or is that simply something that you have learned to parrot? Perhaps because of your upbringing, perhaps because you attend this church. But it's not really the belief of your hearts. It's not really reflective of the way you live. We find in this passage today that indeed we cannot remain neutral to the Lord Jesus Christ. Even if you say, well, I'm simply not going to make a decision, I'm simply not going to consider that issue in my life, that's still as a choice. We see here that there are really just two responses that people will have to Jesus and his gospel. Either the Savior will be the one in whom you trust. Or you will reject him. And to use the imagery that is found here of the rock, he is either your rock of ages. Or he is the stone that trips you up. He is either the rock of refuge, we could say, or he is the stone of stumbling. This is true of everyone here this morning. This is true of everyone in the world You either have one of two responses to the Lord Jesus Christ, and how you respond to Jesus, the cornerstone, reveals your true identity. And so my passage, my sermon this morning will just have two main points, these two contrasts. First of all, believers are those who have graciously come to trust in Christ as the cornerstone. Now Peter here in verse 6 quotes from Isaiah 28 and verse 16. And in that context, we read about God's judgment upon Ephraim and Jerusalem, upon the northern and southern kingdoms. They were about to experience the judgment of God. At that time, Assyria was a world power. And the people of God, the leaders of Israel decided that their best hope was to create a foreign alliance with another great world power, Egypt , to defend them from the invading Assyrians. But God's message through the prophet was don't trust in these foreign alliances. They will fail you. Trust in God, who is like a foundation stone that will never fail you. This happens to be a very important Old Testament text, and it's quoted often in the New Testament. And of course, what we think about Christ and where we look to for our hope in times of difficulty says a great deal about who we are. And so I want to bring out of this passage several qualities or characteristics of true believers. First of all, true believers recognize that Jesus is the unique Son of God I want you to notice in verse 6 how Jesus is described through this Old Testament prophecy. He's first of all described as the chief cornerstone. This is the most important stone in a structure, the one that controls the lines of the building, and if you remove this stone, the structure will be unstable and eventually it will crumble. He's also described as God's elect, that is God's chosen one. This is very similar to the famous title Messiah or Christ. The Messiah means the anointed one. A person who was anointed was one who was being chosen. And he's also described here as precious. This is the same term that is used in verses 4 and also again in verse 7. It means that which is of great honor or valuable, a great treasure. This passage, this Old Testament quotation reminds us that Jesus is the foundation of our life He is the treasure of the life. He is the Father's chosen one in whom we have come to trust. And it means essentially that we have come to adopt the Father's perspective of his beloved Son. The Father said audibly from heaven, this is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. He said of the transfig transfiguration, this is my beloved son, hear ye him And the people of God respond, yes, that is our viewpoint as well. He is the beloved Son of God. He is the one that we will trust, the one we will listen, to whom we will listen. And so we see that we share the Father's estimation of Jesus. Now, this language of Christ is the cornerstone. is interpreted in the New Testament to refer to the exclusivity of the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to Ask you to turn with me to one of the first Christian sermons. Acts chapter 4, please. If you would, turn with me to Acts chapter 4. We find Peter preaching here in the very early days of the church. Says in verse 8, Acts 4, then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, ye rulers of the people and elders of Israel If we this day be examined of the good deed done to the impotent man by what means he is made whole, be it known unto you all and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole. This is the stone which was set at naught of you builders, which has become the head of the corner. And then he says, Neither is their salvation in any other For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. The Bible does not speak of several cornerstones. It does not speak of several ways to God. It speaks of one way, and that is through the Lord Jesus Christ. This, of course, is very politically incorrect today But this is what Jesus taught very clearly and very dogmatically. He said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. I don't know any other way of understanding that than that he is clearly claiming that he is the only way to God. He is the only mediator between God and man. This was the teaching of our Lord. This was the teaching of the apostles. There are not many ways to God. There is only one way. This has been the message of the Christian church for thousands of years. This is the truth that we are to proclaim, no matter how unpopular or offensive it may be to people. It is the most loving message that we can complain can proclaim to people. We should not tell people there are many ways when there's only one way. To encourage them or to affirm them to go in a way that leads to death is not a loving thing to do. God provided only one cornerstone, only one Savior, only one mediator, only one Redeemer. And Christians are those who have come to trust in Christ alone. True believers also rely on Jesus as their only hope in the day of judgment. We have an interesting expression here at the end of verse 6. It says, and he that believeth on him Shall not be confounded. And you will find this quoted several times in the New Testament. We don't have time to look at all of them. But let me ask you, have you ever read that and wondered what that means? Because I don't know about you, but there have been times in my life when I've been confounded. So does that mean I'm not a Christian? Does it mean that Christians will never be confused? or confound it. No, it doesn't mean that. That's not what the prophet was saying. That's not what Peter is saying here. The idea is of being put to shame in an ultimate sense. Now, this terminology would have resonated with Peter's original hearers and readers of this epistle. Because their life was often filled with shame because they were followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jewish believers were cast out of the synagogue. They were cut off from their families, from their relatives, from all the friends that they had ever known. Can you put yourself in their shoes and just imagine what a monumental change that would be if everyone that you knew, everyone that you loved, everyone that you grew up with Everyone that was nearer to you was all of a sudden turned against you, will not talk to you, avoid you like the plague, and now you have to go out and find a completely new way of living and surviving in the world. That was the reality for many early Jewish believers. But there were also many Gentile believers. They also faced difficulty and ridicule of a different sort. The Gentiles laughed at Christianity. They saw it as something that was silly and superstitious. They saw it as kind of a dangerous cult. And so just imagine how people would treat you if you joined a dangerous cult. People would not take you seriously or they would be concerned or they would try to talk you out of it. We know from early writings of the first century that Many Gentiles that they spread all kinds of rumors about Christianity and crazy things that they were doing. And uh they took about uh they misunderstood different things like their uh their communion services, they took that to mean that they were cannibals, that they were actually drinking the blood of Christ. And they came to all kinds of wild accusations that were made about them. So to identify yourself as a Christian was to invite the ridicule of the world. And then many of them, of course, regarded Christians as not just eluded, but dangerous and not constructive to society because they failed to say that Caesar is Lord. And so it was a very, very difficult thing. They were constantly being shamed. But Peter here tells them that on the authority of Scripture, in the end, they will not be put to shame. In the day of judgment, they will not be embarrassed or ashamed that they were followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. No, they will rejoice that they are dressed in his righteousness alone, faultless to stand before the throne. One of the things that is a very sad symptom to me of modern times and modern Christianity is that so many Christians When you talk to them in private, are disappointed with God. In 1988, an author named Philip Yancey wrote a book called Disappointed with God, and it became a bestseller because he struck a chord because so many Christians are disappointed with God. And can I just say that it says a lot more about us than it does about God? That we are disappointed with him. It's because we have tried to fashion God into a genie who will do our bidding and make our lives comfortable and pleasant. Protect our children and our families so that nothing bad ever happens to us. The only problem is that's not the God revealed in Scripture. And so, because we have a man-centered view of God, we are disappointed with that God because the God that we're disappointed with doesn't actually exist. The sovereign God revealed in Scripture is a God who, when properly understood, will never disappoint his people. Because he is always good. He is always gracious. He is always doing what is for his glory and for our best. And two true believers, would you notice with me in verse 7, respond to Jesus with affectionate love. It says in verse 7, unto you therefore which believe he is precious. There's some debate about the exact meaning of this first phrase. Some scholars take it as a reference to Jesus, not as a reference to Jesus, but as a reference to Christians, saying that Christians, apart from being put to shame, they in fact will someday be honorable and precious. And this is possible, but I'm inclined to take the more traditional understanding that this first phrase is indeed a reference to Christ. Notice that Jesus is described as precious in verses 4, and now I think he is here again in verse 7. The Father describes him as precious, and we enthusiastically agree with his assessment. Remember back in chapter 1 and verse 19, we read there of the precious blood of Christ. And his blood is precious and of inestimable worth because our Lord and Savior is the Son of God. Whenever I come to this verse, I think of the great Baptist preacher Charles Spurgeon, because this was the very first text that he used for his sermon. He was saved as a teenager, as is well known in a primitive Methodist church, where a man There on a snowy snowy day in January gave out the gospel, but he was not a preacher. But through his Sincere efforts and through turning to Scripture, Spurgeon came to know the Lord. And not that long after that, he preached his first sermon at the age of 16 in a little cottage with about a dozen people present. And he preached from this text unto you therefore which believe he is precious. And it said that when he finished His words as the boy preacher, that everyone there knew that God 's hand was upon him and that he was called to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. And indeed, he would preach about the preciousness of Christ, the rest of his days, he would preach Christ in him crucified. I want to make a point from this Doctrine, right thinking about the gospel is very, very important. But sometimes in our desire to be accurate, We forget about the importance of the heart. You see, when a person is truly regenerated, not just their thinking changes But their feeling changes too. And their conduct changes. It affects the mind, the will, and the emotions. Now often in our circles we tend to minimize the importance of our emotions because we we know that they can very easily be taken to extremes. especially in charismatic churches where they give their emotions free reign and that usurps God 's doctrinal truths But you should not think for a moment that how you feel about the Lord is inconsequential. It is very important and very revealing because the scripture says that every believer loves the Lord Jesus Christ. And it touches our hearts. We find this in all of our hymns, don't we? How sweet the name of Jesus sounds in a believer's ears. That's true of every believer. We sing hymns like Jesus, lover of my soul, and oh, how I love Jesus. Because this is the expression of our heart. We are not just people who affirm that He is the Son of God and that He died on the cross for our sins. No, we are people who have had our hearts changed so that there is nothing that is more moving, more precious to us than the thought of our Savior. So do you have a love for the Savior? All true believers do. Oh, we don't love him like we ought. We don't love him as much as we should, but we do love him. We do acknowledge that. We do profess that, and we indeed try to demonstrate it. But now I must turn to the second type of people referred to in our passage. And I want us to see that unbelievers are those who have chosen to reject Christ, the cornerstone of their lives. Peter's now going to continue to use the same imagery of a stone to reveal this contrasting response to Jesus. How can a person tell If they are an unbeliever. That's a really important question. I want you to consider these three characteristics that are found in verses 7 and 8. First of all, unbelievers rebel against Christ's Lordship. It says, But unto you which believe he is precious, but unto them which be disobedient The stone which the builders disallowed, the same as made the head of the corner. This is a quotation from Psalm 118. We mentioned it in an earlier message. And I gave you some background of that text. We believe that the scriptural writers are referring to an historic event that took place at the building of the temple. They were quaring stones, and there was a master builder who was carefully selecting and carving these stones, and then they would be taken to the temple mounts. where they would be set up and assembled and the temple would be built. One day there was a stone came that was of unusual shape and size And the builders there on site, not the master builder at the quarry, but the builders on site said, where does this thing go? This doesn't seem to fit. And so they set it aside. And as they continued to erect the temple, this long-neglected stone began to just be forgotten and weeds were growing up around it. But finally, as they neared completion, they recognized that they needed a specially shaped stone, a cornerstone. to hold the whole building together, to secure the lines of the various walls. And finally, someone remembered that Rock, that stone that was quarried that came out some time ago that they had rejected and left there. And they went and they got it and it fit perfectly. And this became a metaphor for the fact that the religious leaders in Jesus' day, they rejected the Savior. They would not have him to be their Messiah. But the one that they rejected was the one who would become, in the sovereignty of God, the chief cornerstone. There's a sense in which all unbelievers find that Jesus doesn't fit into their lives. Oh, many try to mold and shape him into the shape and size that they want, but when he is rightly understood, they find that he will not fit their agenda. In fact, he asked that they must follow his agenda. The cry of the world we find from Psalm two all the way through the end of the ages, we will not have this man to rule over us. Spurgeon said that lost humanity will allow Jesus to be at any place except on his throne. Now that may surprise you because you probably know many people who have a very favorable view of the Lord Jesus from Christ. In fact, The majority of people in the United States of America claim to be followers of Jesus Christ in some way. But if you were to go to those same people and give them the clear gospel of Jesus Christ and what he demands , They will be angered. They will say things like, stop forcing your religion on me, or you can't legislate morality. Or why do you have to be so negative? Or that's not the Jesus that I follow But the only Jesus that exists is the Jesus that is revealed in the pages of Scripture. And the Bible is crystal clear about what he has to say in these matters. I want to ask you to turn with me, please, to a very striking and disturbing passage, Matthew chapter 7. Please. Let's see what the Lord Jesus Christ said himself. Matthew chapter 7, I'd like to begin reading at verse 13. He said, Enter ye in at the straight gates, for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be that go in thereat. Because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves Ye shall know them by their fruits. The men gather grapes of thorns or figs, figs of thistles, even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name have done many wonderful works, then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. And then notice the imagery that he uses to conclude this sermon. Therefore, verse 24, whosoever heareth these things of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man which built his house upon a rock. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the wind blew, and beat upon that house and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. And every one that heareth these things of mine and doeth them not shall be likened unto a foolish man which built his house upon the sand, and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of its And that was the end of the greatest sermon ever preached. Jesus brought them to the point of decision. Is Christ and what he taught? your rock or are you going to build your life on sand? I want you to turn with me to one other passage, John chapter 3, please. John chapter 3 has some of the most famous verses in the Bible in it. I want to begin reading at verse 14. Listen to the word of God. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world. but that the world through him might be saved. He that believeth on him is not condemned. But he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed. in the name of the only begotten Son of God. That raises the question, well then why wouldn't why would so many people not believe? Look at verse 19. And this is the condemnation that light has come into the world and men love darkness. rather than light, because their deeds were evil. For everyone that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved. The reason why people reject the Savior revealed in Scripture is because they love their sin and they will not part with it. I fear that there are a large number of people in this nation and throughout the world and within various churches, even gospel preaching churches. who are not truly born again. They live a lifestyle of iniquity. They have a nominal cultural faith that may provide cover for them in this life, the approval, the acceptance Of the people of God, but it will not save them in the day of judgment. Secondly, I want you to notice that unbelievers reject the message of the gospel. Turn back with me, please, if you would, to our passage in 1 Peter chapter 2. It says, and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. Instead of Christ being their cornerstone, he is to them a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedience. It's interesting to me that this term disobedient here is not the normal Greek term for disobedience. It's a word that means that they are unpersuadable or unteachable You ever gotten into a discussion with someone, and it became very apparent that no matter what evidence you provided, what reasons that you gave, they were not going to believe you. Because they'd already made up their minds. They were unpersuadable. You could give them fact after fact after fact after fact. It didn't matter. Because they weren't going to be teachable. They didn't want to really listen. Oh, they may come in the guise of someone who wants to learn, but they really had no desire to learn. This is a quotation from Isaiah chapter 8 and verse 14. If you can find that easily, I want to invite you to turn with me there, please. Isaiah chapter 8. I'm not going to spend much time here. Isaiah chapter eight and verse fourteen It says, and he shall be for a sanctuary. But for a stone of stumbling, and for a rock of offense, both to the houses of Israel, for a gen and for a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And many among them shall stumble and fall and be broken and be snared and be taken. These verses teach that God will either be a rock of refuge or a stone of stumbling We sang the song this morning. Jesus is the rock in a weary land, a shelter in the time of storm. And of course, this is based on the fact that there are many passages in Isaiah and in the Psalms about God as our rock, as our fortress, as our high towers, the place that we go for refuge, for protection. And this reflects in some ways the topography of the Middle East, where they would not run to under a bunch of trees because they don't have many trees, but they have rocks everywhere. And so you would seek shelter in the cleft of a rock. What does this mean, this rock of a fence? It's a rock that would trip you up and cause you to stumble and fall. In verse 14, it goes even further in this passage and talks about a rock as a gin for a snare. This was a trap that was set for an animal, and the rock was used as the weight to trap its prey. You may say, well, I don't like to think about the Lord Jesus in this light. This seems so negative, that seems so judgmental. I want you to know the Lord Jesus referred to this very passage himself. Would you turn with me to Luke chapter 20? This is not a passage that's on anybody's refrigerator. It's nobody's like verse, but it is the word of God. And we do well to consider it. Luke chapter 20, verses 17 and 18. It says, and he beheld them and said, What is this then that is written, the stone which the builders rejected, the same has become the head of the corner. Psalm 118, verse 22 that we referred to earlier. Now look at verse 18. Whosoever shall fall upon that stone shall be broken. But on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder. This is teaching that those who reject him will be utterly destroyed And this may happen in different ways. They may fall on him and be broken. Or the imagery here is probably of them seeking to pull him down and like a keystone that is an archway above them, that stone of great weight falls on them and crushes them. The point is that to reject the Savior and His gospel is to invite destruction. That's what Jesus was saying to those people that day. It's a very solemn truth for us to consider. And I'd like to invite you, if you're not already there, to turn back to our text, 1 Peter chapter 2, and we'll conclude with this. We find in verse 8 it says describes unbelievers as those who trip over the stone of stumbling and rock of offense. They stumble at the word. Which is probably a reference to the gospel, being disobedience, and then whereunto also they were appointed We see thirdly here that unbelievers are destined to destruction. Now, what does this last phrase in verse 8 mean? Some say it means that those who disobey the gospel do so because God appointed them to destruction. Theologically, this is known as double predestination or the doctrine of reprobation. And there are many Christian scholars over the centuries who have held to this view. They would say that just as God has elected some to believe, so he has elected some to perish eternally. But I think this verse is saying that people who reject Christ are appointed to eternal death. Because they have rejected the only provision for salvation that God has made available. God provided just one Savior, the chief cornerstone. So if you reject him, if you turn from him, if you will not submit to him, you have no hope. Those who reject him will not cling to him as the shelter in the time of storm. They will not survive God 's judgment. And they will perish eternally. I read to you earlier from John chapter 3. The final verse in John chapter 3 is verse 36. And it says, He that believeth in the Son hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see light, but the wrath of God abideth on him. I want you to know that what I've shared with you this morning is not an academic lesson. This is not intended to entertain you. Haven't told you any jokes. Or any heartwarming stories. No, I have tried my best to explain to you what these three verses mean. And the inescapable conclusion that we must all Either follow the Lord Jesus Christ, claim him as our Lord and Savior, the rock of our life, the foundation of our life, the one who is precious to us. Or we must reject him and turn away and go our own way and face utter destruction. The gospel, when it is preached, always divides humanity into two camps, according to 1 Corinthians 1. 18. It says, for the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. When to us which are saved, it is the power of God. So is the gospel that I preach you this morning is this foolishness? I hope that's not your response And I hope that it is. I hope you're alarmed by it. Because that is the response of those who are in the process of perishing. They are headed towards an eternal hell. But unto those who believe, unto those who have graciously received the message of the gospel, it is the power of God unto salvation. What do you think of Jesus? Is he your rock, your fortress? Or is he an annoyance? That keeps you from living the way you would like to live. Can you say from your hearts My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean. On Jesus' name, on Christ, the solid rock I stand, all other ground is sinking sand. May God help you to respond in faith. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the clarity and the beauty of the gospel. We thank you for providing a Savior, our chief cornerstone. our only hope of redemption. And we thank you, Father, for the joy that it is to follow Him. And to walk in fellowship with Him. We pray that you would take your word and use it to alarm and disturb someone today who is lost in their sense. that they would recognize the peril that they are in. They would recognize their need of a savior. And that they would flee to the rock. And they would be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen