If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Matthew chapter 26? Matthew chapter 26. The story many years ago about a veteran pastor who remarked that whenever he was at a ordination council , And the candidate seemed to be overconfident, very sure of himself, that he would question him about his prayer life. Because he said this was a sure way to humble a man. Perhaps there is no area in which we fall short of the glory of God. more than in the matter of our prayer life. Most of us have been taught since we were children the importance of prayer. We know how to pray. We know why we should pray. We own books about prayer. We have heard many sermons about the importance of prayer. Some of us have preached many sermons about the importance of prayer or taught Sunday school lessons about that. We have prayer list and prayer change. We have different uh reminders, uh perhaps on our phones. We have uh huge number of resources available on the internet, things that help us with praying for the persecuted church And for unreached people groups, and yet we failed to pray as we ought. This is exactly the area in which the disciples failed On that night in the Garden of Gethsemane. The disciples failed the Lord in two ways that night in the garden. First, While the Lord was praying, the disciples were sleeping. And when the Lord was arrested, they fled into the night. The garden was a place of bitter struggle and ultimate triumph for the Savior because he did not go As a victim who was surprised and unaware when Judas and the soldiers arrived to arrest him No, he went as a victor triumphant, and in his trials, it was he that sat as a judge over his accusers. The garden was a place of triumph, but for his followers, it was a place that they would rather forget that revealed their failure as believers. I want to speak to you briefly tonight on Christ's loving response to disciples who fail him. Look with me at Matthew chapter 26. And verse 40. It says, and he cometh to unto the disciples and findeth them asleep. And saith unto Peter, What? Could you not watch with me one hour? The first way that the Lord responds to his disciples, his sleepy disciples, who failed him this night was that he graciously convicts them. Of their failure, and he does the same with us. The Lord asks his sleepy disciples this probing question. What? Could you not watch with me one hour? Pastor Nick has said before that accusations harden. But questions convict. And I think that this is a good example of this principle. This was a very convicting question. Just imagine if you were one of these three men And you heard the Savior ask this question. The failure of the Lord's disciples should not cause us to point fingers at them and say, Can you believe it that they failed him in his hour of crisis? But instead, I think it should cause us to think, yes, I fail the Lord just like that. We see in this incident a painful reminder that even the best Christians are prone to spiritual failure. Just consider some of the factors that made this a colossal failure on the part of these three disciples. Consider who failed the Lord. He says, Could ye? And the word ye there is plural, could you all, all three of you? Let me go to the immediate context. Look with me at verse 37. See who he's referring to here. And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death. Tarry ye here and watch with me And he went a little farther and fell on his face and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. The Lord took with him on this night of crisis the inner circle of the disciples. Verse 38. was one of the more alarming statements that they had ever heard when he says, My soul is exceeding sorrowful even unto death. And then we have the words of verse 40, then he cometh unto his disciples and findeth them asleep. And his words, notice, are directed to the leader of even the three, and that was Peter, but it was certainly something that the other two could hear as well. If you look with me up ahead, verse 33, we find the answer, I think, why these were directed to Peter. He says in verse 31 of the same chapter, then saith Jesus unto them, All ye shall be offended, or that is will be caused to stumble. because of me this night, for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad. But after I am risen again, I will go before you into Galilee. Peter answered and said unto him, Though all men shall be offended or shall stumble because of thee, yet will I never be offended Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto you, that this very night before the cock crow thou shalt deny me thrice. And Peter said unto him, though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples. Peter and the other disciples were resolute, that they were determined to follow the Savior, and that nothing could deter them. But when the Lord simply asked them to pray for him, they failed at that task. These three were the leaders of the twelve. These were the best of the best, the cream of the crop. These were men that the Lord Himself had selected and to whom he gave special privilege. It was these three disciples that were with the Lord on the Mount of Transfiguration that had the privilege of seeing his glory. When the glory of the Lord shone out of him, when they saw him, a glimpse of what he looked like before he came to earth in his natural glory. And these three were also with the Lord when he raised Jairus' daughter from the dead And just think of all the other miracles and sermons and events that they had viewed along with the other disciples. They were very privileged men, that they were part of an elite group, and yet they failed the Lord. Sometimes we think in our minds that if we had Access the Lord the way these men did. If we were one of his disciples, if we could see him with our own eyes, if we could touch him with our hands, as John the beloved disciple did, if we could hear his his very voice, his words for ourselves, then our faith would be so strong that we would never fail the Lord's. But that is not the case. These men failed their master in his hour of need, and so do we. The Lord had taught them earlier to whomsoever much is given of him shall much be required. The Lord had the right to expect much more from these men. And yet they failed him miserably. Their status magnifies the enormity of their guilt. And so it does with us. As I mentioned earlier, how many sermons have we heard? How many sermons do you think you've heard in your lifetime? How many Bible verses have you memorized? How many Sunday school lessons? Had you had the privilege of hearing? How many Bibles do you own? We have so many privileges that other people do not possess And yet, how often do we fail the Lord like these sleepy disciples? So it's an amazing failure on their part when we consider who they were, the elite. But also when we consider what they were asked to do, they were simply asked to pray. Luke 22, 40 tells us that as he left to pray alone, he said, Pray that you enter not into Temptation. And here in Matthew 26, 40, he says, Could you not watch? That is, could you not stay awake and pray with me for one hour? My point is the Lord did not ask them to do something incredibly difficult. He simply asked them to pray. The most basic of all the Christian duties. Remember, it's disciples that said to the Lord, Teach us to pray. And he taught them to pray, and he modeled prayer perfectly for them. How many times did they hear him pray? How many times did they pray with him? And yet they failed to pray as they should have. And consider who was asking them to do this. It was the Lord, their master, the man they had followed now for three years, who was asking them to pray with him and for him. The one whom they had lived with and who they had followed, the man who had never failed them, who had always treated them with love. And the man who was very faithful in praying for them. And now he tells them that he is so filled with sorrow that he is about to die. And let me remind you: the Lord is not using hyper hyperbole here. He's not speaking like a little child who's exaggerating the way they feel. What he said was true. This is why we read in Luke's account that the father sent an angel to strengthen him. There was so much pressure on him that night that he literally could have died if he were not sustained by divine help. So in his hour of crisis, he asked them to do something that he has never asked them to do before. This was his personal request. And they failed him in his hour of crisis. Sometimes you will get an urgent prayer request. Perhaps from a family member or a friend, when someone's life is in danger, when something disastrous has occurred. And they ask you to pray personally for that, not talking about a prayer request that goes out from somebody that you've perhaps never heard of in another church you've never met, and you're asked to pray for them. And indeed, we should pray for our brothers and sisters, even that we have never met. But how much more of an obligation do we have when someone who is our friend Someone that we know very, very well, and someone who has personally reached out to us can ask for prayer. This is the case here. This is something that is something that must have lingered with them for some time after the fact when they saw the Lord hanging on the cross. When they realized that they had failed to pray with him just a few days earlier And then consider the duration of the time required. He said, could you not watch with me one hour? I doubt that he is speaking of a literal 60 minutes. People in ancient times. were not nearly as conscious of time as we are. They did not have a wristwatch. We in the West especially are very cognizant and very time conscious and schedule oriented. One of the things that missionaries have great difficulty adjusting to is often when they go to other cultures. They find peoples do not operate like that in most parts of the world. You've heard many of our missionaries talk about that when a church service is scheduled to begin at 11, It might begin anytime within an hour and a half, two hours of that. It'll start when the people get there. They will come. But they're not rushing down the road thinking, I've got to get there because they're going to start right on time. That is completely foreign idea to their culture. And that culture is much closer to the culture of the New Testament. I know for some of you who are very punctual and very schedule-oriented, this may sound like heresy. But the fact is that your timeliness is more a reflection of your culture than it is from the scripture itself. My point is, I don't think the Lord is saying, you know, you guys prayed for about 58 minutes, but I was looking for 60. That's not the case. I suspect that they prayed a very, very short period of time, maybe for a minute or two, and then they drifted off into sleep And then consider the significance of this time period He makes a reference to the hour here, and this will remind the reader of something he says a little bit later in verse 45. He says, sleep on now and take your rest. Behold, the hour is at hand. And the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Many of you know that in John 's gospel , There is a special use made of the term his hour. It is found as many things in the Gospel of John are seven times. Starting with the wedding feast that Cana Jesus spoke of, that his hour had not yet come. And we find that in chapter 2, and in chapter 7, and in chapter 8, until finally we get to chapter 12, and now he says the hour has come. And in the upper room, he makes that profound declaration that the hour has coming as if the entirety of his life has been pointing to this time. when he would die for sinners. This was the beginning of a suffering that would climax in the darkness of Calvary. But this was also, in a sense, the hour of Satan. Century ago there was a great Baptist preacher in Manchester, England, by the name of Alexander McLaren. And he says that at the cross there was the convergence of three great forces: the wickedness of men, the sovereignty of Christ and the power of the devil. The scripture teaches that Satan was indeed involved this very night. He entered into the heart of Judas Iscariot. He sifted all the disciples, and in a few moments would trip up the leading apostle Peter. The Lord said to those who came to arrest him, This is your hour and the power of darkness, Luke 22, 53. These religious hypocrites and Roman soldiers were really the agents of Satan and the host of darkness. As Paul reminds us, we wrestle not against flesh and blood. In Satan's mind, this was his hour, the long-awaited moment when the Son of God would be put to death. It was this hour. But it was the hour when the Son of God would triumph over the powers of darkness. And it was in this hour, this critical moment, really, in the history of the world. that these disciples failed their master and did not pray for him Jesus did not respond, however, in anger or frustration. He simply asked them that question. And it was a question. That was born out of love, out of a desire for them to go on in their spiritual lives. I have a feeling that these three men never forgot that haunting question in the years ahead. How many times did Peter and James and John hear that question in the early hours of the morning? What? Could you not watch with me one hour and roll out of bed and spend some time with the Lord in prayer? So how does the Lord respond to us when we fail him? Well, he graciously convicts us of our sin, and secondly, the Lord graciously reminds us. Of his love for us. The Lord counters this piercing question With a word of admonition in verse 41. Watch and pray that you enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. Christ is helpful to us when we fail him. Like a loving father, Jesus reminds his disciples of the importance of prayer. He reminds them that this is an essential part of the Christian life. And Peter never forgot those words. The man to whom these words were addressed would write his first epistle, and in 1 Peter 4:7, he would say to his hearers, Watch and pray. And in 1 Peter 5. 8, he would say, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. So often the Lord will use our failures to teach us a lesson that we will never forget. The Lord so often reverses and triumphs over Satan's work and our lives. How many Christians have I seen over the years that the greatest catalyst to their spiritual growth was a period of failure that shocked them? That reminded them how far off track they were and how far they could fall. And that event brought them back to their senses and back to the Lord, and they went on much further than they were before. The Lord delights to use our failure as a platform for future spiritual growth. Christ is also sympathetic with his disciples. He says at the end of verse 41, the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. The Lord's not making excuses for their sin. But he is sympathetic to their plight. He acknowledges that they were willing at least to pray for him. It's not that they didn't want to pray. It's not that they didn't intend to pray. It's not that they didn't care at all for their master. But their flesh was weak. They were emotionally drained and exhausted. They had been with the Lord in the upper room, and the Lord disclosed to them that one of them would betray him, and another disciple would deny him, and that he was going away, and these things. were monumental and traumatic for them. They were tired and they failed the Lord. The word flesh is used in several different ways in Scripture. Paul, of course, uses this term to describe our sinful nature, but here the word refers to the body. Christ understood the weakness of the human body. He knew what it was to be hungry and thirsty and tired. I'm not, of course, implying that he ever sinned, but he knew how it feels when you can't seem to keep your eyes open. And this is the very reason that the author of Hebrews exhorts us to come boldly to the throne of grace and prayer because we have a sympathetic high priest. This is one of the purposes and one of the great advantages that come out of the incarnation of the second person of the Trinity. He can sympathize with us. He knows what it is to be rejected and to feel pain and to be tired, and yes, to be discouraged as we see him here in the garden, and therefore he can sympathize with us. Sometimes people think of God as a stern judge without any empathy or sympathy, but this is not the biblical portrait of Christ. We also see here that Christ is patient with disciples who fail him. How many times had these men in the previous three years failed him? And yet he loved them to the very end. A short time earlier in the upper room, we read that when Jesus knew that his hour was come, that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. And even after this gentle rebuke in the Garden of Gethsemane, he comes and checks on them again. Look with me At verses 45 and 46, then cometh he to his disciples and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest. Behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise, let us be going. Behold, he is at him that doth betray me. He says, sleep on now. Perhaps this is a word of irony. Because the very next statement is arise. Or it could be a question, are you sleeping on now and taking your rest at this time? But I prefer to take it as something a parent might say to a child that is about to face a very difficult day, and he says, sleep on, and perhaps there was a short span of time between verses 45 and 46. What is striking is that Jesus does not give up on them. He still takes them with him to meet Judas. And even when they would flee into the night after his resurrection, he would come to them again and greet them with words of joy. Christ is patient. With blundering disciples like you and me. You may come to this table tonight and think, I failed him again. Yes, but he has not cast you away. He is patient and forgiving. And finally, Christ died for disciples who failed him Christ goes out to meet his betrayer and begin the events that would culminate in his death on the cross And on that cross, he would pay the penalty for the sins of those sleepy disciples who failed to watch and pray for him in his hour of crisis. And he paid the penalty for our sins as well. The cross is a humbling reality. It is a stark reminder that we cannot save ourselves, that we need a Savior. And even as mature Christians, the cross reminds us that we still come short of living for the glory of God. I used to think that when I was a young man, that as I got older and matured in my faith And knew God's word better and had more experience that I would just continue to grow and be strong and temptations wouldn't assault me anymore and I wouldn't trip up and fall and it would be smooth sailing. I just needed to get a little more experience and knowledge. But I know that's not the case. The fact is there is never a point in our life where we arrive where we can take a spiritual breather and say, all right, I've made it over those mountains. Now I can relax on this plateau. The fact is, we are always weak. We are always failing the Lord. We are always coming short of his glory. not doing what we know we need to do, not being as faithful as we should in our prayers, in our witness, and in a variety of other things. And still stumbling and tripping over the same temptations in many respects like we have for years. This does not negate the great truths of sanctification, but it does mean something that you see parallel in the natural world You know, when a young person really begins to get serious perhaps about their studies and perhaps they enter college and maybe after they have a semester or two under their belt. You will see them return with a great deal of confidence. I've learned so much. I know exponentially more than I knew a year ago. But then after they've gone and studied in a particular field for a couple more years, they come back and they realize how truly ignorant they are. How little they know. Because a little knowledge is a dangerous thing. There's a parallel to that in our Christian lives. When we begin to seriously follow the Lord, we sometimes are a little bit impressed with how far we have come and how much scripture perhaps we have learned and and and how much more we know than we did just a year or two earlier. And we think we have arrived. But the reality is as you go on in your walk with the Lord, you come to realize how truly ignorant you are and how many simple things you still stumble over. And that's why it's always been in the history of the church that the most spiritually mature people are not ones who feel they have it all together, but those who realize how weak and dependent And insufficient they are apart from the grace of God. The fact is, we still all need a fountain filled with blood. To lose all our guilty sins. We never get beyond the cross. We never get to the place where we don't need to, on a regular basis, go back to the cross and be reminded of what was Transpired for us and reminded that we still today need God 's forgiveness. Let's close in a word of prayer. Father We thank you for your word. Thank you that it speaks to us. We thank you, Father, that you are a God who gently rebukes us. And who demonstrates your love to us in very tangible ways, especially at the cross. We thank you for our great Savior. I pray that you would help Our time spent here tonight to make our hearts tender and pliable and desirous to following our Savior more fully. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.