Turn your Bibles, please, to Luke chapter 8. Luke chapter 8. I really enjoyed hearing you saying, Master the Tempest is raging. That's a song from the time period of a century ago when they had huge evangelistic crusades and they would have the Solbus Trail and they put up these enormous tents. And thousands of people would be there and there would be a very energetic song leader who would try to bring a lot of drama to the song. That uh that song is from that time period and always remembers that Reminds me of that. We have experienced some big storms in the last few weeks. Notice that Hurricane Ida dumped a lot of heavy rain in this area, causing a lot of flooding. And in the two weeks since then, we have had pretty good-sized storms at least one of the days or nights. After that, just this past Thursday evening, I drove home through flooded roads. On 27, it was just like the water was flying up over the sides of my car uh for much of the way. A severe storm can be a fearful prospect. But when a storm comes while you're in a small boat on a body of water, it can be a life or death matter. That is what the disciples experienced one night on the Sea of Galilee. This evening I want us to consider Luke's brief account. of Christ stilling the storm. Turn with me to Luke chapter 8. Begin reading at verse 22. Now it came to pass on a certain day that he went into a ship with his disciples and said unto them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake. And they launched forth. And as they sailed, he fell asleep, and there came down a storm of wind on the lake, and they were filled with water and were in jeopardy. And they came to him, awoke him, saying, Master, Master, we perish. Then he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there was a calm. And he said unto them, Where is your faith? And they being afraid wondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this? For he commandeth even the winds and the water, and they obey him. This miracle is recorded In all three synoptic gospels, it's found in Matthew 8 and in Mark 4 as well. I'll be referring to some of these other accounts briefly throughout the message. Our paragraph begins a unit of mighty miracles in Luke's arrangement of his gospel. You notice in verse 22 he says, it came to pass on a certain day. Very vague reference. He's not trying to give the chronology of when this happened, but he's grouping things thematically. That's what expressed by that wording. We have the maniac of Gadera that follows this. We have Jairus ' 12-year-old daughter mentioned next in Luke 8. 41 following. Then we have the woman with an issue of blood. In Luke's narrative of a miracle, we find a very consistent pattern. This is not an artificial arrangement, but the way that he structures his narrative. First we have the setting of the miracle. That's what we have in verse 22 in our passage. Then we have the problem or need identified. That's what's in verse 23. There was a great storm that came upon them. And then we have, first of all, our Lord's performing of the miracle. That's what we have in verse 24. And then we have the people's response to the miracle. That's what we have in verse 25. And if you were to go through Luke's gospel and look at all the miracles, some of them much longer than this, you would still find that exact same structure. Now, the disciples' fear of the storm is replaced by a fear of Christ. That's how he leaves the reader at the conclusion of this very condensed narrative. What manner of man is this? For he commandeth even the winds and the water, and they obey him. And what Luke wants the reader to do is ask himself that question the disciples ask themselves, what manner of man is this? This is why Luke is providing a collection of our Lord's miracles. He wants his readers to see that Jesus is who he claimed to be the Son of God. Often we think of the Gospels as just biography. And there is very much a biographical element element, but it's not just a biography. They are really biographical tracts that emphasize the death and resurrection of Christ because that takes up a disproportionate amount of all four Gospels. They're racing to get to the end. Because that's the whole meaning of Christ's life, his death and resurrection. But before they get to the end, they are demonstrating to the reader again and again and again clues, testimonies, confessions to the identity of Jesus Christ. And this is what Luke has been doing throughout his gospel. He already has shown that Jesus is the fulfillment of prophecy in numerous ways. He speaks of his unique virgin birth, of his genealogy, of his extraordinary teaching, of his authority over disease, and of his authority over demons And even his authority over death. And now Luke is going to demonstrate, oh yeah, by the way, he has authority over all of creation. And so he's just piling up all of this evidence, and they're just coming one after another to convince the reader, Jesus is the Son of God. Now at this point in the introduction, I want to give you some helpful background information about the Sea of Galilee. Notice in verse 22 Luke refers to it as a lake, and indeed it is. But I want you to know that the Sea of Galilee is not just any old lake, and it's not just the lake where Jesus was. It is absolutely unique among all the lakes of the world. It is virtually the only freshwater lake in this region of the world. It is fed by snow melt from the mountains of Lebanon, mainly Mount Hor. Hermon and from several springs around the area. It has very pure water that to this day supplies over half of the drinking water for the nation of Israel. It's an oval shape, 13 miles by seven miles, and it's one of the world's great fishing holes even today. For instance, in 1896, a fisherman caught 9,200 pounds of fish in one day. More recently, a man pulled in 600 pounds of fish with one cast of his nets. It is the lowest freshwater lake in the world. It is situated 682 feet below sea level. This feature is magnified by the fact the lake is surrounded on three sides by mountains. To the west you have the hills of Galilee that are about 1,500 feet high. To the east you have the Golan Heights that are at a plateau of about 3,000 feet And to the north, you have the mountains of southern Lebanon that rise to nearly 10,000 feet Now, why am I giving you all these geographic facts? Well, because I want you to know that these all contribute to making it the most turbulent lake in the world. The hot, dry winds from the desert plateau blow down into this mixing bowl and collide with the cold moist wind from the mountains of Lebanon. The result is a collision of fronts that produces volatile weather on a regular basis. I've been on the Sea of Galilee. It didn't storm when I was on the sea itself in a boat, but I remember driving by in the late afternoon and seeing storms on the sea. It's a very, very common thing. Now the most severe storms happen in the wintertime, especially in the evening. And that is the setting for what we're reading in Luke's account. In Matthew's gospel, he indicates the chronology of it, that it took place after a very busy day of ministry. And so this journey takes place at night. It's during the winter of the year. And one of these nocturnal storms comes. And it is an extraordinary storm. We know historically that just several years ago there was a storm on the Sea of Galilee that produced ten-foot waves. The ten-foot waves in the ocean are not that extraordinary, but on a freshwater lake, that's unusual. And of course, that's very capable of capsizing A fishing boat. So everything that we see in the biblical record of this body of water, what transpired here, matches with all the scientific facts that we have about this lake. Now, the main point in Luke's gospel narrative of this event is to show the mighty power of God. Thank you, sir. The mighty power of God. And Luke is trying to show by Compiling all of this information that Jesus is the Son of God. But there is a secondary thing taking place in this passage that you probably noticed on, and that is we see the Lord discipling his disciples. And what gives us a great clue to this is the question that he asked at the end when after he stills the storm, he says, Where is your faith? This was a teachable moment. And his disciples did not do very well. Now often in Scripture we find the imagery of a storm As an analogy or a metaphor for the trials and difficulties and afflictions that we face in life. We find this often in our hymns, and we still use it In our speech today. So I want to look at really the secondary purpose of this passage this morning. And ask you what difficulties are you facing right now? I think we see in this passage As our Lord is mentoring and instructing and teaching his disciples, four vital truths for you to remember when you are facing a crisis. The first one is this. Remember that Christ has a purpose in your crisis. Look with me at verse 22. Now it came to pass on a certain day that he went into a ship with his disciples And he said unto them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake. And they launched forth. Notice that it's Jesus who says Let us go over onto the other side of the lake. In other words, my point is the disciples were placed in danger by following the Lord's specific instructions. And we're not told here why they went to the other side of the lake. What we do know was the Lord's ideas. In Mark's account, by the way, we read that there were other little ships that accompanied them on this voyage. So it isn't just Jesus and the twelve in a boat. There were other boats around them experiencing the same storm. Now many scholars and preachers over the years have mentioned that there is uh a faint echo in this passage of another situation we read of in scripture involving a storm at sea and someone going to sleep. And that's Jonah. And I think the point is this We know that Jonah experienced the storm. Why? Because he was running from the Lord's will. But here in our passage, the disciples experience the storm because they're following the Lord's will. So whenever you find yourself in a crisis facing a storm, you should ask yourself, am I in this storm because I'm running from God's will or because I'm doing God's will? And this uh that's a major consideration how you should respond. Obviously, if you're fighting from God's will and running from him, what the first thing you must do is repent and yield to God's. But whether God is correcting you or testing you, the important thing to remember is that God has a purpose. in your storm. And let's get a little more specific. He has a good purpose. You know, often I hear lost people say, you know, there's a reason for everything. It doesn't mean that they believe in God or believe in God's providence, but they believe that things just kind of work out for a reason. We as Christians have a more specific focus. God has a good purpose in my crisis, not just a purpose. You see, God is not capricious when he sends difficulty in our lives. He doesn't look down from heaven and See your family and says, you know, it's been about four years since I sent them really severe trouble. They're due for another one. I think I'll send some their way He doesn't work that way. It's not a matter of luck. It's not that you're on a bad streak The Bible reveals that God is sovereign, He is in control, and He has a good purpose in your trial. The second thing I would say that you must remember is this. Remember that Christ is with you in your crisis. It says in verse 23, as they sailed, he fell asleep. Jesus has had a very full day of ministry. From morning till night, he's been teaching and instructing and counseling and healing, and he's absolutely exhausted. The monotonous motion of the waves of the lake put the Son of God to sleep. This passage reveals just about more clearly than any other the mystery of the incarnation. We read of a man who grows tired and weary just like us. But we also read of a man who has authority over nature and can calm the winds. And the troubled sea. He is indeed the God man. In the other gospel records, we read that he was asleep on a little pillow at the back end of the boat. Luke seems to be intentionally contrasting the peace of the master with the panic of his disciples. This tranquil setting is quickly disturbed. The cool winds of the Lebanese mountains roar down the canyons and ravines and whip up the waters of Galilee. In just a few minutes, the boat begins to fill with water. In our text that says they were filled with water and were in jeopardy. Literally, the original text says they were swamped. Matthew says in this account that the waves covered the boats. You can see these replicas of these fishing boats in Galilee today. They're not that large. They're just large enough for about twelve people. And the sides are not very high So just waves of a few feet height would be lapping over the sides of that boat. Let me remind you of a few facts. If indeed Matthew's implied chronology is correct, then this is in the wintertime. It's at night. It's cold. And they did not have modern survival gear. There were no life jackets. They were probably miles from shore. And the danger of hypothermia was a distinct possibility. These men were not overreacting. Let me remind you that over half of them were fishermen by trade. And they knew this body of water like the back of their hand. They grew up on its shorts. They had been over every square inch literally of that lake. They knew what it was like to weather storms, but they had never experienced a storm like this before. This was an extraordinary storm. Sometimes we have a storm and they will say that was like once in a century kind of storm. Perhaps that's the kind of storm that they experienced that night on the Sea of Galilee. And what we discover here again is that God sometimes will place us in real danger. But what they had forgotten was that Jesus was with them in the boat. And since Jesus was with them, they were safe. We had a line from our hymn that we sung tonight that brings out this truth No waters can swallow the ship where lies the master of oceans and earth and skies. You see, the Lord's presence is the great answer to all of our fears. We find this throughout Scripture. Theologians sometimes call this the Emmanuel principle, God with us. The Lord said to Jacob, who was running from his problems, remember, in Genesis chapter 28, behold, I am with thee, or excuse me, 18, and will keep thee. And the Lord said to Joshua, who was trying to fill the shoes of this legendary figure, Moses He said to him, Be strong and of good courage. Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee Isaiah 41, 10 says, Fear thou not, for I am with thee. David says in the 23rd Psalm, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For thou art with me. And Jesus said to his disciples as he sent them out to the ends of the earth, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the age. And there are many other passages like that that could be quoted. The Bible says from cover to cover that the answer to our fear and our panic is to recognize the presence of the Lord with us. us. And the only way you can have that presence is if he indeed is your personal Lord and Savior. The third truth that we need to remember when we are facing a crisis is this. Remember that Christ has the power to deliver you From your crisis. And here we come really to a very interesting passage that speaks to his power. Look at verse 24. And they came to him and awoke him, saying, Master, Master, we perish. Then he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there was a calm Finally, someone has the bright idea of waking up the master. And they do so with desperation in their voices. Luke records, they said, Master Master. Mark, it says teacher, teacher. And in Matthew, it says Lord, Lord. There's no discrepancy here. We have different disciples shouting different things. And all of these are expressions of a subordinate to a superior. Obviously, they believe that Jesus can do something. We don't know how long they waited to seek the Lord's help. But it seems to have been a last resort as the boat was filling up and getting ready to go down into the depths. Then they wake up the Lord. We often are like that, aren't we? We do everything we can And when all of our schemes and resources are depleted, we turn to the Lord for help instead of turning to Him. Right at the beginning, as the hymn writer puts it, oh, what peace we often forfeit, oh, what needless pain we bear, all because we do not carry everything to God in prayer. And we're going to come to the Lord's rebuke in a minute, but I want you to know that the Lord does rescue them. Don't ever think That because you have perhaps failed the Lord in some way, that you can't go to the Lord. That He's like, nope, nope, you really disappointed me. I'm not going to help you at all. Our Lord doesn't work that way. Christ will not turn you away. We must come to Him and seek Him Then we read really the climax of this passage. Then he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there was calm. It's interesting that he says that he rebuked the wind. This is the term used for him rebuking a fever earlier in the gospel, of rebuking demons, and now the howling wind. Mark tells us that he uttered the words, peace be still, that were in our hymn tonight. Literally, hush or be muzzled. Be still. Luke says there was a calm. And Matthew and Mark says that it became perfectly calm. The white caps instantly leveled out to form a sea of glass. The swirling hurricane-type winds left as quickly as they came. And the record of all three writers is that instantly the waters became tranquil. And this we know is a miracle because turbulent waters do not become calm instantly. There's still a lot of energy in motion, and it takes a while for water to settle down, but at the Lord's command, everything was still. And the same Lord that stilled the raging waters can bring peace to a troubled heart. And so we see here that indeed it's a matter of faith for us to trust in him, to bring him our needs And to believe that he indeed will rescue us. Because God delights to deliver. Now, fourthly, we find in our passage that we need to remember that Christ is testing your faith through your crisis. And I have a question to ask you. Look with me at verse 25. And he said unto them, Where is your faith? My question is this, do you think that Jesus is being a little harsh in rebuking his disciples for their lack of faith? Let's think about this for a moment. It's nights. It's probably cold because it's likely during the winter. It would have been very, very, very dark out there on that lake. They did not have electricity. The waves were actually breaking over the small fishing vessel. The boat is nearly full of water, and they are about to be capsized into cold, dark waters that would likely result in hypothermia and death. And Jesus says to them, Where is your faith? In Matthew 8:26, we read Jesus asking, Why are you fearful? He probably said one right after the other. What would you think about that question? What do you think about it even as you read this narrative? Is the Lord being a little unreasonable and harsh? I mean it's pretty obvious why they are fearful, is it not? They are about to die. I'm going to suggest to you that one thing we learned from this incident. Is that the Lord has high expectations for his followers? I think we often confuse the fact that our Lord is merciful. And gracious and kind with the broken to mean that He will simply always excuse our lack of faith and our unbelief and our constant failures. And so we say to ourselves, well, he knows we're human, we're but dust, so you know God's going to give me a pass. He knows I fail him all the time. You do fail him all the time, but you know what? The Lord expects you as you have received further revelation. And as you have grown in your walk with God, and as he has delivered you again and again, he expects you to learn and to grow and to trust him more. Now, why does the Lord expect his disciples to face this crisis without panicking? I want to suggest at least two reasons. Number one, consider what the disciples have witnessed in their last year of ministry with the Lord. Alright? Just this last year that they've been with him. They have seen Jesus first of all turn the water into wine, his first recorded miracle. They have seen him feed the 5,000 with a little boy's lunch. They have witnessed numerous demons being cast out of possessed people. They have seen Jesus open the eyes of the blind and open the ears of the deaf. These disciples have witnessed those with deformed limbs and those who were unable to walk whose limbs were atrophied. They were like broom handles because they'd never gotten any use or exercise. And instantly they were restored whole and they could stand up and they could walk. That does not happen naturally. That has to be a miracle They have experienced a miraculous catch of fish. Recently, they saw a dead man at Nain come back to life. What is my point? God expects us to grow in our faith as we walk with Him. He expected His disciples to be much further along than they were a year before. Let me ask you this morning, what has the Lord done in your life? Has he answered some of your prayers in the past in amazing ways? Has he delivered you from situations that you thought were hopeless? And yet by his grace he found the way. And he brought you up and set your feet upon the rock. Has the Lord brought you through incredible heartaches in the past? Have you witnessed the Lord change a person's life? Have you seen it, God, at work, and the hearts of your children or your grandchildren? Have you seen God change your spouse? What have you seen God do in all the years that you've been walking with Him? I think that those of us who have known the Lord for years could give testimony after testimony after testimony of God's mighty work in our lives. And yet so often our trust is not commensurate with that. The same God who's delivered you in the past who 's been gracious and merciful to you before has not changed, and he will not fail you now. But there is another reason the Lord rebukes his disciples on this occasion. And that is because they should have been able to apply the Old Testament scriptures to their circumstance. Perhaps you would say, What scriptures? Let me read some to you Psalm 65 in verse 7 says that God filleth the noise of the seas, the noise of waves, and the tumult of the people. In Psalm 89 in verse 9, we read, Thou rulest the raging sea when the waves thereof arise, thou stillest them. In Psalm 106 and verse 9, it says, He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up. So he led them through the depths as through the wilderness. But probably the most lengthy scripture in the Old Testament that touches on this is found in this psalm that that has an historical viewpoint of the kind of situations that God rescues his people from. Psalm 107, I'm going to begin reading at verse 23. You don't have to turn there if you don't want, but Psalm 107, verse 23, it says this. They go down to the sea in ships. That do business in great waters. These see the works of the Lord and the wonders in the deep, for he commanded and raised the stormy s wind which lifted up the waves thereof. They mount up to the heaven, they go down again to the depths. Their soul was melted because of trouble. They reel to and fro and stagger like a drunken man and are at their wit's end. Then they cry unto the Lord and their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses. He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still The Old Testament reveals that God does these amazing things, that the Yahweh, who made a covenant with his people, is sovereign of the seas. And what our Lord is saying to his disciples, you should have equated that what Yahweh does in the Old Testament, I do today. Because he is God in flesh. Now where do they fail the Lord? They failed the Lord in this matter of faith. This doesn't mean that they were unbelievers and they had no faith. They didn't know anything about his extraordinary abilities. They had witnessed this again and again, as I've mentioned. What it means is they failed to apply their faith to their current situation, as if they knew nothing about him. And that's so often what we do, isn't it? We react rather than reflect We respond out of our native fears rather than coming to grips. Wait a minute, the Lord's with me And he's not going to abandon me. And he has a purpose, a good purpose in all of this. So how would you know if you're not facing your crisis with faith? First of all, number one, you're living in a state of panic. State of absolute panic that just paralyzes you. Makes you want to dig a hole and bury yourself. God does not desire that his children live this way. As I mentioned in a recent message, this is One of the reasons that we find again and again in Scripture the most common command is fear not. Why is that? Because we're often afraid if we're honest. But there's a second evidence that you're not responding in faith. I want you to turn to with me to Mark's account. Mark chapter 4, if you would please. Mark chapter 4. And verse 38. Mark records something that Luke does not. That's very significant. In Mark 4 38 it says, And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow, and they awake him and say unto him, Master Carest thou not that we perish? And of course, that line was in the hymn that we sang together. this evening. You see, an improper response to a crisis is you interpret that crisis to mean that God doesn't care for you. He doesn't really love you. I must not be one of his favorites because if if I was one of his favorites, then he would have delivered me right away before anything fearful or dangerous occurred And I'm going to interpret the crisis that I'm facing to mean he doesn't really care for me. So often, Christian people interpret their circumstances in this light. They might hear Christians give testimony about God, how God has wonderfully delivered them, and they start to reflect and think, well, God doesn't seem to deliver me that way, or God's not delivering me that way now. It must mean that God doesn't really care for me. The disciples were interpreting our Lord's sleep as indifference, which it most certainly was not. And so often Christians feel that God's given up on them and they may throw a pity party, feel sorry for themselves, or they come to the conclusion that God only cares for truly advanced Christians. You know People who are pastors and missionaries. God cares about them and delivers them, but not somebody like me. These are all lies from Satan So often our problem comes to this. We believe the lies of Satan more than we believe the truth of God. And we allow the lies of Satan to gain a foothold in our thinking, and then we just have those things that that thought, that lie, cycling through our brain night and day. God doesn't care for me. God's given up on me. God 's not going to deliver me. And all of it is false. Remember, the Bible calls him the father of lies. He loves to slander God, not only the brethren. We know we have a verse for that, but he also slanders God to his people. It causes them to doubt the very nature of their relationship with the Lord So what are we supposed to do about this? What do we do if indeed you're in a crisis tonight? And you'd have to nod your head and say, Yeah, I've been listening to the lies of Satan more than the promises of God. What should you do? Number one, you should resist the lies of Satan. And number two, bathe your soul in the words of God. Words like this: I will never leave thee nor forsake thee I am with thee to deliver thee. Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me, and a whole host of other promises to the people of God You must fill your mind with these promises instead of meditating upon your fearful lies. So why do the disciples fail despite all of their advantages? I don't know about you, but I haven't seen anybody raised from the dead lately. They had, they were incredible eyewitnesses to the most spectacular miracles in the history of the world, and yet they still are doubting the Lord's. They failed the same reason that we fail. They failed to apply their faith to the situation. They responded in the flesh. We might say it this way: they responded naturally. But God has called on us as Christians to respond to a crisis supernaturally. How do we do that? We must remind ourselves what we know to be true. You've heard me give this advice before, and it's not unique to me. But I'm going to say it again. You need to stop listening to yourself and start talking to yourself. When you find yourself in a panic and you say, oh, this is the worst thing that's ever happened to me, and I'm never going to get through this, and my life is virtually over, and God doesn't care about me, and you say all these thoughts going through your head. You need to stop it. And you say, wait a minute, this is not true. This does not fit with the promises of God. These are all lies from the wicked one who's trying to destroy me. You need to get a hold of yourself and remind yourself of what God has said. Remind yourself that God has a beneficial purpose for you in this trial. You need to remember yourself that God is with you each step of the way. Just like Jesus was in that boat, he will not abandon you. And remember that Christ has the authority to dismiss your problem and bring peace to your soul. And you need to remind yourself that this trial is a test of your faith. And you must hear the words, where is your faith? You see, you have an opportunity in your crisis. To demonstrate that Christ is worthy of your trust. And what a powerful testimony that can be to the believers in their life. and even the unbelievers. We have an example of a believer's self-talk In the scriptures, many places. Bless the Lord, all my soul, and all that is within me. Bless his holy name. Why do the psalmist say that? Because he's taking himself in hand as it were and saying, this is what I'm going to do. I don't feel like it right now, but I am going to bless the Lord. And we have an example of this in one of our beloved hymns. I want you to listen to this carefully. I want you to listen to how the hymn writer is talking to herself. Be still, my soul. The Lord is on thy side. Bear patiently the cross of grief or pain. Leave to thy God to order and provide. In every change He faithful will remain Be still my soul, thy best, thy heavenly friend, through thorny ways leads to a joyful end. Be still my soul, thy God doth undertake. To guide the future as he has the past. By hope, by confidence, let nothing shake. Now all mysterious shall be bright at last. Be still, my soul, the waves and winds still know his voice who ruled them while he dwelt below. Be still, my soul. The hour is hastening on when we shall be forever with the Lord, when disappointment, grief, and fear are gone, sorrow forgot. Love's purest joys restored. Be still, my soul, when change and tears are past, all safe and blessed We shall meet at last. There is someone who is applying their faith. They are taking what they know to be true from the Word of God. And they are telling them and rehearsing those truths to their own mind and soul. And that's what we must do when we are facing a crisis. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you that it's always profitable. that it's always relevant. I pray that you would use the passage that we've looked at tonight to minister to the people that are here and to those who might listen to the sermon later. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Ama sick