One of my favorite chapters in the Bible is Isaiah 53, is of course the most significant Old Testament text that speaks of the vicarious suffering of our Savior says that he would be despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And then the reason is given for his suffering in that passage. It says, surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. Jesus suffered in our behalf. I wonder if you know how this great passage concerning our Lord's suffering begins. It actually begins in Isaiah 52 in verse 13, where we read these words, Behold, my servant shall deal prudently, he shall be exalted and extolled. and be very high. Isaiah wanted the reader to know at the start of this sublime passage Concerning the suffering of Jesus, that this was not some great tragedy, but it was in fact a triumph. And so he begins that passage of suffering. with an expression of the exaltation of Jesus Christ that says he would be exalted and extolled and very high. And many Bible scholars think that those three stages of exaltation are reflecting three stages of exaltation that we find in our text today. Turn with me if you're not already there, to 1 Peter chapter 3, and the last verse in that chapter, verse 22. Peter often quotes from Isaiah 53, because this passage helps us to better understand the nature of our Lord's suffering. Jesus' suffering was not arbitrary or aimless. It was part of God's sovereign plan of redemption. And the suffering that we face in our lives is also part of His plan. And the book of 1 Peter is all about God's grace and our suffering. And so on two occasions in the book of 1 Peter , We find our writer pointing to the Lord Jesus Christ as the ultimate example of suffering. In chapter 2 and verse 21, he says, For even hereunto were you called Because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow his steps, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. And then in 1 Peter 3 and verse 18, he returns to our Lord's pattern of suffering once more. And he says, for Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust. that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit, by which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison. which sometime were disobedient when once the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was of preparing, wherein few that is eight souls were saved by water. The like figure whereunto even baptism also now doth save us, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And then verse 22, who is gone into heaven and is on the right hand of God, angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto Him. This passage speaks of Christ's triumph over suffering. Last week we looked at what I said were some of the most difficult verses to interpret in the Bible. While the meaning of the details may be debatable, the overall message is clear. Jesus triumphs over all. He was triumphant. Even in his unjust crucifixion, the only innocent man that ever lived was executed by a corrupt political and religious system. But this was not a senseless tragedy. But God's eternal plan whereby unjust, sinful people like us could be saved by our just substitute, the Lord Jesus Christ. And therefore, God could declare repentant sinners like us to be not guilty, but righteous in Christ. Jesus also triumphed by rising from the dead and declaring his victory over the disobedient spirits. This seems to be the best understanding of verse 19, although you're free to disagree with me. And he also triumphed through the salvation of sinners. We see all throughout the Old Testament this gospel, the scarlet thread of redemption. From Adam and Eve going all the way through the days of Noah as he saved those eight souls and the ark coming through until we come to the cross. Now, the concluding verse of this chapter is summarizing what Peter has been saying, that the unjust suffering that his readers have experienced is nothing new and it's something that their savior experienced himself and he triumphed over his suffering. And so can they, and so can us, so can we. Our Savior's triumph over suffering should inspire us to face our own suffering. Now I mentioned to you that this passage, verse 22, has within it these three stages of exaltation of our Savior, and I want us to look at these together this morning. The first thing I want us to consider is Christ's triumph in his resurrection. This is something that Peter has mentioned before in this epistle. At the very beginning in the introduction in chapter 1 and verse 3, he says, Blessed be God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope. by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. And verse 18 of chapter 3 that I read a moment ago, it says at the conclusion of that verse that he was quickened by the Spirit. He was made alive by the Spirit, which is a reference to his resurrection Baptism is mentioned in verse 21 as a picture of Jesus' death, burial, and resurrection. And we see in the closing phrase in verse 21, it says, by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. This was the triumph of our Lord and Savior. But how has the resurrection of Jesus Christ. . Really . made a difference in our life. What difference does it make? Something that occurred so long ago. Well, the scriptures mention that there were several foes who were defeated by the resurrection. And we will just consider two of these this morning. I want you to turn with me. We'll return to 1 Peter, but I want you to turn with me to the last book of the Bible, Revelation. And I'm going to look at Revelation chapter 1, verses 17 and 18. This records The words of John the Apostle, who is experiencing a vision on the Isle of Patmos, he is seen An incredible vision of the ascended Lord. And he says, and when I saw him, verse 17, I fell at his feet as dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not. I am the first and the last. I am he that liveth And was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And have the keys of hell and death. We see first of all here that Jesus is triumphant over death. He says he has the keys to hell and death. A person who has keys is a person of authority. Jesus Christ has authority over the ultimate issues of life and death. The Bible tells us that there are several kinds of death. We primarily think, of course, of physical death And Jesus has authority over physical death. That is what was exemplified in his resurrection from the dead. What an enemy death is to humanity. How much sorrow and pain does death bring to our lives? But Jesus' resurrection defeated death. And 1 Corinthians chapter 15, that great chapter of the resurrection, it says For he must reign until he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. Later in that chapter it says, O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? We don't need to fear death as Christians because Christ has conquered death through his resurrection from the dead. This reality has enabled many thousands of Christians throughout the centuries to die with courage. But he is also sovereign over spiritual death. It says here that he has the keys of hell. This word here is Hades. It's used some 11 times in the New Testament. Hades is a temporary destination. At the close of Revelation chapter 20, we read one of the most striking and solemn passages. In all of Scripture. In Revelation chapter 20, I'm going to begin reading at verse 12. It says, and I saw the dead. small and great, standing before God. And the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them. And they were judged every man according to their works. And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. The reference to hell here is a reference to the term Hades. We see that Hades was cast into the lake of fire, which is Gehenna. the permanent dwelling of those who are lost. This is one of the most terrifying paragraphs in the Bible. And it is intended to help us to take a real look at ourselves and our hearts. Before we can really receive the good news of the gospel, we have to receive the bad news. And the bad news is that we are all sinners. The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, every one of us is a sinner. The Bible further teaches that the consequence of this fact is that we all die. It says the wages of sin is death. But it also goes on to say, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord, the only one who can keep you from facing the ultimate death of hell. Is the Lord Jesus Christ? He has the authority over hell. Have you trusted in Jesus Christ as your Savior? Have you considered the promise? Of Romans 10 :9, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in thy heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved in the resurrection of Christ. We have victory over death. But Jesus' resurrection not only triumphs over death, but it triumphs over the devil. The fact is the devil was very active at the crucifixion of Christ. We read that Satan entered into the heart of Judas Iscariot to empower him. to betray his Lord, not that Judas was an innocent man. No, he invited that kind of satanic activity. We also read that Satan was behind Peter's denial of Christ in Luke 22, 31. Jesus tells Peter that Satan has desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat. And when the religious leaders came to arrest Jesus in the garden, he says, this is your hour and the power of darkness. He is saying that the power that was enabling those religious leaders to come in the nights and arrest Jesus was satanic. Satan marshaled all of his dark forces to kill the Son of God, not realizing that his apparent victory at Calvary was the beginning of his destruction. At the cross, the most ancient prophecy was fulfilled. It shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Genesis 3. 15 The cross dealt a fatal blow to Satan, which would become apparent at Jesus' resurrection from the dead. Did you know That Christianity is the most optimistic religion in the world. Did you know that? It's true. If you were to study other religions, you would find that there is often a very somber and dark and hopelessness. And their hope for some type of salvation. But that is not so with Christianity. It is Religion. It is the truth that emphasizes joy, that emphasizes hope, that emphasizes a glorious future for the people of God. It proclaims that Jesus has defeated all of our foes through his death and resurrection. Now I would invite you to turn with me back, please, to 1 Peter 3 and verse 22. We see that Jesus was exalted in his resurrection. Now I want us to consider his triumph in his ascension. It says in the first phrase in verse 22: who was gone in to heaven? This is a brief reference to the ascension of Christ, the second stage of his exaltation. We don't speak of the ascension of Christ that often because it seems to be overshadowed by the resurrection. In fact, you've probably never heard a sermon on the ascension of Christ. But it is an important doctrine for us to consider. You don't need to turn here, but I want to read an ancient What is probably an ancient creed for you found in Scripture, it's in 1 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 16 And it says, and without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness, referring to the incarnation of Christ. God was manifest in the flesh justified in the Spirit, seen of angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up into glory. And that last phrase is obviously a reference to the ascension of the Lord Jesus Christ. But what is the significance of the ascension of Jesus? How does it reveal his triumph? Well, let me mention several things. First of all, it marks the return of Jesus to the glories of heaven. I think we almost never think of this. But the incarnation of Christ was a great act of condescension. He left the glories of heaven. where he had dwelt from eternity past in perfect communion with his father and with the angels that surrounded him. And he came from that perfect habitation. To take on human flesh and be born in Bethlehem and be laid in a manger. 2 Corinthians 8 and verse 9 puts us this way, though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor. that ye through his poverty might be rich, not referring, of course, to material wealth, but to the riches of his grace. But now that period of humiliation is over, and Christ has returned to his heavenly home. And someday we will join him in that place of love, joy, and peace. Do you remember what Jesus said to his disciples, who were very troubled and agitated the night before his death? He said to them, In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go and prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. One of the great glories of heaven is that there's no more suffering there. In Revelation 21 and verse 4, we find these comforting words. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. And there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor cry, neither shall there be any more pain for the former things. Are passed away. We live in a world that is filled with suffering. Because of the fall. God didn't make it this way. There's not a defect in his creation. But because of the fall of Adam and Eve, the curse has gone over our entire planet, and so there is suffering. And there is sorrow. As I look out at our assembly here today, every person here has some level and some aspect of suffering in their lives. Most of you, I don't really know perhaps what your suffering is. Some of you I do because you've shared it with me. But even then, you've only shared a small portion of the suffering in your life. What suffering vexes your soul today? Perhaps it's physical pain. There are people that come here every Sunday, sit in these pews. And they come out of sheer determination because it is a painful prospect to get up and to come to church There are others who come here with great emotional pain. Your heart is troubled and torn, and you come here for healing and for relief. And there are others who come with relational pain because of strains in those who are close to you. I want you to know that if you truly know the Lord as your Savior, your suffering will someday cease. That is the promise of God. If you can grasp that wonderful truth , It will give you light even in the darkness of today. Secondly, the ascension of Christ strikingly reveals the universal lordship of Christ. Peter understood this only a few days after this occurred, because we find it in Peter's early sermons as recorded. in the book of Acts. Turn with me if you would, please keep a finger here, but turn with me to the book of Acts. Acts chapter 2. This of course is the sermon that was given at the day of Pentecost. What I consider to be the first truly Christian sermon. Acts chapter 2 and verse 32. This is what Peter says. He says, this Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we are all witnesses. Therefore, being by the right hand of God exalted, and having received of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost, he has shed forth this which ye now see and hear. For David is not ascended into the heavens. But he saith himself, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand until I make thy foes thy footstool. Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God hath made that same Jesus whom ye have crucified, both Lord and Christ. The ascension of Christ reveals in a powerful way that He is Lord over all. He is Lord over demonic spirits. He is Lord over the church. He is Lord over the gifts that he graciously gives to his people, according to Ephesians chapter 4, verses 8 through 10. But the ascension of Christ thirdly reminds us that he is coming again. I want you to look with me at the most complete record of his ascension, which is found in Acts chapter 1. Turn with me to Acts chapter 1. And verse six, Acts chapter one, verse six. It says, when they therefore were come together, they ask of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power. But ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria and under the uttermost parts of the earth. And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight, and while they were looking steadfastly toward heaven, As he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus which is taken up from you into heaven shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. What an amazing event this is. Let's not forget that Peter, who wrote the words that we're studying this morning, saw this with his own eyes. He was an eyewitness. of that amazing event. He saw the Lord rise up right before him and majestically pass through the clouds out of their sight. Into heaven. How amazing it must have been to witness that. But I want you to notice the application that the angels made on this occasion. They say, this same Jesus which is taken up from you into heaven shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven I want you to notice here that the return of Christ is not a Christian myth or fantasy. It is part of revealed truth. These angels declared, as certainly as Jesus went up into the heavens, so he would return again. What does that mean? Well, I think it obviously means that he will return physically because he ascended physically before their very eyes. Just as Jesus ascended in his glorified body, so Jesus will return in his glorified body. And the scriptures say that every eye shall see him. He will come physically, and he will come visibly, and he will come majestically. The scriptures reveal that he will come in power and great glory. This is something that we need to consider and think about and anticipate. I fear that so often we never think about it as a reality. We think about it as something that certainly is in Scripture, but not something that could ever happen in our lifetime. Or that perhaps we don't even imagine it as an historic event that will occur, but the scriptures tell us as certain as Jesus went up into the heavens, so he will come again. And this should be the believer's hope. Now thirdly, I want you to consider Christ's triumph in his session. Now, perhaps you're not familiar with the term session. This is the theological term for the ruling of Christ. at the right hand of his father. This is the third stage of his exaltation. We have his resurrection, his ascension, and then his session. Now my apologies to our left-handed friends, but in the ancient world, the right hand was the right hand, was the hand of honor, of power, and of authority. If you were at the right hand of the king, you had the most enviable position imaginable. It was a position of influence. of power and meant that the king had absolute trust in you, that he listened to your advice, that he delegated much to you. And so this is where we consistently read in Scripture of our Lord's exaltation to the right hand of the Father. And this, of course, is the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. We read this earlier in Peter's sermon in Psalm 110, verse 1, it says, the Lord said unto my Lord, there are two different Hebrew words. We have the word Yahweh, and then we have the word that refers to Christ. Sit thou at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. Jesus used this verse to demonstrate his own deity. Turn with me please to Matthew chapter 22. Matthew chapter 22. And I want to begin reading at verse 41. Matthew 22, verse 41. While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, saying, What think ye of Christ? Whose son is he? And they say unto him, the son of David. And he said unto them, How then doth David in spirit call him Lord, saying, the Lord said unto my Lord, sit thou on my right hand till I make thine enemies thy footstool. If David then called him Lord, how is he his son And no man was able to answer him a word, neither dost any man from that day forth ask him any more questions. The Lord went back to Psalm 110 and demonstrated that those words speak of his own deity. And therefore, a reference to his session at the right hand of the Father. Now I want to invite you to turn with me a few pages ahead to Matthew 26. Verses 63 and 64, this is a record of our Lord during his trial right before his crucifixion. Matthew 26 verse 63. It says, but Jesus held his peace And the high priest answered and said unto him, I adjure thee by the living God that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus saith unto him, Thou hast said, Nevertheless, I say unto you, hereafter shall ye see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. Jesus quoted this reality as a demonstration of his sovereignty and this wonderful truth. Strengthened and encouraged the early believers as they faced severe persecution. I know I'm having you turn to a lot of scriptures this morning, but please bear with me. Turn with me now to Acts chapter 5. Acts chapter 5 records some of the first persecution that the early church experienced. And Peter, of course. was one of the recipients of this suffering. Look with me in Acts chapter 5 and verse 25. Now the context here is the disciples have already been arrested for preaching in his name. They have been asked not to do so anymore, but they say we can't obey you. We have to obey God. And so they are out preaching again. Verse 25, then came one of one and told them, saying, Behold, the men whom ye put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people. And when the captain with the officers brought them without violence, for they feared the people lest they should have been stoned, and when they had brought them, they set them before the council, and the high priest asked them, saying Did not we straightly command you that ye should not teach in this name? And behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intend to bring this man's blood upon us Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than men. The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom he slew and hanged on a tree. Him hath God exalted with his right hand to be a prince and a savior, for to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness. And you'll notice his reference here to the fact that Christ at that time was at the right hand of the Father. You see, Peter lived what he preached when he wrote this epistle. The exaltation of Christ to the Father's right hand was not a theoretical truth. It was a practical truth that emboled him to speak boldly in his name. It's no wonder that when the first martyr, Stephen, was being stoned to death, he cried out, Behold, I see the heavens open, and the Son of God standing on the right hand of the Father. But what is Jesus doing at the right hand of his father? What is the significance of the session of Christ? There are several things I want to mention briefly. One is that Christ's session reminds us that He is interceding for us. We read of this several times in Scripture. The Lord told Peter the night before his crucifixion that he was praying for him. And that was not a one-time event because we read in Romans chapter 8 and verse 34, who is he that condemneth? This Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. What a comfort this is. Have you ever thought about that in the depths of your trial And the difficulties that you're facing, that the Lord Jesus Christ may be at that moment praying and interceding on your behalf at the very right hand of the Father. What a comforting thought that is. How that would strengthen us and encourage our hearts if we would accept it by faith and believe it as taught in Scripture. We are taught, of course, in the book of Hebrews, specifically in Hebrews chapter 4, that we have a sympathetic high priest. This is not a cold and calculating prayer that he makes for us. We have a sympathetic high priest who knows what it is to be tempted, to face difficulty. To live on this earth as a human being, he knows what it is. He is the God man, he is our great high priest, and he is there, and therefore he calls us to come boldly before his throne of grace. In our temptations and struggles and suffering, we have a faithful intercessor, one who is praying for us. What a wonderful thing that it is. You know, one of the ways that we minister to one another as Christians, as we say to you, to individuals who are facing a crisis, I want you to know I'm praying for you. And that is a wonderful thing that is a comfort. Some of you here have faced a crisis before And we've had prayer go out through the whole church. And you know what it is to experience and to realize that all of your brothers and sisters are banding together to pray for you. You know the comfort that that gives you as a follower of Jesus Christ. And I am not at all minimizing that, but how much greater to think that your Lord and Savior at the right hand of the Father is praying for you. What a comfort that is. I want you to also notice that the session of Christ reminds us That our sins have been forgiven. If you can find it easily, I would invite you to turn with me to Hebrews chapter 1. I love the way this book begins. This book, which is probably an early sermon It is structured in the form of a sermon, but in Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 3 we read of the exaltation of our Savior. It says who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person and upholding all things by the word of his power when he had by himself purged our sins Sat down on the right hand of the majesty on high. Do you see the significance of that? Did you know that in the tabernacle there wasn't a chair for the priest to sit down on? Because their work was never done. They were always working, always performing sacrifices. The Bible details all the furniture that was there. There wasn't a chair. They were literally on their feet all day. But we read of a contrast here when Jesus finished his work of atonement. He sat down. Because there was nothing more to do. It was complete. It was finished. This is one of the things that the session of Christ reminds us that his work was effective, that was accomplished, his sacrifice was received. He has finished that work. He is no longer on the cross. He is at the right hand of the Father. And he is seated there. This is amplified again later in the book of Hebrews. Hebrews 10:12 says, But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God 's. This is the ground of our acceptance. It's not your performance. It's not how well you're doing in the Christian life. It's not how consistent you are in your devotions or how often you pray for others. Or even how regular you are to church, although I'm certainly in favor of that. That is not the ground of your acceptance, however. Is what Christ has done. And so often we spend so much time looking at our weak and inconsistent Christian walk. And we feel disgusted by it. And well we should But it's a reminder to us that our assurance cannot be rooted in what we have done, but what he has done on our behalf. And the fact that he is seated at that position of authority, that his atoning work is complete, that there is no more sacrifice needed should give us great assurance of our standing before the Father. The session of Christ also should remind us to live for Him. Colossians chapter 3, we read these wonderful and memorable words. If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. where Christ sitteth at the right hand of God. Set your affections on things above, not on things of the earth. His session at the right hand should remind us that He is our Lord and Savior, that He has authority over our lives, that we are not our own, that we have been bought with a price. And therefore, we should live our lives for him. But now I want to invite you, if you're not already there, to turn back with me to 1 Peter chapter 3. And verse 22, where we start it. I want you to notice the application that Peter makes here of the session of Christ. He says, who has gone into heaven and is on the right hand of God, that's the session, angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him. So the fourth implication I see from the session of Christ is it reminds us that Jesus is sovereign over all spiritual beings. The Bible tells us that there are spiritual beings out there. In our materialistic age, we rarely give this a thought. But the Bible tells us there is an unseen world. The Bible tells us that there are angels who do the Lord's bidding. strengthen us and help us and encourage us. But the Bible also tells us that they are demons. And that they seek to hinder us, seek to destroy us, and are under the authority of Satan to some degree. But ultimately they are under the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ, and they cannot do a thing to us without his permission. Now, what exactly does Peter have in mind when he says these words? Well, Jesus is certainly sovereign over all spiritual beings, both good and bad, both angels and demons. But what Peter probably has in mind here is Jesus' authority over the forces of darkness, specifically the devil and his demons. I say that because this is what Peter referred to in context here in verse 19. And it's also what we find in many other New Testament passages in Colossians chapter 2. In verse 15, it says that Jesus spoiled principalities and powers. He made a show of them openly triumphing over them. Christ gained the ascendancy and the indisputable authority over all wicked spirits at the cross. And it was confirmed at his resurrection. In Ephesians chapter 1, we read something of the power and authority of Christ in this regard. Ephesians chapter 1, and I'm going to begin reading at verse 19. It says, and what is the exceeding greatness of his power to us word who believe according to the working of his mighty power, which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead and set him at his own right hand. There's the session in heavenly places. far above all principality and power and might and dominion and every name that is named not only in this world but also which is in the world to come. And he has put all things under his feet. And gave him to be head over all things to the church. And you remember that the Apostle Paul returns to this matter of principalities and powers at the very conclusion of this book. Which, by the way, we started a study on Wednesday nights on spiritual warfare. But in Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 12, Paul writes, For we wrestle not against flesh and blood. But against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. This reference to principalities and powers and rulers and so forth is talking about various hierarchies of demonic spirits. They are well organized. It's probably a very, very good thing that we are ignorant of these things, that we do not see them or perceive them. How terrified would we be? If we saw demonic forces in our daily lives, we would be horrified and paralyzed with fear. God in his wisdom has made these things invisible to us. But we need to accept his word that indeed they are there and that this is The forces that we are fighting against. So often we think it's flesh and blood. We think it's people and individuals. And in reference here, he's probably thinking of those who were persecuting the church, those who were trying to openly hinder the gospel, who were trying to eradicate Christianity from the face of the earth. What power enabled them and gave them these ideas and gave them that determination to do so? It was Satan and his forces of darkness. You see, the real enemy behind of the believer is not the lost world, but the spiritual beings that empower our persecutors. But the comfort for all believers in all ages, especially of those who are in the persecuted church. Is that Christ has authority over all of this What a wonderful thing that is. We know the end of the story. We know how this ends. And Christ is triumphant. And someday all the enemies of Christ, all the persecutors of the church, all of the false prophets, all of them will bow the knee. to the sovereignty of Jesus. This is what we read together this morning in our scripture reading. That's why I had you read this. Wherefore God hath also highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name that of the name of Jesus Every knee should bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Now let me ask you, do you believe that? Do you believe that? If you truly believe that, if you truly believe that you know the end of the story, it should change your perspective on the here and now. And the way you respond to your suffering now and your difficulties now and even problems that you see in the world today, you know, it's very easy. Especially as you get older, to become more and more pessimistic and to see things getting worse, to see Christianity becoming weaker, to see churches closing their doors, to see the amorality that is invading our culture and to want to throw up your hands and saying everything that the church has fought for, everything that God has done through the centuries is going to be cast down, destroyed, and forgotten. But it's not true. Because the Bible tells us the end of the story. The Bible tells us that Christ will be triumphant. That he will build his church and that the gates of hell will not prevail against it. And we must receive this by faith. And it will make a difference in how we live today. It will make a difference in our personal lives. Remember in our text, the Lord is setting forth. He's setting forth the Lord Jesus Christ as a pattern for us. And the pattern that we see in his life is of suffering. And then glory in that order. Suffering, and then glory. And all who are in Christ by faith All who acknowledge Him as their Lord and Savior will experience that same pattern as well. We will be resurrected. We will be exalted. We will be with Him forever in heaven. This is the pattern that we must always keep before us, but especially. In our dark days of difficulty, we must remember that first comes suffering and then glory. First work. And then rest. First sorrow and then joy. This is the pattern that we see in the life of our Savior, and this is the path that we will follow as well. And it ends in glory. And that truth should strengthen us and encourage us for the pain and problems that we face today. When you know the end of the story, when you know how it's going to work out, it makes all the difference in how you respond today. May God help us to follow in the footsteps of our Savior. Let's close in prayer. Father , thank you for our Savior. We thank you that He is exalted, that He is Lord over all. What joy that brings to our hearts to know that no malevolent spirits Not even Satan himself can thwart God's plan for our lives. What a blessing it is, Father, to have the assurance that Death is not the end for us, but death has been defeated by Christ. What a joy it is to our hearts to consider that our suffering will come to an end. That the turmoil that we experience in this life will cease, and that we will enjoy eternal rest with you forever. Help us, Father. To rest our minds in this sublime truth and to draw strength from these promises, from the exaltation of our Savior. Help us, Father. to walk by faith and not by sight. Help us, Father, to be able to face our suffering even with joy because we know how the story ends. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen