So we're talking about something tonight that is important but is often neglected. I looked in my records. When was the last time I preached on church discipline? Well, it was 2004. It's been a little bit of time, 14 years, and uh it's it's because uh it it's not a topic that um uh is is that interesting or or or that uh well received. And um uh so I I I do uh I'm preaching on this tonight not because we're exercising church discipline tonight in our business meeting, but because as I looked at my records, I was like, wow, I can't believe it's been 14 years. Since I preached on this, so I decided I needed to remind us of what the scripture teaches about this. You know, it's very easy for us And I think it's so prevalent in our society today, in the church, to have a sentimental view of Christianity. Do you know what I mean? Where everything's just surfy, sweet, and kind and nice, and that's all there is to Christianity. That's what it means to be a Christian. That's not what the Bible teaches. The Bible is the most realistic book in the world. And it deals with real problems. And there are sometimes difficult and painful solutions to real problems in life. Many years ago, a man visited our church, and he used to be a member of this church before I came as pastor in 2000. And I just naturally asked him why he left our assembly. And he said, I don't want to be a part of any church that practices church discipline. And I said to him, I wouldn't be a part of a church that didn't practice church discipline. So I want us to briefly look at this tonight, and I want us to understand that one of the reasons why this is infrequently practiced and why it's rarely talked about. is I'm afraid that many Christians have been more influenced by our culture than the clear teaching of God's Word. Sometimes people will say things like this in reference to this topic. Doesn't the Bible command us not to judge one another? The most misapplied verse in the Bible, Matthew 7, 1. Judge not lest ye be judged. Well The same book that says judge not 11 chapters later in Matthew 18 gives the procedure For church discipline. And so obviously the Lord is not contradicting himself. Sometimes people will say, and this is a very prevalent notion in our society, what a person does in their private life is no one's business. You don't even need a Bible to prove that that is false. What if what they're doing in their private life is constructing a bomb to kill you? Do you think it's any of your business now? I think you're very concerned about that. So don't buy into these common mantras, cliches that people use to excuse their sin. Or sometimes Christians will say, I've had this said to me, how I live my life is between me and the Lord. And I will say to them, Well, the Lord thinks otherwise. He has said so in his word. The most common thing that I have heard, and I have heard numerous times from members of this church, is To put someone out of a church seems to me to be very unloving. And I will say to them that actually allowing people to continue living A sinful, wicked lifestyle is the most unloving thing you can do. Do you remember the ad campaign years and years ago that said, friends , Don't let friends drink and drive. Do you remember that? And the idea is that if you really have a friend and you see them getting drunk and they get behind the wheel And you might want to say, you know, it's none of my business. I don't want to get involved in their personal life. I don't want to judge them. But if they go out and they kill themselves or somebody else That's not a very good result. And so if you really care for them, you're going to tell them, no, you should not do that. And people in the world get that. They understand that. And so many people have have been involved in that. So what are we to think something different in the Christian church? The fact is that I want to remind us that this is called church discipline. It's not called pastor discipline or deacon discipline. It's called church discipline. It's something that every Christian should be involved in to some degree. And the fact is that, and if you remember no other phrase tonight, once you remember this, disciples need discipline. Disciples need discipline. They come from the same root. You can't really be a disciple of Jesus Christ without discipline. You need that in your personal life discipline that you put in your own lifestyle. And we find many calls in Scripture this, if any man will come after me, Jesus says, let him take up his cross, deny himself, take of his cross, and follow me. It requires discipline to be a Christian. And there is a personal discipline, and then there's a discipline that comes from the body of Christ, our fellow believers. Now I'm going to approach this a little bit differently tonight, not in an expository way, really, because the scriptures that bear on this are scattered throughout the New Testament. But I'm going to do it just by question-answer thing where the most important questions and then trying to answer them biblically. First of all, what is church discipline? What are we talking about? I think we often think of just the most extreme and the end product without looking at it in a more holistic way. Church discipline is the mutual care and accountability that we give to one another in the church. To ensure that the church is distinct from the world. The Bible tells us there is to be a clear distinction between the church and the world. So what does that practically mean? It means several things. First of all, we do not allow unbelievers to join the church. One of the things that we do here, of course, is if you want to join our church, you have to provide a testimony. You have to answer some questions. And uh usually there's a a personal visit, then there's a meeting with their deacons, and and uh then we bring you before the church to be voted on. And and there's been people who've objected to that. They say, I think you should just take my word for it. Well, you know, a lot of lost people think they're Christians. And the most important concern we have about our assembly, our membership, is that they are regenerated. What happens if you have a church filled with people who are lost? They're going to make really bad decisions. And pretty soon there's no difference between the church and the world because they're They're just the church is filled with lost people. And so uh we do this. You may say, well, a person could lie, they could uh they they may just be deceived themselves. You're absolutely right. We can't look into their souls and see their true spiritual state. We can only go by the profession of faith and by the life that we observe. That's all that we have to go by. What else does it mean? It means that we do not allow Christians living an obvious unrepentant sin to continue without correction. We don't allow that to continue without correction, without confronting them about their sin. And we don't allow those who live and think as unbelievers to remain in the church. We will confront them and call on them to repent and to change and to turn from their sin. Secondly, I want to ask this question: why do churches today rarely practice church discipline? I'm going to go through these very quickly. Number one, because it's out of step with our tolerant society. It's very unpopular. The world says judge not. It says mind your own business. Another reason practically is because it has the potential to divide a church. There have been many churches that have split over a church discipline situation. So nobody wants that. So they just avoid it. Thirdly, because it's very draining and difficult for the church leaders involved. I can tell you that from first-hand experience. I I get physically sick when I think about getting involved in church discipline because I know what it's going to involve. And I know that no matter how careful I am, I know the chances are the person is going to reject the counsel and are going to continue in sin. And I know that if we put them out of the church, there will be people in the church who yell at me and say, How dare you do such a thing? It invariably happens. It's just the way it is. Another reason is because churches have been sued because they put an individual out of the church. Litigation. Allegations of slander and so forth. So this is something that the ancient church didn't have to deal with, but we have to deal with today. Just practically, just to let you know, this is why on our membership application, we ask you specifically, do you submit to church discipline? Yes or no? We want you to know up front this church will hold you accountable. And you need to know that coming into our assembly. And then there are many churches today who do not really have a membership list. They don't have a process for joining the church. And so how can you effectively put someone out of the church if they've never officially come into the church? It's impossible. And the fact is, of course, another reason is because church leaders sometimes misuse church discipline. I have known of cases like this. where pastors or a group of leaders have been vindictive about something that happened and they use their authority to retaliate against someone. It's a horrible thing and it does happen. And because sometimes church discipline seems pointless. The offending party rarely repents And often they just go down the street to another church. And so sometimes people say, what's the bother? Why do it? So why should a church practice church discipline? Number one, because it's biblical. There are two key passages we'll look at briefly, Matthew 18. 1 Corinthians chapter 5, those are the two longest passages that deal with this. It's also alluded to and many other passages. And let me mention to you that it is not presented as a suggestion, something you might want to try. It's presented as a command that this is what the church will do. And so the question comes to every local assembly is, is the Word of God our authority, or is our culture and society our authority? Because if the Word of God is our authority, then we must practice church discipline. So it's biblical. Secondly, it's an essential mark of the church. I wonder what you would say to this. This is a good discussion question. How would you define a local church? In other words, how is a church different from, say, a Bible study with three people who meet at a restaurant? All right, these are three people, they have their Bibles open. They spend some time in prayer. They discuss the passage. Is that a church? What does the Bible say about that? Well, uh, Christian theologians over the years have uh discussed this issue and uh the reformers mentioned three essential aspects of a local assembly Number one, there was the clear preaching of the gospel. If the gospel is not proclaimed That's not a church. It might be conservative. They might have a wonderful country club kind of environment. They may be friendly and everything else. But if it's a place where the gospel is not preached, it is not a local church. Now there might be true believers there, but that in and of itself is not a local church. Secondly, the regular practices of the ordinances. Of baptism, the Lord's Supper. If you don't have that, you don't really have a church. And the third essential requirement of a local church, they said, was church discipline. Why church discipline? Very simply, their answer is this. A church with no boundaries is no longer a church. If you have no boundaries that distinguish this group of people from the world, then you have no real church because the Bible defines a church as something that is distinct from the world. And a third reason I would say this is of lesser importance is because church discipline is the historic practice of the church. Only in modern times have local churches abandoned the practice of church discipline. One historian went back and examined uh churches and uh the early centuries of our our nation. And they found that this was about the most common reason, I think it was the most common reason, that churches had business meetings was to put people out of the church. It was a common occurrence. One historian looked at the church minutes of various Baptist churches previous to the Civil War, he found that most Baptist churches put out an average of 2% of their church membership every year. Every year they put out 2% of the people. And uh that was just a regular thing. So what are the forms of church discipline? And what I want us to understand is when we think about this, we should think about it more broadly, more holistically. Alright? First of all, there's this personal accountability. This should happen every Sunday when we gather for worship, or every Wednesday night when we're around other believers. This should be a part of what Christian fellowship is. Have you ever considered this verse? Hebrews chapter 3, verses 13 and 14. But exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. For we were made partakers of Christ. Well, I meant to start at verse 12. Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any one of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing from the living gods. Alright? So what happens when you see your brother or sister in Christ and they're obviously failing spiritually You don't see them very often, or maybe you see them when you're out in public engaged in something that's obviously sinful. What should you do about it? Most people Pick up the phone and say, Pastor, I need to tell you something. And I I and maybe it needs to be brought to my attention, but you know what a better way to handle it would be for you as their brother or sister to go and talk to them privately and say, I'm concerned about you. I noticed you don't come to church very much anymore and I saw you uh involved in this and it grieves my spirits. This is part of of how we interact with one another on the Lord's Day. How are you doing? How is your soul? How is your walk with God? So there's that personal accountability. And of course, this may include personal confrontation. If you see something that's disturbing, you should check on it. It may involve taking a witness, according to Matthew 18. It could involve meeting with church leaders, with that individual meeting with them, with pastor and deacons. And uh there might be different levels. There are times that I've dealt with people and I've told them I don't uh want you to be involved in any more service in the church, and I don't want you to partake of communion. Because you are living in sin. And I don't want you to pretend like everything's great when everything's not great. It could involve them coming and confessing their sin before the church or being removed from church membership. Or being censured before the church. 1 Timothy 5 and verse 2 mentions this. And this is a very important passage. that I think we don't think of often. It actually begins this passage in verse 19, except against an elder received not an accusation, but before two or three witnesses. And then it says, them that sin, rebuke before all that others may fear. The them there is a reference to the elders. You see, there's no one in a local church who gets a pass. The church leaders, the pastor, can be disciplined out of the church by the body of Christ. He can be publicly rebuked for sin in his life by the leaders of the church. There's no one who has no accountability to the body And that's an important thing. And of course, the last resort is exclusion from the church, sometimes known as excommunication, and that means that they are no longer regarded as a Christian because of their sinful lifestyle, because they will not repent, because they will not turn from it. And when this happens, we never do this quickly. We always give them sufficient time. There's always confrontation and discipleship and multiple meetings. This is a last resort. But the scriptures are clear that you are to regard them as a heathen in public, that is as a lost person. And that doesn't mean that you hate them. that every time you see them you turn and you walk the other way. No, it means that you regard them as someone who needs to hear the gospel and that you need to witness to. That's what it means. So what is the procedure for a church discipline? You probably know this passage pretty well, but turn with me to Matthew 18. I'm going to look through this very quickly. Not in an expository way. Matthew 18, verse 15. It says, moreover, if thy brother Shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone. And if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more. that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established, and if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it unto the church, but if he neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee as a heathen man and a publican. And so we see this procedure here. This comes right after the parable of the lost sheep. And it's important for me to note here that the goal of church discipline is not to punish individuals, but to restore if possible The scenario that Jesus addresses here is between two believers. This is only one of two passages in the Gospels that speak of the church. We have several steps to restoration. First of all, meeting between individuals. It's important to note that this confrontation should only occur if the brother has clearly sinned against you. A person can annoy, anger, upset you without sinning against you. I want to make a distinction here that you may not have thought of. We live in a society today. where people are hyper-offended. Do you know what I mean? W every day in the news you hear about some group that's been offended by something that someone said, and then that person is obligated to um apologize publicly and then the other group says whether or not they accept it. And so often it's fake and phony. They're not really offended. They're just looking to gain a political point. Just because someone is upset and offended does not mean that you've sinned against them. In other words, now if you set it in love and you spoke the truth and you had the right motives for their good , And yet they still were angered and offended by it. Doesn't mean you've sinned against them. You may say, how do you know that? Because Jesus, on several occasions, it says, offended the Pharisees. Did Jesus sin against them when he called them out and embarrassed them in front of the crowd that was around them? He spoke the truth in love. But they were very upset. They were embarrassed by it. You know, we live in a culture, I don't want to don't want to go off on a tangent here, that anytime anyone is ashamed, then it means that someone has done something horrible to them because no one should feel shame. I want you to know that shame is a perfectly legitimate emotion. And we need a lot more shame in our culture where people are ashamed of their lifestyle and the way they sin rather than the prevailing notion that no one should feel ashamed, and so we should just respect their lifestyle and whatever they do and however they practice their life and go about our own business. That is not what the Bible teaches Now notice it says you could tell him his fault. This does not mean that you condemn the person But that you seek to convince them that what they did was in fact sinful. You're not saying, you know, you really hurt my feelings. No, you sinned against me in this way. But it's important that you confront them in the spirit of gracious humility. In Galatians 6. 1, we read that ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness. It says, between thee and him alone, the Lord emphasizes that this should be a private confrontation. What is our first temptation when someone has truly wronged us and sinned against us and it's been very painful for us? What is our temptation? But tell everyone we know, you won't believe what this person did to me. No. You go and talk to them privately. You keep it as private as possible. That's what you would want if you were in their shoes. It says if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. Again, we see here that the purpose is restoration. Step two, a meeting with a witness. This is based, of course, on Deuteronomy 19, 15 The number of witnesses, again, is to be kept small so that the matter can be kept as private as possible. These witnesses may be witnesses to the original sin. Perhaps they were not, but they are there to testify. To how the confrontation took place and how they responded, says that every word may be established. Often When two people are in conflict, there are widely different versions of what was said and what occurred. You would not believe what it's like to be a pastor. And you have two people come in and they tell you of some conversation and they say the completely opposite of one another. And yet they both are professing that what they're saying is absolutely true. It's important to have a witness there who's objective that can say, this is what I heard, this is what I saw. Step 3, a meeting before the church. If the previous two steps fail to bring about resolution, the matter is to be brought before the church for them to hear. And then step four, the person is put out of the church and regarded as an unbeliever. This has done so for several reasons that I'll discuss later. But one of the reasons, one of the implications of it is that that person considers being part of the body of Christ, one of their most prized possessions. And they don't want to lose that fellowship. And so this is an incentive for them to repent and come back so that they can be restored and be part. Of the body of Christ there. Now, this does not mean that Christians can no longer have contact with this person. But it does mean that they are to be treated not as a brother, but as an evangelistic prospect. Everyone wants to know what are the sins that warrant church discipline. The Bible doesn't give us a list. I've mentioned this before. There's a lot of things the Bible doesn't give us a list for. Some of you perhaps are very, very organized, like lists. It makes things helpful, efficient. But life is messy. And if the Lord will provide us a list, we would invariably think of some scenario that didn't fit in that list. It's important to note that there is a difference between those who are struggling with sin. And those who are defending their sin. We don't discipline people unless as a last resort who are struggling with sin, who said, I hate my sin. I keep following this, but I don't want to. I need help. We don't put those people out of the church. But when a person is involved in obvious sin and they say, no, what I'm doing is not wrong, and I'm not going to change. Now there's a different situation here. Repentant sinners are to be shown mercy. Now, there seems to be four broad categories of those mentioned in Scripture who should be disciplined out of the church if they will not repent. First of all, those who refuse to reconcile with others. That seems to be kind of the scenario there in Matthew 18. There is absolutely no reconciliation. And then secondly, there are those who are involved in immorality. We have that passage in 1 Corinthians 5. about an incestuous relationship. I'm not going to take the time to read it. We don't have time because there's so much there to go over. This is probably the most common reason that churches exercise church discipline is because of sexual sins. And then there are those who are uh who believe or teach heretical doctrine. Now you may have never thought about this. We often think that what a person believes is irrelevant and unimportant. I'm not talking about differences of opinion that different denominations have or Christians have had over the centuries. I'm talking about core Christian doctrines of which if you don't believe that, then you cannot be regarded as a Christian. Titus chapter 3 Verses 9 through 11 says, but avoid foolish questions and genealogies and contentions and strivings about the law. for they are unprofitable and vain. A man that is a heretic after the first and second admonition reject, knowing that he that is such is subverted and sinning being condemned of himself. And there are other passages that mention this as well. I'm talking here about core truths that are clearly revealed in Scripture and have historically been what all Christians hold to, such as the deity of Christ. If someone comes to me and they say, you know, Pastor, I've been studying this thing about the deed of Christ, and I don't think he really was God. We've got a problem. We've got a problem. Now I'm not going to kick him out that day. That's not my call, first of all. But we'll meet with them and I'll go through a Bible study with them and I'll give them books to read and and we'll meet with them repeatedly and repeatedly And hopefully he'll see the lights. Or someone says, you know, I don't think there's such a thing as a Trinity. Or I don't think the Bible is the Word of God. Or I think salvation is actually by works and not by grace. These are all core doctrines that if you reject them, then you really are not a Christian. And so they have to be brought up. And I have to say that This is becoming increasingly a problem in the church. You know why? It's because of the Internet. You know, the problem with the internet is there's no editors. And so you have all kinds of cultic groups. Who put out all of these conspiratorial notions. Now you've probably always heard your life this, but I'm going to show you four passages that prove some heretical doctrine. And I never cease to be amazed at people who can go and spend three minutes on a website and they become convinced of something that the Bible is absolutely crystal clear about. We have to let the Word of God. This is why the Bible is filled with all of these warnings about false teachers. And it used to not be that much of a problem because if you stayed in your local church and you listened to perhaps a good radio stations, you weren't really confronted with false doctrine. But now the whole world of false teachers is available to everyone and they're all vying for your attention. And many Christians in good churches like ours are led astray. And then there's blatant disobedience in 2 Thessalonians 3, 6 through 15. I'm not going to take the time to read it. But it talks there about people who assumed that the Lord was going to return in an instant, and so they gave up their jobs and they were living with other Christians and they were being lazy. And they said, listen, there's no point in me getting a job because Jesus might come tomorrow. And the Apostle Paul says that if they would not work, neither should they eat. And he said, if they were to persist in this, they were to be cast out They were not allowed to continue in the sinful response. Finally, what is the purpose of church discipline? Well, there are five of them given in Scripture. Number one, to restore the person who is in sin. It's not to condemn them. It is to restore them. Number two, it is to be a deterrent to others. It says in 1 Timothy 5. 20, rebuke before all that others may fear. They might be in a service and they say, wow, that was so tense. I can't imagine how embarrassing it would be for to be have your sin named like that And for everyone in the church to know that you've done that, I would never want to be like in that situation exactly. That should be a deterrent to you that you will not fall into sin. It is also thirdly to preserve the local church from the defiling effects of sin in 1 Corinthians chapter 5. That passage on church discipline that says, a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. One person living a sinful lifestyle that's unchecked in a local church, it will spread to others. It will have an influence on them. And therefore it cannot be allowed to remain. Fourthly, to protect the witness of the church and the community. What is the world always wanting to point out in the church? Our hypocrisy. Every time a preacher falls into sin, oh, it makes front page news. The world loves to revel in the fact, oh look at these people who preach the straight and narrow, but look at them now. And it gives them a convenient excuse to ignore the gospel. So the church needs to be kept pure. And fifthly, and ultimately to glorify God by reflecting his holiness. We looked just a number of months ago at that passage in 1 Peter chapter 1, be ye holy, for I am holy. We read our Lord in the Sermon on the Mount saying, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. The world is to look at the church and say they are different. Their lifestyle is different. They have something that we do not have. There is a holiness, a purity, a love there that we do not possess. And that brings glory to God. And so I hope that This has been instructive and helpful for us tonight. Let's close in a word of prayer. Father, I pray that you would help us to understand your word and understand what it has for us in this difficult matter of church discipline, I pray, Father, that uh you would uh Help us, Father, to seek to watch over one another, not as busybodies, but as those who are truly concerned for our brother and sister in Christ. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen