Would you please join me in John chapter six? John chapter six , There was once a stingy Scotsman who booked a passage on a great ocean liner. He had never done anything like this before. He was making his way from Scotland to New York City. And the ticket was quite expensive So he decided to economize and bring his food supplies for the voyage in his suitcase He took fruit and crackers and cheese. This is what he ate for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. But after a while, the fruit became rotten and the cheese became moldy. And he couldn't eat anymore. And so as they approached New York City, he decided for that final night he was going to splurge and go to the banquet hall. And so he went to the banquet hall looking for a place to purchase a meal, and he discovered there was no place because all of the meals were included in his ticket price. And he felt like a fool because he could have come long ago and enjoyed this great banquet, but instead he stayed in this room and ate moldy crackers. This morning we are continuing our study of the bread of life discourse that's found in John chapter 6. This chapter begins with Jesus feeding the 5,000. The miracle that was witnessed by more people than any other. And on the very next day, in keeping with that miracle, he gives the bread of life discourse to many of the same people who had eaten that bread the day before. The sermon was given in Capernaum. It's likely that the opening verses of this discourse were given along the shores of the Sea of Galilee. But then verse forty-one marks the beginning of his comments in the synagogue in Capernaum. If I could take us on a field trip today, I would take us to that very synagogue. You can go there today. Now the ruins doesn't have a roof over top. My wife and I have stood there. When we visited in 2011, it has a bright white stone. And there's pillars and a floor and parts of walls. And that synagogue, that white stone was built, if I remember correctly, in like the 300s. But if you look on the side, underneath of that white stone, there's a black stone, a balset stone, that is the ruins of the synagogue where Jesus said these very words. you can go right to the exact location today. You'll notice this concludes in verse 59. It says Jesus said these things in the synagogue as he taught at Capernaum. Now the most famous verse In this sermon is verse 35. Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. This is the first of seven metaphorical I am statements that Jesus makes in the Gospel of John, where he expresses his deity and his provision for lost sinners. He did not make this analogy of the bread of life in a haphazard fashion. It connected with the miracle that went before when the people saw the miraculous multiplication of a little boy's lunch, and they ate barley, bread, and fish. But there's a second reason that Jesus uses this analogy, and that is because it is the fulfillment of the type of the manna in the wilderness. In Exodus chapter 16, we read that the people were complaining because they were hungry, and they said that Moses had brought them out into the wilderness to starve them. And so God rained down bread from heaven to sustain his people. But that bread that came from heaven was a picture, a type of the Lord Jesus Christ who would come about 1,500 years after that. The Old Testament is filled with Christ We read in chapter 1 of Jacob's ladder. Remember, Jacob was running from home because he cheated his brother And he goes to Bethel, and he has this amazing dream. He says it's like the gate to heaven In the end of John chapter 1, we read that that was a picture of Christ, the way that God can reach, that man can reach to God. And then in chapter 3, we read of another historic analogy of that. bronze serpent that Moses lifted up in the wilderness because people had been bitten by a venomous snake. But if they looked At that serpent that was up on a pole, they were healed and they did not die. That was a picture of Christ dying on the cross for sinners. And now we see in John chapter 6 this fulfillment of the manna picture that's in the Old Testament. Now last week I mentioned that one of the key concepts in this message is the idea of people coming in faith to Christ. You'll notice this word come again and again in verse 35. Jesus says, I am the bread of life, whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. Notice in these two lines the word come and believe are used interchangeably. We find this term twice in verse 37. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. And then again in our text this morning in verse 44, no one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And then in verse 45, everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me And then finally, we see this again in verse 65. Jesus says, this is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by my Father. This is an important concept and a difficult concept for us to fully grasp Why did these people not come to Christ? And how does anyone come to Christ? I don't want to make this message academic or theoretical All of God's word is intended to be very practical. But I want to ask you this morning is, have you come in saving faith to Christ? Have you come to receive the bread of life? I'm going to preach on who will come to receive the bread of life. And the first point I want to make is this, many people who have repeatedly heard the gospel will not come to receive the bread Look with me, please, at verses 41 and 42. The Jews grumbled about him because he said, I'm the bread that came down from heaven. They said, is not this Jesus the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I have come down from heaven? Now the reference to the Jews here in verse 41 is very likely a reference to the leaders of the synagogue there. I say that because every time John uses this very general statement of his gospel, the Jews. He's talking about the religious establishment, not the people in general. We read that they were grumbling, and what John intends is that his reader would know the Old Testament and say, wait a minute, don't I read somewhere else of the children of Israel grumbling or murmuring? Yes, that would be in the wilderness. That is why God sent them the manna from heaven because they said they were starving. But as you know, that was not the end of their grumbling. It continued throughout their wilderness wanderings. They didn't deserve this miraculous provision of food, but the Lord gave it to them graciously. And then about 1,500 years later, the Lord sends them the true manna from heaven, the Lord Jesus Christ. But how did the people respond? They grumbled about Jesus. What was it that upset them? Well, because he said, I'm the bread that came down. From heaven. They well understood that this was a claim of deity. Jesus The second person of the Trinity did not begin his existence in Bethlehem. Perhaps you've always thought that The Bible teaches that the Son is eternal, that he has always been. He took on human flesh in Bethlehem. He was born of a virgin. He was born as a baby. But the second person of the Trinity existed for eternity past before that time. That's why we read of him coming down from heaven. This expression is a key theme in this chapter. In fact, I want you to see that it's mentioned seven times. Look with me, please, at verse 33. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven. Now look down at verse 38. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. And then again at verse 41, the Jews grumbled about him because he said, I'm the bread that came down from heaven. And then verse 42. They said, Is not this Jesus the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I have come down from heaven? And then verse 50. This is the bread that came that comes down from heaven. And then again, verse 51. I'm the living bread that came down from heaven. And finally in verse 58, this is the bread that came down from heaven, not like the bread the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. These people that day in Capernaum, these leaders had a problem. They said, this can't be true that he came down from heaven. Because in that small community they knew what they believed to be his parents, Mary and Joseph of Nazareth. Of course, they were mistaken about his father. They say here that he was the son of Joseph, but he wasn't the son of Joseph. He was the son of God. But what we see here is a startling and troubling reality Just because a person has many spiritual privileges does not mean that they will come to faith in Christ. In verse 36, Jesus says, you have seen me and yet do not believe. These people in the city of Capernaum saw Jesus. They saw his Incredible miracles. Many of them benefited from that miracle in that they had eaten the bread that he had made the day before. They heard his teaching. There are many things undoubtedly that Jesus taught that God Saul did not include in the Word of God, but he was about ministering on a daily basis. They heard the words of life. In the very next chapter, we're going to read that some temple officials went to arrest Jesus, but they came back empty-handed. And they said, no one ever spoke like this man. And the people in this little city of Capernaum, right on the shores of the Sea of Galilee, had a very unique privilege. And that is, this is where Jesus made his headquarters for his two years of ministry in Galilee. He was a resident. of their city. They saw him coming and going. They saw his miracles. They saw him on a daily basis. And yet they did not believe. In Matthew chapter 11, Jesus says, on the day of judgment that Capernaum will face more severe punishment than Sodom because of all the mighty works that he did in their presence. They had great revelation. Of all the people who lived on that planet at that time, they were the only ones who had the Messiah living in their midst. So imagine if you were living on the other side of the earth, you had no access to any of this. They had this privilege, and yet in large part they did not believe. So how does this principle apply to us today? Just because you were born into a Christian home does not mean That you are a genuine Christian. You must have a faith of your own. Just because you've heard the gospel a thousand times and can quote John 3. 16. Does not mean that you're truly a child of God. Just because your parents or your grandparents are spiritual leaders and you've been around the truth All of your days does not make you truly a believer in Christ. It's very possible. It's very common for people to be very near the truth and yet not receive it. But there is something about that comment in Matthew 11 that is also true that's troubling. And that is if you grow up in a Christian home, And you do hear the gospel a thousand times, and you can quote John 3. 16, and you can give the plan of salvation perfectly. And yet you do not believe, it does mean that you will face greater judgment than someone who has not had access to that advantages. You will face greater judgment from God because you did not believe. Many people repeatedly hear the gospel and yet will not receive the bread of life. This brings us to our second point. Only those who are drawn by the Father will come to receive the bread of life. Look with me now, please, at verse 43 and following. Jesus answered them, Do not grumble among yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up at the last day. Jesus does not take time to explain that he's not the son of Joseph, but he's the son of God. He doesn't refute their claims that he has not come down from heaven, but instead he humbles them with a startling statement. I want you to notice That the first part of verse 44 is a corollary to what we covered last week in the first part of verse 37. Look at verse 37 with me. All that the Father gives me will come to me. And now verse 44. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. One is a positive aspect of that doctrine. The other is a negative aspect of that doctrine. This is John's way of referring to the doctrine of election. He speaks here about a lost person's inability to come on their own to the Father. Notice it doesn't say that they will not. It says that they cannot come. Perhaps you would ask, why is it that a person cannot come on their own initiative I understand that this is not the way people tend to think about it, that this is counterintuitive, and it's not the way a lot of people think that they were lost and they heard the gospel and they know a good deal when they hear it, and so they decided to part with their sins and trust in Christ. And that's all there is to it. But the Bible tells us there's a lot more going on than you realize. And the fact is that no one can come to Christ in saving faith unless the Father has been at work in their heart drawing them. Why is it that they can't come? Well, how does the Bible describe the natural lost human heart? It says in Jeremiah 17, 9 that it is deceitful above all things and incurably sick. I know the world says that you need to listen to your hearts. But I want you to know that's a foolish thing because your heart is deceptive and it's often led you astray. Don't listen to your hearts. Listen to God's word. In John chapter 8 and verse 34 it says that every lost person is a slave to sin. In 2 Corinthians 4, 4 it says that all the unsaved are spiritually blind. That's why you can illustrate the gospel for them and they still look at it and say, I'm not interested The Bible says in 2 Timothy 2. 26 that all lost people have been captured by the devil. The Bible says that a lost person cannot please God. Romans 8. 8. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 2. 14 that the natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. And the Bible teaches that every lost person is darkened in their understanding, that their heart is hard and callous. Ephesians 4, 18 and 19. And in Ephesians 2. 1, it says that all lost people are dead in trespasses and sin. You see, no lost person is capable of coming to Christ without the aid of God. This is how Jesus is humbling these people. They're saying there and they're like, you know, we're not really sure you're the Messiah or not. Maybe you'll convince us, maybe you'll do another miracle, and it'll Take us over the finish line. And he says to them, No, you can't come to me. He says, you're sitting there thinking, oh, maybe someday I'll choose to follow and trust in Jesus. And he goes, it doesn't work like that. You're not the one who's in charge here. Now, many of our Christian brothers say that the ability to come to Christ is given to everyone. And they would look at this verse and they would say, yes, John 6, 44, but you have to interpret that verse in light of John 12. 32. So I want us to turn to that verse. John chapter 12, this is the end of our Lord's earthly ministry before his death and resurrection. He's wrapping things up here, and he says this this great prophetic statement in John chapter 12 and verse 32. He says, and when I am lifted up from the earth will draw all people to myself. This is a reference to his crucifixion. When I'm lifted up, I will draw all people to myself. And they say, see This is how we should understand John 6. 44. He says, no one can come unless they're drawn by the Father, but guess what? He draws everyone. So the decision is simply up to every person. They call this doctrine often prevenient grace. It's a clever way of completely negating God's election. But there are some serious problems with taking this view, which is a very common view, which I'm sure many people here have heard and perhaps some believe. And that is, first of all, every time this verb draw is used in the New Testament, the action is completed. In other words, there's never a person who's drawn who doesn't come. And then when we pair that with John 6, 37, Jesus says, all that the Father gives me will come to me. And so if the Father draws everyone, then the only conclusion you would reach by putting those things together logically is that everyone will be saved. That's called universalism, and it's a heresy, and it's not what the Bible teaches. So what does John mean when he says that he will draw all people to himself? Well, if you'll notice, I have a paragraph heading in my Bible, and the paragraph right before this statement, it says, some Greeks seek Jesus Member, they come and then Andrew takes them to see Jesus. And the context is this. Jesus is saying that a crucified Savior will draw All kinds of people to him, Jews and Greeks and Gentiles and young and old and rich and poor and educated and uneducated, all people without distinction. Not just one race of people, not just one class of people, not one type of people, but all kinds of people. But it doesn't mean that everyone will be saved Now let me make some important clarifications. This drawing by the Father is not coercion. It's not that he brings people kicking and screaming. Sometimes people have caricatured this view this way. That's not what the Bible teaches at all. This drawing is a gentle wooing by the Spirit of God. They are drawn with cords of love. They come because they want to come. Because they have a new heart. And their hard heart is broken. And they see their peril. The blinders, when their eyes are lifted, they see how dangerous their circumstances are and how true the Word of God is, and that Jesus is the only Savior. But how does this take place? Turn with me back, please, to our text in John chapter 6. I want you to look with me now at verse 45. It says, it is written in the prophets, and they will all be taught by God. That is, everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Here Jesus is quoting from Isaiah 54, verse 13. And the point that he is making in this verse Is that no one comes to God because of their own insight into the scriptures? No, they must be taught of God. This is an important reminder to us that God uses his word to bring people to the Savior. This is why I'm preaching the Word this morning. This is why our missionaries preach the word. This is why all of our services are centered around the word. God draws men and women to salvation by the means of his word. Their eyes are open, their ears are unstopped. They suddenly become convinced that the Bible is indeed the Word of God and that it has a personal, relevant message for them. This might happen in a church service or a Bible study or when someone is reading the Bible alone late at night. Suddenly the Word of God becomes alive and they're gripped by the message and they respond in faith to the gospel because faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God In verse 46, Jesus clarifies that his reference to people learning from the Father does not mean that anybody has seen the Father. Only the Son of God has seen the Father. But he has seen the Father. And he will bring people to the Father. So who will come to Christ? Well, many people who have repeatedly heard the gospel will not come in faith, as we might have suspected they would. And only those who are drawn by the Father will come to the bread of life. And thirdly, only those who believe that Jesus is come from God will come to receive the bread of life. Look with me now. And verse 47, very compact verse. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. Notice he says truly, truly once more, emphasizing the seriousness and importance of what he is expressing here. And notice this open invitation. Whoever believes has eternal life. He doesn't say if you believe that you're one of the elect or if you believe that God has given you the Father has given you to the Son, then you should come. No, he says, whoever may come, whoever believes Once again, we're reminded of this balance between the sovereignty of God and the responsibility of man to believe This is a major theme in the Gospel of John and a thread in this sermon. I want you to notice this open invitation again and again in verse Verse 29, Jesus answered them, this is the work of God that you believe in him whom he hath sent. Verse 35. I am the bread of life, whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. And then again in verse 40 For this is the will of my Father that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life and I will raise him up at the last day. And then again in verse 47, truly, truly I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. Well, what exactly does a person have to believe? Well, the very next verse, verse 48, we have, I am the bread of life. You must believe that Jesus is who he claimed to be, that bread that came down from heaven, the God man, the only one who can give life to a starving world In the next two verses, Jesus is going to make a strong contrast between life and death. Look with me at verse 49. He says, your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. Earlier, these very people had asked for Jesus to produce manna from heaven. But Jesus explained that he is infinitely superior to that bread that came down in the wilderness In fact, he is the true bread, the fulfillment of that manna that was given so long ago. He says in verse 33, for the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. The bread that that multitude ate in the wilderness sustained their life for another day, but eventually they all died. But those who eat the bread of life will never die spiritually. They will live forever. The verb for eat in verse 50 refers to conversion, to a one-time act. Our justification takes place in a moment of time, the moment we trust in Christ. And John chapter 5 and verse 24, we read Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears the word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. And now I want you to notice that verse 51 perfectly summarizes our Lord's message in Capernaum that day. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. He first of all says, I am the living bread that came down from heaven. This is a reference to his deity, but also to the entirety of his incarnation. What must a person believe to be saved? Well, you have to first of all believe that Jesus is who he claimed to be, the Son of God, the Savior of the world, the one who came down from heaven. This is what tripped up these people at Capernaum. And it trips up many today. They're willing to say that Jesus was a great man, a wonderful teacher, had a superior intellect. But when you come to professing that he is God in flesh, they they hesitate there. They don't want to go that far. My friend, you cannot be saved by anything less than a divine savior And would you notice a person must eat this bread? This invitation is once again open to anyone who desires to come. It says, if anyone This of course is a metaphor for faith. We must appropriate it. We must take it for ourselves. It suggests this picture several important truths. A person must be hungry or they will never eat of the bread of life. Haven't you ever noticed this? Do you ever share the gospel with someone and they're very polite and everything, but they're not interested in what you have to say at all. Thanks for sharing. I'm glad that worked for you. My life is good. I don't need that. A person must be hungry. They must be starving. And that will only be the case when the Spirit of God is at work in their hearts. When the Spirit of God opens their eyes, they recognize, I, they're like the prodigal son. Remember the prodigal son when he repents? And he recognizes if I stay in the far country and continue to eat these husks, I'm going to die. I'm going to turn and go to my father. That's what a person must realize if they're going to eat the bread of life. And you must appropriate the bread of life by faith, just looking at food. does not provide nourishment for anyone. I've often used this illustration of a person who is dying of a deadly disease and goes to the doctor and receives a wonderful medication that will cure him and he takes it home and he puts it in his medicine cabinet and never opens it up. That person can say, I believe this will work. I paid for this. I think this is a wonderful drug, but they never take it, that person will die. They have to take it down, they have to appropriate it, they have to ingest it. It has to come inside of them. There are a lot of people, I fear, in this country that only have a head knowledge. They've been brought up perhaps in the Bible belt. They've had family members who are Christians, and so they've maybe been brought up in churches or they come to church a few times. They know enough. They know John 3. 16. They know that Jesus died on the cross. They know that that he took uh the punishment that sinners deserve. They know a few facts, but they have a head knowledge, but not a heart knowledge. It's never touched their heart. They've never been hungry, and they've never come to him for bread. And you must take, you must trust in Christ personally. If I can put it this way, no one can eat the bread of life for you. You know, sometimes little children don't have much of an appetite. Sometimes infants When they first start out, have trouble drinking milk, and they don't drink very much, and it worries the mom and the dad to death. They usually figure it out after a few days. But sometimes little kids, they come to a certain age and they just play with their food and they eat maybe one or two bites, but they don't eat very much. And the mom and dad are trying to encourage them and coerce them in some cases to eat food. Because you have to eat food to live. And mom and dad cannot eat that food for their kids. They can, but it won't help the kids The child has to appropriate that food for themselves. And it's the same way with faith. No one can trust for you. You have to have a faith of your own and you have to come to see that you are hungry and you're starving and you will perish without the bread of life. Now Reck, look with me at the last verse of our text today, verse 51. The last part it says, and the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. Jesus here is making a reference to his sacrificial death on the cross. The word for in this phrase for the life of the world is a word that means in place of. Jesus came from heaven to die as a substitutionary sacrifice for a world of sinners. Jesus is already quoted from Isaiah 54. Many scholars suspect that now he's thinking in this verse of Isaiah 53. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. I have only one point of application, and that is, have you come by faith to Christ? Have you taken of the bread of life? Have you appropriated this for yourself? Do you have a testimony that sometime in the past you recognized that you were starving, that you would lost, and you would perish if you didn't take? come to Christ and so you came to him, you took of this for yourself, and now he is your only hope of salvation. This is the only way that lost and fallen people like us can be saved. And if you have come, if you have come to faith in Christ, is an indication that indeed the Father was drawing you and working in you. And you came and received and believed and were saved. This is the beauty of the gospel. that it was all a work of God's grace. So have you appropriated this great gift of eternal life. Let's close in prayer. Our Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is always relevant for us. that it never grows old. And we thank you, Father, for our beautiful Savior and for his words that were given so long ago in Capernaum. that we can read and meditate on today. We thank you that indeed He is the bread of life. And I pray that there's any here that have not taken of this bread, that today they would recognize their hunger, they would recognize their need, and they would come to trust in Christ alone for salvation. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.