Others described him as the greatest saint the world has ever known. Others viewed him as a dangerous teacher of false doctrine, while others declared him to be God's great instrument in bringing about the evangelical awakening. People had drastically different views about Wesley then and still today. And the same could be said of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We are going to consider a passage of Scripture this morning where we find divergent views concerning Jesus. This opening paragraph in John chapter 7 examines travel plans of our Lord and his family to Jerusalem And about the fact that he was invited to go, he didn't go, and then he ended up going. And I have to confess to you that this is not an ideal passage of scripture to preach from. Because at first glance it just contains travel plans and various responses of people. But I'm always reminded that all of God's word is given by God and it's all profitable for us. And there is a reason why John includes this account in his gospel. John was not just recording the next thing that occurred. He's very selective. He's very intentional about what he includes in this gospel. And everything that he includes in this gospel is intended to help the reader discern the true identity of Jesus Christ. And that's why John includes this paragraph because it reveals to us. different responses to the identity of Christ, different ideas that people had And of course, John's desire is that his readers would come to believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, that they would trust in him alone for their salvation. Now let's consider the setting of this event, which is mentioned here in the very first verse. After this, Jesus went about in Galilee. He would not go about in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill him. He begins by saying, after this. Now what you probably do not know is that between chapter 6 and chapter 7, there is at least six months of time. We know this because in chapter 6 and verse 4, this feeding of the 5,000 took place during the Passover season, right before it. And the Passover was in the spring. But here in chapter 7, we come to the Feast of Booths, which was also known as the Feast of Tabernacles, which took place in the fall took place in the September-October timeframe. It was after the Day of Atonement. And it was among other things, a celebration of the harvest, a completion of the harvest. It was a celebration of God's goodness and faithfulness to his people, not unlike our thanksgiving. The Feast of Booths was one of three mandatory feasts that all Jewish men were required to attend. And according to Josephus, it was the most popular of all the Jewish feasts. When the people of Israel first left Egypt, they had to live in tabernacles or booths because they didn't have homes anymore. And so they would make temporary structures of branches and vines to house themselves And during the celebration, the Jews would live in these booths to remind themselves of this historic event that happened during the wilderness wanderings. They would come to Jerusalem, and there in Jerusalem people would stay and erect these temporary shelters on the roofs of their flat homes or in the courtyards of guests and friends. This festival lasted for some eight days. Now for six months Jesus has been ministering in Galilee. In fact, you can read about many of the events that occurred during that six-month period of time in the Gospel of Luke. But his focus has not been on the multitudes or people in general, but on preparing his disciples. For his coming, death, and departure. Not only are six months between chapter six and chapter seven, this marks six months from when Jesus would be crucified as well. Because this was in the fall and the coming spring at Passover, Jesus, the Lamb of God, would die for sinners. During this Passover or during this tabernacle celebration, people would flock to Jerusalem in large caravans. And it's this travel that is referenced here in our text. Now, why is it that Jesus has not been to Judea in the last six months? The answer given in verse 1 is because the Jews were seeking to kill him. This reference is not to the Jewish people in general, but to the religious establishment who felt threatened by his popularity. And so this entire paragraph that we're looking at this morning is filled with this tension. Verse 1 says that they wanted to kill him. Verse 13 says the people were afraid to openly speak of Jesus. because of the rulers. In this paragraph, we have a realistic portrait of the depravity of man, and we see various responses of unbelief. We're going to see that Jesus' brothers respond in unbelief. And the religious leaders respond in unbelief. And the people in large part respond in unbelief. I want to preach to you this morning on common responses of unbelief, typical ways that lost people reject Christ. I want you to notice, first of all, that unbelievers often see Jesus as simply a path to a better life. This is exemplified by Jesus' brothers in verses 3 through 10. Look with me, please. At verse 3. So his brothers said to him, Leave here and go to Judea, that your disciples also may see the works that you are doing. Now the first thing that we have to deal with is an interpretational matter. Who are these brothers? And there has been some debate about this over the centuries. The Roman Catholic Church teaches that these are not brothers. but either cousins of Jesus or children from a previous marriage that Joseph had before his wife died But the Bible would indicate, I think, quite clearly in Matthew chapter 1 and verse 25, that these were natural-born children of Joseph. And Mary. The Catholic Church believes in the perpetual virginity of Mary, that she was not just a virgin before she was married, but even during her marriage with Joseph. But the Bible would indicate that they had a normal marriage. And so Jesus had half-brothers and sisters. In Matthew 13, 55, we discover the names of Jesus' brothers We read of James and Joseph and Simon and Judas. And we read that he had sisters, plural as well. We are not given their names, but we know that he had more than one. And so the setting here is that Jesus' brothers, his half-brothers, come and ask him to go with them to the Feast of Tabernacles. It was common for families to travel together in a caravan. Now I want you to notice why they wanted to go with Jesus. They say at the end of verse 3, that your disciples may see the works you are doing. Now the reference to disciples here is not a reference to the twelve, but to followers of Jesus in Judea. And when they say works, they were talking about his miracles. And then in verse 4, they quote a proverbial saying, For no one works in secret if he seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, show yourself to the world. They say, you're never going to accomplish your goals if you stay in Galilee. in this rural country area. You need to go to a population center so that people will come to follow you. It sounds like they are followers of Christ, that they have come to believe that he indeed is the promised Messiah. But then look at Verse 5, this commentary by John, the author of this book, for not even his brothers believed in him. So how should we interpret this invitation from his brothers to travel with them to Jerusalem? Why did they want him to show himself to the world. So there are three different ideas or interpretations of this. Number one Some would say that they hated Jesus and they wanted him to go to Jerusalem so that he would be killed. I think this is an extreme position, and I don't agree with that. But just imagine what it would be like to be brought up in the same household with Jesus. Just imagine if he was your older brother. He always did the right thing. He always said the right thing. He never threw a temper tantrum. He always obeyed his parents. Perhaps even Mary said, Why can't you be more like your brother Jesus? It would be difficult, would it not, to be in a family where your brother was actually perfect, never did anything wrong I wonder if Mary thought after the birth of Jesus that this parenting thing was not as hard as everyone said it would be Because her son was always compliance. But then as she had more children, she came to realize that, oh no, parenting is a difficult task. I don't think this invitation had a dark meaning that they were trying to lure him to his death. Others have suggested that they were being sarcastic They knew that his following had shrunk, that he had a small gathering of disciples. And so they're mocking him when they say, why don't you go to Jerusalem and show yourself to the whole world and perform your spectacular miracles? They're being some sarcastic. But I don't think that's the right idea either. I think thirdly, they wanted Jesus to demonstrate his power in Jerusalem. so that they could capitalize on his celebrity. Jesus' family was poor, but they were related to the most famous man in Galilee. And they wanted him to move to the big stage in Jerusalem because his success would mean their success. So you might still be confused and say, well, it would seem like they believed that he was the Messiah. Perhaps in a way, but their faith would have been like that crowd at the feeding of the 5,000, where they loved the miracles, they wanted to see spectacular things, they liked getting free meals. But they really didn't trust Jesus. And I would suggest to you that that's the kind of faith that his brothers had at this point in their lives. They like the popularity of being the brother of Jesus. And they liked the attention that they received. And they assumed that Jesus wanted publicity just like they wanted, would want publicity. Often when people make assumptions about others and ascribe evil motives to them, they are actually saying more about themselves than they are that person. They're saying the way they would think about that situation if they were in that locale. But Jesus was not trying to gain a following. He was seeking to do the will of his father. If you notice that their invitation is remarkably similar to the temptation of the devil to Jesus at the beginning of this ministry. Remember how he repeatedly asked Jesus to prove that he was the Son of God, offering him fame and fortune, but Jesus would not yield to their diabolical suggestion. Notice Jesus' response to them in verse 6. Jesus said to them, My time is not yet come, but your time is always here. They wanted things to happen quickly. Apparently this voice would indicate that for some time they've wanted him to go to Jerusalem, announce who he was, and claim the throne as king. They had self-serving reasons. But Jesus was not fooled because he knew what's in the hearts of all people. The sad fact today is that there are millions of people all over the world who would claim to be followers of Christ But they are following him for self-serving reasons. This is the appeal of the prosperity gospel. The prosperity gospel teaches that it's God's will that all of his people who follow him would be healthy and wealthy and have good relationships, that their lives would just be wonderful. And if Christians would just trust in him more and follow him with all of their hearts, God would bring all of their dreams to fruition. I want you to know that is not what the Bible teaches. That is a false gospel And so there are millions of people who come to Christ hoping to receive a better life, but they don't really want Christ. He's just a town they passed through to go to where they really want to go. And that's why they wanted Jesus to go with them to the Feast of Tabernacles. I'm going to pass over verse 7 for now and want you now look at verses 8 and 9 how Jesus responds to his brothers He says, You go up to the feast. I am not going up to this feast, for my time has not yet fully come. After saying this, he remained in Galilee He says, you guys go ahead. I'm not going to come. But then what's confusing is what we find in verse 10. But after his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up not publicly, but in private. Now skeptics have seized on these verses to prove that Jesus was a fraud, that he was not a man who kept his word. They say he told his brothers he wasn't going to go, and then he went. So how do we explain this? I want to mention it in two ways. Number one Jesus did not go up to the festival in the way they wanted him to go. He did not want to travel with them in a caravan as they rallied people around them to support their famous brother. That's why he traveled in private, that is, not in a caravan. And let me just make it perfectly clear. Jesus was not a coward. He was not afraid to go to Judea. Remember, he was born to die. But he wasn't born to die at the Feast of Tabernacles. He would die six months later on the Passover in fulfillment of Scripture. So Jesus didn't go in the way they wanted him to go, that is, in an ostentatious, attention-grabbing way, and he didn't go at the time that they wanted him to go. That being said, he probably left two or three days after they left. But he left exactly when the father wanted him to leave. You see, Jesus was not going up to this feast as a pilgrim. He was going up as a messenger of God in fulfillment of Scripture. Because Jesus is the true tabernacle. And so he went when the Father wanted him to go, because throughout his life, his entire life, was ordained of the Father. It says in Galatians 4. 4 that in the fullness of the time he was born Born of a woman, he was sent by the Father exactly when he was to be born in Bethlehem. And he would go up to the tabernacle, the Feast of Tabernacles, exactly when his father wanted him to go. And he would die exactly when his father wanted him to die at the Passover six months later. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. And Jesus, the Son of God, exemplified this truth. Secondly, we have another response. Unbelievers may see Jesus as a threat to their way of life. This is, I think, what we see in these Jewish religious leaders. And verse 1, we read that Jesus was not ministering in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill him. Let me remind you that this reference to the Jews is John's shorthand way of describing the religious establishments. The fact is, they had been plotting to murder Jesus for about a year. In Matthew chapter 5 and verse 18, we read After Jesus healed the man at the pool of Siloam on the Sabbath day, this is why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was Jesus breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God 's. And this growing hatred is revealed throughout the Gospel of John A little later in this chapter, in chapter 7 and verse 19, Jesus will ask the people, why do you seek to kill me? And in John chapter 8 and verse 37, Jesus says, You seek to kill me because my words find no place in you. And in John 8. 59, we read these so-called holy men picking up stones to seek to kill the Son of God. But he evades their capture because his time had not yet come. So for at least a year, the religious leaders represented by the Sanhedrin were plotting to murder the only innocent man who ever lived. But they were hindered from apprehending him because he was in his home region of Galilee and they didn't have jurisdiction there. So they had to wait. They had to wait for him to return. And that's exactly what they were doing. This is what we find in verse 11. The Jews were looking for him at the feast, saying, Where is he? They weren't looking for him to roll out the red carpet and welcome him to Jerusalem. They were looking for him to capture him and kill him. And perhaps when the various Galilean caravans entered Jerusalem, they carefully inspected them looking for Jesus. But they did not see him. One after another, a caravan passed through, and Jesus was not with them. But why is it that these respected leaders and experts in the Old Testament scriptures wanted to murder their Messiah? This is a profound question. These men were the greatest theologians in the land. They knew the Old Testament well. And yet they are plotting to murder this man. So why did they want to do this? Well I think if we could have questioned them, they would say it's because he committed blasphemy. He claimed to be God. And they were protecting what they believed to be God's truth. They also believed that he was dangerous in breaking the Sabbath. But he did not really break the Sabbath, but only their man-made laws that they had built up around the Sabbath. But the scriptures reveal that the real reason that they wanted to get rid of Jesus is because he threatened their whole way of life. The whole way of life was built on the respect of the people, that they were the guardians and the embodiment of their religious truth. They were men of the book, or more specifically, of the scroll of the Torah. But this man was gathering the attention of the people, and he was publicly confronting them and confounding them and embarrassing them and exposing The reality that they did not have a true understanding of the depth of Scripture. And this threatened their whole way of life. They had a very good life based on their stature. They had wealth. They had the respect of the people. They gained great revenue from the temple. But it was all predicated on their respect as these paragons of virtue. And they envied what Jesus possessed. In Matthew 27 and verse 18, we read that Pilate discerned that the reason that the Jewish religious leaders wanted Jesus to be crucified was due to envy. They envied him and the respect and the attention and the admiration of the people. And so they are actively seeking to murder him I think verse 7 that Jesus gives to his brothers is very illuminating on this point. It says, the world, he says, cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify about it that its works. Are evil. The very presence of Christ exposed the wickedness of these religious leaders. His sincerity pointed out their hypocrisy. His humility exposed their greed. His contentments and humility exposed their envy, and his purity exposed their lust Because Jesus is the light of the world, and in his light they appear to be very dark and very sinful. This is why Jesus says in John chapter 3, verses 19 and 20, and this is the judgment. The light has come into the world and people love darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. Everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light lest his works should be exposed. And so these religious men wanted to kill Jesus because he exposed their wickedness. This is still a reason why many people in the world today hate Jesus. And they hate Christians. Because he threatens to upend their whole way of life. Jesus says, whoever hates me hates my Father also. And we see this exemplified in the lives of these men. But now we must move on. Let me just conclude with this thought about that last point. When God exposes our sin, whether it's in the preaching of the word or the reading of the word or the witness of someone, our response should not be that of anger and hatred. but of repentance that we would come to believe the truth. I want you to notice thirdly that unbelievers are often confused and divided in their opinions about Jesus Look with me now at verses 12 and 13, the end of this paragraph. And there was much muttering about him among the people, while some said, He is a good man. Others said, no, he is leading the people astray. Yet for fear of the Jews, no one spoke openly of him. There were some people at this feast who said that Jesus was a good man. I suspect that those who spoke up for him were Galileans. His home region. And although they may not have called themselves his followers, they still had, they wanted to defend their hometown boy, and so they speak up for him. The people in Galilee had seen him perform many miracles, heal the blind, restore the lame, raise the dead. thieved thousands of people with a little boy's lunch, and perhaps some of them that day who testified for him had even eaten of that bread. They knew that Jesus had relieved the pain and suffering of so many people in their region of the world. In Acts chapter 10 and verse 38, Peter says, summarizing Jesus' ministry, he went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. But I want you to know that to believe that Jesus was a good man is not enough. Of course, don't misunderstand me, he was and is a good man. He's the perfect, sinless son of God, but he's more than just a good man. There are many millions of people today who would profess that Jesus is the epitome of virtue, that he was a great teacher. That he was a wonderful example. And they will be quick to say he was a good man. But they will not say that he is the Son of God, that he is God in flesh, that he is the Savior of the world. And my friends, I want you to know that as well-meaning and as common as this might be, it's actually completely illogical to say that Jesus was just a good man. Let me explain. If Jesus is not who he claimed to be the Son of God, then he was a deceiver, an imposter, a fraud. And good men cannot, by definition, be deceivers and frauds and impostors. So it will not do to take that mediating ground and say, you know, I don't think I'm going to say he was an evil man. I'm not going to say he's a son of God. I'll pick the middle ground and say he was a good man No. He could not be a good man, just a good man, unless he is the Son of God. And so this position that seems tolerant and popular is not a good option. We see here that there were other peoples that were saying that Jesus was leading people astray. I don't know for sure, but I suspect that these were Judeans. They were greatly influenced by the religious leaders there in Jerusalem. Jerusalem was where the temple was. Jerusalem was where the Sanhedrin gathered. 70 men who effectively manage the country, especially on religious matters. This was the finest collection of Jewish theologians in the world. But they hated Jesus. And they poisoned the minds of the people every time they could about staying away from that dangerous man in Galilee. And so the Judeans in large part wanted nothing to do with him. Ironically, of course It was these religious leaders who were leading the people astray. Have you ever stopped to realize that most of the lost people in the world Are in some respect religious. That is, they would not say that they're secular atheists, that they don't believe in God. They would say that they believe in a higher power of some sorts. They would ascribe to morality in some pattern. They would pray or meditate to some deity. And they would fall follow the teachings of some individual But they would not acknowledge that Jesus is the Son of God. This is true of the hundreds of millions of Muslims that are in the world. They will be quick to assert if you talk to them that Jesus was a great prophet. And they believe he was a good man But they will not accept the fact that he is the Son of God or that He died on a cross for sinners. Judaism claims, Judaism, modern Judaism in large part rejects the claims of Jesus to be the Messiah. Then we have cults like Mormonism and Jehovah's Witnesses who will say many laudable things about Jesus, but they will stop short of saying that he is God in flesh. And so there are hundreds and hundreds of millions of people who have been led astray by false religious teachers and traditions. That have poisoned their minds so that they will not accept and believe that Jesus is the Son of God. But now I'd like to turn to a few points of application as we conclude this morning I want you to notice as we see in the life of Jesus' brothers that it's possible for a person To be very close to the truth, and yet to still be an unbeliever. Imagine the advantage Of growing up with Jesus. You would know him in ways that other people did not know him. You would know his personality, his manner of life. The sound of his voice, what incredible stories they could tell, and how we would so much love to hear what they had to say. The scriptures have seen fit not to record it. And although they saw him perform miracles, undoubtedly, and do many things, at least at this point in their lives, they were not true followers of Christ. You must never think that because you're related to a very godly person, whether it be your father or your grandmother or your uncle, that somehow that gives you a special standing before God. And because of that tradition and heritage, you have many things that you know about Scripture and about the Lord. That is not enough. You must have a faith of your own. You must come to trust in him alone for your salvation. There might be people here this morning under the sound of my voice. And you have a sort of faith. You're not like those religious leaders who wanted to murder Jesus. That's horrific to you. You would never think that way. And you would say many positive things about Jesus, but you have not put your faith and trust in him. Because you still want to live life on your own terms and you will not allow him to be Lord of your life. I think we see in this passage in a veiled way that's only for very careful meditative readers. That Jesus is the true tabernacle. He is the true fulfillment of that ancient feast. John throughout his gospel makes reference to symbols and events in Israel's history And upon careful inspection, you see that he is saying that Jesus is the true tabernacle. Jesus is the ultimate fulfillment of these types and symbols. We read in John chapter 1 and verse 14, John gives this testimony, and the word became flesh. And dwelt among us, literally tabernacled among us, lived among us, and we beheld his glory. The glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. This, in a sense, is the testimony of every true born-again believer. We have come to see the glory of the Son of God. We have come to experience his grace and his truth. Jesus comes as a messenger of grace to this feast because he is the true tabernacle. But now I must conclude by asking you what you think of Jesus. This is the most important question in the world. Your eternal destiny is wrapped up in your heartfelt response to this question. You might think the most important thing in the world is your health or your family Or your home, or your retirements. And all of those things are important considerations, but they pale in comparison to your answer to this question. So how do you think of Jesus? Do you think of him as a means to an end? As a way to have a better family, as a way to have a more productive life that's free of addictions. as as a way to better know how to manage your money and control uh your impulse buys Or do you love Jesus for who he is? The Son of God, the Savior of sinners. Maybe you're here this morning and you're like those people that had vague religious notions. They saw Jesus, some of them, as a good man. He's a good man. He helps people. But they did not put their trust in him. Or perhaps you see him as a dangerous man who's leading people astray I want you to know that through the power of the gospel, through the regenerating work of the Holy Spirit That can all change. You see, even within this sad portrait of unbelief and rejection that we've read today in this paragraph, if you know the big story, you know that there is hope here Because it seems that Jesus' brothers did come to faith in Christ. Because in Acts chapter 1 and verse 14, when The disciples assembled in the upper room waiting for the coming of the Holy Spirit, we read that Jesus' brothers were there. They were there with the true believers. And even among those and the Sanhedrin and the religious elite of Jerusalem who plotted his murder and would be successful in six months' time. There were some who it seems would come to believe like Nicodemus. And we read in Acts chapter 6. That after several years and the church was established in Jerusalem, that a great company of priests would come to believe in Christ. You see, the gospel is powerful to penetrate the most superficial heart and the most hardened heart. So if you're here this morning and you are yet an unbeliever, I would urge you to seek the Lord and respond to the moving of the Spirit in your heart. And if you're here and you're truly a child of God, but you have a spouse or a child, Or a parent or an uncle or aunt who is lost and you're concerned for them, I want you to know that by God's grace they can be saved. Because the gospel is the power of God to everyone who believes. And Jesus will have a people that will be saved and will follow him and worship him eternally. What a joy, what a wonderful thought that is to consider these things. So what will you do with Jesus? Will you trust in him? Will you embrace him by faith? Or will you respond in unbelief? May God help you to have your eyes open that you would see the beauty of our Savior. even in the midst of these adversaries, as he speaks the glorious truths of the gospel. Let's close in prayer. Father, I thank you for your word. Thank you that it's always sufficient and edifying and convicting. I pray, Father, for those who might be here this morning who are yet lost in their sins. who perhaps in some respects consider themselves to be followers of Christ, but they have not fully trusted in him, I pray that today would be their day of salvation. And for those, Father, whose hearts are hardened, I pray that your word would be like a hammer that would break all of their objections into small pieces. And that your word would be like a sword that would pierce their hearts, bringing them to repentance and faith. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.