It's good to have you with us tonight. I want to invite you to turn in your Bibles, please, to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Almost always when we celebrate the Lord's table, I look at something from the life of our Lord Jesus Christ or from the doctrine of the atonements But tonight I want to talk a little bit about the ordinance of communion itself and one of the purposes of it. Once when Spurgeon was convalescing in France, he preached a sermon to a small gathering. of people entitled The Communion of Christ and His People. And his point in that message was that the observance of the Lord's table is not just a matter of our communion with Christ. But it's a matter of our communion with one another. He says in that sermon, blood is thicker than water. And no fellowship is more inevitable and sincere than the fellowship in the precious blood and the risen life of our Lord Jesus Christ. Washed in one blood, fed on the same loaf, cheered by the same cup, all differences pass away. And we being many are one body in Christ, and every one member one of another. His point is that the observance of communion should draw us together as the body of Christ. In 1 Corinthians chapter 11, I would like to begin At verse 17, where Paul begins this discussion about the observance of the Lord's table, he says, Now, in this that I declare unto you, I praise you not. That you come together not for the better, but for the worse. For first of all, when you come together in the church, I hear that there be divisions among you, and I partly believe it. He's not saying there, by the way, that uh you know the people that told me this are not very reliable, so I kind of believe it. He's saying it's I'm not surprised at this because I know there are divisions there in the church He says, For there must be also heresies among you, that they which are approved may be made manifest among you. When ye come together therefore into one place, this is not to eat the Lord's supper, for in eating every one taketh before other his own supper, and one is hungry and another is drunken. What Have ye not houses to eat to and to drink in, or despise ye the church of God, and shame them that have not? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I praise you not. Now this passage is actually, of course, a reprimand. That's how he begins this passage that deals with the Lord's table. In verse 23, the next verse is the verses that we always read when we celebrate the Lord's table. And if you just know that passage, you may not know that that observance and the way you're supposed to do it is embedded in a rebuke. Paul's point is that the Lord's table was intended by God to draw Christians closer together, but instead, in this case It was actually dividing the body of Christ. The church was celebrating a meal. It seems before they observed the communion service And this was actually hindering their unity. It seems that there were private groups and they were kind of stratified. You had the wealthy people uh having uh lavish amounts of good food that they were eating and then there were other people that had just meager tokens because perhaps they were slaves and they were very poor and they had just a crust of red and so you had someone there in this corner having a feast and someone over here hardly had anything to eat and it seems that there were others who were very inconsiderate and were starting whenever they wanted to and were not waiting for others We've been taught polite manners is that you don't eat until everyone's there, that you wait because a meal is a communal thing. It's not just for nutritional value. And so Paul rebukes them for this. And he says in verse 20, the meal you're eating like this cannot properly be called the Lord's Supper. That's what he means. It's not saying they shouldn't celebrate this. It says in verse 21 that there was no consideration for one another. And so he condemns them in verse 22. And then in verse 23, we have the instructions that are typically read at a communion service. And then in verses 33 and 34, he picks up what he was saying again. He says, Wherefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat , tarry one for another. And if any man hunger, let him eat at home, that ye come not together unto condemnation, and the rest will I set in order when I come And we wonder what else Paul had to set in order, but we are not told. So I want to very briefly tonight and we're going to have an abbreviated service so that we're not here too late and we have time for our business meeting. I want us to consider this truth that the observance of the Lord's table should unite the body of Christ. How is it that the celebration of this ordinance should unite us as Christian people Well, first of all, this observance should remind us that we are all sinners who have been saved by grace. We do not have super saints here Who have no confession to make, who have no examination to do, we are all sinners in need of the grace of God The time of examination that is called for in this ordinance should remind us of our shortcomings. Because if you truly examine your heart, you will find many flaws, pet sins that you have not mortified. The setting sins. That continually trip you up. Sins of omission and sins of commission. And the shed blood and the broken body Exemplified and these symbols remind us that we are sinners in need of a savior. The ground at the foot of the cross is level ground. We all come as sinners desperately in need of the grace of God. Secondly, the observance of the Lord's table should remind us to reconcile broken fellowship with other believers. One of the reasons why I announce when we're having a communion service, and one of the reasons why we try very hard to always have it at a given time, the first Sunday evening of the month is so that you have some time to prepare for it. It should not be something that we enter into casually without a second thought. It should be something that we are aware of and that we think about. And one way that we might need to prepare for it is by honestly asking ourselves If there is a brother or sister in Christ that we are at odds with , doesn't mean that necessarily everyone has to be our best friend But is there someone that there is real animosity in your heart towards them, or they towards you, and you know it's It could be that they have sinned against you and you cannot seem to get past it. Every time you see them at church, you're reminded of what they did to you, and so you avoid them like the plague. Luke 17 gives us this instruction. If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him, or that is, confront him, and if ye repent, forgive him. On the other hand, it could be that you have with your word, you had words with another believer, you had a real confrontation with them, it wasn't very pleasant. And you felt better after the confrontation because you got some things off your chest, but you notice that now they're no longer talking to you. And you're good But they're hurt and distant from you. The point of Scripture is that whether or not you are the one who has offended or one who has been offended. You are responsible to seek reconciliation. To come to this table with hatred or animosity in your heart is to make a mockery of this holy observance known as communion. And I have known many Christians over the years That this reality and their desire to partake of these elements and taking it seriously has compelled them to seek people out. And to make amends and to seek reconciliation through repentance. And so this is one of the ways That this observance should bring about unity in the body of Christ. The observance of the Lord's table reminds us That we are one in Christ. Jesus says, this do in remembrance of me As we focus on Christ, it should remind us of what is most important in our lives. It reminds us of our identity in Christ. And by implication, our connection, our friendship, our fellowship with others who are in Christ. So often we place significance on things that ultimately do not matter When we come right down to it, it's not our ethnicity. It's not our nationality It's not our status in society, the wealth that we have accrued, the education that we have achieved that really matters and defines who we are. What matters most and what will count for eternity is our relationship with Christ. And that must supersede everything else. And so we must not be divided as people are naturally in the world by things like race or socioeconomic status or their education level These things should not be what divide us. But we should, those things should be overcome, those natural divisions, by the unity that we have in Christ. We must remember that we are one and that we will spend eternity with those who are one in Christ. Earlier in this epistle, in fact in the previous chapter, Paul makes a brief digression to talk about The Lord's table in 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 16. Notice what he says here: the cup of blessing. Which we bless? Is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? For we being many are one, one bread and one body, for we are all partakers of that one bread. He is saying here that we share in something that is sacred. These symbols represent the body and blood of Christ. They are visible reminders of the eternal bond that unites us as the children of God. And so these should unite us. And the exercise of this ordinance should not divide us between the elite and the non-elite, between those who are really good Christians and those who are not. This is for all believers who are seeking to follow Christ. Fourthly, the observance of the Lord's table should remind us to lovingly serve one another. Look with me at chapter 11. And verse 33, it says, Wherefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, tarry one for another. This is one of the many one-another commands in the New Testament. We call this remembrance sometimes communion. It is a time of communion with Christ. But also of one another. When Paul speaks in chapter 10 of one bread, he's talking of one loaf. And so it's likely that in the early church they were tearing off pieces off of one loaf because that one loaf was symbolizing their unity. Now you might be a little skittish about doing that if we were to do that today. It may not seem sanitary to you to have all those hands touching it. And so we have these little pieces, but we need to remember that we are one in Christ, and that is what to be symbolized. Now, if you'll look with me at verse 29, we have a phrase in our observance of the Lord's table. That is somewhat ambiguous and hard to know exactly what Paul is saying. It says, Paul says, For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh Damnation, and that word means judgment literally, not discerning the Lord's body. Now, what does it mean not discerning the Lord's body? There are two main lines of interpretation. There are some Christians who would say that it's saying that they were eating these elements as if they were mere food. They weren't giving any reflection, any thought about this. They weren't thinking of this as something that represents the body of Christ that's symbolic of taking him in, of appropriating him by faith. They weren't thinking of these things They're just going through the motions and eating it like anything else. And that is possible. But in context, the broader context of the rebuke. It seems, and I believe he's saying that these believers at Corinth failed to remember that other believers were part of the body of Christ. They may have had their little click. their little group in one corner of that house church. And there they were, they had a lavish meal and they're enjoying fellowship with those who are wealthy and men and women of status in their society. And then there's other people over here, and they're oblivious to them. It's like they don't even exist. But actually they are part of the body of Christ But they're not discerning them. They're not aware of them or considering them. And I think that that in context is what Paul is saying And God therefore warns them with severe judgment on how they treat others in the body of Christ He says in verse 30, for this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep, which is a reference to death. This is why we don't have a casual atmosphere when we take communion. We don't just pass these out willy-nilly to anybody and and uh and go about it without reading any scripture, without giving any explanations or any instructions or anything else, because the scripture says this is a solemn thing And therefore, we should take it seriously, or else we very well may be partaking of it unworthily. And as we draw closer to Christ, as we think about his death on the cross for us , It should draw us closer to our brother and sister in Christ, who have also been redeemed by his broken body and shed blood. In the ancient world, meals were not only about the food, it was primarily a time of social interaction. And sitting down with someone at a table symbolized some level of acceptance Some level of respects. Some level of interest you were acknowledging this person As someone who was worthy of your time and attention, this is why the Pharisees were so outraged that Jesus would die with sinners Because they would never do that, because it was sort of saying that these are really people who are important. These are people who are worthy of my time and attention And so when we sit down at this table, we are not only focusing on Christ, our head, our Savior, our Lord. But we are symbolically sitting at a table and enjoying fellowship with our brothers and sisters in Christ who have assembled here. And I hope that we will remember that this evening. It has been traditional in some Baptist churches to read the church covenants When they celebrate the Lord's table. I want to focus on just one section of it, and that is something that's somewhat unique to ours, and that is that we have all of these one-another commands. Put in our church covenants. And I want to remind you of how much the New Testament emphasizes these bonds that we have in Christ. It says that we are to live peaceably with one another. We are to respect one another. We are to endeavor to maintain a spirit of unity with one another. We are to edify one another. We are to accept one another, to admonish one another, to greet affectionately one another, to be considerate of one another, to care for one another, to serve one another. to bear one another's burdens, to be patient with one another, to be kind and compassionate with one another, to be forgiving of one another, to submit to one another, to sing with one another, to comfort one an Here, shirt To confess our faults to one another, to pray for one another, to demonstrate hospitality to one another, to use our gifts to minister to one another, to fellowship with one another. And the most often one mentioned to love one another. And by the grace of God, we are to refrain from these other things. of being judgmental of one another or attacking one another or envying one another or lying to one another or speaking evil of one another or complaining to one another The Bible has some very specific admonitions for us in the body of Christ and how we are to love our brother and sister. And I hope that tonight as we gather around this table, we will remember the bond in Christ that unites us. Let's close in prayer. Father, We thank you for your word. We thank you for the instruction that it gives us. I pray that you would bless our observance of this. I pray that this would bind us closer to one another. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen