If you have your Bibles, please you can be turning to the book of Galatians. Read a story many years ago about a teenage boy Who would often sneak out of his upstairs bedroom by climbing down an old fruit tree that was right outside his window One morning his father announced that he was going to cut that fruit tree down because it hadn't produced any fruit in many years. And the boy was alarmed because his escape route was about to be taken away. And so that night he and a friend went out and bought a bushel of apples and Tried to carefully tie some apples onto that old tree. Next morning his father got up and said to his wife, Mary, I can't believe my eyes, an old fruit tree. that was barren is now covered with apples. He says it's a miracle because it's a pear tree Real fruitfulness is difficult to fake. This is true in the physical realm as well as the spiritual realm. This morning I would like to begin. a brief series of messages from that famous passage that includes a listing of the fruit of the Spirit Galatians chapter 5, verses 22 and 23, it says, But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness. faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. I wonder what you think of this famous listing of virtues. As I've looked at various studies on this topic, I found that many seem to view the fruit of the Spirit as nothing more than a metaphorical way of calling us to be nice to one another. But nothing could be further from the truth. The fruit of the Spirit is in essence the believer's measure of how he is progressing spiritually. If you really analyze the fruit of the Spirit, what you have here is Christ-likeness. The only person who ever perfectly exemplified every one of these traits. was the Lord Jesus Christ. And so as we grow in grace, we become more like Christ. And the measure of how we are progressing is really found in this passage. Just like fruit on a tree, real spirituality, real fruitfulness cannot be faked. Sometimes people have the wrong measures of what spiritual maturity is They think that perhaps because they come to church on a regular basis, because they carry their Bible with them and they know a few verses. And because they know the proper expressions to use, the proper way to phrase a prayer And because they dress up when they come to church, perhaps they conclude that they are truly a spiritually mature believer, that they are growing in grace. But if you really wanted to know what a person is like, you need to see them more than just an hour or two on Sunday morning. If you really want to know, you should talk to their spouse. Talk to their co-workers. Talk to their children. And find out if indeed they are producing and exemplifying The fruit of the Spirit. You see, this is a very important passage because it cuts down right to the essence of what it means to be a spiritually mature person. This passage is found in the book of Galatians. It's one of the very first books that the Apostle Paul wrote. Paul is writing to a group of early believers. Who lived in Asia Minor in the region of Galatia. And these early believers were confronting a problem, and that is that they were being pressured by false teachers. Those who theologians identify as Judaizers, these were Jewish individuals who often carefully observed the various Jewish restrictions and laws. And they came to Christ and they didn't understand the difference that that made. And so they believed and they taught that salvation was by faith in Christ. You did have to recognize him as the Messiah, the Son of God, but you also had to continue to follow the Jewish dietary restrictions. You had to be circumcised. You had to follow these different portions of the law in order to truly be a Christian. So it was faith plus works. And Paul says in the opening chapter of this book, one of the most dogmatic statements that he ever makes in his writings. He says, but though we in verse 8 or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. As we said before, so say I now again, if any man preach any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed. That's strong language. He says that when you take salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, and you say, yeah, but you've got to add works. It now has become another gospel, which is not the gospel of Jesus Christ at all. Galatians chapter 3, he continues, and he says, There, O foolish Galatians, who hath bewitched you that ye should not obey the truth before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evidently set forth. crucified among you. This only would I learn of you. Receive ye the Spirit by the works of the law or by the hearing of faith? Are ye so foolish? Have ye begun in the Spirit? Are ye now made perfect by the flesh? And what Paul is getting at there is that sanctification, the process of spiritual growth and spiritual transformation. is also not by the works of the law. It is by the empowerment of the Holy Spirit. And so he is combating this form of legalism, which included both salvation and sanctification. And as we come now to chapter 5, he begins this chapter by saying, stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage. And then in verses 2 through 12 he's going to specifically address this matter. of circumcision that these Judaizers said was absolutely essential for salvation. And then notice The verses leading up to this. In verse 13, he says, For brethren, ye have been called unto liberty, only use not your liberty for an occasion to the flesh. but by love serve one another. And there he is giving a warning. You see, God's truth is like often compared to a road. And on either side of the road there are ditches. It's very easy for someone to fall into the ditch of legalism, which I'll talk about a little bit more later. But it's also easy for people to fall on the other ditch, on the other side of the road, which is antinomianism And he says it's easy for me to preach about liberty, and then people say, well, that's great. That means there's no rules I can do whatever I want in my Christian life. And Paul says, No, be careful. That's not what I'm saying. This is not, this liberty is not for us to serve ourselves, but it's so that we would be able to serve others. Notice what he says right after this, he says, use not your liberty for an occasion of the flesh, but by love serve one another, for all the laws fulfilled in one word, even in this thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. And then beginning in verse 16, which begins a new paragraph, we have a command to walk in the Spirit. Now I want you to notice how this is laid out because this is this is where the text that we're coming to is located. So in verses 16 through 18 we have a command and some comments on what it means to walk in the Spirit. Someone might say, well how would I know if I'm walking in the Spirit? Well, he's going to start out by giving the evidences of the opposite of that. In verses 19 through 21, he has this long listing of vices. These are the works of the flesh. If this is how your life is characterized, then you're certainly not walking in the spirit. But then he gives the positive evidence that you are being controlled by the Spirit, and that's what we know is the fruit of the Spirit found in verses 22 and 23. Now this opening paragraph that I want to look at this morning in verses 16 through 18 provides some essential truths for spiritual fruitfulness. If you are going to grow some vibrant and fruitful crops You have to meet certain conditions. You have to have fertile soil. You have to remove the rocks and the stones, and you may need to fertilize, and you have to break up the ground. There are conditions. To be met in order to really develop the fruit of the Spirit. So that's what I want to look at in this paragraph this morning, how to cultivate the fruit of the Spirit in your life. And the first thing I want you to notice is that the fruit of the Spirit can only be developed by walking in the Spirit. Look with me at verse 16. For this I say then, walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust. of the flesh. This verse, notice, is made up of three parts. First of all, you have a connection. He says, this I say then, that connects to what previously comes before it. Then you have a command, walk in the spirit. And then you have a consequence, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. So let's look at these very quickly. First of all, you have a connection. What's the connection here? Well the connection here is that there was a problem at those churches in that region of Galatia, just like there's often problems in our churches today, and that is There was some real antagonism and fighting that was going on. That's why he says, But if you devour bite and devour one another, take heed that you be not consumed of one another. They were attacking one another. And he's going to show in just a few verses, that's an evidence that they were being controlled more by the flesh. than by the Spirit. So then he provides this command, walk in the Spirit. This is not a suggestion. This is God's will for every believer. You will never go far in your Christian life unless you are empowered and controlled by the Holy Spirit. You will never ever be able to develop the fruit of the Spirit. that is mentioned in verses 22 and 23, unless you are controlled by the Spirit of God. I mean just look at this list. Who doesn't want This to characterize their life. Love, joy, peace. Every one of those qualities Is attractive to us. We want people to interact with us on the basis of these qualities, and we, I think all of us would like to be known as a loving person, as a joyful person, as a peaceful person. How does that happen? It can only happen as we walk in the Spirit. So what does it mean to walk in the Spirit? Well, walk is a metaphor. for behavior or conduct. It's found often in scriptures. It's even used in our vocabulary today. We talk about sometime a person whose walk doesn't match his talk, we mean that they say one thing but they do another. Walking also conveys the idea of direction. Notice how he summarizes this again in a little different language in verse 18. He says, but if ye be led by the spirits So let's put this together. To walk in the Spirit is to let your conduct or way of life be directed by the Spirit of God. That is simply what it means. How does the Holy Spirit guide and direct your conduct, your behavior? Well, look with me at the summary of this passage in verse 25. Notice what it says there. This is very similar to verse 16. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. And the Greek word that is used for walk here is a different one from the one that's used in verse 16. Here the word speaks, you could put it this way, of keeping in step with the Spirit. It's a little more specific. It's talking about every step that we take. In our journey through life, we have to make many, many decisions. And what this is teaching us is that the Holy Spirit should be guiding us and empowering us to make the wise choices in life. There's another aspect I want to show you from this. We have the books of Ephesians and Colossians that are twin epistles. The verse that corresponds most closely to this is Ephesians 5. 18, where it says, be filled with the Spirit. And then it gives all these consequences after that. Well, the parallel passage for that in Colossians is in Colossians 3. 16 that says, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. To be controlled by the Spirit of God is to be directed by the Word of God. Those two things will never be at odds with one another. Why? Who wrote the Word of God? Who is the ultimate author? It's the Spirit of God. So is the Spirit of God ever going to direct you to do something that's contrary to the word that He wrote? No. Never. So for us to really walk in the Spirit, it means that we have to understand and know the Word of God and obey it. This is a very important part for us to understand. So do you want to walk in the Spirit? Do you want to walk in the Word? Then you must treasure up the Word of God in your hearts. The better you know this book. The more the Spirit of God can work through this book and bring verses to your mind and guide and direct you in your life. And then I mentioned in verse 16 that we have a consequence here. It says this, and you will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. This is said very emphatically in the Greek text. It employs two negatives. Now in English, when we use two negatives, it means it's a positive. But it could be rendered something like this. You will never ever fulfill the loss of the flesh. It's really emphatic. Now I wonder what you think about that promise. I suspect that many of you would say, well, it hasn't really worked out that way in my life. This verse is not saying that Christians are sinless or that they can achieve a state where they never sin. But it's saying that if we are controlled by the Spirit of God, we will not sin. Every time you sin and you fall into temptation, you can be certain that at that moment You were being controlled more by the flesh than you were by the Spirit. Now, what is it that is fighting against us? Well, it's all through this passage, and that is the flesh. So that brings us to verse 17 in our second point, and that is that the fruit of the Spirit can only be developed as we struggle against Notice what it says in verse 17. For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary the one to the other, so that you cannot do the things that you would. Now notice the first word in verse 17 is the word for. That means that Paul is explaining what he has just said. Alright, so look at verse sixteen. This I say then walk in the spirit and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. Someone says, Well how can that be? So Paul gives verse 17, for the flesh lust against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. These are contrary the one to the other, so that you cannot do the things that you would. What Paul is expressing here is that in every moment, you are either being controlled by the flesh, Or you're being controlled by the Spirit. You can think of it this way. It's kind of like an on-off switch. You know? Something is either on or it's off. It's not like a little bit of both. So you are either controlled by the Spirit of God, and you are being guided and directed by Him, or you're being controlled by the flesh. Notice how this relationship is described. There is an incessant antagonism between the Spirit of God that indwells every believer and our flesh. Are you aware of that? I hope you are. There is a certain sense in which a believer has more of an inner struggle in his heart than an unbeliever does. An unbeliever doesn't have the Spirit of God there. He has a conscience. He might have a sense of right and wrong. But he doesn't have the Spirit of God living within him, convicting him and saying, that is wrong, you should not do this. So there's actually more of a struggle that we have. Now, what exactly is the flesh that Paul is speaking of in these verses? The Bible uses the the term flesh in several different ways. It uses it to re refer to humanity in general. It says in Isaiah 40, for instance, all flesh is as grass. All of humanity. Sometimes it's used specifically to refer to our human bodies. But most often, especially in the writings of Paul, like here , It's referring to the old fallen human nature that is always antagonistic against God. You have within you, if you're a child of God here this morning, you have the Spirit of God dwells within you. The Bible says our body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. But there's another entity there too, and that is your flesh, which is antagonistic, which is going to fight against whatever the Spirit of God is trying to do in your life. To say that you hear a sermon and it convicts you that you're not having any time with the Lord, but you have to go to work pretty early. So you decide that the next morning you're going to get up at 6 a. m. and you're going to spend some time in prayer and in studying the Word of God. I want you to know that your flesh is going to fight you tooth and nail in that It's going to provide 20 different reasons why you shouldn't have to do that and why it's not a wise thing to do. Try it out sometime. You'll find out. You see, the Christian has three lifelong enemies. We have the world. It's not talking about the people of the world or planet Earth. It means the values of the world, the values that drive and always have controlled lost people. We have the world, which is our enemy. We have the devil, our adversary. Who goes about as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour? We have that enemy, but we also have an enemy within. We have a traitor within us, and that is our flesh. That's why we so desperately need the Spirit of God in our Christian lives. So how can we have victory over the flesh? The answer to that, I think, is found most clearly in the book of Romans, another book that Paul wrote. I want us to turn, please, to Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter 8. I'm going to begin reading at verse 8. Romans 8, verse 8 It says, so then they that are in the flesh cannot please God. But ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit if So be the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. Now, if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his. And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit of life because of righteousness. But if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his spirit that dwelleth in you. Verse 12, look at this conclusion. Therefore, brethren We are debtors not to the flesh to live after the flesh. How do we have victory over the flesh? The first thing you need to realize is that you are no longer enslaved to the flesh. Did you know that? That's what the Word of God teaches. In a similar vein, Romans chapter 6 tells us that. It uses there the term slave. We are not enslaved to the flesh. The flesh is alive and real. I've just said it's within us. But we are not obligated. It says here that we are not debtors. You do not have an obligation to obey the flesh. The flesh is no longer your master. This is very important because I think a lot of Christians do not think this way. They think, well, you know, I've always had a weakness in this area, or I just can't seem to help myself, or this is just the way I am. That is not true. If you are a child of God, you are no longer enslaved to sin. You have been delivered. You can walk out by the grace of God. A second point that you must understand that also comes from This passage in Romans 8 is that you must wage war against the flesh by the power of the Spirit. Notice what it says in verses 12 and following. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh to live after the flesh. For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die. But if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. You can't defeat the flesh by the power of the flesh. That's the mistake the Judaizers were making. You can't do that. You can't just say, well, I'm just going to be really determined. I'm just going to be really disciplined. I'm going to fight really hard. That's what I'm going to do. No, you have to have the Spirit of God. You have to desperately cry out to him. This is one reason why I believe the Lord allows us at times to fall flat on our face. Spiritually, so that we know I can't do this. My intentions, my determination, my willpower cannot Avail, I cannot have victory over my flesh. He wants you to desperately depend on the Spirit of God And it's only through his power, the same power as he has here, that raised up Christ from the dead, that same power is available to you to be victorious in your daily struggle against the flesh. But there is a third point that I want to say about this, and that is that you must starve the flesh. Turn with me to Romans chapter 13. And the last verse, Romans 13, verse 14. Paul says this, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ. And make no provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. Make no provision for the flesh. 1 Peter 2 and verse 11 puts it this way abstain from fleshly lust which war against the soul. You cannot allow your flesh to have the fuel for sin and be victorious. What you feed will always win the battle. You have to be brutally honest with yourself. We all have different areas of weaknesses. We often like to compare ourselves with others in an area that we have complete victory over because it makes us feel so superior to this other person. What may be a great temptation to you may not tempt somebody else at all. But you have to be brutal and honest with yourself about the areas of temptation you face , and then you have to cut off the provision for the flesh. There's an old story years ago about a man, an old cowboy who came to Christ. He had a great problem with alcohol. He was always going into the saloon and getting drunk. But he re realized that that was wrong. He repented of his sin. But he found that he kept stumbling into sin and he went to this revivalist preacher and he said, I don't know why it is. I I really don't want to drink. I've really turned away from this But I still keep falling into the sin. And the rivalist says, well, tell me what your routine is. What do you do when you come into town? He says, Well, I go and I go up to the saloon and I tie my horse there. And he says you have to find a new place to tie up your horse. Alright? You can't make provision for the flesh. Men, if you struggle with pornography and you're defeated in that all the time, you know what? You probably shouldn't be carrying around a smartphone all day. We say, really? Yeah. You have provision right there. If that's an area you struggle with, then maybe you have to forego that. That's what Jesus said. about being radical when he said about plucking out your eye or cutting off your hands. You may say that sounds pretty extreme. If you want to fight the flesh, you have to get extreme. Let's heard the story of a Native American man who came to Christ and was really a fine Christian. A missionary visited this legendary believer and asked him what his secret of spiritual growth was. And the Indian said, there are two dogs that live within my heart. One is a good dog and the other is an evil dog. And the missionary asks him, which dog wins? And he says, the dog that I feed. The fruit of the Spirit can only be developed by walking in the Spirit. And the fruit of the Spirit is going to come as we oppose the flesh. And finally, I want you to see. in our passage of Galatians chapter 5 that the fruit of the Spirit can never be develop be developed by following a set of laws or rules. Turn with me Galatians 5 if you're not there. And I want us to look at verse 18 now. He says, but if you be led by the Spirit, ye are not under the law. Now, when Paul speaks of being led by the Spirit, he is saying essentially the same thing as walking by the Spirit, what he said in verse 16. But here in the end of verse 18, we find a new element. He says, year not under the law. Now this is not what we would have expected. If you're following the flow of thought here, you may have thought him to say, but if you're led by the Spirit, you're not under the flesh. But that's not what he says. He says, you're not under law. So is Paul saying that there are no laws, no governing principles in the life of a believer No. How do I know that? Because in this very context, he talks about God's law. Look with me, if you would. At verse 14, just four verses earlier, for all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. So Paul is not espousing what is commonly known by theologians as antinomianism. That means the idea that there is no law, no governing principle. in the life of a believer, because he's in context here already for that. What Paul is fighting against and opposing here when he speaks of law is the legalism of the Judaizers. As I said to you a moment ago, God 's truth is like a narrow road, and there are always ditches on either side Most error in the world is people taking something that has an element of truth in it, but going too far in this direction. And if you go too far in this understanding of this, on one end you'll have legalism. And on the other end, you will have antinomianism. It's all law or it's no law. No, the answer is in the middle, in God's truth, a right understanding of this. I do not have time to go through an entire discourse on the role of the law in the life of a believer because that would be worthy not just of one sermon, but of many sermons. because there are so many passages that come to bear on this. But suffice to say here that Paul is combating the Judaizers. Many scholars think these Judaizers, that some of them were like former Pharisees who came to faith in Christ. But they brought with them all that baggage of their former life, their whole outlook on how to please God was about you do this, this, this, and this. And we often bring our baggage into our new life in Christ, and that seems to have been what was happening here. These individuals taught that not only was salvation by faith plus works, it was Christ plus the keeping of the Jewish laws, but they also taught that the way to defeat the works of the flesh was by following the law. But Paul says that's not the path to spiritual victory. It will never result in a harvest of the fruit of the spirits. And he says reasons for this in other passages. One thing he says in Romans chapter 7 is that often laws or rules stir up our flesh. You ever notice that? Paul says in Romans chapter 7 that it was the tenth commandment, thou shalt not covet, that really stirred up his flesh. You know, have you ever been to a place and they gave rules and they just kept emphasizing, by the way, you can't do this. You can't do this You know what? There's a part of you inside of you that says, well, I'm going to do it. I saw this experiment once. that uh the psychologist put on the streets of New York City in Manhattan where thousands of people passed and they put up this big box and this little hole and it says, do not look inside here. You know what everybody did? They stopped by and they looked inside there. Alright? When someone says you can't do it, your flesh says, well, I'm going to. So you can't defeat the flesh by law, by rules, because that's just only going to stir your flesh up. That's one approach to it But another reason why it is not spiritually productive is by people will often reinterpret things or make laws in such a way so that they can keep them by the power of the flesh. In other words, we can make pleasing God a list of rules That maybe have very good intentions and may be helpful in many ways, but if we reduce the Christian life to that, we are only kidding ourselves. The fact is that many, many good Christian people do this. I feel like I must give a disclaimer here. I believe in having good standards and sound biblical convictions. And I do think that often the younger generation has jettisoned too many of uh convictions and standards that their parents had in place and they've laughed at them and they've just scorned them and walked away from them and often they have been entrapped in sin because of that. But the fact of the matter is there are many fine churches where a person gets the impression that as long as you avoid some of the really big sins Then you're okay, and you're spiritual, and you're mature, and you're doing all right. Many conservative churches unwittingly Give the impression that as long as a person avoids tobacco and alcohol and immoral conduct, they are a good Christian. And if you come to church and pay a tithe and go out on visitation, you're a spiritual giant Did you know that you can do all those things and not even be a Christian? You say how can that be? Well let me give an example. You know the Mormons, that cult that denies the deity of Christ and everything else, they follow every one of those. They're not Christians. They're not Christians. So it's very easy for us, is what I'm saying. It's very easy for us. And many people take this approach. And I found that certain people's personalities tend to go in this direction. Some of you like lists, don't you? And please don't take this as uh preaching against lists, you know. Some people like to make a list every day of the things they're going to do, and they love to go through and check them off. Check them off. That's great. I know for many of you that works. It helps you be organized and get things done. I don't operate that way, but some people do. And it may be very helpful for you. But that's not a good way to approach the Christian life. Or you make a list, go to church, check. Put money in the offering plate, check. Took my Bible, check. And you go through and you reduce something that is internal to something that is external. You see, it's a lot easier, a lot easier to put a tie on, and I'm not against ties notice I'm wearing one. Put a tie on, put a jacket on, or have your wife your wife put a dress on and come to church and say a few amens and carry your Bible and everyone think, wow what a fine Christian couple they are. I mean just look at them, they look great and everything And to know some Christian vocabulary and be accepted as a strong, vibrant believer. And the rest of the week, your life contradicts everything the Word of God says about the Christian life You see, that's not the way the Christian life works. It's not, can't be reduced to a checklist. The Christian life is primarily a relationship that we have with Jesus Christ and with the Holy Spirit empowers us. So the law is not the way to spiritual productivity because often the law can stir up our flesh, and secondly, often we reduce them all to something that we can do without God's help. But you see, when you come to grips with what God demands from us, what he requires is written in his word, that not just that we change out here, but that we change in here And that he wants you to be pure inside in your thought life, and he wants there to be no bitterness He wants there to be no greed. That he wants those things to take care of. You know, it's a whole lot easier to put on a show one day a week than to take care of those idols and those struggles that we have in our hearts. For that, you must have the Spirit of God. For that, you must mortify the flesh, and that's what we don't want to do. Fruitfulness only comes through a relationship. As I said at the outset of this, what exactly are we studying here? What exactly is the fruit of the Spirit? The fruit of the Spirit is Christ-likeness. John chapter 3. And verse 34 says that God gave the Spirit to Christ without measure. He's the only person who has ever walked on the face of the earth who for every moment of his existence was controlled by the Spirit of God. You want to know what a spirit-controlled person looks like? They look like Christ. They have the responses of Christ. They have the spirit of Christ. That's what our goal is. That's what our measure is. Sanctification is the process whereby we die more and more to sin and we become more and more like Christ. Now we will never achieve that. We will never fully achieve Christ's likeness in this life. But someday When we go to glory and we're with the Lord, we will be like Christ. So how is it this is accomplished? It's accomplished by growing our relationship with the Lord, by walking with Him every day of our lives, by cultivating that relationship I've used this before, but you know you often see when a couple, a married couple, has been married for so many years, decades and decades and decades and decades have gone by. They become very much like each other. They still might have their personality differences and things. But they can finish each other's sentences. And their thinking begins often to reflect the other person. Because they've spent so much time with that individual. You cannot spend significant time and have a relationship with someone without in some way becoming like them. And so the key to developing the fruit of the Spirit is developing our relationship with Christ. So let me ask you this morning, are you becoming more like Christ? Are you walking in the spirits? Let me just say that if you are not a believer, you can't do anything that's mentioned here You can't walk in the Spirit because the Spirit of God doesn't dwell within you. You can't become more like Christ because you don't really know Christ. I mentioned some of these prerequisites for developing fruit. The very first one, the one that was left unspoken this morning, was that you must first be a child of God. You must first know the Lord. You must first have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, knowing that your sins have been forgiven and that he is your Lord. That's step one. And then as you in your Christian life yield to the Spirit's moving and directing in your life And you die to sin, you will develop these wonderful virtues that are Christ-likeness. Let's close in prayer. A father We desperately need your help. We cannot bear the fruit that you desire in our lives by ourselves. We must first of all be your child. And then we must yield to the Spirit's control in our lives. And we must resist the pull of our flesh. And we must recognize that we cannot devise a system of rules or laws that will automatically Bring about fruitfulness that this will only occur as we develop our relationship with Jesus Christ. And so, Father, I pray that you would take the words that we have heard this morning and use them, Father, to induce us and inspire us. To go further in our Christian walk and to truly produce the fruit of the Spirit. And Father, for those who are here this morning who are not your children, who cannot bear this fruit, I pray that they would seek the Lord. They would recognize that Jesus is indeed the Savior of the world, and that they would come to trust in Him. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.