If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Psalm 32? Fourteen years ago The highest paid athlete in the world was a man named Tiger Woods On February 19, 2010, he gave a 13-minute confession to a small gathering of family friends and a few hand-picked reporters. In his carefully worded confession, Tiger Woods admitted that he had been unfaithful to his wife. He said that he was deeply sorry and took full responsibility for his actions. He described his actions as irresponsible, unacceptable, and selfish. He apologized to his wife, his daughter. His wife's family, his mom, his friends, and corporate sponsors. At the end of the statement, he hugged his mom, left the room without taking any questions Immediately after his statement, there was a debate on whether or not this was a real confession. Did he really mean it? Did he say enough? Sports writers, talk show hosts, and bloggers all weighed in with opinions. That raises the whole question of what is authentic confession of sin? What does a person who is broken over their sin really sound like? This morning, as we return to Psalm 32, we come to David's confession of sin after his great fall. Although the psalm does not specifically mention David's adultery with Bathsheba or the murder of her husband Uriah The descriptions in verses 3 and 4 certainly seem to fit this period in his life. And this is why most preachers through the centuries have understood this psalm as David's reflection. on this period of his life. Now this morning we come to the key verse in this brief psalm. And I want to demonstrate this to you. In verses 1 and 2, we have the conclusion really of David's testimonial concerning this event in his life. It starts with the conclusion. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. And then he backs up and goes to what he was like before he enjoyed being forgiven in verses 3 and 4. For when I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was dried up as by the heat of summer. Here we find a vivid description of the misery of unconfessed sin. Well, how did he go from this miser To the ecstasy of verses one and two. Well, the answer is found in verse 5. Notice what it says. I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Now the structure of this Psalm is debated by scholars, but most find in it two distinct halves. In verses 1 through 5, you have David's personal testimony of this period in his life. And then in verses 6 through 11 you have his instruction that comes from this experience. That means that verse 5 is what we would call the hinge verse. It's where there's that fault line between the two halves of this psalm. Psalm 5 is also, excuse me, Psalm 32 is also divided into couplets. In other words, verses 1 and 2 go together, verses 3 and 4 go together, verses 6 and 7 go together, verses 8, 9, and verses 10 and 11. But there's one verse that does not have a match, and that is the central verse, which is verse 5. It stands alone because that is at the very middle of the Psalm Notice it also has a sela before and after it, and it also happens to be the longest verse in this psalm. So I give you all those observations to make this point. Our text this morning is just verse 5, and verse 5 is the heart of Psalm 32. This is a psalm of instruction. So what does David want us to learn from this verse? I think he wants us to understand the type of confession that brings the joy of forgiveness. This is one of the most important verses in the Bible for defining genuine confession. Now let me just pause for a moment and explain the connection between confession and repentance. Repentance is when we turn from our sin and we turn to God. The Greek term in the New Testament means a change of mind. In other words, repentance is A purely internal action that results in many different things. It affects our emotions, it affects our actions, it affects our words. And one of the fruits of genuine repentance is the confession of sin. Confession to God and perhaps confession to others. Now our verse this morning has two parts to it. The first three lines deal with what confession is. And then the final line in verse 5 explains what confession brings, and that is forgiveness. So let me ask you this morning, do you know that all your sins have been forgiven? And can you say that you're enjoying close fellowship with the Lord? Because you are walking in obedience to him. I want to speak to you this morning on the confession that brings forgiveness Christians should understand that the confession of sin is necessary for forgiveness and a restoration of fellowship with the Lord. So I want to begin this morning by With my first point with this question, what is authentic confession? And I want you to notice that there are three expressions of David's confession in this verse, the first three lines. Let's take these in order. First of all, I acknowledged my sin to you Now this verb acknowledged in verse 5 is simply a form of the Hebrew verb to know. David, if I were to make this very literal, is saying, I made known my sins. To you. But that might strike you as funny, and it may raise this question. Didn't God already know that David had committed these horrible sins? The answer is a resounding yes. We read the historical account sometime back, and in 2 Samuel chapter 11, the very final verse says But the thing that David had done displeased the Lord. So why does David need to acknowledge his sin to the Lord if the Lord already knows it? Well, David says these words not to inform the Lord, but to take full responsibility for his wicked acts. He is saying, I am guilty. And I want you to notice the pronouns in this verse. Martin Luther said that the beauty of the Bible is found in its pronouns. He calls it my sin, my iniquity. My transgressions. David owns his sinful failure. There is something about verbally acknowledging your guilt. That makes sin real to the sinner. Sometimes people live in this delusion when they're in sin that like if I don't actually say the words, it's like it's not real, like I haven't actually done this thing. But when they go to the Lord in prayer or they speak to someone else like a pastor and they said, This is what I did. I did this. It becomes real to them. They just acknowledged it. They said it out loud. And then we come to the negative expression of confession. The second line says, and I did not cover my iniquity. All sinful people naturally want to cover and hide their sin. It's embarrassing. It's shameful. We don't want people to see it. And so we try to cover it. We read this response of the very first human beings, Adam and Eve. Remember how right after the fall they sowed fig leaves together, made themselves loincloths, and when they sensed that the Lord was in the garden, it says that they went and they hid themselves. Sinners instinctively want to hide from the Lord and cover their sin. This was certainly true of David when he discovered that Bathsheba was pregnant. He called for her husband Uriah to come home from the front. He wanted him to spend time with his wife because he wanted people to naturally assume that he was the father of their child. But Uriah had more integrity than David, and he refused to go home to his wife while the battle was raging. David even got him drunk, but Uriah never went home. You see, David knew all about covering his tracks, but now as he confesses his sin, he pledges that he will no longer cover his sin. Now I want you to notice a very important connection in our text this morning. The Hebrew word for cover in verse 5 is the same Hebrew word that's translated cover in verse 1. You may recall that I mentioned that this word is an Old Testament word for that's often rendered atonement. The day of atonement is literally the day of covering. Because that is when the high priest went into the Holy of Holies and sprinkled blood on the mercy seat on the lid of the Ark of the Covenants. And that was to make atonement, a covering for the sins of the people. And so David here uses that same term and says that he would no longer cover his sin. So this is what we're to take away from that connection. If you try and you continue to try to cover your sin and not take responsibility before it and not confess it to God, then God will not cover your sin in forgiveness. Now, there is a significant cross-reference to this phrase. It is Proverbs 28 , 13. This is a verse, to be honest with you, that I use all the time. Often, pastors have to confront people about very serious sins in their life. And the very common response of people when you confront them about their sin is to deny it It's not true, Pastor. Or at the very least, to minimize it so that it's not really that bad of a thing. So before I confront a person, I quote this verse to them Whoever covers his transgression will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy. And so I look to them and I say, would you like the mercy of the Lord? And they say, of course. Then I said, then you must stop covering your sin. And right now you must tell me everything. You must confess your sin. You must express the fact that you are guilty and stop trying to cover it I want you to notice that David makes no excuses for his sin, either here in Psalm 32 or in Psalm 51. Just imagine what David could have said if he lived today He could have said, you got to understand, I was under a lot of stress. I was having a midlife crisis. He could have said, I have a sexual addiction. He could have blamed the sensuality of the culture. He could have explained that God made me this way. Or perhaps he would say that he was never loved as a child, and so he was trying to fill up this empty void in his life. Or it may have argued that this was the common practice of the kings of the day, which it was. But David does none of these things. He says, I acknowledged my sin to the Lord's. So how do we commonly cover our sin? We might lie about our sin when we're confronted with it. When people are first confronted with their sin, they almost never tell all of the truth. That is my experience as a pastor. It comes out in installments, a little bit of a time, as they recognize that they can't really hide anymore. Another way that we commonly cover our sin is we try to portray ourselves as a victim. Yeah, well, you have to understand some things It's very popular today for everyone to claim victim status. Or we might compare our sins with the failures of others and say it's not that bad. I mean look at what he did. Perhaps you're even thinking that way today. My sin's not that bad. I mean, look at what David did. I didn't commit murder. But if you desire God's forgiveness, you must stop trying to cover your sins. This brings me to the third expression of confession in verse 5. David says, And I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord. Notice that this is David reflecting on his past, on this past event and quoting what he was thinking at the time of his repentance. He says, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord. This expresses David's resolution and determination that he will turn from his sin, that he will confess this to the Lord. This is as he remembers back what he was thinking. But what is interesting here Is that David makes this confession to the Lord. And you'll notice that it's capital, L-O-R-D. This is the Hebrew word Yahweh, the covenant name of God. He confesses it to the Lord. This reminds me of Psalm 51 in verse 4, where David says, Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in thy sights. You might say, but didn't David sin against Uriah and Bathsheba, against her family and his family, and even all of Israel? The answer is a resounding yes. Well, then how can David say that he's only sinned against God? Well, David's sin was a personal offense against a holy God. Only God knew the full extent of David's wickedness. And although David had wronged many people and had hurt many people, his confession was to God, the judge of all mankind, the God to whom he must answer. And so it is to God that he must make confession. There are times When we should confess our sins to others. If you've wronged someone, you've lied to someone, you've cheated someone, you've hurt someone It is appropriate. It is right. It is mandatory that you confess your sins and said, listen, what I did to you was wrong. Would you please forgive me? And sometimes in a body of believers or within a large group, when you have sinned and your sin becomes public knowledge. It is appropriate for you to make confession to the entire body, like the entire church family. Why is that important? Because how will they know if you have truly repented unless they hear it from you themselves? In other words, your confession should go as broad as the knowledge of your sin goes. And there have been times when people have stood right here and confessed their sins to this church body because everyone knows about their sin. And it was needed and a very important part of their repentance and restoration. Now, the New Testament word for confess means to agree with God or say the same words as the idea. When we confess our sins, we are agreeing with God. We're saying to the Spirit of God who convicts us, yes, I have sinned in the way that my Spirit of God has pointed out in my life. The Hebrew term for confess here may reflect the fact that David offered a sacrifice in the tabernacle for his sin and perhaps even publicly confessed his guilt We have no biblical record of this. I don't want to be dogmatic about this, but there are some scholars who think that is the idea of this term. But what we do know for certain is that David confessed his sin to the Lord. And that brings us to the final line in verse 5, the climax of this verse. Look at what it says. And you forgave the iniquity of my sin. There is an emphasis in this phrase that you cannot see in the English translation of this verse. The pronoun that is emphatic, that is emphasized, you might say that's in bold letters, is the little word you. In fact, essentially it is doubled in the Hebrew text. It could be rendered like this, and you, you forgave the iniquity of my sin. And who is this you referring to? Well in the very line before it, it is that word L-O -R-D. It is the name Yahweh. It is Yahweh. You are the one who forgave my sin. The Holy One of Israel, the great I Am, the God who is perfectly righteous and just, you are the one who forgave my sin. So what can we learn about God's forgiveness from this event? I want you to see three things. Number one God forgives immediately. We see this in the historical record of David's sin in 2 Samuel Chapter twelve and verse thirteen, when David says, I've sinned against the Lord, the prophet Nathan responds by saying, The Lord has also put away or forgiven your sin. God forgave David instantly. It's sort of like when you enter a dark room and you turn on the light switch. Your finger is still on the switch when the light comes on because of course light is very fast the speed of light 186,000 miles a second. As soon as you flick that switch, the lights on It's like that with forgiveness. It's instantaneous This is kind of incredulous to us because we know that people tend not to forgive that way, right? They fold their arms and they say, we'll see how things play out. We'll see we'll see if you've really learned your lesson. We'll see in the next year if you meant what you said. God's not like that. He instantaneously pronounced David to be forgiven. This reminds me so much of that beautiful parable, the parable of the prodigal son. Remember the story the predic prodigal goes into the far country, wastes all of his father's money, starving to death. And finally, at the pig pen, he comes to himself. That's an expression of repentance. He says, I'm going to go back to my father. He's a good man. He takes care of his servants. I'll tell him I'm not worthy to be your son. I'll just be your servant. At least I won't starve to death. And we have this internal dialogue recorded there where he's talking to himself and he's kind of rehearsing what he's going to say to his father. Finally he comes and his father's looking for him and he sees him a long way off and he runs to him. And the prodigal says, all right, it's time to give my speech. So he goes into it, but he doesn't get through his speech because the father is hugging him and kissing him. He doesn't get to give out all the words that he intended to say. And of course, the father in that parable is to be a representative Of the way God responds to repentant sinners. He is eager to forgive. He is quick to forgive. He delights to forgive. And that's what we see in this experience of David. But that's not we have trouble often believing this. Again. Because that's not the way we think, and that's not the way people around us tend to think. Often, when we have wronged someone, they will put us kind of on a period of probation. We'll see if you do better. Or perhaps they will punish you by giving you the silent treatments. I'm just going to live the next month as if you don't exist, and I'm not going to say a word to you And when you're really, really miserable, maybe then you'll learn your lesson, not to tangle with me And by the way, husbands and wives, that's the worst way to deal with your problems. But a common way, unfortunately. You don't give people the silent treatment. The Bible instructs us to confess our sins and for forgiveness to be granted and for there to be reconciliation. That's God's plan. God is eager to forgive because that's his nature. One of the most significant verses in the Old Testament is in Exodus chapter 34 and verse 6. This is when Moses said to the Lord, show me thy way. He's very discouraged. The Golden Calf incident has occurred. He doesn't want to lead these rebellious people. And the Lord says, I'm going to give you, I'm going to show you my glory. And it says, the Lord passed before him and proclaimed, the Lord. The Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgressions and sin. And these this passage is quoted often in the book of Psalms and other places in the Old Testament. This is how God revealed himself in a unique and spectacular way. He is a God of mercy. and of steadfast love and of faithfulness and a God who delights to forgive. This is an amazing thing. And Micah chapter 7 and verse 18, it says, who is a God like you, pardoning iniquity and passing over the transgression. He does not retain his anger forever because he delights in steadfast love. So God forgives immediately. And secondly, God forgives completely. The Lord didn't just forgive David for some of his sins. He forgave him for all of his sins, including those horrible sins of infidelity and murder. In verses 1 and 2, if you were with us a few weeks ago, I mentioned that there were three words for sin that are found in verses 1 and 2. They are the words transgression, sin, and iniquity. Well, the same three words are found in verse 5. This expresses God's complete forgiveness. Every facet of David's sin, from the motives, the pride, the selfishness The disregard for others. God forgave David for all of those things. And the Lord restored full fellowship with David. And if you doubt that, look at verses 1 and 2 as David speaks as a very relieved and joyful man of the joy of being forgiven. But I want to address one other item, this last phrase It says, God has forgiven the iniquity of my sin. Translators struggle to. to translate this phrase because it seems redundant. It's kind of like saying God forgave the sin of my sin. That sounds like strange What is it pointing to? It probably means that David is talking about the sense of the guilt of his sin. In other words, David's not saying, you know, I know Theologically, that God has forgiven my sin. But boy, I don't feel forgiven. I feel like I'm still in the doghouse. I feel like God still is angry with me No, what's expressing here is that David felt relief from that sense of guilt. I addressed this last week and I don't want to preach last week's sermon. But our culture tells us that when you feel guilty, what you need to do is forgive yourself. But that's the answer. Just forgive yourself. That is not biblical. As I mentioned, you can't forgive yourself. You're one person. And it doesn't really solve the problem. Because your offense is not against yourself, it's against God. But when you know, when you know that God has truly forgiven you Then you can no longer feel bombarded with the sense of guilt, the sense that God is angry with you or unhappy with you. This is a very important thing for us to acknowledge. Sometimes Christians will say, I know God has forgiven me, but I don't feel forgiven. And I say to them, well then you don't truly believe that God has forgiven you. Because if you truly believed that the only persons whose opinion really counts God as completely forgiven you, then you would be delighted. That brings me to my third aspect of forgiveness here. God forgives eternally David could rejoice in verses 1 and 2 because God's forgiveness has no expiration dates This truth is brought out in many other scriptures. Isaiah 43, 25, I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins. Or the new covenant, Jeremiah 31, 34. For I will forgive their iniquity and I will remember their sin no more. Let me ask you a very important question. Does God have a poor memory? Is this fake speaking about the fact that he just, you know, he doesn't remember things like he once did? No, he's absolutely omniscient. He knows all things. He knows your sins so much better than you do. But there's no more a record of that debt. It's been blotted out. It's been cast behind his back, and you can't see what's behind your back. It's in the depths of the sea. He remembers it no more. These are all expressions that God uses to convince us that our sins are forgiven, that there is no more record of debt. and that God is not holding what you did against you anymore because it's been forgiven. I'd like to tell you a story. That may sound familiar to you because I've used it before. There was once a man in England decided after a lifetime of hard work that he was going to reward himself by buying a Rolls-Royce, a very expensive automobile And he was going to go on that vacation that he always wanted, so he put it on a boat, and he went across the English Channel and he went to Europe and he was going all through Europe in his Rolls-Royce when all of a sudden His Rolls-Royce broke down along the side of the road. He was very disappointed. And so he called the Rolls-Royce people in England and said, my car is broken down. What should I do? And they said, stay there. We're going to send a mechanic to you. And they flew a mechanic over. And the mechanic came to him, took his car to a garage, repaired his car, and sent him back on his way to enjoy his vacation. But this man began to wonder, how much is this going to cost me? They flew the man over They flew him back. He was a highly skilled technician. This is going to amount to thousands and thousands of dollars But he didn't receive a bill, and so he sent them a letter and he said, listen, my car broke down on this date. This man came and he fixed my car from your corporation. I want to know what I owe. And they said, Dear sir, there is no record anywhere in our files that anything ever went wrong with a Rolls-Royce. This is the case of those who have been forgiven by God. Sometimes I've encountered Christians, maybe you've done this many times, where you're so keenly aware of your guilt. That you ask God to forgive you for it again and again and again and again and again And I think that if we could see our Savior and our Lord, he might be saying, what sin are you talking about? It's been forgiven. There's no record of it. But how could a just and holy God When those attributes are part of this very nature, forgive a wicked sinner like David. It doesn't seem just This is one reason why we have trouble forgiving other people. They can cause us incredibly pain and suffering over a long period of time, and a few words out of their mouth is supposed to make up for that. And we say, that doesn't seem right. That doesn't seem fair. But the fact of the matter is that if we did not have all of God's revelation, if we didn't have our New Testaments, We wouldn't know how it is that a holy God, a just God, can forgive such egregious sin. And the answer is that about a thousand years after this, a descendant of David, much greater than David The Messiah, the Son of God, would live a perfect life and then would die on an old rugged cross in place of sinners And this is why we read of the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, and all we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. This is the only way that this makes any sense. This is how God can be just and the justifier of those who believe in Jesus, according to Romans chapter 3. This is why God could so eagerly and quickly forgive David for those horrible sins. Because they were paid for at the cross through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to conclude with just a few points of application. Number one We should never doubt that God is eager to forgive. This is true of those who are lost and true of those who were saved. I mentioned this dilemma, this confusion before. I want to mention it again. It might be helpful to someone. Perhaps you weren't here and you've never thought about this. The Bible says the moment that we repent of our sins and trust in Christ, that all of our sins, past, present, and future, are forgiven. It says in 1 John 1. 7, the blood of Christ cleanses us from all of our sins. And the moment you trusted in Christ, the Lord knew every sin that you would ever commit for the rest of your life. And they were all paid for at the cross. But yet we read here of a believing man, David, who is asking and confessing his sin and asking God to forgive him. So why is he doing that if his sins have already been confessed? The answer is because it is important for us to confess our sins, even as believers, to maintain close fellowship with the Lord. Because our God is not only the righteous judge of all the earth, he's also our heavenly father, which means it's a relational um situation there. And when you have a relationship with someone, you have to maintain that relationship. That when you have done things wrong, you ask for forgiveness, you confess your sin, and then they grant forgiveness. But for unbelievers, for those who have never put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, sometimes they think And they are convinced I've gone too far, I've committed too many sins, God will not forgive me. The price is going to be too high. He is going to make me prove myself over a long period of time, and frankly, I don't think I can do it. And so they don't confess their sins. And because maybe, maybe, can I say this is embarrassing, but maybe their experiences with other Christians is there wasn't a whole lot of forgiveness. And so they assume that God's not going to be very forgiving of them. But the Bible teaches us that he is eager and ready to forgive. It's not a bother. How often have we had someone forgive us, but it was like they sighed and they hemmed and they hauled and like, I guess. God's not like that. He's like the prodigal's father. He's eager to forgive. My second application is this. We must never think That saying a few words will bring forgiveness. There are many false confessions recorded in the Bible. Did you know that? We have the confession of Pharaoh after several of the plagues. He says, I've sinned. He didn't mean it though, because he kept going, changing his mind. We have Judas, that man who betrayed Jesus. Did you know that Judas said, I have sinned, and that I betrayed innocent blood? Judas turned from his sin, but he never turned to God for forgiveness. We've got Saul, the first king of Israel, who also said, I have sinned. But it's clear that he had not truly repented of his sin. So someone might ask this question, well, how can a person tell if their confession of sin is genuine or not? The answer is this. Do you want to continue in that sin? In other words, I'm not saying what if if you ever commit that sin again, then then you didn't really confess it. or repent of it. What I mean is if when you're getting ready is all right, I'll confess my sin. But next week I'm going right back to it If that's the way you're thinking and planning, then you're not confessing your sin. And you might be able to manipulate a lot of people with your performance, but God is not fooled. And going through the motions and saying a few words and kneeling in an altar when you're saying, all right, I'll I'll say the right words, God will forgive me, and I'm good then until I can get an opportunity to indulge in this sin again. And we must never be. Held in bondage by the idea of Did I say enough When I asked the Lord to save me. Did I really have like a broken heart? Did I really have tears? Did I say the right words? Did I really confess all of my sins? Because I'm sure I didn't. I want you to know something. Your confession or your repentance is not the basis of your salvation. The basis of your salvation is the sacrificial death of Jesus Christ. And the reality, the sad reality is that all of our confessions and all of our repentance are flawed. And not perfect. But God can forgive because the righteous one, Jesus, died in your place. The fourth point I want to make in application is we must not assume that because God has forgiven our sins, that we don't have to endure the consequences for our sin. God forgave David, and that fellowship was restored, but David had a difficult life. That little baby that he prayed and fasted for died. And his children, his family went crazy. There was all this immorality and violence and murder. Some of his sons wanted to overthrow him and become king. There was a sword, the Bible says, that went through his house. It was a disaster. You say, well, didn't God forgive him? Yes, he did, but whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. But we must also remember, finally, that Christians should live with the joy of knowing that all of our sins have been forgiven. There are far too many Christians who live with a performance mentality. Kind of like this. If God knew all the sins that I've committed since I got saved and all the ways that I failed, he never would have saved me. But the reality is God did know all the ways you would fail him. He's not shocked or dismayed. You might be. He's not shocked at anything you've ever done or said. And so many Christians live their life with the sense like they're in God's doghouse, if I can put it that way. God's not very happy with me because my performance has been less than stellar. And so often, rather than going to the Lord, And asking for forgiveness and having that fellowship restored, they just stay to themselves or they withdraw from the Lord and they become more and more distant from the Lord And it seems like a natural thing to do because God can't be very happy with me. He must be profoundly disappointed in what I've turned out. But he knew exactly how things would play out. And he loves you with an everlasting love. Listen to the words of Scripture. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not with him also graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died. More than that, who was raised, who is even at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. God is not against you if you're his child. He's not going to abandon you. He's not going to say Like some people sort of think, you know, I'm going to give you three more chances, and if you blow the three chances, then I'm done with you. I'm walking away. That's not the kind of bargain that he makes with us. He loves us with an everlasting love. And that reality should never lead a Christian to think, well, then I guess I have a license to sin. No. Because if you do sin, you will grieve the Spirit of God, and you will not enjoy that fellowship which is the essence of the Christian life. So what are we to do as Christians with this reality that we have been born again, that we are in the process of being saved from sin, and yet we still fail God's? Well, 1 John 1. 9, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins. and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. So every day in our Christian lives, when we fail the Lord, We don't wait to the end of the month or the end of the year or the next communion table to confess our sins. No, right then and there, when we are aware of it and the Spirit of God is convicting us. We confess our sins and we say, oh Lord, I failed you again. Please forgive me. I claim the blood of Christ. And the fellowship is restored. We keep short accounts with God. We don't let it stack up and overwhelm us. We walk with him day by day, and we can enjoy that blessedness that Dave describes in the opening verses. of this psalm. Let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for what you have provided for us. Thank you that you have given us a great Savior who has died for sinners like us. And we thank you, Father, that your faithfulness and your love for us is not based. on how flawlessly we have lived our lives, but in the sacrificial death of Jesus Christ. Help us, Father, to grasp this truth And to walk in sweet fellowship with you, for it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen