Turn your Bibles please to Psalm thirty-two. Psalm chapter thirty-two On April the 14th, 1912, the Titanic struck an iceberg and within a few hours sank to the bottom. of the Atlantic Ocean. Over 1,500 people perished that evening. After this infamous disaster, there were multiple hearings. to discover how this can happen. One conclusion that became clear is that mornings were not heeded There was a radio operator on the Titanic by the name of Jack Phillips. He was warned at least six times that there was ice in the area. There was another ship, the Californian, which was about five miles from the Titanic, and they sent many messages, including a desperate message at about 11 o'clock. But Jack was busy and irritable, and so he told them to stop bothering him. And he never relayed their warnings to the bridge. And 40 minutes later, the unsinkable Titanic crashed into an iceberg. And as they say, the rest is history. Whenever there's a great disaster, people want to know why, and they want to know how to prevent it from happening again. There are indeed lessons to be learned from disasters like the Titanic, including lessons from the fall of David. This morning, as we continue our study of Psalm 32, we come to two verses. That remind us as believers that we should keep short accounts with God. We should confess our sin immediately when we are convicted of it. Now, Psalm 32 is a record of David's response to his fall. The psalm can be divided into two parts. We have verses one through five, which are testimonials. They record David's experience, and his testimonial has three parts to it. We have first of all David's joy after his forgiveness in verses 1 and 2. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity. And then it goes back in time to what David was like before he repented of his sin. In verses 3 and 4 we read, when I kept silent, my bones wasted away. through my groaning all the day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was dried up as by the heat of summer. And then in verse 5, we have what changed all of this, and that was his heartfelt confession that's recorded in verse 5. I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. That's the first half of the psalm. Now the second half of the psalm begins with the word therefore in verse 6. What David is going to do now is draw some conclusions from his own life experience. And he is going to exhort his readers to not follow his example. To not experience the misery that he describes in verses 3 and 4. David is trying to bring something good out of the darkest chapter of his life. We see a similar idea in Psalm 51, this other psalm connected with this event in his life, when David says, Restore to me the joy of your salvation. and uphold me with a willing spirit. Why? Then will I teach transgressors your ways and sinners will return to you. He wants to instruct sinful people to turn to God. David desires that his epic failure be used by the Lord to restore those living in a spiritual wilderness. You might recall that I mentioned that this inscription at the beginning of Psalm 32, where it's described as a maskile of David, is a word that refers to a wisdom psalm which means this is a psalm of instruction we are to learn something from this psalm So what can we learn about David's great failures? Well, there are several lessons that are brought out in the concluding verses of this chapter. Today we're just going to look at verses 6 and 7. You may recall that last week I mentioned the psalm can also be divided into couplets, that all of them have a pair except for verse 5, which stands alone. So verses 6 and 7. Go together. Look at these verses. Therefore let everyone who is godly offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found. Surely in the rush of great waters, they shall not reach him. You are a hiding place for me. You preserve me from trouble. You surround me with shouts of deliverance. So what lesson is David seeking to teach us in these words written some 3,000 years ago? I think the lesson is this. Believers should confess their sin to God as soon as they are convicted of it. Why are we to do that? There are two reasons given in verses 6 and 7. The first reason is this, because you must not assume that you can find forgiveness from the Lord whenever you want. I want you to first of all notice to whom this is addressed. He says in verse 6, but everyone who is godly Alright, so who is everyone who is godly? You may think that this exalted terminology is referring to the spiritually elite, to super saints. But that is not the case. Let me show you some other uses of this that are nearby. Look with me at Psalm 30 and verse 4. For me, I just turn one page back. Maybe it's the same with you. Psalm 30, verse 4 says, sing praises to the Lord, O you his saints. And there, the same word that's translated godly in chapter 32 is translated saints here in chapter 30. Now turn with me to chapter 31 and verse 23. It says, love the Lord all ye his saints. And once again, the same Hebrew word that's translated godly is translated saints here. Now saints can sometimes in English have the idea, especially in some denominational groups, as a reference to super -Christians. But the Bible uses the term saints for all true believers. If you're here and you know the Lord is your Savior, you are a saint You may not think you're a saint. We use the English word sometimes differently than that, but that's what you are. You are a saint. You are a one who's been set apart to the Lord. Now the Hebrew word that's translated as godly comes from the famous Hebrew word tesed. You've heard me, Pastor Aaron, Pastor Nick, Pastor Nathan, use this term before. It's one of the most famous Hebrew words. It refers to God's steadfast love. His loyal love based on his covenants. And so the godly are those who have experienced God's steadfast love. They are the people of God who are in a covenant relationship. with him. So this instruction is for all believers. So what is it that David wants all believers to know? He says that the godly, verse 6, are to offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found. Now, he is not speaking here in context of any general prayer. If you look at the flow and the context of the psalm, he's talking about the prayer in verse 5, that the godly will pray like he did in verse 5. What's verse 5? It's a prayer of confession. I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. This is what godly Christian people do. They offer prayer to God on a regular basis, confessing their sin to Him. But then we come to a phrase that might strike you as odd. It says, at a time when you may be found. Does this mean that God has business hours? Does this mean, you know, if you pray to God between like nine and five, He's going to hear you, but after five o'clock, you're not going to get a hold of it. Of course not. We recently came through a study of Hebrews, and it taught us that we can at any time come to the throne of grace. It says that he ever lives to make intercession for us, for his people. So we can always, in a sense, come to prayer. But then why does it say in a time which you may have been found. And literally in the Hebrew it is in a time of finding. The reason is related to this specific kind of prayer. And that is a prayer of confession. When do we pray and confess our sins to God? When we feel convicted of our sin. The problem is that sometimes our hearts can become hardened and cold, and we no longer feel conviction. So the problem is not so much as it were on God's end as it is on our end. We should not assume If we're living in sin, well, the day will come, I'm sure, when I will turn away from this sin, but not now. Reminds me of the prayer of Augustine before he was a believer, where he said, God give me victory over sin, but not quite yet. A very honest and yet ridiculous prayer. So why is it Why is it that people do not confess their sins right away? If you've been with us through this study, you may recall some of the reasons I give. Let me say this really quickly. Maybe they don't think their sin is that bad. Oh, I don't need to confess that. Everybody does. That's not a big deal. Or perhaps they don't want to turn from their sin because they're enjoying their sin. The pleasures of sin foresees is exciting and adventurous, and they don't want to turn from it. Or maybe that they believe that they can't stop, which is a lie if you're a believer, because you're not a slave to sin. Or it could be that they think that getting right with God will just be too costly, it'll cost too much, it'll bring shame and reproach and difficulty. I can't be honest, I can't turn from this. Some might even think their sin is so horrible that God won't forgive them, and so they don't confess their sin. But there is an even more frightening reason why professing Christian people will not confess sin that they know is in their lives. And that is because their hearts have become hardened to that sin. And it doesn't really bother them anymore. They don't feel like David did in verses 3 and 4. They don't feel that misery. They don't feel like they can hardly sleep at night because they're bothered by it. It doesn't bother them at all. That is a dangerous sign. Just like there are some ailments that pain is a good indication that they're nerves are still working and their body is healing, but if their body no longer feels pain, even though something is seriously wrong with it, it points to a very alarming situation. And so it is with a professing believer who continues to live in sin year after year, and they have no great turmoil in their soul. That is a very, very dangerous situation to be in. It could well be an indication that you're not truly a child of God. If you are a believer, you have the Spirit of God dwelling within you. That's what the Bible teaches us. It's true of every Christian. And the Spirit of God will work through your conscience to make you uncomfortable. And just like your conscience, you can to some degree silence it or try to silence it. But it's a very, very dangerous thing to do. Because people who continue to live in sin year after year after year after year after year, and they no longer are convicted of it. It could be an indication that they were never truly born again and that the Spirit of God does not dwell in them And it could also be that the Spirit of God is no longer going to convict them of their sin. He's going to say, all right, I'm going to let you go your way. I'm going to let you go your way. And that person will never find forgiveness because they will never seek forgiveness. That is a very dangerous thing. And so even those who profess to know the Lord must take this seriously. Now some of you, some of you, when we read this phrase in verse 6, in a time when you may be found Your mindset, I know there's another famous verse that says something about this, and you're right. It's from Isaiah chapter 55, verses 6 and 7. Listen to these words. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. and let him return to the Lord that he may have compassion on him and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. This is a warning to all who have been convicted of their sin. That they would not think that they can manipulate and fool God. There are some people that I have encountered before who have thought like this Yeah, I think the the Bible is probably true and there probably is a heaven and hell, but I really love my sin a lot. I really love the world a lot, so I'm going to live like the devil all the days of my life, but right at the end of my life, I'm gonna repent and confess my sin and ask Jesus to save me and I'll go to heaven. So I can have the best of both worlds. But it won't work. Because if you live in sin year after year, your heart will become so hard that you will laugh at your resolution of one day past that you would one day seek the Lord. you won't do it. So you must not think that way. So let me ask you a very pointed question Who is here right now that has been living in sin and you're resisting the Holy Spirit? Maybe it used to be a lot more turmoil in your soul, but it's really quieted down over time. You're in a dangerous situation, my friend. Do not continue in sin. Don't continue to go down that road Seek the Lord. Learn from David's example. David was in a dangerous place, but God in his mercy sent the prophet Nathan to him to tell him the truth. And David is warning us from 3,000 years past to learn from his example, to confess your sin to the Lord, to enjoy that Fellowship is described in verses 1 and 2. But there's a second reason that we should confess our sins immediately. And that is because you will want to be in close fellowship with the Lord when you encounter the troubles of life. I want you to notice how verse 6 flows right into verse 7. Look at the end of verse 6. It says, surely in the rush of great waters they shall not reach him and then you are a hiding place for me. You preserve me from trouble. You surround me with shouts of deliverance. This last phrase in verse 6 is puzzling. It says, surely in the rush of great waters they shall not reach him. That is the the one who comes to the Lord in prayer. What is this referring to? It's referring to a flash flood in a desert region. In the Middle East, they have dry riverbeds that are called lattes. And they're almost always dry But every so often there will be a great downpour, and these low-lying areas will turn into raging torrents. that sweep everything away. And if a man builds his house there or there's a whole village there, it will be completely destroyed. And these areas that are almost always dry can become a very dangerous river that sweeps people away to their death So what is this imagery symbolizing and how does it fit into the context of the psalm? That is difficult to be dogmatic about, and I really had to think a lot about it this week, because there are good scholars That give different ideas. There are three possibilities of what the writer is referring to when he says this He could be saying that a godly man who confesses his sin to God will not be washed away in the day of judgment. In this case, it would be an eschatological view. Just think of the great flood in Noah's day. That was the judgment of God upon sinful people. If this is the meaning, this phrase corresponds to the famous hymn, Rock of Aegis. It says in one of its verses, While I draw this fleeting breath, When my eyes shall close in death, when I soar to worlds unknown, see thee on thy judgment throne, rock of ages cleft for me, let me hide myself in thee The person who confesses their sin to God and has obtained forgiveness will be the one who is able to stand in the day of judgment because their righteousness is not found in themselves but in Christ. That could be what David is thinking. Or this flood might be a reference to the correcting discipline of God. that he mercifully sends into our lives. In that case, the end of verse 6 speaking, this imagery of rushing waters would be parallel to the experience that David describes in verses 3 and 4 when he was silent with confession, when his bones were wasting away. when he was groaning all the day long, when day and night he felt like God's crushing hand was upon him, and his strength was dried up. Ironically, water and dryness could be referring to the same kind of experience. And although that is certainly possible, I don't think that is really what David is saying. I think the most likely interpretation is that David is saying that it's important to maintain a close walk with God because you will inevitably encounter troubles in life. Have you discovered that? Have you discovered that you have troubles in your life? That's the way life is on a fallen planet. You may have trusted in the health and wealth gospel that if you came to Christ, all your problems are going to go away. I'm here to tell you it's not true. It's not true. I think that Psalm thirty two this phrase is similar to what we find in Isaiah forty three in verse two That says, when you pass through the waters, I will be with you through the rivers. They shall not overwhelm you. Speaking of God's sustaining grace in the trials of life. But how does this relate to like confession and forgiveness and fellowship with God? I think it's this. When you face great difficulties, when you face an incredible crisis in your life, It is very good when you know that you're walking closely with the Lord. That you're walking fellowship with him, and you so naturally turn to him in prayer and give this burden to the Lord. But when you're living in sin and then God sends a crisis in your life, people often feel a little funny about current coming to God because The Lord and I have not really been on speaking terms. And I know I'm not doing what's right. So I feel funny asking him to help me to answer my desperate cries and pleas for help because I know I'm not right with him. And often people in that situation will interpret the difficulty in their life as the judgment of God upon them. God's angry with me. That's why this has happened. And by the way, let me clarify something for you. A Christian should never Think that way precisely. They should not think God is angry with me. Because if you're truly a child of God, God isn't angry with you. All of his wrath was poured out on your Savior But God loves you too much to let you go, and so He might bring difficulty in your life to bring you back to Him. But that's not out of anger or hatred, but out of love. So it's important for you to interpret the ways of God in your life. Christians, when we face a crisis, rather than running from God, We run to God. That's what we must do. Now David experienced a great deal of hardship after this great fall. Remember, his baby died. His children brought shame and disgrace upon his name. In the next few chapters after 2 Samuel 12 , Chapter 13 on, just as nothing but one devastating event after another. We read of rape and murder and treason and more treason. His kingdom was unstable and his family was a mess. Why did the Lord allow these problems to come into David's life, even though he was forgiven? It's not because God was angry at David and saying, you know what, I'm going to make him pay for that adultery and that murder. I'm going to make him pay for it. And then, you know, we'll be even after a lot of misery in his life. No, no, no. That's completely wrong understanding. These were, if I can put it this way, the natural consequences of a sin. Whatsoever a man sows, that will he reap. For instance, if a man is an alcoholic and he drinks like a fish, as they say. And he gets cirrhosis of the liver because of that. And he turns to Christ in true-saving faith, and he repents of his sin and he trusts in the Lord. The Lord will save him, but he might still die of cirrhosis of the liver. It's not because God's judging him. It's the natural consequence of his sin. Some of the problems that David experienced were simply the results of living on a fallen planet We read at the end of his life of David being old and weak and unable to effectively govern and deal with his enemies and his problems and people keep cropping up trying to mutiny and take over the throne. The Bible indeed does not teach the health and wealth gospel. It does not teach that if you trust in God, all your problems will go away. However, it does reveal that if you trust in the Lord, the Lord will be with you in your trials. Notice it says in the last phrase in verse 6 that the flood waters will not reach him. What does this mean? It certainly seemed like the flood waters reached David's life. He had one problem after another. It means that the flood waters will never cause that believer to perish eternally, that God will sustain them. He will guard their soul. He will keep them unto the day of redemption. You see, the Lord desires that whatever trial or difficulty you're facing today It calls you to turn to him and to trust in him more. That is his desire. Now, this imagery of the flood flows right into the imagery in verse 7. He says that the flood waters will not reach him. That is this person who's confessing and trusting in God. And then he says in verse 7, you are a hiding place for me. This is one of the most beautiful expressions in the book of Psalms. I love the psalm that our lady sang. I hope it was in connection in our choir. I hope they were all connected intentionally because they all work perfectly with the text I'm preaching from. The idea here of the hiding place is being in a place of safety even though there's danger all around. Being in a place of peace even though there's turmoil all around. It expresses the peace and safety that a Christian can enjoy even in the most devastating events of life. The word hiding place means a shelter or a refuge. The term is used in Psalm 27 in verse 5 when David says, For he will hide me in the shelter in the day of trouble. You may notice that the Psalms of David are filled with metaphors of God's protection of his people. David understood the importance of having a refuge because he was a warrior. And warriors are always thinking about strategy and having a protected area in which to fight from. And so David describes the Lord as his rock and his fortress, his refuge, his stronghold, his high tower, his shield, his deliverer. Do you know what it is to find refuge in God? Do you know what it is when it seems like the flood waters of trouble and trial are washing over you? and to go to God and to find stability in the rock. We read in the second line in verse 7, you preserve me from trouble. This doesn't mean that God kept David from trouble, because David had nothing but trouble. It again means that God will keep his child from ultimately responding in unbelief. They will not perish. In Psalm 34 and verse 19, we read David saying something very similar. He says, Many are the afflictions of the righteous But the Lord delivers him out of them all. That doesn't mean that every problem in your life is going to be resolved. But it means that ultimately God will deliver you and bring you to heaven And look at the last phrase in verse 7. You surround me with shouts of deliverance. This term, translated shouts or songs, was often used of warriors. shouting in triumph after a great victory. God delights to deliver his people from agonizing trials. And he also delights when his people praise him because he's delivered them from those trials. David says in Psalm 51 that one of the consequences of his forgiveness would be that his son tongue, excuse me, would sing aloud of God's righteousness and that his mouth would declare God's praise Did you know that many of our most beloved hymns were written in periods of revival? We sang Jesus Lover of My Soul by Charles Wesley. That hymn was written In a time when God was doing incredible things in England, when people were being saved in great numbers. It was part of the awakening there in England. We're going to sing at the end of this sermon. Rock of Ages, also written in a time of revival, when God's Spirit works in amazing ways, you know what happens? People really sing out They really come to grips with what God has done for them and how He has delivered them from guilt and from sin and from judgment. People sing like they mean it when they've truly been delivered. Now I'd like to turn to some applications and implications of our sermon this morning and from this text. Number one, listen carefully to this. God desires that you use your spiritual failure of the past. To help others avoid your mistakes. Now this is rather counterintuitive. We generally like to hide our blunders, especially our moral failures of the past. We don't want anyone to know about it because we worry so much about what people think of us. But David has his blunders recorded in Scripture, and he wrote two psalms about them. I'm not suggesting that everyone should share everything. We know what it is when people overshare, rights. That's more than I needed to know. I've said that many times to many people. However, the Lord might bring someone into your life that is truly struggling with an area that you once struggled with where God brought you through. And you might be the one who, like David, says to them I used to be in your shoes and I thought that God wouldn't forgive me, so I didn't seek his forgiveness. That was a mistake I see now that I lived in a spiritual wilderness for years that I didn't need to live in. Because I believed a lie. Don't believe the lie that I once believed. Confess your sin. Turn to God. He will abundantly pardon you. So this passage we've looked at this morning is all about why we should confess our sins immediately. We must not assume that we can just put this off for a more convenient day. We need to confess when the Spirit convicts. The longer you live with unconfessed sin, the harder your heart will likely become, and the more difficult it will be for you to turn from your sin. So I want to exhort you as the people of God to keep short accounts with God. Another thing I want to say is that, again, amplifying what I've already said, and that is that you will encounter problems in your life. It's just the fact of living in a fallen planet. You will have loved ones who die. You will have grave disappointments, perhaps in your profession. You might have children that you lose to the world. There could be any number of things Life in this world is filled with difficulties. And so we must be ready to face this reality. Which means that that we must be constantly clinging to the Lord and walking closely to him and depending on him and keeping shorts accounts with him because we don't want to have disaster comes into our life and we are far from God. We're not on speaking terms with Him. We're not walking with Him. Because we need that stability. So many Christians live their Christian life and their experience Could be described as a roller coaster. It's up and it's down and it's up and it's down. And they'll fall into sin and they'll repent and they're on the way up, and then they turn back to their sin and now they're down again. And their whole life is like that a series of ups and downs. God doesn't want you to live that way. He wants you to have some stability He wants it so that every little storm that comes into your life doesn't capsize the boats You know what they do for ocean-going vessels? They have to have ballast in the boat, some weight that will make it sink down in the water so it won't be blown over so easily It's our relationship with God. It's our walking with Him that gives us that balance, that gives us that stability. So often I think what we think is that when we encounter difficulty we say, Lord, I really need your help. And then as soon as the difficulty is over, it's like, thanks Lord, I don't I can handle the rest of this by myself. I don't really need you anymore, and we live life on our own terms. until the next wave comes. No. The wise way to live that David is recommending is to walk with the Lord. How you respond in a crisis reveals often how closely you're walking with the Lord Christians should possess a peace in the midst of the storm that is a powerful testimony to the lost world. And they say, how did you get through this? How are you coping with this? How are you able to maintain the stability that I see in you despite what you're facing? And that provides a wonderful platform for you to share the gospel. Christians don't seek to escape our problems. How does the world cope with disappointment and tragedy and crisis? Well, a lot of them self-medicate. They drink, they do drugs, or they become addicted to some entertainment choice. They want to escape. Let's just pretend this problem doesn't exist. Let's go over here. Let's fill our minds with something that distracts us so we're not thinking about the harsh reality that we're actually facing in life. That's not what the Bible calls us to do. We face reality as it is, but we face it with the Lord and in walking with Him. I mentioned in the Spurs service debating whether or not to do it now, but I will. If you regularly attend here I have you on a list. Even if you're just visiting, even if you've only been here a few weeks, you're on my list. And you know what I do with that list? I pray for you. I pray for everyone every week as God gives me strength. And I have to pray different things. You know, I can't pray for the same. Doesn't bless everybody in the whole church. Amen. I pray specifically And one of the things that I pray for the most often is that you would walk with the Lord today. That you would walk in the light of his presence, that your thoughts would be of him, that you would walk closely with him That you would not be distracted by the things of this world, but that you would have your mind set on the Lord's This is the only way to live. This is the best way to live. It doesn't mean you won't have problems, but you'll know the Lord's with you in those troubles. But I want to conclude with this. Although I don't think that verse 6 is saying this truth, this truth is nevertheless revealed in many other places of Scripture. Only those who have their sins forgiven will stand in the day of judgment. The idea that everyone must someday give an account to God is an uncomfortable truth that most people scoff at. But the Bible is crystal clear. This is true for every one of us. You must someday stand before the Lord and give an account. And those who try to impress the Lord with all of their good deeds and their badges of honor and the wonderful ways they've helped people and the monies that they've given, those who trust in those things will be swept away in the day of judgment, like a person trying to stand out in a river that's raging with flood waters. You can't stand there. It's just going to take you right off your feet and you'll be gone. Only those who flee to the rock of Aegis will be safe from the wrath of God. I like the second verse of that great hymn because it destroys the most common misconception about salvation that people have. It says, not the labors of my hands Can fulfill the law's demands, could my zeal no respite know, could my tears forever flow? These for sin could not atone. Thou must save And thou alone. Are you trusting in the atoning work of Christ on your behalf? Or are you trusting in something that you have done? That will be the great question in the day of judgment. May God help you to find your hiding place in Him and in Him alone. Let's close in prayer. Father , thank you for your word. Thank you that it's always relevant. It always touches and intersects with our Difficulties in life and our situations that we encounter. I pray that you would help these dear people who are your children to walk with you and to confess their sins quickly. to not cherish their sins, but to renounce them. And Father, for those who are yet lost in their sins, I pray that today they would confess their sins. And trust in Christ alone. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen