If you have your Bibles, please, you can turn with me, if you would, to Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter 8. The American painter John Sargent once painted a panel of roses that was highly praised by critics. Indeed, it was approaching perfection. He was offered high price to purchase it on many occasions, but he always declined. Because he considered it his very best work and he was quite proud of it. And whenever he was deeply discouraged and doubtful of his abilities as an artist , He would look at that painting and he would say, I painted that. And instantly his confidence and ability would come back to him. The fact is what you choose to reflect on and consider changes your perspective on things. But as Christians, we do not find our confidence or our assurance in what we have done, but in what Christ has done for us. This morning I want us to turn to what I think is one of the most encouraging texts in the Romans chapter 8 In verses 31 and 32, it says, What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? This text is a wonderful and glorious assurance, and it's found in a wonderful context of Scripture. Romans chapter 8. has been rightly called the most significant book in the Bible. It describes how sinful people can be righteous with God. And Romans chapter 8 has been called the greatest chapter in this great book, to use another analogy. I've heard of writers who have spoken of the 66 books of the Bible like a extended mountain range. You have the peaks of the Old Testament and the historical books and the poetic books and the prophetic books You have in the New Testament picture all these different mountain peaks of the Gospels and the Epistles and the Book of Revelation at the end. But if you were to view the scriptures as a great mountain range, the book of Romans would be the highest peak in that mountain range. And the very top projection on that mountain peak would be Romans chapter 8. This chapter begins with the great declaration, no condemnation. And it ends, beginning in verse 35 in that last paragraph, with the great truth that for the believer there is no separation from God. So you have no condemnation and no separation. This chapter neatly divides into three sections in the first 17 verses We read about the fact that the believer will ultimately triumph over sin. And then in verses 18 through 30 We read of the assurance that we will triumph over our suffering. And then in verses 31 through 39, the closing section. We read that we will triumph over any possible hindrance that would separate us from the love of Christ. Now our text this morning is the beginning of that third division of the book, which begins in verse 31. You'll notice that this section is dominated by rhetorical questions. That is questions where the answer is obvious and they are intended to make the reader pause and think. About the answer to these questions. We have questions like this. What shall we say to these things If God be for us, who can be against us? And how shall not we with him freely give us all things? And who shall separate us from the charge Of God's elect and whoso separate us from the love of Christ, we have these rhetorical questions that are intended to minister comfort to the people of God. Now let me look with you at this first question, verse 31. What shall we say to these things? Now the first thing we need to seek to answer is what things? He says, what shall we say to these things? Well, what is he referring to? And the fact is that the Bible scholars throughout the centuries have given different answers to this. Some have said it goes all the way back. to the beginning of the book of Romans, Romans chapter 1 and verse 1. And Paul here is pausing and he's looking back over all the territory that he has covered. And that's very possible. Others have said, no, no, no, he doesn't go that far back. He goes at chapter 5 where there is a subdivision there, and he's going through that entire section, chapters 5, 6, 7, and 8, and he's looking back over that section. Others say no, it doesn't go back that far. It's just looking at chapter 8, this wonderful, triumphant chapter, and he's surveying what he's just said by way of assurance for the believer. And others say, no, it's talking about the verses immediately before this in verses 28 through 30. Now I am not going to decide what men have differed about over centuries, but everyone agrees that it certainly includes verses 28 to 30. So for our purposes, let's look at these verses. We have Verse 28, this very famous verse, and we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to to his purpose, for whom he did foreknow, he did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called, and whom he called, them he also justified, and whom he justified, them he also glorified. These verses remind us in a very powerful way that every step of our salvation is the work of God. In verse 29, we have this golden chain of redemption that will not and cannot be broken. In fact, the verb form in verse 30 through there are all in the past tense. Because in the mind of God, our salvation is a completed event. This is hard for us to grasp. Because we are creatures of time and we live in a chronology of past, present, and future, but God sees everything in one glance. And then the eternal gaze of God, if you're a child of God, you are saved. You are as good as glorified in heaven. So what are we to say to these marvelous truths? Well, the proper response is that God is indeed for us. Now, the fact that this proposition is in the form of a question does not mean that this is in doubt. It's a conditional clause that is intended to convey the idea of since God is for us Who can be against us? Now there are many things that are against us as the people of God The world that we live in is against us. The values of the world are not our values Your flesh, your sinful nature that dwells within you, battles against your soul. That is against you. And the devil and his host are certainly against you. So Paul is not saying that we will never face any problems or difficulties in life. No, he is saying That since God is on our side, all opposition in the universe will never thwart his ultimate plan. No power can overrule God 's purposes for your life. That is what he is saying in this wonderful passage of Scripture. But that line of argument raises the question, how do I know that God is for me? And so Paul provides some reassuring considerations in verse 32 to give assurance to the Lord's people. The fact of the matter is that many Christians struggle with their identity in Christ. Many of them struggle with doubts. They struggle with what God is doing in their life and if he really has a plan. They struggle sometimes If they fall into sin as to whether or not they truly are a child of God's. I have talked to many Christians in my office and And I know that many of them think that God is generally angry and disappointed with them. That is his disposition toward them. He's angry And he's disappointed because he frankly expected more from them than what they have given in their Christian lives. I've talked to many Christians that when something bad comes into their life, when there is a prolonged illness or the loss of a job, or some financial reversal, they will say to me, God is punishing me for sins that I committed earlier in my life. And so this is a very real problem that Christian people face. This text is not an academic text for theologians to debate about. This is a very practical truth for us to consider. Because I'm absolutely certain that there are many of the Lord's people under the sound of my voice this morning who really think that God is not really for you. He is not really on your side. He doesn't really look on you with favor. He doesn't really love you because you have failed him so often in your life. But I want us to see this morning that you can conquer those doubts, those fears by looking to the cross. And I want us to notice how Paul turns our attention to this. And I want you to notice three aspects of this. First of all, consider the precious gift That God has given to us as believers. In verse 32, it says in that first phrase, he that spared not his own son. In this brief phrase, there is mystery and majesty. This is the beginning of Paul's answer to those nagging doubts about your standing before God. If you want to know if God is kindly disposed towards you, then consider the unspeakable gift that He has given to you in Jesus Christ. I want you to notice that this corrects sometimes a misunderstanding that people have about the cross and our salvation. Sometimes one gets the impression from sermons or from hymns That God the Father really wasn't interested in saving sinners, but that his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, kind of convinced him to do so. And that God the Father somehow retains an angry countenance towards us as sinners, but somehow the Son somehow is always interceding and intervening in our behalf. To keep his anger towards us at bay. But I want you to know that that is not the case. Yes, God has wrath towards sinners, but Jesus Christ is our propitiation. He appeased, he satisfied the wrath of God once and for all at the cross. God's disposition towards you this morning, if you are indeed a child of God, is not that of anger or wrath. And we need to remember that. We need to remember that God the Father is not at odds with his son. Jesus perfectly reflected the will and heart of his father, and so the fact that Jesus was called a friend of sinners is because he was reflecting the heart of his father. It was all part of the Father's plan of redemption. that his beloved son would die for sinners. That's why John 3. 16 says, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. He gave his son. Yes, the son was willing to do his father's will, but this was the father's plan. Now, most Bible scholars, when they look at verse 32, they believe that Paul is thinking of the incident in the Old Testament between Abraham and Isaac. Do you remember that passage? I'm going to invite you, if you can, easily do this, to turn back to the first book of the Bible, the book of Genesis. Genesis chapter 22. Many of you know this passage, but some of you may not. And for all of us, it is a helpful reminder. Genesis 22, I want to begin reading at verse 1. And it came to pass after these things that God did tempt, or the word there means test, Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here I am. And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering. Upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of. What a great test of faith Notice how God emphasizes the relationship that Abraham has with his son. He says, take now thy son, thine only son. You may say, but Abraham had more than one son. Remember, Ishmael was born 14 years earlier. Yes, but this was the son of promise. This was the son of the covenant. This was the son that was his heart's desire. He was to take this son who was a miracle. And he was to take him and offer him for a burnt offering. The book of Hebrews tells us that the way that Abraham worked this out in his mind because he knew about the Abrahamic covenant Is that God was going to raise him from the dead? That's how he made sense of this. I may be called to put my son Isaac to death, but God will raise him up. What an incredible demonstration of faith. Now look with me at chapter 22 and verse 9. And they came to the place which God had told him of, and Abraham built an altar there and laid the wood In order and bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar upon the wood. And Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son. And the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham! And he said, Here am I. And he said, Lay not thy hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him, for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son from me And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold him, a ram caught in a thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his son. This, of course, is a picture of Christ on the cross. And the point I think that Paul is making here is that God spared Abraham's beloved son. But he did not spare his only son, the Lord Jesus Christ. What an incredible thought to consider. God spared, God did not spare his own son that we might be saved. Now every parent views their child as priceless. And rightfully so. But how much more? The Son of God The best of parent and child relationships still have flaws. But consider the relationship that the father had to his son. First of all, his son never disappointed him. The Bible says he always did those things that pleased his father. There was never a word of disagreement between the father and the son. And this relationship existed from eternity past. We can't conceive of that, but there never was a time when there was not this relationship between the Father and the Son. Now for us as parents, we know when our children were born and we might live to a ripe old age and We might have a relationship that lasts for 60 or 70 or 80 years between us and our children. But consider a relationship that goes for eternity. And yet the Father, who had this perfect relationship of love, delivered him up that we might be saved. This relationship was so strong. This is why we hear the Father speak audibly from heaven. In the New Testament of his baptism, he said, This is my beloved Son. At the transfiguration he says, This is my son. Hear ye him. The son was more precious to the father than anything else in the universe. But the Father did not spare him, but sent him to die for sinners like you and me. See, whenever you wonder if God is for you or against you, You must go back and look at the cross. You see, your doubts can never be quieted by looking within Your standing before God will never feel real secure if you accurately weigh your own performance with God and your obedience. The best of our obedience, the best day that you ever had as a Christian, was still filled with flaws and inconsistencies and disobedience. But your standing on God is not based on what you have done, but on what Christ has done for you You see, your obedience will always be suspect, your performance will always be flawed, but your Savior is the sinless Son of God, and his life and death paid your debt forever. So we must, when we doubt, stop and consider the gift of God 's Son that was given for us. And secondly, we must consider the purpose of this gift that was given to us. The purpose, of course, was to save us. Verse 32, the second part says but delivered him up for us all. Now this word delivered is a very interesting word Because it is found frequently in the narrative of the trial and death of Jesus Christ. This exact Greek word was used of the Jewish council, the Sanhedrin, remember, who tried the Lord Jesus Christ and delivered him up to Pilate to die. The same word is used of Pilate, who delivered up Jesus to the executors. And this same word is used again and again of Judas Iscariot. who betrayed Jesus with a kiss for 30 pieces of silver. He delivered him up, the Bible says, again and again. But ultimately, all of these wicked men, those religious hypocrites, this false apostle Judas and Pontius Pilate, they were all doing the will of God. I like what Octavius Winslow says in his book on Romans 8. He says, who delivered up Jesus to die? Not Judas for money, not Pilate for fear, not the Jews for envy. but the Father for love. This is indeed the case. It says that he has done this for us all. Now the us in this verse is referring to all of the Lord's people. These precious promises have been given to bolster the faith of God's people. These are those who have come to trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. This is why in verse 31 it says, what shall We say to these things, if God be for us, that is, for the people of God, who can be against us? Because there is no power greater than God. We have here the essence of the gospel, the essence of the substitutionary atonement or the vicarious atonement, as it is sometimes called. Perhaps you've heard the story before of two brothers who lived in a very beautiful home and their mom left these two boys together and she said, Now you guys uh you know behave yourselves, I'll be back in a few hours. Well they they didn't really listen carefully and they were rough housing in the in the house, running around and having a great time and the younger brother bumped up against this table, and this beautiful, priceless vase tumbled over and fell to the floor and broke into a thousand pieces. And they both knew that their mother would be very upset because this was a priceless heirloom. They tried to put it back together, but it was futile. Finally, when the mother got home, the older brother claimed that he was the one who had done this. And he was punished severely. He was whipped. for what he had done. And that day, his younger brother knew that his older brother really loved him. Now, my friend, Jesus didn't lie for us because we are all truly guilty. And he didn't just take a whipping for us. He died on an old rugged cross. in the most painful and degrading way imaginable. He endured the wrath of God that was rightly outraged by our sin. This is the heart of the gospel that we find in both the Old and New Testaments. In Isaiah chapter 53. You don't need to turn there, but we have these familiar verses. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Earlier in this wonderful book of Romans and Romans 4. 25, Paul writes, who was delivered for our offenses? and was raised again for our justification. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 puts us this way, for he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. The Bible teaches that Jesus' death delivered us from the wrath of God, from the bondage of sin. And even from the world. In Galatians chapter 1 and verse 4 it says, who gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from this present evil world according to the will of God and our Father. You see, the scriptures teach that Jesus died that we might live and that we might live that abundant life, that life of assurance that indeed we are the children of God. And the death of Christ on the cross accomplished God's eternal purposes. And 1 Peter we read, but ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people. that ye should show forth the praises of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light So if you want to know if God is on your side, consider what God has done that you might be saved. He sent his beloved son to die in your place. And he died that you might live and live to the glory of God. Now let me ask you, do you think that God will finish what He has started The verses that precede this text inform us that God's plan of redemption didn't start the day we trusted in Jesus Christ. No, it went much further back, in fact, it goes back before the creation of the world Do you think that God is going to complete what he started? We have a verse that tells us that in Philippians chapter 1. And verse 6 it says, he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. That is a wonderful truth for us to remember. So let me ask you this morning, did God begin a good work of grace in your heart? Was there a time when you realized that you were a sinner and that you needed a savior? Did you repent and believe the gospel? Well what God has started, He will bring to completion. That's exactly what we have in this chain that's mentioned in verse 30, whom he did predestinate them he also called, and whom he called them he also justified, and whom he justified them, he also glorified. When you know who you are and where you are going, it makes all the difference in the world. And for so many Christians, so many children of God, the reason why we are so easily cast down and discouraged, and we feel that God is against us is because we have failed to to really look at the cross and consider the magnificent display of grace that was there. I'm going to read again from this 19th century preacher Octavius Winslow. He says, for you who are tempted to interpret your afflictions as signals of wrath, and your sins as seals of condemnation, and your poverty as marks of neglect and your seasons of darkness as tokens of desertion, and your doubts and fears as evidences of false hope and self-deception. For you, dear saint of God, Jesus was delivered up. So my friend, we have to stop thinking God is punishing me. Or God is angry with me today, or God has given up on me, or God is disappointed in the way I have obeyed Him today. We must stop basing our assurance. And our relationship on how we feel about our performance. And we must go back to the cross. Verse 32 calls on us to think and consider again the implications of the gospel. We've looked at the precious gift that God has given in his son and the purpose of that gift, that he would die, that we might live. And thirdly, I want us to consider your problem in relation to this gift. He says in this final phrase in verse 32 , How shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Every word in that phrase is significant. Paul here is using gospel logic to give peace and assurance to the people of God. Notice he argues from greater to lesser. If this is so, then certainly this will be so. People in the world often think that Christianity is nothing but sentimentalism, nothing but the power of positive thinking. But that is not so. Paul grounds his argument in the historical facts of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. The hymn writer was correct when he said, our hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. But what do we have in Christ as our Savior? I think we have much more than you can imagine. The next book over in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, the Apostle Paul gives us a short list of this. He says in verse 30 of chapter 1, But of him are ye in Christ Jesus. Who of God has made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. Indeed, Colossians 2. 3 says, in him are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. In Christ, we have all the spiritual resources that we could ever need or want. We will never face a situation. Where the answer is not found in Jesus Christ. He has all that we need. But perhaps you would say to me this morning, that's great, Pastor, but I have other needs that are not necessarily spiritual. I have emotional needs. I have financial needs. I need practical help. I need discernments. I want you to notice what our verse says. It says in Romans chapter 8 and verse 32, did you notice that little phrase that's easy to skip over it? It says How shall he not with him that is with Christ also freely give us all things? Now there's a little bit of uh differing views among scholars about what is being said here. Some say that it's simply saying that all of our spiritual needs are with Christ. Not only with Christ as our Savior, but as Christ as our sanctifier and our priest and everything else the scripture teaches about him. That's what it means by with him. But most Bible scholars think it goes beyond that, and it's saying that all the spiritual blessings and benefits that we have in Christ, yes, we we have that through his death on the cross. But God will give us even things that we need beyond the Savior our physical needs, our financial needs. Because this is an argument from greater, which is Christ, to the lesser needs. In other words, in addition to Christ, God will meet our needs because so often, what do we really worry about? Do we worry about our spiritual needs? Is that the thing that consumes the hearts of most Christians? Perhaps it should, but it's not. But most people talk to me about our financial needs and emotional needs and physical needs and things that plague us in our daily lives on this fallen earth. But notice the promise that we have here. In addition to all the spiritual resources that we have in Christ, we are also promised that God will give to us what he deems best for us. It says he will freely give us all things. The word freely means graciously. Not that in any way, shape, or form we have earned any of these blessings. No, they've been given on the basis of grace, but it also has the idea thereof abundant, more than we can ever ask or think God will meet our needs. It's important that we properly understand what is said here, this promise of all things. This is not a promise of health and wealth. Remember the man who penned these words. His name was Paul. He was frequently beaten and tortured and imprisoned in dark dungeons. This is no prosperity gospel. Far from it. I think what Paul is saying here is virtually identical to what Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount when he said, Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you. And does it mean that you'll get a beautiful car or that you'll have a mansion to live in on this earth, but it means that all of the things that you truly need, God will grant to you. I think this is very similar to what Paul wrote from his prison cell to the believers at Philippi when he said, My God shall supply all your needs according to his riches in glory. Notice that these verses do not promise to give you everything you want, but everything that you truly need. So let me boil it down everything I've been saying to this. Since God has done the greatest thing imaginable for you as a believer , Do you think that he will fail to give you what you really need now? I read a preacher who had a wonderful illustration of this. Consider a man who is incredibly wealthy. He's like a prince and he falls in love with this young woman. And he decides that he must give her the most beautiful diamond in the land. And finally he comes across this priceless gem. It's worth something like $100 million. And finally, after this lavish ball in this beautiful palace, he gives her on one knee this beautiful diamond worth a hundred million dollars. And she says to him, oh, this is so beautiful, this is so amazing. Do you have a box that I can put it in to take it home? Do you think he'll say no? Do you think he'll say, I don't have a box for that? You expect me to give you a box too, in addition to the hundred million dollar diamonds? No, a box is no problem. That's insignificant in relation to the gift that he has given and the investment that he has given from his heart. to this woman. It's the same way in our relation to God, when we bring to him our needs and our problems and the things that vex our souls, it is nothing that is in relation to the gift of his son. It's like an old cardboard box. So what do you really need now What keeps you up at night? What robs you of peace and joy? Perhaps you're worried sick about your financial situation. Or maybe you have serious concerns about your health or the health of your spouse or child. Maybe there are indications that someone you love has a terminal disease Perhaps you don't know how you're going to pay your next mortgage payments. Perhaps you are profoundly depressed as you again and again reflect on these circumstances and you try to find a way, a solution to them, and it doesn't seem to come to you, and you just grow more and more despondence. What are we to say to these things? If God is with you, you have nothing to fear. This is the basis of the believer's confidence. And we find it all over the pages of Scripture and even in our hymns. John Newton put it this way, through many dangers, toils, and snares I have already come. Tis grace hath brought me safe thus far, and grace will lead me home. We sang together chorus this morning. It had this phrase in it, no power of hell, no scheme of man can ever pluck me from his hands. Till he returns or calls me home, here in the power of Christ I stand. Do you have that assurance? Dear Christian friend, if your heart is plagued with doubts and worries, you need to go back to the cross. You need to remember what your Father, your loving Heavenly Father, has given for you. And find your confidence, your assurance, your comfort in that But I want to close with this question. Can you say that God is for you? You see, if you were not listening very carefully, and I know there are people like that, of course. You're kind of zoning in and out, and maybe you're not used to being in church, perhaps. You might have got the impression that this is kind of like a motivational speech, and what the Bible is teaching is that God is for everyone, so you know we we shouldn't worry because God's going to take care of you like he takes care of everyone. That's not what this passage is teaching. That's what people commonly think. That's not what these verses are saying. This may be a shock to you, but God is not for everyone. In fact, God is not only not for everyone, he is against some. In John chapter 3 and verse 36, it says that those who have not believe in the Son. It says that the wrath of God abideth on him. This book began in Romans chapter 1 and verse 18 by talking about the wrath of God. And throughout chapters 1 and 2, we read about the demonstrations of God's wrath. And Paul concludes that line of arguments in Romans chapter 3 and verse 19, where he says, Now we know that whatsoever The law saith, it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God 's The whole world, Jew and Gentile, is justly condemned. Our mouth is stopped. There's nothing we can say in our defense. And it goes on in that same chapter to say, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God's. We all fail to measure up. The picture there is of an archer shooting at a target and he keeps coming up short. He never comes close to the target. That's the way we all are as sinners. We never come close to the standard of perfection. The passage this book goes on, this book that perhaps says more about the gospel than any other in Scripture, Romans. It says in Romans 6. 23, for the wages of sin is death. But the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. What we have earned through our lives, all of us as sinful people, is ultimate death, not just physical death. But spiritual death, eternal death, separation from God. But the gospel means good news And in Romans chapter 5 and verse 8 it says, but God commendeth his love towards us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. There's the kernel of the gospel, Christ dying in the place of sinners like us. And the scriptures call on us to believe. And Romans chapter 10 It says, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation, and then for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Those verses that I've just read to you in the last two minutes are what are commonly known as the Romans' road, because this book is so filled with the gospel. And the only way that you can really say that God is for me, that God is on my side, is if you have traveled that road by faith, that you have come to see yourself as a sinner. Deserving of the wrath and judgment of God, but you recognize that Jesus Christ died in your place, and you have put your faith and trust in Him and in Him alone. That is the gospel. And that is the basis of our salvation, not what we have done But what God has done for us. And when we have come to put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ , we can say with the Apostle Paul with that triumphant. expression that God is for me. And I hope that you can say that this morning We're going to conclude with a triumphant hymn because this passage is intended to be triumphant and glorious. Charles Wesley was from a religious home, but he did not know the Lord until he was a young man. And shortly after he was saved, he wrote the words of this hymn because he was so overwhelmed with the grace of God and his salvation. And so we're going to sing this song together this morning. And I trust that if God has spoken to your heart and you would say this this morning. I'm not sure the Lord is for me. I'm not sure that I truly have been born again, that I'm one of his children, that I would encourage you to seek the Lord while he may be found. And not leave here this morning until you have settled this matter of your eternal destiny