Thank you very much. If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to 1 Timothy chapter 6? I wonder if you've ever heard of a man named Joseph the Terrible Turk. This was the name of a Middle Eastern wrestling sensation in the 1940s. Yosef came to America. Because he heard of a wrestling tournament that offered $10,000 to the winner And so he could not resist. He came to the United States and one by one he defeated his opponents and he won the coveted prize of $10,000. The promoters wanted to give him his winnings in a check, but he did not want that. He didn't have a bank account and uh checks could get lost, and so he asked for his winnings in gold. And so they gave him in gold coins 65 pounds of gold money. And he purchased A belt, a money belt, and he put those 65 pounds of gold coins in that money belt. And he decided he was going to go back to the Middle East. Two days out to sea, the ship's engines failed, and it was. dead in the water, and so they had to transfer everyone to another boat. So another boat came and all the passengers uh went onto this other ship. The water was a little bit rough, and the distance between the two increased a little bit, and Joseph had to jump just a few feet to the uncoined boat. But because of the weight in his belt, he missed by just a few inches. And he went down, and that was the last that anyone ever saw of him. In 1 Timothy 6 and verse 9, we read that a passion for money will drown a person in destruction and perdition. I wonder if we really believe that. This morning I want us to consider one of the greatest challenges to your spiritual life. And that is the love of money. Now, I think that we tend not to view that as a problem. Because we equate the love of money with being really, really rich. And so I think we instantly give ourselves a pass and we say, well, I'm not really rich. So the love of money is not a port a problem for me. It's not a temptation for me at all. But the fact of the matter is If you really examine what the Scripture says and you really examine your life and your lifestyle, I think you'll come to a different conclusion. We tend to look often at money or the things that money buys as something that gives us our identity, our status in society. How many things do people buy? Do you buy because you like the reaction that you get from people when they see that item, whether it be clothing or a car? They're impressed by it. They say, this is somebody. They've made it. Look at the way they're dressed. Look at their shoes. This is someone. to take notice of. Find your status in things. Or how many people find their satisfaction in things? They they get a real joy. Have you ever heard the expression retail therapy? You know, a person is feeling really blue and down and things aren't going well, so what does an American do? They go out and buy some stuff. And they feel better about themselves. It's called retail therapy. But I think for many Christians, the greatest temptation in reference to money is to use money as your sense of security. Find your security. I can go to bed at night and rest my head lightly on that pillow because I've got all my financial ducts in a row. I've got my retirement, I've got my insurance I've got my 401k, I've got some money in the bank account, so I can rest and relax and look to the future with hope because I am set financially And so we so often look to money for satisfaction, for status, and for security. And you know what? The scriptures teach again and again that we are to find all of those things in God's. We're to find our identity in the fact that we are in Christ. We are to find our satisfaction in Christ We are to find our security, not in things, not in money, but in the fact that we know God and He will care for us and provide for us and take us to our heavenly home. You see how easy it is for us who live especially in an affluent culture to find our meaning in life. in money and the things that money buys. That's why this passage tells us that love of money is the root of all kinds of evil. This is a real temptation for us. First of all, because one of the things that we naturally do is we covet. It's one of the Ten Commandments, right? The last one, in fact. You see something that somebody else has and you want it. You see their house and you covet that house. You covet their car. You covet their clothing. We are material beings. And one of the temptations is to take the various needs, the material needs that God has inherently given to us. And take them far beyond the boundaries of what he intends for us to seek after. And so we just want more and more and more And the fact of the matter is we live in the richest nation in the history of the world. For some of you this morning, and you've heard me say this before, that really feel sorry for yourself that you don't have a nicer house or a nicer car, and you feel like you're a failure and everything, if I could take you And and we could just charger an airline at 747, take everyone in it, and go to Third World Nations all around the world and do that for about a month and live among them and everything. When we came back, you would feel like a king. You know, there's a lot of talk about the 1%. The 1% and when uh political activists talk about the 1% they're talking about billionaires and such that control a great deal of wealth in the world. While the other ninety-nine percent Are struggling to get by as they put it. The reality is that if we were to take a hundred people that in economic terms were to represent all the peoples of the world and put them in one village, I believe that just about every adult here would be the richest family in that encampment. If you saw people standing in a line relative to their wealth We would all be in our respective lines the first one in the line. We're all what I'm saying, the vast majority of us statistically are in the 1%. when you're rel when you look at it in relation to the world. And so we we we've been brought up to believe that there are many things that we deserve that are absolute necessity and absolute rights. And if you don't have these things, you can't get by. We've been taught the American dream that it's our inherent right to have a large home, a two-car garage. comprehensive health care, a good retirement, top-notch education for our children. And we think that this is what is right, what we deserve, and what is normal. But the fact of the matter is, the vast majority of people in the world can only imagine to live in the luxury that we live in. And the fact of the matter is a lot of those people and those other places in the world, some of them are Christians. So we have to be careful how we look at the Word of God and the assumptions that we make because they're looking at the same Bible that we are. They're looking at the same promises that God will provide their needs. And yet a large percentage of people in the world live on $1 a day or less, and some of them are Christians. So I would say that the vast majority of people who read the Bible that we read throughout the history of the world have lived in conditions that we would consider to be extreme poverty. And so we need to be careful that we don't read into the Bible our cultural perspective. And view these promises and our personal goals and our sense of entitlement in a way that's completely foreign to the values of Scripture. Now the context here in 1 Timothy chapter 6 is that Paul is giving Timothy his warnings about false teachers. Notice how he describes these false teachers in verses four and five. He says, he is proud, knowing nothing, but doting about questions and stripes of words. Wherefore cometh envy, strife, railings, evil surmisings, perverse disputings of men, corrupt minds, and destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness From such withdraw thyself. Paul describes these false teachers as proud, ignorant, contentious, and motivated by money We read this arresting phrase, supposing that gain is godliness, that rendering might be a little confusing to you. Paul here is saying that these false teachers believed that godliness was a means to acquire wealth. You see, the health and wealth gospel is not a new teaching, it's an old heresy. The idea is that if I do things God's way, that God is somehow obligated to make me rich. And every day in this nation, there are charlatans and false teachers who are on our airwaves trying to convince people to send them money with the promise. That if you do, God will bless you financially. So Paul borrows one of the false teachers' favorite words, gain. And he uses it in a different sense, and he says the godliness with contentment is great gain. He is saying that what's really valuable is not the acquiring of money or possessions, but of godliness, of coming to know God better and to grow in grace. Contemporary scholar put it this way, godless is not about acquiring better and more material things It is instead an active life of faith that finds sufficiency and contentment in Christ alone, whatever one's outward circumstances might be. This passage really divides all the professing believers into two camps. You're either a person who is coveting or a person who is content with what you have. How many Christians I've talked to over the years who have said to me in my office, Pastor, if I could just make another hundred dollars a week, or if I could just make another $1,000 a month. I'd be set. My life would be good. I wouldn't have to worry. I wouldn't have to pace around in my home wondering if we could pay the bills. And often I will ask them this question, was there a time when you made $100 less a week than you do now, or $1,000 less a month than you do now? And they said, yes, there was. Well then you had more money. So what's the problem? You see, the problem is not with how much money you have, but it's your greed, your covetousness that says, I deserve this, I want more. We live in a nation where this has become completely acceptable and normal for people to spend much more money than they ever make. That is why a high percentage of people in our country live in incredible debt and they worry every day about that debt. That is the outgrowth. of greed. And it's something that God's word condemns. The scriptures call us Not to covet and to want more and more, but to be content with what God has provided for you. And in this passage, Paul gives three reasons why we should be content with our material possessions. And let me show these to you. Look with me at verse 7. Paul says, for, he's explaining what he's just said, for we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain that we can carry nothing out. This verse expresses a universal truth. It 's interesting that there are ancient proverbs in nearly every culture that express this same thoughts. Everybody, when they hear this, say, yeah, that's true. The fact is, no baby is really born with a silver spoon in his mouth. We all come into this world with absolutely nothing. The Jewish Talmud says that a baby is born with a clenched hand, seeking to hold on to as much as possible. But it dies with empty hands. The same idea is found throughout the pages of Scripture. In Job 1. 21, Job says, Naked came I out of my mother's womb. And naked shall I return thither. In Psalm 49, verses 16 and 17, it says, Be not afraid when one is made rich, when the glory of his house is increased. For when he dieth he shall carry nothing away, his glory shall not descend after him. Ecclesiastes 5 15 says, as he came forth of his mother's womb naked, shall he return to go as he came, and shall take nothing of his labor, which he may carry away in his hand. You may have heard the trite observation that you've never seen a hearse pulling a U-Haul trailer. When you die, you don't take anything with you. John D. Rockefeller was the world's first billionaire. He founded the Standard Oil Company. And through strategic maneuvering, he gained a monopoly in that industry. And he gained unheard-of wealth. When his fortune is properly adjusted for inflation today, his net worth was over $340 billion. The last few decades of his life, he spent most of his time giving his money away, but he could never give it away fast enough. Because he was making so much money. He would give away millions of dollars every day, but he was still making money The wealthiest person alive today does not have one-fourth the buying power that John D. Rockefeller had. He died at the age of 97 in 1937, and his personal aid was asked how much he left behind, and his evasive answer was, he left it all. We all know that this is true, but do we live like it is true? I want and invite you to turn to the words of our Lord as recorded in Matthew chapter 6. Matthew chapter six, verses nineteen and twenty. Matthew six, verses nineteen and twenty. In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said these are resting words, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth where moth and rust of corrupt and where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through, nor steal, for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also You can reverse that and say you can tell where a person's heart is by the way they invest their money. Because our money As I've said to you before, is really a portion of our life. Unless you're independently wealthy and you inherited a vast sum from your parents, most people Have to work to earn their money. And so that money that you have in your banking accounts is really a portion of your life. You had to work maybe 40 hours for that, or however length of time. That's a portion of your life that you can never get back, and it's sort of been distilled and condensed into currency. That's your life. And that's the only life you're ever going to have. And so the way you spend your money is not irrelevant. It reflects what is really important and what is truly your treasure. Jesus gives some reasons here. Why it's a poor investment to lay up for yourselves treasures on earth. Did you notice them here? The answer is because it will depreciate very quickly. It may be moth-eaten. In the ancient world, a lot of their wealth was actually in their garments because every garment had to be hand-woven. And so we live in an age where our clothing is relatively very inexpensive. But in the ancient world, that was not the case. And so if you had an elaborate garment with all kinds of different textures and threads and everything, that garment could be worth a considerable amount of money. But there was a problem. In the ancient world they didn't have moth laws. And so moths would come and eat holes into these garments that they invested a great deal of money in He talks about things rusting. We understand this very well. Do you know the excitement of buying a new car or a car that's at least new to you? And you go in, you know, and it smells new, and they've shined it all up, and the interior's all nice, and it just seems absolutely perfect. You walk around, there's no scratches. There's no dense, and you just love this vehicle and you feel like you're on top of the world when you drive it home. And you convince yourself you're always going to keep it just like this. And then in a little while you start seeing scratches show up here and there. You may interrogate different drivers and the house. How did this get here? than maybe little dents in the bumper. And pretty soon some stains appear in the carpets. And in a short time, that wonderful treasure has just become a means of transportation to get you from point A to point B. That's the way things are in the world, the way they've always been. Another problem is it may be stolen. Did you know that every earthly possession that you have is going to be destroyed someday The Bible says in the end times the earth will melt with the fervent heat. I know some of you guys, I saw you out there and I was talking about your car, you say, not mine. I keep it in a garage and I drive it about twice a year and I wax it. I wax it four times a week and it's in perfect mint condition I want you to know that someday it's gonna melt. It is. The scriptures teach that. So my question is, why would you pour your life into acquiring things? When you can't keep it, when it will disintegrate and fall apart or be stolen or rust outs Or even if you keep it in perfect condition, someday you're going to die and you're not going to take it with you So why would you pour your life's blood into that boat? Or why would you put yourself in significant debt for an expensive car? Or why would you set your affections on a house when you must leave it behind? You see, it's utter foolishness to live for things. This is why Jesus told the story about that wealthy farmer who had a bumper crop and He was laying on his bed at night thinking, what am I going to do? You know, I can't, I don't have a place to store all of my crops, so I'll tear down my barns and I'll build bigger barns. And then I'll be set. I won't have to really work another day in my life because I have all this produce I can sell and I can use myself and I am set. And the Lord said to him, Thou fool! This night thy soul shall be required of thee. It is foolish to put your security, your life, your investments in things. That's the verdict of the Lord Jesus Christ. But there's a second reason given in our text. I'd invite you to turn back with me, please, to 1 Timothy chapter 6. There's a second reason that Paul gives for us not to covet, but to be content. And that's in verse 8. He says, and having food and raiment, let us be therewith content. The second reason is because you have all that you really need. You have all that you really need. Now, there's probably a hundred objections that are raised when I say that, so let me explain. First of all, Paul is speaking here about material things. Obviously, if you don't have Christ, you don't have anything that you really need. What does a man profit? Does he gain the whole world and lose his own soul, Jesus said? But speaking materially Paul is saying, if you had food and raiment, you should be content. Now the word raiment here means covering. And it refers to both clothing and shelter. The fact of the matter is There are only a few physical items that you really need to survive. God has so designed our world in which we live, this planet, that it can sustain life And that really we don't have that many needs. Now, this verse, if you really think about it, is one of the most extreme and harsh verses in the Bible Paul doesn't say that transportation is a necessity or that access to education is a necessity. He doesn't speak of retirement or disability insurance. He doesn't even say you have a right to health care. I mean it sounds pretty harsh. This is consistently what the scripture teaches. This is Paul reflecting what the Lord Jesus Christ taught. And Matthew, I'm not going to ask you to turn back there. Let me do this for you. Matthew 6, 25. Right after that passage it talks about laying up treasures in heaven, Jesus says, take no thought for your life what you shall eat or what you shall drink, nor yet for your body what you shall put on. Is not the life more than meat and the body than raiments? And then he goes through and he says that God's going to provide for your needs, so don't worry about these basic essential needs. He says instead in verse 33, Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. And what does he mean by things there? Does he mean, as some TV evangelists like to say, that this is a promise that if you give to them that God will give you all the things that you've ever wanted? No. In context, the things there is food and raiment. God will provide your necessities for life. Think about this for a moment. God made us material creatures, and therefore there are some material needs that we must have to survive. We need food. We need water. If we don't have these things, we will die. We need shelter from the elements. We need clothing for warmth. And about half of the people in the world only have these necessities. In other words, they don't have anything else, but they have enough food to survive. Not enough to thrive, but enough to survive. They have enough water, maybe a little dirty, but it's enough to sustain life. They have a little bit of clothing, a little bit of shelter. And about half the people in the world live with just those basic necessities. And some of them, many of them, are Christians. You see, God made us with just a few simple needs. God did not make us to be high maintenance. You ever hear that term high maintenance? God made us all low maintenance naturally. There's not that much that we need to survive. And why is that? Why did God make us this way? Because our life is not intended to be a quest for things. This is what Jesus said in the verse that I read a moment ago. Is not the life more than meats and the body than raiments? How many people in the world, their whole life, can be summarized like this: a frantic pursuit for more and better things. And that's how they spend their life. They want to eat at the finest restaurants, they want to have the finest foods They want to have the nicest clothes, the most beautiful homes, the greatest uh uh transportation imaginable, and they pour their life's blood. and energy into acquiring those things. Did you know that to live for things To live for your material needs and satisfying those material needs is to live like an animal. That's how animals live. They forage for food. They look for a place to provide for their little family, perhaps. But that's to live on a very low level. God designed us not to live for things. But to know him and to enjoy him and to live in light of eternity And when we go around every day just thinking about things and the debt that we're in and the things that we want and how are we going to afford that and And that is all of our life. That's all of our thoughts. That's all of our energy is going into getting things that we think we need. When in fact we need very, very little. The Lord is saying, and the scriptures teach from cover to cover, that's a wasted way to live. Now this should hit you right in the face because this is the way most Americans live. A mad quest for things. Let me give you some examples of some icons in our society. Somehow we have become convinced that we need a whole lot more. And no matter how much you have, it's never enough. Jay Leno owns 169 cars and 117 motorcycles. And he's still buying more. He's still buying more. But you know what? He can only drive one at a time. And all those cars and all those motorcycles that they have, they do the same thing that my car does. Gets me from here to there. In the 2008 presidential campaign, John McCain was asked how many o homes he owned in a debate. He was a little flustered and he said that his staff would have to get back to them with that answer The answer was seven, eventually, they determined. In 2004, John Kerry had to reluctantly admit that he and his wife owned nine homes. Although he tried to portray himself as just a common man. Unbelievably, our current president only owns five homes. But these are some of the most lavish private residences in the world. Mar a Largo is worth an estimated $175 million. And Trump Towers is reportedly worth $470 million. Now I cannot find a verse in the Bible that says, thou shalt not own more than one residence. But you know what? You can only live in one home at a time. And no matter how palatial that place may be, it still does the same thing as your little hobble. Provides a roof over your head and a place for you to store some things that you need. You see, God made us so that we are limited. This is why the hoarding of possessions is not very practical. And by the way, the more homes you own, the more properties that you have, the more vehicles that you own. the more cares that you have because all of those things have to be m maintained and they have to be protected and they have to be cleaned and they have to be insured. And so many people who have a great deal of things, they spend so much of their time just running around maintaining their stuff. God intended that you spend your life's energy on things much more significant than that. So let me ask you, do you have a roof over your head? Do you have clothing to wear? Do you have food to eat And my friend, you have everything that you really need, materially speaking. You should be content because you can't take it with you. You have everything that you really need. And thirdly, because there are great dangers that come with wanting more. This is what Paul says in verse 9, but they that will be rich, they that set their wills on becoming rich. fall into temptation and to snare, and in a many foolish and hurtful lust which drown men in destruction and perdition. Why is that, Paul? Look at verse ten. For the love of money is the root of all evil, which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. So let me ask you a question. Is it wrong to want to be rich? Let me give you some things to ponder. John Wesley, the famous preacher, said his philosophy of money was this, make all that you can Save all that you can and give away all that you can't. And when he died, he left only enough money for his burial It's not wrong for you to want your business to prosper. It's not wrong for you to improve your situation through hard work, through savings. It's not wrong for you to do your best. This is not a call. Contentment is not a call for us to be lazy or complacent. And it's important for you to understand that the Bible never says that it's sinful to be rich. Have you ever heard of Abraham or Joseph or David or Daniel? These men had considerable wealth, but this is the thing that is not what they set their heart on. That came as the blessing of God, but it was not the quest of their soul. Proverbs 23 and verse 4 says, labor not to be rich, cease from thy own wisdom. When getting rich becomes the guiding principle of your life, you have become an idolater. Colossians chapter 3 and verse 5 says that coveting is idolatry. As I mentioned to you earlier, when we find Our status, our security, and our satisfaction in possessions or in money that we have in the bank. we have become an idolater because those that sense of security, that sense of identity, that sense of satisfaction is to be found in God alone. Now verse 10 is one of the most misquoted verses in the Bible. It doesn't say as many, quote, money is the root of all evil. It says the love of money is the root of all evil. Money is simply a tool that can be used for good or evil. It is Not inherently bad. It's neutral. You can use it for really good things or really bad things. But the love of money is a disease of the soul. Let me further explain this when it says the root of all evil. A better rendering of the Greek text would be it's the root of all kinds of evil. It doesn't mean that every sinful thing that has ever taken place in the world can ultimately be traced the love of money, because that's not true. But it's saying that a person who really loves money and has made that their God, the one thing that they cannot be happy without that person will be tempted in a multitude of ways They may lie on their resume in order to advance up the corporate ladder. They may cheat on their income tax in order to keep their hard-earned money. They may refuse to give the Lord's work. Because they can't seem to afford it. They may not pay their bills on time because it's a deliberate business strategy. They may abandon their family and become a workaholic because they need to prove their worth to the company. They may dig a hole of incredible debt because they can't seem to say no to those impulse buys. You see, the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil. It goes on to say that those who love money will pierce themselves through with many sorrows. The word pierce here is not speaking of a superficial wound. It's a word that could be rendered to be impaled. And notice that this is something that a person does to themselves. They pierce themselves through. It's talking about something, a self-inflicted wound that leads to death. We are a people in large part who are driving the stake of materialism through our own hearts. And this results in many types of sorrow. There's the sorrow of destroyed relationships. How many broken marriages occur in our nation? Because one or the other or both, the husband and the wife, have put their careers and their quest for money above the good of their marriage. And there's this competition between the two of them, and they're always arguing about money, and eventually it rips the two of them apart. Because they ultimately love money more than they love their spouse. How many dads and moms Spend very little time with their children, especially in those impressionable years, because they're out there trying to maintain a certain lifestyle, a certain status that they think that they owe That they deserve. And they spend very little time with their children. But ultimately that brings them sorrow and regrets. No one at the end of their life says on their deathbed, you know, I wish I had spent more time working at the office. Or maybe it's the sorrow of selling your testimony for a bowl of worldly status instead of maintaining a strong Christian presence at work. You compromise until you're completely silenced and your light has been snuffed out. It's been hidden under a bushel, as Jesus said. Because your desire for advancement in the company was much more important to you than being a witness for Christ. Or maybe it's the grief that comes from knowing that you have invested your life in fool 's gold. How many people have come to the end of their life? And they looked at their magnificent home and their nice cars and their closets full of clothing. And it gives them no comfort. And they realize how hollow and how empty it all is. That it's just things. And they think to themselves, life must be about more than just acquiring things. And the Word of God would say that is indeed the case. God made us for things. Much greater than this. So many have achieved the American dream, but found it to be hollow and empty and full of regret. Leo Tolstoy tells a story about a farmer who had been quite successful. He was the envy of the village. But he was not content. He wanted much more. And one day he received a novel offer for a thousand rubles. He could buy all the land he could walk around in one day. It would all be his He was so excited by this he began to think about the land that he would like to have out in the countryside, that wonderful farmland that would provide him great wealth. Financial stability for his family, and so as soon as the sun rose, he went off on his quest trying to pace himself. He was walking, but then he found that he could not contain himself, and so he started to walk at a slow jog. By the time the noon came, he had gone quite far, and he was already growing tired, but there was still a vast portion of land that he wanted to encircle, and so he pushed himself even harder. Through the afternoon and the blazing sun, he kept running and walking as fast as he could intermittently to cover as much of this coveted land as he could get. Finally, as he kept looking up in the sky, he could see the sun was setting. And so he quickened his pace, even though his heart was pounding. And finally, he made it just in the nick of time to the place where he started his quest in the morning, because that was part of the terms of the agreements. And he collapsed there. And he died. And there where he collapsed, they buried him. The name of Tolstoy's essay was How Much Land Does a Man Need? And the inherent answer in his writing was he needs just enough to bury himself. Now the point of my message is not really sell your large home or stop maxing out your credit cards, although that might be a good thing to do We don't just mention the negative but the positive. Notice what Paul says to Timothy after this very strong warning about materialism. He says, verse 11, but thou, O man of God, flee these things. Follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness. Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art also called, and have professed a good profession before many witnesses. This is the sort of thing that we find in Scripture again and again. Remember what Jesus said? Seek ye first the kingdom of God. Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, not on the earth. Set your affections on things above, Paul said. Not on things of the earth. We are told these things again and again in the pages of Scripture. We must reject the message of the world that life is all about a quest for things. No, it's about knowing Christ and serving him with all of our hearts. This week I want you to consider this. How can I demonstrate to all around me that this my treasure is not on earth but in heaven? Do your co-workers, do your neighbors, do they know that you have a different set of values than they do? Do they know that you live for something beyond what they're living for? Can they see in the way you're investing your time and your money and your energy that you have different values? Can they see that Christ is your real treasure? Because where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Let's close in prayer. Father, we are all prone to wonder. We are all so prone, Father, to find our satisfaction, our status, and our security. And things. But Father, this is foolishness. Both your word and experience teach us this. And so I pray that we would heed your word, that we would evaluate our lives, that we would consider the basic question of how we're living and what really motivates us to do what we do. Help us, Father To set our affections on things above. Help us to live as pilgrims who are just passing through this world. Help us, Father, to demonstrate to all around us. That our treasure is Christ. And that He alone satisfies. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.