Encouraged to be here to be able to start this series on Jude tonight. But that song, May the Lord Find Us Faithful, thank you guys, is hopefully the going to be the theme song for this study. I was That has been going through preparing for this. You look through the hymnal and the first thing you do is kind of look, well, does anyone you know quote Jude in a hymnal? And hopefully well what you'll see is, you know through Jude, there's not a a lot of positive things in Jude. There's many things said, um, but in terms of singable it's different. But This finding us faithful is a theme we'll see in Jude. And so we'll be singing this over the next few nights as we go through this study. But as scripture attests that all parts of Scripture are fruitful for us, for profit, for building up, rebuking, there is no book in the Bible like Jude. Jude has a special place in the scripture. There's a letter like no other. So tonight we're going to jump into the book. But I have just two quick items of introduction before we get into the actual verses, and I want to talk about them. One is the theme of the book, which we'll go just in big picture overview, and then second is the relationship to 2 Peter. Then we're going to get into the first four verses of the book. I am only scheduled for five Wednesdays of this. I'm hoping and planning to get through this book in five Wednesdays. There's only 25 verses, so I think it's doable. Lord willing, we'll see how it goes, but I want to jump right in and make our time profitable. So as for the theme of Jude, we don't have to go much further than the opening lines. to see why the author is writing this book for us. The theme I'm pulling out for us is contending for the faith once for all delivered to the saints. This is Jude's own purpose in writing this book, and we're going to get to that verse later this evening. But with a theme like this, we might think that this epistle is going to be kind of a book of instruction to us. Like it might be one of what disciplines or what actions will we take to contend for the faith. Or that it might be a book of apologetics, kind of how to wrestle and how to barb spiritually or verbally with others in terms of defending the faith. But that is not what we see in the book of Jude. What we get in this book is a warning about the apostates by their actions and by their character. For this reason, the book of Jude has been given this pseudonym, the Acts of the Apostates, kind of in contrast to the Acts of the Apostles. mirroring this book, but it draws about that this book is about the works of these evil people rather than God's appointed servants. Actually, 18 of the 25 verses in this book are dedicated to the description of the apostate. It's a large percentage. Because of this, Jude felt that the best offense for the fight of the faith, for contesting for the faith, was going to be identification. This is how we're going to identify and defend the truth through this work. He desires that we would have a steadfast understanding. That we have some kind of wit and wisdom about what these false teachers, the apostates, because like he says in verse 4, they have crept in unnoticed. They were unnoticed in the church. So there's a challenge here. So these people have come in unnoticed, which kind of leads to the point that maybe we don't know what we're looking for. The danger is that we don't notice them. This is the proverbial wolf in sheep's clothing. The danger with the apostates in this book is not only their false teaching, that'd be one thing. But only a small portion of this letter actually discusses what they taught. Rather, most of the book is focused on what they are doing while they're in the church. How they're living their lives and how their corrupted hearts affect them. They might not be as easily condemned with their words, but they're absolutely condemned by their actions. So this theme, contending for the faith, is one of vigilance and protection, identification, awareness. Now he does exhort us later in the book, which we'll see, to some pointed applications for us to do. But the lion's thrust is that of a vigilance, to see and to know what these apostates are doing So that's the theme, contending for the faith through this vigilance and understanding and a defending of truth, and which we'll get into. Yet what was kind of second place on the list of possible themes for Jude is that sin leads to judgment. The conclusion of the lifestyle and practices of these apostate people and these false teachers is the impending judgment that waits on their lives. We contend for the faith by calling out these apostates, by identifying their actions that don't accord with a life in Christ, which leads them to judgment. So this is the theme I'm presenting for us, and hopefully we'll develop this over the next few weeks, contending for the faith once for all, delivered to the saints. Yet there's one other aspect before we jump into the book itself, in terms of introduction, that He may not have any reference to, but there is a connection to Jude to 1 Peter. Sorry, 2 Peter. There's an aspect we have to address this. You know, you know, as I've been up here before, and many of you have seen, I I love the topic of introduction. I like going through the introduction of books and the background, the dates. I find it rich, fascinating history that just brings to life the the Bible as a real historical document. And we may lose that as we just read them. But even in appreciation, I'd have taken my best to integrate as much of the introduction as I can into the actual verses so we don't abstract it out or I'm dedicating a whole lesson just to introduction. But this is a topic that doesn't really fit anywhere in the book that we need to just address from the beginning. So, this connection to 2 Peter. Now I would guess that many of you are probably more familiar with 2 Peter than you are the book of Jude. Maybe, maybe not, maybe you're not familiar with either of them. But you may also not know that there was a connection between these two books. It's kind of an interesting thing as we'll draw out here in a minute. Both of them have sections. Jude obviously much smaller than 2 Peter. draw upon this idea of these apostates, these false prophets, and the themes of judgment and perseverance. They both draw this. And they have some literary connections. There's some overlapping verses. A large section of 2 Peter, which is actually chapter 2 through the first part of chapter 3, parallels Jude 4 through 18. And I believe I've given you a chart in your hand out there, you can see some of this. There's some words that are actually kind of verbatim phrases that are used between the two. There's some identical imagery. and also some thematic structures that are used. So it's clear there's something going on here. This isn't, it's too much to be a coincidence or just, you know, kind of a common knowledge thing. There's something going on between these two structures. Now the overlap does not make the content redundant either though. That's what's kind of interesting. They're used for two different purposes in the books. And actually the other part of Jude kind of goes in a different direction than 2 Peter goes in in some ways. So they're not really just carbon copies. But this threat of the false prophets was widely known to the churches. Both books point out similar characteristics, yet have different objectives One thing it this does is it gives us confidence that what they're both talking about is something real that's going on in the churches. The dates of these two books are very close together, and this was a concern for both Peter and for Jude. They're seeing kind of the same things going on. There's something real happening here. It was a real present and future danger in 2 Peter. It gives us relevancy even for our day as we look at what they're talking about. Yet both books identify these apostates, these overlaps. And just to kind of draw this together for you, just to kind of look quickly at it, you can see the slides up here. They both are convincing of false teachers or false views. 2 Peter and Jude 19. So they're both talking about people trying to convince others of false views or false beliefs. Both of these people, both of these uh others, these apostates, took liberty in their actions too far. Similar theme. Both rebel against authority. They've seen the same things. They're engaging in the sins of the flesh. Both of them claim to be Christians, both groups that Peter and Jude are talking about, and both are explicitly denying the Lord and destined to destruction. So there's clearly this connection of these two groups and how they work together. What we learned from both letters is they teach us really that we should not take sin lightly. that pursuing any aspect of a moral, ungodly lifestyle will have its consequences. Now with this kind of overlap , This kind of raises a bunch of questions for scholars, and I don't want to go into too much elaborate detail about this tonight, but There are a couple views of kind of how did this come to be? It's kind of the question. Like what's what's going on here? What's really the story behind this? Well, there's three views of how we can view this connection. The first is that both Jude and 2 Peter are both referencing like a third document. a third material. This is like a the hypothesis statement in the Gospels, the synoptics. Like they're both referencing some document and they kind of got it right. I don't like that idea, personally. It's possible, but it's not generally as plausible as the other two ideas, sure, but that you could make up a bunch of things that could be possible, whether it's plausible or not is harder to define So I kind of put that to the side. The other two have to do with one of them using the other. Either Peter used Jude or Jude used Peter. Which one copied either? Well, if Peter used Jude, meaning that Jude was written first, it has a few good points. One is it's more likely that a longer letter, like 2 Peter, would include a shorter letter like Jude. That makes sense in terms of textual criticism, how that works. Another argument is that in 2 Peter 11, which may be on that handout, um, isn't really understandable without knowing Jude 9. In 2 Peter 11 it talks about how these angels were contesting But in Jude, we find out what they're contesting about is the remains of Moses. So in a sense, in 2 Peter, we don't really quite know the full picture, but Jude fleshes that out for us, or fleshes that out for us. Also, Jude is widely accepted in many ways to be written first. So it kind of fits that Peter would use Jude. But the other side, I think, is a little more compelling. So if Jude used 2 Peter, there's some things to think about. You know, Jude mentions in verse 4, which we'll talk about, that he kind of wrote in a hurry. Which might give some conjecture to borrowing the material from another letter. Makes sense. Also, Peter, in the structure of his letter, rarely quotes other sources. Yet Jude quotes many sources to his book. For only 25 verses, there's a lot of referencing Old Testament, other books, etc. So even the tone of Jude of of copying and borrowing other letters is there. What's also mentioned before is that Jude's explanation of events, especially in those two mirrored accounts, actually fill in a lot of details that Peter doesn't have. So in a sense, why would Peter exclude those details if he knew them? It's kind of the argument. So Jude kind of fills these in, gives us a fuller dimension to the story. It also accords with tradition that Jude would use Peter, who's an apostle, rather than an apostle quoting this guy Jude. It's just. kind of important, but not an apostle. So I'd have to agree in most cases that Jude used Second Peter. But the most compelling argument, I think, actually, is that Peter writes from a future tense. If you read that section of 2 Peter, he's talking about the coming, that they will be doing these things, or these things will be happening. But in Jude, they're happening. They're happening right now. So even in that verb tense, it's actually in in the Greek there's this future component and then there's the eras component in Jude. There's clearly this indication that Jude or Peter's talking about something that's going to happen. Well, Jude's talking about something that is happening. Happening now. So that's where I kind of land on that. Hopefully That'll be some kind of trivia for you later at some kind of party about which book was written first or what your thoughts are on it. It's good stuff. Either way, have you land on that. The connection is compelling. And it's something that doesn't necessarily weigh a ton on our discussion of Jude as we go forward, but we might look at it, we might see some ideas because again, Jude is fuller, it's richer. Looking back at 2 Peter doesn't help us a lot But if we were looking at 2 Peter, we might reference Jude a whole lot to fill in the gaps of what was going on. So, now with these two topics addressed, we can jump right into the letter itself. So each week, I hope to cover just a few verses as we get through these 25 verses, spending time in each. We'll look at the text itself, look at some connections, look at what's going on in the text. And we'll zoom out and discuss the relevancy and the application for us as New Testament believers. So tonight I'm going to look at the introduction, which is the first two verses. And then the purpose statement, which is verses 3 and 4, these two kind of serve as the on-ramp to the structure of the letter. Most New Testament epistles are written, what they call it, an introduction, a body, and a conclusion And so these four verses make up the whole introduction to the book. So if you're not there already, go ahead and open your Bible to the book of Jude. We'll start right in the beginning. We're going to start right at Jude 1. So I'm gonna try to walk us through some of this. So we talked about the the way the structure, but these initial verses help us with some information. that help us go through this. And so we'll put some details here in the text of what what is going on. So all New Testament letters take this format. We're very familiar with this. We're familiar with the introduction. Do you think of any introduction, whether it's Romans or uh Peter, they all kind of follow the same basic idea. There's generally an identification of the author, Jude. Now in this case, Jude gives us two pieces of information of who he is. Jude identifies himself with these oppositional phrases, that he's a servant of Jesus Christ, and he's a brother of James. The servant that views Christ, not a new idea. We see this at the beginning of most every New Testament epistle. John says this, Paul says this, Peter says this, James says this, all refer to themselves in this way in the New Testament epistle. The term identifies him as a believer, a believer in Christ, someone who understood the true nature of what it meant to have faith. And this, especially in the time coming after the persecution, we'll talk about date here in a minute, but this is late 60s, so it's coming after the persecution in Nero. Dispersion is happening throughout. The world, and so to identify as a servant of Jesus Christ is an important and bold claim. But this second phrase, the brother of James It gives us a little bit more information about Jude. See, Jude was a brother of Jesus. Now you may be asking yourself, well, why doesn't he just come out and say that then? Why does he say he's a brother of James? Well, much like James, if you can think back to the Epistle of James, James doesn't say that either. He says the same thing. But much like James, he didn't want his relationship to Jesus to be the defining mark of his life and his faith and his credibility. He didn't want it to be one of family values or tradition, but one of true faith and repentance. Jude must have used this phrase in a way of kind of communicating his humbleness in terms of his place, yet with some reference to authority in the churches, which he had in writing. So James is probably the most popular church man of that date, of that age, right? Wrote the Epistle James. He's the head of the church. And we learn that in Acts 15. So he would have been well known to all the churches through the dispersion. Everyone kind of knew who James was. It's kind of his way of claiming that kind of authority and understanding. Now, whether James is an apostle has been debated. There's some interesting support from the scriptures and Galatians. It says, uh, I saw none other, uh none of the other apostles except James, the Lord's brother, or himself 1 Corinthians 15 it says he appeared to James and to all the apostles, meaning since he appeared to James first and then the rest of the apostles. So whether James is an apostle or not isn't necessarily a huge weight, but something to think about. But like all the other brothers of Jesus, Jude presumably was not following Jesus until after Jesus' ministry. As we understand from 1 Corinthians 9, well actually we look from Acts 1, we get that he's not really following him But from 1 Corinthians 9 on, we learn that the brothers of Jesus were actually traveling around as missionaries. So something happened after Jesus' death, burial, and ascension that his family kind of got busy in the mission work. But other than this, we don't really know a whole lot about Jude. That's kind of the extent of it. What he gives us here is what we know. There is some conjecture in church history about kind of Jude's siblings or Jude's kids going on to doing some things. We don't really know, it's not substantiated. The Jews is probably one of the more obscure authors in the New Testament, but gives us enough to understand who he is and what he was up to. But then we get to the next part where it talks about who we're addressing to. As the author introduced himself, he then typically gives the audience in which he's speaking to. And here he's talking to those who are called, beloved, and kept for Jesus Christ. This is his audience. This letter contains no geographic information, yet the tone of this letter, most scholars believe that it was written to Jewish believers. It speaks of Jewish history in the book, ancestry themes that would be very familiar to a Jewish audience. And we're going to see one here in just a minute. But there's no location here. Many sellers think that this is written as kind of a circuit letter where it's meant to be written and given to many churches as it goes, or just that Jude knew who was going to give it to and didn't feel it was mentioned. But based on the date of that 60s and uh early 70s, it makes it contemporary to 1 Peter and 2 Peter. It's about 20 years after the letter James and actually shares a lot of literary styles to the book of James, especially with like the Hebraisms, how it looks like a Hebrew letter and uses some of those structures. And it speaks to Jews directly. It has a very Jewish feel to this letter. And again, those Jews are dispersed in this persecution. But we do know about who it's addressed to, three things. One, we know it's to those who are called. Now, if you may have read this kind of quickly in your Bible, it may seem like it says, you know, those who were called, etc. , beloved and kept. Like that's their name. But the way that this is structured is actually three characteristics. Those who are called, those beloved in Christ, and those who are kept. So there is this connection to this calling, this idea of the invitation, the calling, the selection. It's not a naming, it's related to the election, related to the choice. In 1 Corinthians 1. 2, it says, But to those who are called, same word, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God. This use of the Kaleo in the Greek shows God's purposeful and effectual and gracious summons of individuals into salvation, into holiness, into fellowship. It's far from being just an invitation, it reflects God's sovereign power in who they were as a people. It transformed them, transformed their history, their lives, and it constituted a new people for Christ. Again, there's this linkage to election and choice, but these people are the ones that God has called out at this time. So they're called, and they're beloved. Beloved in God the Father, and they're kept for Jesus Christ. This is a wonderful and powerful truth delivered right in the beginning of this book. This verb for kept is in the perfect sense, meaning that it is a completed kept. You have been kept. It's not waiting for some kind of fulfillment. It is an assurance. It is a completedness. It is, you know, guarded. It is secure. You can understand the value of this phrase right from the beginning. You're called, beloved, and kept, assured in Jesus Christ. It has this eschatological implication that you are called, loved, and kept for the future of salvation or glorification in Christ and his return. Now this idea and this word kept is going to be brought up multiple times through the study. We'll see it again and again. Jude likes to use it. And we'll talk about some of the other words as we get into it. But it's this idea of being held in a static state, an unshakable state. Not like when we keep something on a shelf and it might fall off at some point. This is kept perfectly and permanently in that place. It's guarded, secured in God's safekeeping. 1 Peter 1. 5 says, by who God's power are being guarded, similar word, through faith for salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. Or in First Thessalonians 5, it says, Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. And may your whole spirit, soul, and body be kept blameless for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful. He will surely do it These are the called, the loved, and the love is what secures them in Christ until he returns. Now Jude is not making this statement simply to pile on adjectives to those he's talking to. It has a theological point to it. These are the things that are true about those who are in Christ. You are called, beloved, and kept. And these ideas are purposeful. What I've I've loved about being in the study of this book so far is realizing You know, when we think about someone writing a letter, I was I was talking to someone today about this. We think about sitting down in an email and just kind of like, I'm gonna write this person an email real quick. Definitely not how this was written. There's intention and detail and thought and prayer put into the crafting of these letters through the Spirit. There's an importance to how he's using this introduction. It's intentional. Because we're going to see this echoed back as Jude talks about the apostates, as he references them. He's going to talk about the intent and the desires of the false prophets. They're the ones following their own sinful desires in verse 6, or they rely on dreams in verse 8. They're not responding to the call of God, they're responding to their own desires. He's going to use this title, beloved , for the title for believers in this whole epistle. The love of God, the force behind God's preservation of his people, amidst the persecution, God is loving us, not abandoning us. This is a steadfast truth for us in our hearts. The love of God is lost to those who are apostate and replaced by a love of self. And this being kept for Christ. In verse 24, he's going to remind us that Christ is who we are kept for, and it is Christ who keeps us. It's because of this, that this love, the true that the true saints are those who persevere in the love of God in obedience to Christ. See, the false prophets, they reject the authority of God, reject the love of God, see for themselves, and they are not kept, but they face judgment. This is how he brings us all together, that this is the believer. And so he addresses himself or who he is, talks about the believer, and then he gives this last salutation. May mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you. Looking in this last line, it feels very common. We see this all the time and we think this is just how they're kind of rolling into the next aspect of the message. But there's something uniquely kind of Jewish here. Mercy and peace is actually a very common Jewish greeting. Hasid Salom, it is mercy and peace. It's invoked here. This is how Jews would have greeted each other. But he's adding something uniquely Christian to this. Mercy, peace, and love. This theme of love comes up again. The beloved in God the Father and loves he multiplied into you. This is something that's going to be coming up again and again as the love of Christ, the love of God compels us as Christians through this. These are also some callbacks to some other ideas. Mercy is going to mention in the last admonition. Peace is only used here, again, just because it's part of this kind of Jewish greeting. And love will be used again in the final admonition, but this is the only New Testament letter that uses love in the salutation. Jude is uniquely, we think of Jude as this book of this uh you know pointed at these false prophets, but there's this undergirding of love. Love of God, love of the brothers, love of each other that's compelling Jude to do this So we don't want to obviously drive too far into the theology of the introduction, but in these two verses we've learned about the author, Jude, his place in the body of Christ, and his relationship to James and to Jesus. And he's laid out this distinctive description of his audience. Not one of a physical topography, but one of a spiritual topography. Who they were in spirits, not just saints, but a holy body in complete contrast to the false teachers that he's going to be discussing in the weeks to come. We are the ones who are called, loved, and kept in Christ. These are the divine actions of God on our behalf, yet it must be met with human response. And Jude's going to lay that out for us in the weeks to come. So let's look at the next couple verses here as we're going to get into his purpose statement. So now he's given his his uh his greeting. He's gonna move into his purpose statement, verses three and four. He says, Beloved, though I was very eager to write you about our common salvation, I found it necessary to write you appealing to you to contend for the faith that was once delivered to the saints. Right away, Jude's going to break us into the reality that compelled him for this letter. He found it necessary to write a letter to appeal to us to contend for the faith. Now this kind of argumentation of someone said this to you would kind of bring to us all in our minds this idea there's a sense of urgency here. Like, hey, I was planning to do something. But something else happened that made me change our my mind. The sense of urgency is kind of inherent there. But even if it's not this great sense of urgency, there's still something being addressed here that Jude felt it was necessary to stop what he was doing and address this issue. But not in a hasty way, because this letter, again, is well-crafted and intentional. He says, beloved, here's the first of those greetings. This is how he will greet all of the believers, beloved. This tie into the opening beloved and the Father. It's a rare address for believers in the New Testament. Nowhere else is it used one time in 3rd John, but this is it, Jude. He called doesn't call them saints. He mentioned saints once here in the kind of third person, but as he addresses them, he calls them beloved. What a wonderful, wonderful thought. But it plays an important thematic and foundational role for Jude in this book. He's delivering some important information to them. It's dire. It's important of what he's about to say. Yet his motive in this warning, even though it's going to be stern and sharp and he's going to say some things that are not terribly pleasant, the undergirding motivation is love. The beloved , those who are loved in God and that he loves himself. It's this true Christian love that compels us for so many actions for our brothers and sisters. It's the love that you'd have thinking, hey, I was thinking so much about writing you some of these other things, but my love for you compel me to stop and write you about this instead. This love. Judah is bearing the weight of love on his heart as he speaks to those he cares for deeply in Christ. These are the beloved. But he says, although it's very eager to write you about our common salvation, this is this sounds very interesting. We see very eager. We've all been very eager to do things. We haven't really done anything, but we've been You say we're eager. Like, oh I'm eager to mow the lawn, but I haven't gone outside yet. That's not how he's using this term. This very eager actually involves uh giving diligence. It means that something's actually has already been endeavored. He's already started this in a sense. We don't have any idea if he's actually written this other letter or begun this letter, but the intention here is that he's He's thought about it, he's been praying about it, he may have outlined some of his thoughts. He began this letter. It wasn't just a switch. He actually began this letter and felt in love, so compelled to Oh, hey Matt. Oh, there we go. Thanks. Um, to come back and switch to this other perspective. Now we don't know again whether he started this other letter or not, if there's another letter of Jude that was out there at some point, if he ever finished that. But he began with his heart and mind in this one way, but this effort of this issue changed. as he found it necessary. So he said he found it necessary, and he's going to give to us this reason here in the next verse of why he found it necessary. But he says, right about the common salvation. Obviously, this is not like an inferior salvation. It's the one that's shared between all people. This is the purpose clause. He's going to give us the purpose, and then he's going to give us the grounds for that in verse 4. There was some kind of event that happened. We're going to learn about that in verse 4. And his love for the people constrained him to change his efforts. But he says, I'm appealing to you. As you appeal to someone, this same word shares a root. We actually have a paracoletto for the comforter, but it means to strongly urge, to compel. In a sense, it's almost like a verbal pushing He's pushing, he's compelling, he's pushing hard with his his mind or his his thoughts and his words in doing this to contend for the faith. This contending isn't a very pat isn't a passive kind of contending. The root of this actually is the same phrase we get the word agonize from in our English. It is fighting with an intense effort on the behalf of something. It is an ideal of a dedication to a warfare, of a pushing into something in a in a war sense, from a spiritual battle. It's used in sporting contests for kind of strenuous struggle to overcome an opponent. This is not just kind of standing guard and putting your saber down. This is an agonizing fight. And fighting for the faith, the faith that was delivered once for all, the gospel. And Jews going to lay out parts of the gospel as he goes through this book, but it's the body of truth. So just pausing for a second as we think about this. He's going to tell us to contend for the faith Contend for the truth. In light of what's about, he's going to explain to us what's going on in the world, his admonition to us, his desire for us, is to contend for the truth. And just hold on to that as we kind of go forward. He says it was once delivered to the saints. This idea of delivered is passed on, handed over, means it's given in full It's been totally given over, taught. The false prophets, you see, in this once-for-all aspect means that it's done. It's been given over. There's nothing new to be added to the faith There's no no part of it that's missing. It was once for all given over. You have it all. You have it. You can work through it. You can understand, you can learn it. It does not allow modification. It's complete. Because see, these false prophets we'll see here in verse 4, they like to pervert it, pervert the truth, change it, augment it, add to it, twist it But he's saying, no, this is a once-for-all delivered, solid faith that you have, and it's been delivered to you. What is so fascinating about this is this positive connotation. He's going to get into all the evil things that these apostates are doing. And he doesn't necessarily make this case for us to go out and start kicking shins. He tells us To contend for the truth in us and hold it and fight for the truth. See, there's a focus on a defense of the faith, not a refuting of the opponents. Now we understand there's always going to be a place for refuting lies and refuting that truth. But both defense of the faith and reput and the refutation are to be done in this spirit of love. So Jude puts us in a very dynamic place in the faith to say, in love, we're going to hold the faith and defend where we need to. One commenter noted that in all the proportion to all the Lord's and the apostles' words, when they denounced someone, compared to all that they're teaching, it was an incredibly small percentage. Most of their words, even in defending that, were a positive, were of a holding of the truth, not a knocking down and destroying of those people. An effective defense of the gospel requires that the life of the defender as well must embody the gospel he or she defends. That's where this spirit of love comes from. G. Campbell-Morgan once said: the final argument in the world is not the argument of words, but the argument of life. How we walk out this gospel that we are going to defend. We must live the gospel that we are to truly seek and defend if we're to defend it well. So this is the reason. He found it necessary. He's like, I found it necessary to write you. Now he's going to tell kind of why when he gets to verse 4. And he says, for certain people, and he's going to elaborate with four different ways that these certain people have done this. But they've crept in unnoticed, who long ago were designated for this condemnation, ungodly people. Could pervert the grace of our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ. You see, there is an infiltration of ungodly people perverting the truth, denying Christ in the church. They've crept in. They're not on the outside. Ungodly, perverting truth, denying Christ in the church He continues to give this list of what these certain people he talks about. And we're going to see as this book goes on, he's going to talk about those people. It's kind of funny when you read it for a while. Those people, they do this. This is how he phrases this. He says, For long ago were designated for this kind of condemnation. Now we don't know how long ago he's talking about. Based on the type of history, he could be talking about 2 Peter. He could be talking about other Old Testament books. He could be talking about the book of Enoch, which he references, or he could be even back to the teaching of Jesus. We don't know how far long ago is. But what's important is it was designated, meaning that it was written down. It was explained for the future. It was something that God has ordained that it would come to pass. This is not a surprise. Long ago they were destined for this condemnation. This is not a surprise to God. It shouldn't be a surprise to us. But they 're ungodly. They're devoid of all reverence to God. And they were perverting. the grace of our God in the sensuality. See, these men were turning the grace of God into a license to sin, a license for liberality. for sensuality. They were a sense taking the forgiveness of sin and making it a license to sin. Paul talks about this in Romans. They claimed the grace of God freed them from their sin to pursue the desires of the flesh. and moral debauchery. You think, how in the world could they see that from the scriptures? Well this is one of the reasons why some scholars think that these false people were Gnostics. Now it's not, we don't know, obviously from the text doesn't give us a whole lot. But Gnosticism had one really interesting attribute, is that Gnostics believed that the spirit and the body were separate. So in a sense, you could be saved in the spirit and your body could do all kinds of sinful things and it didn't matter. That doesn't make any sense. We all understand that. But this is how the Gnostics believed. So Jude's puncturing this right away. You can't con you cannot pervert the grace into sensuality. But even more than that, they deny the only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ. They deny the rule, the reign, the person of Christ. They're denying him by their actions, by their thoughts, by their character Like how Titus says it says they profess to know God, but they deny him by their works, detestable, disobedient, unfit for any good work. This is the problem that Jude wants to address in his book, that certain people have crept in unnoticed Long ago, designated for condemnation ungodly, and they're perverting this gospel that saves I like as I was just kind of reading through this, I I kind of wanted to just restate this in my own words to kind of think through this. But it's almost as if Jude's saying, My dearly loved brothers and sisters, those loved by God, I was already praying and thinking of the letter I wanted to write to you about the glories of Christ and our common salvation. But my love for you required that I must write to urge you to strongly engage in the fight for faith that you've been given with no room for adulteration. There's a group of people who have made it into the church. We're not surprised because the scripture tells us they will come. They are the most irreverent, debauched, and defiled people. They have taken the work of our precious Christ and turned it into a license for sin, more specifically, sensual sins that feed on the flesh and deny the Lord Himself. This practice you must contend with love and truth. So This is the first four verses of Jude. He sets us up for a good book on how he's going to encourage us to identify and fight with faith and fight with love. So what do we take from this these first four verses this evening? One I think is a call to Christian maturity. See, Jude knows what's fake because Jude knows what's real. I'm sure you've all heard this illustration that when they um when they train people to identify false currency, they actually train them on the real thing. They study the real thing so they can identify the deviations. This is Christian maturity, to know richly and deeply the truth of our Lord. So when we see something outside of that truth, Our brain says, mm , that's not right. The spirit convicts and shows, like, mm, that doesn't seem right. How do I understand that? That's Christian maturity. That's growing in the faith. We need to be mature Christians like Jude. That we can see these kind of things means we know that faith that's been once delivered to us See, it's no coincidence either that the shallow church is where heresy begins. Because they don't know the faith. Everything seems plausible to them, or some kind of deviation, or the liberty spreads it out It's really that heart of sin that hasn't been excavated by the Spirit and dug out and filled with the Word of God. We must grow in that word and walk in that truth. Jude's defense in love is holding up that word, not necessarily tearing down, but holding up that truth. And also as we begin this book, love is the motivation. That is absolutely not what I thought I would get out of the first four verses of this book. Just being clear with you when I sat down. to begin this study. Jod, uh sorry, Jude chose the positive. He chose the loving approach. Now, of course, we don't have Jude's letter to the apostates. That would have been, I think, a little richer to see what he would say to them. But his encouragement to them is not to go tell them all kinds of these things they need to know, but to love the saints, to build them up, encourage them in the faith, and have that truth be strengthened in them. That they wouldn't be taken. And that's Jude's heart for loving the saints. So how does that kind of love motivate our own actions in the church? We're not talking about simple adoration, like, oh, I love that guy, or I love fellowship dinners. What you do? But It's a care. It's a concern. It's an agonizing with one another. It's a bearing with one another. Befriending that difficult person in the church. Going out of your way to take someone home or pick someone up, taking time out of your schedule that you didn't really have or you didn't want to give. Changing your plans. This is how love stretches and works and acts. And he said, hey, I was trying to do something else, but my love compelled me to do this. How many times have we said that in our days? Yeah, I was going to go to the store, but the love of my brothers convicted me I needed to do this. Good on Jude for bringing that to us. So how does that motivate you? How does a love of God and action should compel us to love the flock? Also, even as we talk about the love of God in us and walking out this gospel and our decisions to rebuke and confront. Do you rebuke to be right or do you rebuke to restore up, build, and love that person? We're going to see more of that in the weeks ahead. Let's pray for these things tonight when we pray. That the love of God would be full in us, rich in us, that we build it up. And that we would also grow in Christian maturity to be able to know these false teachings. Let me close this in prayer. Father, you are a good and merciful God. So full of great treasures to us in your word. I pray that through this study we would grow in love. We would grow in humility. We would grow to strengthen ourselves to be warriors, to be watchmen for your word and for your truth That these things would be ours in Christ, as you promised us all things for godliness and life, through your word and through your spirit. As we pray you grow us in this study, Lord, all of us, as we seek your face. And we ask it in your Son's name. Amen.