If you would take your Bibles and turn with me to Galatians chapter 5, where we read already this morning. Galatians chapter 5, we're looking at, continue to look at the fruit of the Spirit. A few years back, I had the privilege of taking a group of young college students into several East African countries. We went from Kenya into Burundi and then in Rwanda And I remember at one point standing at the northeastern shore of Lake Tanganyika as the second largest lake in Africa. And on the northeastern shore, it's about twelve kilometers south of Bujumbura, the capital of Burundi, there is a large boulder. And on that boulder there is etched into it two names. Simply Livingston and Stanley, and then the date, November 25th, 1871. And this was a meeting by Henry Morton Stanley and David Livingston. It commemorates the spot where they met about three weeks after they first met each other in the village of Ujiji, Tanzania. They then departed and traveled further up to Lake Tanganyika and came to this spot and they met again there for three days while they met with a tribal leader in that region. Henry Morton Stanley, when he came in search of David Livingston, was not a believer. He didn't come in search of David Livingston because David Livingston was his spiritual hero and he idolized him because he was a great missionary and a great explorer. He came to Tanzania and to Burundi and to Rwanda because He wanted to make a name for himself, to be the one who would find if David Livingston was still alive in the heart of Africa. When he found him in Ujiji in early uh October, you remember that he said I'm sorry, in in early November, he said famously those words, Dr. Livingston, I presume. Over the next four months, Henry Morton Stanley traveled and lived with David Livingston trying to convince him to return back to Europe where he would be able to be nursed back to health. But he was unsuccessful. And interestingly, when Morton wrote about uh his time with David Livingston, he said this in his journal, when I saw the unwearied patience. That unflagging zeal at those enlightened sons of Africa. I became a Christian at his side, though he scarcely spoke to me. He's describing the fact that it was the life of David Livingston that so transformed him, that so appealed to him, that through his example he was brought to faith in Christ. So we are looking at these fruit of the Spirit that are described here. We began several months ago doing this and looking at these verses in Galatians chapter 5. So I want to make a quick review so we can catch up to speed where we are. In the book of Galatians, the Apostle Paul is describing that The beauty of the work of the Spirit of God in the life of a believer. Going back to Galatians chapter 4 and verse 6, he says, And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts. crying, Abba Father. So you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God. So the Spirit of God living in the heart of a believer does a mighty transformative work. But we've seen here in Galatians chapter 5 that there that the spirit and the flesh are locked in a life and death struggle, it says in verse 17. But he says in verse 16 that if you walk by the Spirit You will not fulfill or gratify the desires of the flesh. It is by walking in the power of the Spirit that we are able to live a way that is glorifying to God and not fulfill the desires of the flesh. Walking by the Spirit involves a moment-by-moment communion with the Holy Spirit, listening to his voice through the Word of God, and living in obedient dependence upon the Word of God in our lives. We saw that the Holy Spirit desires to reveal Jesus Christ to us. These nine characteristics, which are called the fruit of the Spirit, are actually characteristics or attributes of Jesus Christ. And he shows us Christ in the gospel. As we gaze upon Christ, as we learn of Christ, we are conformed into the image of Christ From one degree of glory to the next. And the Lord does that as He reveals Christ to us through the Word of God As he reveals Christ to us in Christian fellowship through the interaction with other brothers and sisters in Christ who are walking in communion with the Spirit as well. But he also does that through suffering, pruning off those areas of our lives that are not in conformity to the will of God so that we can bear much fruit, as Jesus says in John 15. We remember as you started this list of these nine characteristics which are called the fruit, singular, the fruit of the Spirit. So these nine characteristics are not the fruits of the Spirit. The temptation is to call them the fruits of the Spirit, but they're literally the fruit of the Spirit. And leading that list is the characteristic known as love. Love in essence is the totality of all the other eight characteristics that we see. Love is the totality of God. The Bible says that God is love. In 1 John 3 1 it says, Behold, what manner of love? the Father has bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. The love of God is such an amazing and overwhelming love. And God is revealing that love to us through his Spirit, through His Word, and conforming us into the image of Christ so that we love God, we love Him vertically, and that we bend out that love one to another in a love that interacts with. Our fellow man. We said that joy, the second characteristic that's listed is love exalting. Because of the love that we have received from the Father, we rejoice, we exalt in The Lord and his love to us. Peace is love resting. Because of the love that we've been given, we can rest in our God. Patience then is love enduring or love forbearing. In fact, if you think about 1 Corinthians chapter 13, if you know your Bible well, 1 Corinthians 13 is known as the love chapter. Many of you have memorized 1 Corinthians 13 because it has all these descriptions, definitions, characteristics of what love is. But at the very head of that list Is what? Love is patient. Love is patient. So patience is a crucial element of love. The love of the Father to us. And the love that we then show one to another. Well, what is patience? We often talk about it. We all agree patience is a virtue, highly to be praised. But we also have trouble defining it. We know that patience is the virtue we esteem in the driver behind us, and we loathe in the driver in front of us. So what is patience? Well, let's talk about what it's not, because this is really a uh important aspect to define some of the things that is not, because I think many times we look at at the things that are not patience and we think that that's what is being described here. The fruit of the Spirit that we are examining today is not a natural disposition. We all know people who are more agreeable by nature. They're just easy to get along with. They're go-along to get along kind of people. And that's not a bad thing. I'm not saying to be that way is bad. I'm saying that is not the fruit of the Spirit. Because what we're describing here is a supernatural work of God. It is the work of God in the life of a believer. It is also not lazy indifference. This is the tendency people say, I'm just a patient person. No, you're lazy. Actually, that's just laziness. And some people like to excuse laziness as patience. Holbrook Jackson said, patience has its limit. Take it too far and it's cowardice. You could also say take it too far and it's laziness. There is a point in which patience, or what we describe as patience, actually becomes cowardice. Nor is it stoicism. The idea of stoicism is one who tries to master hardship by not displaying emotions. I am a stoic. I feel no emotion. I have no expression of displeasure. Biblical patience is not that either. Biblical patience is the fruit of the Holy Spirit, so it has as its source and as its motivation God Himself. It is revealed perfectly in our Savior Jesus Christ. If we want to know what patience is, all we need to do is look at Christ. He is the perfect revelation of patience. And it is to that end that the Holy Spirit is desiring to transform us so that we resemble that patience in our dealings one with another and also in our relationship with God. The Greek word that's used here for patience has the idea of long-tempered. Now we don't have a word in English called long-tempered. We have another word in English that's the exact opposite of it, though that might help us understand it. It's short-tempered. Have you ever been described as short-tempered? Have you ever had someone say, you just have a short temper today? Well, that's the opposite of what the Bible describes as patience. In the King James is often called long-suffering. Maybe you've read that word and you go, oh, that's that's the idea of patience. Sometimes the King James translators also translated it just simply There is another word that's often found in our Greek in our New Testament that has the idea of endurance or steadfastness. And it particularly has to do with endurance in relationship to a difficult circumstance. The idea is of a Christian humbly enduring difficult circumstances. But the word we're looking here at more properly refers to forbearance with regard to difficult people. I know none of you ever have to deal with that. But there may be one here that has snuck in here that has to deal with difficult people. And so I'm going to talk with that person today. In Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 and 2, Paul urges the Ephesians, I, therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. So he's talking about our calling as believers to walk worthy of that calling. And he says this, with all humility and gentleness, with patience, here's our word. Bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. So we walk worthy of our calling. We walk worthy of our Christian profession when we walk with humility, gentleness. Patience, bearing with one another in love, developing and maintaining a spirit of unity and of peace. Do you notice the connection between here? Love and peace and patience. It's because we said the fruit of the Spirit is singular. The fruit of the Spirit is love, and it is demonstrated in all these other ways. Alan Cairns noted wisely, it's impossible for a man to know the love of God in his heart To experience the joy of salvation filling his soul, and to have the peace of God ruling in his heart, without these graces having a powerful influence over his attitude and actions towards the people around him. If God truly has sh poured out his love into your heart, then that will have to have an impact on your attitude and your actions in regards to those around you. So I put together a simple definition about patience. Patience is the supernatural work of God in a Christian that enables him to respond with gracious forbearance. in the face of provocation or pain. It is a supernatural work. Obviously it is the fruit of the Spirit, so it is The work that God does in the heart of a Christian, one who has been born again, who has the Spirit of God dwelling in him. And it enables a Christian to respond with gracious forbearance in the face of provocation or pain. Patience is first an attribute or characteristic of God. When we think of patience, we should think of God. It is called the fruit of the Spirit. It is the fruit of the Holy Spirit. It is the possession of the Holy Spirit of God. It is his attribute. It's interesting that in the Hebrew Old Testament, it was translated into Greek, what's known as the Septuagint. This word that is described here as patience is often used to describe God Himself. I'm going to read you a verse, and this word is found in here. And I want you to see if you can figure out which word it is. It's from Exodus chapter 34. Verse 6: When the Lord passed before Moses and proclaimed his name to him, he said, The Lord, or Yahweh, Yahweh, a God merciful and gracious. Slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Now that same word that we have in our text here is found here. It's the word slow to anger. Slow to anger. God is merciful and gracious. Slow to anger. That is the essence of the fruit of the Spirit. So if you are one who is quick to anger, you're one who has a short temper. You're one who finds yourself frequently angry, you are a person who is not exhibiting the fruit of the Spirit. That's why when we went through the works of the flesh in Galatians 5. you noticed a number of things that were the exact opposite of patience, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissension. Those are the works of the flesh. They are the opposite of the fruit of the Spirit. In Psalm 103, verse 8, it says: The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. Praise God. Aren't you glad that God is abounding in steadfast love, that He is slow to anger to you? How many times have you come to the Lord? In confession of sins, how many times has he been slow to anger to you? Aren't you glad that God has been that way to you? In Romans chapter 2, verses 4 and 5, Paul points to the goodness of God and his patience And he warns us, though, that although God is good, God is kind, God is abundantly patient, we ought not to presume upon God's patience, because there is an end to the patience of God. He says this, or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance? So God has been patient. He has held off his wrath and his judgment that we deserve, but his patience is not unlimited. It has a limit. He says this, but because of your hard and impenitent hearts, you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath. When God's righteous judgment will be revealed. So if you have refused God's goodness, you have refused God's mercy, you have refused to repent and receive the gospel, God's patience is to you today, but there is an end to God's patience. And there is a day of judgment, and your refusal to receive that gift of grace actually stores up for you wrath on the day of judgment. What are some provocations, though, when we think of patience, that require us to exercise patience, that require us to walk in patience? Sometimes we have to exercise patience in regards to God's doings or God's timetable. The great New England preacher Philip Brooks was often described as one who is quiet in manner and poise. But even he, who through natural disposition was quiet and poised, would suffer moments of frustration and irritability. And one day a friend saw him pacing back and forth in his study, angrily pacing. And he said, what's wrong with what's wrong, Dr. Brooks? And he said to him, the trouble is, I'm in a hurry, but God isn't. Have you ever felt that way? I'm in a hurry, but God seems to be very patient right now. Our frustration with God's timetable can be over a number of things. They can be over matters that are that are large and significant in our lives The significant things like finding a spouse. Why has God not provided me with a spouse, though I've prayed for a spouse for many years? It can be over wayward children. As we desire God to return them back to Himself. Or it could be over something like the healing from some debilitating injury or chronic illness. Or they could be over things that are very minor, things that are every day as being delayed for a meeting due to an unexpected breakdown. Or being late to church because you couldn't find one of your child's shoes. We can become very impatient. God, I need to find the shoe. The Bible is full of examples where God's timetable seemed to not align with man's timetable. We can think of Abraham. Think of Abraham at the age of 75 being told that he would have a seed. That already seems kind of late. You know, 75-year-old man being told he's going to have a child. Seems kind of late. And surely Abraham at that moment of receiving that promise thought God's answer to prayer is right around the corner because I'm already 75 years old and my wife is 65, so it can't be very long. Wrong. God had him wait twenty-five more years till he answered that prayer And that promise. Waiting was part of God's good plan for Abraham, and it often is part of God's good plan for us. We are taught to wait on the Lord. Joseph was 17 years old when the Lord revealed to him that he would rule his family. But the next 13 years were brutal years of betrayal and enslavement. And false accusation and imprisonment and abandonment. Yet during those 13 years, God was at work in Joseph's life, preparing him for the leadership that he would give him. David was anointed to be king, and then he had to wait over 15 years and endure hardship and pain while waiting for God to fulfill that promise to him. And there were times in David's life where he had the opportunity to speed up God's timetable. Multiple times where Saul's life, the king before him in line, was in his hands, and in one moment he could take his life and ascend to the throne. But he said, I will not stretch forth my hand against the Lord's anointed. And he waited for God. David describes some of this in Psalm 40, verses 1 and 2, where he said, I waited patiently for the Lord. He inclined to me and heard my cry. He drew me up from the pit of destruction, out of the miry bog, and set my feet upon a rock, making my steps secure. Have you ever prayed for something for years to where it seemed almost like it would never be answered? Maybe you're praying for something like that right now. That for years you have gone before the Lord. Maybe you've experienced it where you've prayed for years and God answers. What a delight that is. God wants us to find encouragement in times of waiting. Through these examples of biblical characters who have had to wait much on the Lord so that we do not lose heart, that we continue to trust and rejoice in God. Sometimes our need for patience is because of being mistreated by others. The Christian is often called to Exercise patience in the face of persecution, in the face of abuse. This may be being mocked by family members or being mocked by coworkers or neighbors. Because of your Christian commitment. It can involve being passed over for a promotion or fired because of your testimony as a believer. It could be involving a Christian husband or a Christian wife who is rejected or mistreated by their spouse, and they're called to exercise patience in the face of that mistreatment. The temptation when mistreated is to grow bitter, to grow resentful, to retaliate, to be not slow to anger, but quick to anger. But it is only as we walk by the Spirit that the Holy Spirit of God will produce in us the fruit of the Spirit, and that we can demonstrate gracious patience under mistreatment. How do we cultivate patience in our lives? How do we cultivate this fruit of the Spirit in our lives? I want us to look at several things this morning that will enable us by God's grace to cultivate this supernatural work of God in our hearts. First of all, do not make excuses for being short-tempered or impatient. The temptation in the face of provocation is to excuse your anger. It's to excuse bitterness. Resentment. Frustration. We say we like that word a lot better. We don't like, I'm not an angry person. I'm just frustrated right now. Have you ever said that? Well, don't lie. Just say what it is. I'm angry. You might say, well, I've been unjustly treated. Or you might say something like, you know, a man can only take so much. We all like to make excuses for our sin. But the fruit of the Spirit is a divine work that the Holy Spirit does in our lives. We said patience is a work of God in the believer. And one of the primary works of the Holy Spirit is to conform us to the image of Christ. And one of the ways that the Holy Spirit does that is by convicting us when we are not in conformity to the Spirit, not in conformity to our Savior. So when we feel that conviction, the wrong thing to do is to say This is just who I am. I'm justified in feeling this way. I have a right to respond in anger The opposite of walking by the Spirit and allowing the Spirit of God to produce the fruit of the Spirit in our lives is actually to quench or to grieve the Spirit's conviction in our hearts. We read already this morning Ephesians chapter 4 verses 1 and 2, which talks about walking worthy of our calling with all humility. And gentleness and patience, bearing with one another in love. And then the rest of that chapter is really an explanation of what that looks like. Putting off and putting on certain characteristics. But the chapter ends with these words, and do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. So he says, walk with patience and gentleness and humility. Live out the calling with which you've been called. And if you do not, you are grieving the Holy Spirit of God. So when the Holy Spirit of God convicts you of bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor, what is clamor? Loud yelling matches? You ever had that? That's clamor. Slander. He's saying this is not in line with who our Savior is. You have been given the Holy Spirit of God to conform you to the image of Jesus Christ. And that is not a conformity to him. You may excuse yourself by saying, Well, that's just the way I am. I have a short fuse. But you know what? I just blow up and I get off my chest and I'm done with it. I don't I don't continue to harbor bitterness. Well, that doesn't make it right. In fact, everyone else now has to deal with what you've just blown up with. You might be one of those people that that don't blow up. You say, Well, I don't ever blow up. But you know in your heart you actually have a spirit of bitterness, that low-level, constant simmering. resentment that is always dissatisfied. Both of those are sin. Don't excuse it. Don't coddle it. Call it what it is. The Spirit of God says it is the work of the flesh. And it is contrary to who you are called to be. You may be tempted to excuse your anger by saying that it's righteous anger. We like that one. We all do. And I want to say it is true. There is such a thing as righteous anger. God, the Bible says, is perpetually angry at the wicked. Yet at the same time, what does the Bible tell us about himself? That he is slow to anger. We can think of this in regard to the flood. God was angry at the wicked. The wickedness of the world had grown to such a degree that he had decided it was time to destroy the world. And he calls Noah and he gives Noah much grace and he tells him to build an ark and he waits for a hundred years while Noah builds the ark. And the Bible describes him as a preacher of righteousness to that generation for over a hundred years while Noah is proclaiming the message of judgment and calling people to repentance. God was slow to anger. But he was angry. What is righteous anger? Well, first of all, righteous anger is motivated by actual sin. Righteous anger is motivated by real sin, not just our desires and preferences being crossed. The guy in front of you who drives too slowly. That's not actually sin. And so anger that arises from that event that is not actually sin, you cannot excuse it as righteous anger. That's just selfishness. Righteous anger, secondly, is God-oriented, not me -oriented. Think of Jesus in the temple. When he overturned the tables. And he says this in John 2: Take these things away. Do not make my father's house a house of trade. What was his concern? His concern was for the fact that the glory of his father was being diminished by the business, the marketplace activity that was going on in the house of worship. And for the glory of his father, he was angry. Righteous anger, thirdly, expresses itself in godly ways. The unrighteousness of man never produces the righteousness of God. If your anger causes you to curse and scream and act in violence, that's unrighteous anger. No matter what the trigger might have been, if the result is things that are of the flesh, you can be sure, absolutely sure, that that is unrighteous anger. You are no longer responding in the spirit. But similarly, so is a low-level bitterness and prolonged holding of a grudge and gossiping and self-pity. That is also sin. Do you give grace with your words, or do you give it to people with your words? This is an indication of whether your anger is righteous or not. Even if the thing that you're angry about Is a legitimate injustice. If it causes you to respond in an unrighteous way, that has crossed the line into unrighteous anger. So what do you do in these situations? You need to preach the gospel to yourself. You need to preach the gospel to yourself moment by moment. You need to acknowledge the fact that the conviction of the Holy Spirit is actually a gift from God. It is good news. Don't excuse it away. Don't try to turn away from it, but accept it. Lean into it. Humble yourself underneath it. In Colossians chapter 1, the Apostle Paul prays for the Colossian believers to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. He says this, being strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy. The power of God is available to you to walk in patience and enjoy in the face of provocation. But first, you must humble yourself and acknowledge that your selfish anger is sin Respond in humility. Repent of your short timber. Ask the Lord for strength to respond with patience and joy. Secondly, I want us to see here, not only do we need to stop making excuses for our short temper, but we need to meditate on the gospel. Not only do we preach the gospel to ourselves, we need to meditate on the gospel. Meditate on the patience that God has abundantly shown to you. You remember when Peter came to our Lord and said, How many times should I forgive my brother if he sins against me? Should I forgive him seven times? And you can see how that question is really a question that has to do with forgiveness, but also to do with what? Patience. Because he's been offended repeatedly. And the Lord says, not seven times, but seventy times seven. And then he tells the parable of the unforgiving servant. I love this parable because I can see myself in it. So often. It it it has a convicting edge to it. The story is of a king that brings his subjects who owe him money before him, and the first one that's brought before him owes something like ten thousand talents The idea of a talent is a is a unit of weight. It means seventy to seventy-five pounds. It can refer to weights, talents of gold or talents of silver. So we can't say exactly how much money this is, but it's a lot of money. If you can imagine 10,000 talents, each one of those 75 pounds of gold, we're talking more money than you and I have ever seen in our lives. And this guy owes this much money. We're talking about billions or even trillions of dollars. And when he comes before the king, he begs him to have pity while he tries to repay the debt. And that's a hopeless cause. But the king mercifully agrees to forgive the entire debt, and he sends it out free That's a picture of us before God when we come and receive the forgiveness of our sins. But what does that servant do? He goes out and he finds a guy, one of his fellow servants. Who owes him something like a few thousand dollars? Which is I mean, if someone owes you a few thousand dollars, you're not gonna forget it. It's not chump change, it's actual money And the guy pleads with him to be merciful to him, and he takes him by the throat and he throttles him. Then he calls over the prison guards, has them arrested and thrown into prison until he pays off his debt. When the king hears of this, he's enraged. And he calls that servant back in. And he tells him at the end, says, and in anger his master delivered him to the jailers until he should pay all his debt. And Jesus says, so also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you if you do not forgive your brother from your heart. What is he saying there? When you're tempted to be short-tempered with your spouse. or to hold a grudge with your neighbor or your fellow church member. You are to remember the long Tempered patience of God to you, the abundant forgiveness of God to you. You and I are the one who owed the ten thousand talents, the billions and trillions of dollars, and God in his mercy Through Christ Jesus has forgiven us of our sins. And now he's saying, remember what you've received and bend that out. Reflect that horizontally to one another. Has God been patient to you? Has he been slow to anger towards you and your many sins and failures, the many times you've come to him to repent of your sins? Has he forgiven you more than 70 times seven? Yeah. Then meditate on the patience you've received and reflect that To your spouse, to your coworker, to your children. Every day God patiently deals with us And yet every day we are tempted to become impatient with those that God places in our paths. But we are called to showcase God's It's patience. It's when we are patient towards those who we might say are undeserving. We're actually showing the glory of God. We're actually broadcasting, displaying God's patience to us as we are patient to one another. We are giving glory to God. When we act in patience to those who are undeserving of it, God is a God ready to forgive, gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love. Should we be any less? Meditate on God's patience too. Next, meditate on on the ultimate example of our Lord. Meditate on the ultimate example of our Lord. In 1 Timothy chapter 1, the Apostle Paul is describing in brief form his conversion. If you think about the Apostle Paul, the Apostle Paul was a blasphemer. He was a persecutor. He was one who who killed and imprisoned Christians. And Paul said God mercifully saved him. although he was all those things. And he says this, that in me Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience. Paul says, I am a display of God's perfect patience, as an example to those who were to believe in Him for eternal life. That Paul is an example that there is no one alive today who has outsinned God's patience. If you are alive, if you are here this morning, God's patience is upon you right now. And he is calling you, if you have not received it, to repent and receive the gospel, to receive the forgiveness of sins. And he says, you cannot outsin my patience in this life. And I am the example of that, Paul says Think of our Lord's entire earthly ministry. It is an example of patience, gracious forbearance in the light of provocation and pain. How many times did he deal with the disciples, this group of twelve men who walked with him day by day? And how many times does he tell them, I'm going to Jerusalem? I will be betrayed. I will be persecuted. I will be crucified. And what do they do? They say, which one of us is the greatest, Lord? Who among us is really the best? Peter's like, it's me. It's got to be me. I mean, I'm pretty special. And the Lord responds to him in patience. Think about it when he's in the garden, and our Lord is under unimaginable spiritual attack and the emotional strain of knowing all that he's going to endure in the hours ahead. And he asks his disciples to pray for him. And he comes back and he finds them asleep. Time and again. And he's patient with them, knowing that in just a few moments they would abandon him. Before the Jewish and Roman authorities he's lied about. He's persecuted, he's spat upon, he's beaten, he's crucified. All while he has the ability to retaliate and get even, at any moment he can do that. But he didn't. Peter tells us, and he points us to the example of Christ in 1 Peter 2 and verses 22 and 23. He says that his suffering was an example for us. And he says, he committed no sin. Neither was deceit found in his mouth when he reviled, when he was reviled, when he was treated unjustly, how did he respond? He did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. Our Lord's example is one that we ought to meditate upon. Even on the way to the cross, when he was in agony of soul, when his body was beaten and he was bloodied. He prayed for those saying, Father, forgive them. They don't know what they're doing. He prayed for their repentance Brings us to another responsibility of believers under provocation. Jesus said, but I say to you who hear, love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Bless those who curse you. Pray for those who abuse you. Jesus did. He set an example for us. Have you prayed for those who are provoking you? Get under your skin. Before you ever talk with another person about them, you ought to spend much time in prayer with God for them. It's what we are called to do. Lord, help me see them as you see them. Help me love them as you love them. Lord, help me be patient with this person. In so doing, one of the things we need to do is meditate on the unalterable justice of God. Perhaps one way that might help you pray for those who are hurting you is to remember the justice of God. Remember when Christ was suffering, he entrusted himself to him who judges justly, knowing that the Father would bring all things to justice, that he would do what is right. God will reward you for every faith-filled patient endurance that refuses to give vent to anger. He is just But also when we think about the patience of God in the Bible, it's wrong to think that God's patience is unlimited. God is patient. He is abundantly patient. But his patience has a limit. In Isaiah 2, one of the verses we memorized as we were going through the book of Isaiah in verse 12, it says, The Lord of hosts has a day against all that is proud and lofty, against all that is lifted up, and it shall be brought low. God has a day of judgment. God is very patient. God is abundantly merciful to us. But he will ultimately bring judgment. Think about the the hundred years that God waited while Noah built the ark and he preached the gospel. But the flood came. And judgment happened. God's patience reached an end. First 2 Peter chapter 3 reminds us that even today, God is patient with this world. He says the heavens and the earth that now exist are stored up for fire, being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly. God has a day of judgment upon this world. He will bring the wicked into judgment. But he says here, but God is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. God's patient waiting today is for the gospel to reach to the fullest extent. No matter how great your provocation or anger you have towards another person, you should only feel pity toward that person who is under the just wrath of God. And you should pray for their salvation. No matter what they have done to you, no matter how deeply they've hurt you, you should feel pity for them. Now you may say, that's fine. If the person who was provoking me was an unbeliever, I would feel pity for them. But the problem is, Pastor, the person who's provoking me is a Christian. And they've been spared the just wrath of God because they're in Christ. What do I do then? Well, you must remember that your Savior who loves you And who died for you also loves them and died for them. I want to give you a little bit of an illustration that might help this fit in a little bit. Excuse me. Have you ever been introduced to someone you didn't know? And as you were being introduced to that person, that you realize you had a mutual friend, and that person looks at you and says, Any friend of his is a friend of mine. And they show you kindness. Not because you've deserved it, not because you've done anything for it, but simply because of the friendship that you have. It's a mutual friendship. I'm showing kindness to you. Well, I think if that could be done on a human level, why can that not be done on the spiritual level with our Lord and Savior? Any friend of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, anyone for whom my Lord died, is a friend friend of mine. of our Savior And I will love him. And I will be merciful and patient towards. We need to meditate. on these realities of judgment, but also on the blessings of grace. I love the story of Jonah. If you ever studied the story of Jonah, it's fascinating. God comes to Jonah at the end after showing patience to the people of Nineveh. And Jonah was not happy with God's patience. It's kind of funny. God uses Jonah to bring this great revival in Nineveh. Yet 40 days and Nineveh shall be destroyed. And God they repent in sackcloth and ashes. It's really interesting, actually, if you read it, not only do the people repent in sackcloth and ashes, the animals Repented and sackcloth and ashes. What do you mean? The people put sackcloth on their animals as a description of their repentance. There was a genuine, deep-seated repentance that is described there. And God is patient. And he holds back his judgment. And Jonah's angry. And the Lord comes to him and asks the same question twice. Do you do well to be angry? The first time, Jonah doesn't answer. He's too angry to answer. The second time The Lord says, Do you do well to be angry for the plant? Because the immediate provocation is this plant that was shading him, God destroyed. And he's angry. And God's revealing to him, your anger is selfish. It is not godly, righteous anger. It is not in line with my character. And what does Jonah say? Yes, I do well to be angry. Angry enough to die. God's like, really? Over a plant? You're angry over a plant, and I have shown mercy to all these people? And he's pointing out to Jonah that your anger is not in line. It is not right. But I ask you, could God come to you and ask you the same question? Do you do well to be angry? Maybe when I say like Jonah, yes, I do well to be angry. You don't know what I'm dealing with. Have you forgotten the sins that I've forgiven you of and the patience that I have shown you? Have you forgotten the blood of your Savior that was shed to purchase your salvation? Do you despise the fact that I have adopted you as my son and given you the Holy Spirit and promised you eternal life and all the glories of heaven? Do you do well to be angry? I think when we properly evaluate that, the answer is no. We do not do well to be angry. I want to close this morning by just asking a few questions for self-examination to help us as we consider this. The first question I'm asking actually is a question that I want those who are are not believers here to ask themselves. Have you let the patience and goodness of God bring you to repentance? God is patient. God is kind. God is good. He has withheld your just judgment to give you another day, another opportunity to repent. Your sins demand the wrath of God. But if you turn your back on God's patience and his kindness to you, the Bible says that you are storing up wrath for the day of wrath when God's righteous judgments will be revealed. And that is not a small thing. Jesus Christ died on the cross and took the punishment for your sins. And he is calling you to repent and to receive his forgiveness today. But if you don't, know this, that you are building your account of wrath against the day of judgment. And I pity you. I urge you to receive God's forgiveness today Maybe you need to ask yourself, is my anger and bitter spirit an evidence that I have never truly repented and trusted in Christ as my Savior? Maybe it is that you've never seen yourself as a great debtor. You've never seen yourself as the guy who owes 10,000 talents of gold and who's been forgiven. And that may be why you're an angry person. It's pointless to try to grow in the fruit of the Spirit until you are first born of the Spirit. Maybe you need to come and repent and receive the gospel. Receive Christ by faith. For believers, I want to ask you this. Ask yourself, am I living in the power of the gospel? Am I living in the power of the gospel? Is the gospel transforming the way I think and the way I act? Alan Cairns said, the gospel demands that we think, not simply react. We are called to apply the gospel to every situation. to step back from the immediate provocation and fix the immutable truth of the gospel in our minds and thereby respond in a godly manner. That's what it means to live by faith, to let the gospel transform our actions. If you're short-tempered or filled with bitterness, You are not living by the Spirit, but are actually living under the power of the flesh. You are demonstrating the works of the flesh continually. Ask yourself, is my temper destroying my testimony? Is my temper destroying my testimony? Do you find yourself unable to witness to certain people because of previous angry interactions? I would love to share the gospel of that person. But two months ago I blew up at them and I really lost my cool. How can I bring the gospel to them? Well, if so, humble yourself and repent and begin to live in light of the gospel grace you've received and humble yourself before them. You know what the amazing things about repentance is That the world doesn't do it well. And so when you come and you humble yourself and you repent before the one you blew up in front of, they're gonna say, there's something different about that guy. There's something different about that lady. I would never do what he did. And that can be the door into the gospel. But recognize if your short temper or your bitterness is keeping you from being able to present the gospel to someone, it's a sin. And it is harming your testimony, and it is not bringing glory to Christ, and you are not being conformed to the image of your Son, other Son of God. Lastly, if the Lord were to deal with me as I deal with others, what would the result be? If the Lord were to deal with me as I deal with others, what would the result be? Praise God for his patience. He is a patient God, slow to anger, abundant in mercy. Let us look to our Savior in His perfect patience and be changed from one degree of glory to another as we gaze upon our Savior. If this message has brought you conviction, praise God. Rejoice in that. That's the work of the Spirit. That's the fruit of the Spirit in your life. Respond to it in humility and repentance. And seeking God's grace to walk in his spirit and bring out the fruit this week. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word We thank you for the conviction it brings. We thank you that you love us enough to give us your Holy Spirit inside of us, producing these fruit, this fruit in our lives. Father, I pray that you would help us to respond in humility and in obedience to what we have heard this morning. I pray for those this morning who are outside of your grace Oh Lord, I pray that you would convict them. Show them that you are a God who is abundant in mercy. You are a God rich in mercy. You are a God who is patient, but you are a God who will not Acquit the wicked. And there is a day of judgment. Lord, help them to run to Christ to receive his forgiveness while it may be found. And I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen