If you would take your Bibles with me and turn to Galatians chapter 5. Good to be here this morning. It's good, like Pastor said, to have a full set of services this morning and what a blessing that is. We'll be looking at Galatians chapter 5, continuing our study on the fruit of the Spirit. African Christians, I can remember many times, would have a saying that they would say to one another as they are greeting each other. Oftentimes one would say, God is good. Then the other person was expected to chime in and say all the time. And then together they'd say all the time, God is good. You may have heard this many times as well. And sometimes it was said in such a way that it almost felt a bit trite, but the fact is, it is a truly biblical statement. It is entirely biblical. The goodness of God. It is repeated throughout the scriptures. Pastor quoted Psalm one nineteen, verse sixty-five, in his prayer Which says, David says of the Lord, You are good and you do good. Teach me your statutes. And David notices the fact that God not only is good in his being and his nature. But that as a result of that, he does good. He is the one who does that which is perfectly good. As we've looked at the fruit of the Spirit, In our study, we have noted that these nine characteristics that are called the fruit of the Spirit are the natural work of the Holy Spirit. I should say the supernatural work of the Holy Spirit in the life of believers. That the Holy Spirit does this transformative work. He produces supernaturally a characteristic of God in the believers that would not be there apart from the working of His Spirit. Every believer, every person who has been born again by the Spirit of God will produce these fruit. Some lesser, some more so, some better, but all Christians will produce this fruit. And it's our responsibility as Christians to work in agreement with the Holy Spirit in the producing of this fruit. We mentioned that the first characteristic in the fruit of the Spirit is love. It comes at the very beginning of this list of nine attributes. The fruit of the Spirit is love. Paul has just said in Galatians chapter 5 that love is the fulfillment of the law. And here he describes the fruit of the Spirit with these manifold, these various descriptions of what love is. When we're walking by the Spirit of God, when we are walking in the power and the controlling influence of the Spirit of God, he enables us to understand the love of God more fully. That's why Paul prayed that you might know what is the height and depth and length and breadth of the love of God that surpasses knowledge. No matter how much you grow in understanding the love of God, there is more to understand. There is more to grow in. But we have received this love from the Lord, and then we are called to reflect it back to God and reflect it back to one another. All of the other eight virtues of the fruit of the Spirit are in essence really the working out of love. There are other aspects of love. When you think of Paul's definition of love, he says love is patient, love is kind. These are some of the attributes that are mentioned here within the fruit of the Spirit. Love is patient, love is kind. So we see that joy Is love exalting? Peace is love resting. Patience is love enduring or forbearing. Kindness is love serving. And goodness that we come to this morning is love. Purifying. The word goodness, I confess, is a very difficult word to define And I confess I spent a great deal of time trying to understand this word as it relates to this passage of Scripture. Because it's a challenging word. It's a very General word, very nonspecific word. We use it in our communications all the time. We say things like, How are you? I'm good. And that can mean all sorts of things. We say the soup is good. We say he is a good man to have a good job. There's a whole variety of ways in which we use the word good, and it's very important for us to try to understand in what way is Paul using the word good good here. So let's spend some time trying to understand this word and define goodness maybe a little more helpfully for us. This Greek word that's translated goodness is actually only found four times in the New Testament. And interestingly, it's a unique word. To the Bible. It's not found in any other classic Greek literature. It's a uniquely biblical word The adjective is a very common word, and it's found many times in the scriptures. It's also found in classical Greek, but this word here is found only four times. The first place we'd find it is in 2 Thessalonians 1, verse 11. And it really doesn't help us in understanding it or defining it anymore. Paul asks the Thessalonians, he says, To this end we always pray for you that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good. and every work by f of faith by his power. And so there's not really much that helps us come to an understanding of the word good within that passage. But another passage that has this word in it is in Ephesians chapter five. Ephesians chapter five Verses 8 and 9 we find this word. And he says to the Ephesian believers, For at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light, for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true. So we see this distinction of light and darkness. At one time you were darkness. Before you came to know Christ, you were darkness. Now you are light. Walk as light. What does light look like? It looks like being in all that is good and right and true. We find here that Paul is admonishing the Ephesians to put off sexual perversion in this passage, perverted speech, to have no partnership with the sons of disobedience, to not walk in fellowship and in communion with their evil deeds. Light is a frequent synonym for purity. The Bible talks about God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. There is no impurity in God. And we are told to walk in light, and the way we do that is in that which is good and right and true. So this idea of good and right and true, they are closely knitted together. That which is good is righteous. means virtuous or full of integrity. Goodness is also true, teaching us that true goodness is vitally connected to that which is true. Goodness is never separated from truth. Another passage that uses this word is in Romans chapter 15 and verse 14. And Paul again Says this, I myself am satisfied about you, my brothers, that you yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, and able to instruct one another. So here we have this connection of goodness with spiritual knowledge and the ability to instruct one another. The word there instruct is often used to counsel one another. So our goodness is is connected with knowledge of truth. We see the connection of truth here again, and the ability to instruct one another and teach one another in that which is true and pleasing to God. Because of their spiritual knowledge of God and His Word, and their ability to instruct or counsel one another in the truth, they hated sin. And they approved those things that are pleasing to God. So this is a lot of stuff I've thrown out here in the beginning. And if I could kind of take some of the biblical data and kind of put it down and boil it down into a a simple definition for us. of the word goodness as I understand it here is that goodness is moral purity that springs from a relationship with God and seeks to bring others into a right and true relationship with God. Moral purity That springs from a relationship with God and seeks to bring others into a right and true relationship with God. When we think of goodness, the starting point always has to be God. All the fruit of the Spirit are attributes of God. Holy or the Holy Spirit is the third member of the Trinity, and He is working out these fruit in us so that we are conformed to the image of Christ our Savior. God alone is truly good. It's interesting that when Pastor quoted this verse, Psalm 119, 68, we find this. This nature, this essence of God, this twofold nature of goodness, David says of the Lord, you are good. And you do good. And then teach me your statutes. The essence of God is absolute purity, moral perfection And the result is that all that God does is pure. It is perfect. It is holy. It's in alignment with his moral purity. And then as a result, David says, I want to be taught this truth. I want to be taught your statutes. Goodness refers to moral purity. It's interesting as we we have an example of this in our New Testament when Jesus was trying to drive home this point to a young man who came to him with questions. And in Mark chapter ten, you can turn there if you'd like to Mark chapter ten. Verses 18 and following, Jesus has a conversation with a young man who was a wealthy young man, as we'll find out later. And this young man comes to Jesus in Mark 10 and he says, Good teacher. What must I do to inherit eternal life? It's a great question. And I think if it's a question that if you and I were asked by a co-worker or a neighbor or by a friend or family member, we might try to answer that question in a different way than the way Jesus answered this question. It almost seems like Jesus quibbles with a man over a technicality. He says to him, Why do you call me good? Doesn't even address the question initially, why do you call me good? And I think the young man's thinking, I'm just trying to flatter. Actually, I was just trying to be polite. But Jesus then says, no one is good except God alone. Now, some people have taken that to say that Jesus was denying that he was God and that he was good, but that's not the case at all. Jesus is actually trying to bring to the realization of this man that he is far from goodness. That God alone is truly good. All goodness, pure goodness, is God's. All men, no matter how good in comparison with others, fall far short of God's perfect goodness That's why Jesus says in Matthew, that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will in no wise see the kingdom of heaven. He then, at the end of that chapter, says, Be perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect. What standard of goodness are we held up to? We are held up to the standard of God's perfect goodness. So then in Mark chapter 10, Jesus continues with this young man. He says, You know the commandments. Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not bear false witness, do not defraud, honor your father and mother. And this young man, justifying himself, says, Teacher, all these I have kept from my youth. And the Bible says, and Jesus looking at him, loved him and said to him, You lack one thing. Go, sell all that you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven, and come, follow me. The Bible tells us that the young man went away disheartened because he had much treasure. He was sorrowful. What did Jesus pinpoint to show the rich young man his lack of goodness? It was his wealth. It was his wealth. And when he touched on his wealth, he soon discovered he was selfish. And he was not good. And he was not like God, and therefore unable to come into God's perfect presence. He was more concerned with his own comfort, his own pleasure, his status, than he was with the needs of others. It's very interesting that as we look at this, we see his selfishness. The first great commandment is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And the second commandment that Jesus says it's like it to love your neighbor as yourself. And in this, the second great commandment, this rich young man fell far short. This illustrates, I think, the second half of God's goodness, that he is good and he does good. God alone is perfectly good. The Bible says that in him is light and there's no darkness at all. But God is never selfishly satisfied, but he's seeking to bring others into his goodness. The goodness of God is not self-contained. It is a goodness that desires to draw others into that goodness. A goodness that gives and sacrifices and desires to bring even you and I who are sinners, who are broken, who are rebels, into a relationship with him. The fact is that true goodness can only be found when we realize that we are not good. True goodness can only be found when we humbly acknowledge that we are broken sinners, rebels against God. If I were to ask you this morning if you were a good person, think within your own heart how you might answer that question. Are you a good person? You might be tempted to say, yeah, I think I'm a pretty good person. I'm better than most. My neighbors like me. People at what work, my mom thinks I'm a great person, actually If that's what you're thinking in your heart this morning, I'd like to tell you that you have a common, wrong answer. And it was just that wrong answer that Jesus was trying to debunk in this young man's heart. He had to come to that place where he first realized that he was far from the goodness that God's law demanded. And not until he did would he be able to be able to find that forgiveness and eternal life. Christ came into this world to show us our sinfulness and to provide for us. A salvation that was done through his sacrificial death on the cross. A salvation that you and I don't deserve, but we could never earn on our own. Romans 3. 23 says, For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There's not a single one of us. Man, woman, boy, or girl, young or old, it doesn't matter. There's not a single one of us that is good in the sight of God. All of us are darkness and sinful. The Bible teaches that all human beings are not basically good, but that we are sinful, selfish, and wicked The Bible also teaches that it's hopeless to try to earn your salvation by good works, because we fall so far short of that. That's why Ephesians 2, verses 8 and 9 says, For by grace You have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one may boast. The first step into understanding goodness and then living out this goodness is to realize you are not good, but you need to receive God's goodness as a gift by grace through faith in Jesus Christ alone. Only when you do this can you receive God's forgiveness and be brought into a relationship with God who alone is good. be brought into his goodness. And then you can truly bring out the fruit of the Spirit, which is goodness. The beautiful thing is when we look at goodness, we have the perfect example of it in our Savior Jesus Christ. When Jesus said there's none good but God, he wasn't denying that he was good. Later on, he says, I am the good shepherd. He clearly calls himself the Good Shepherd. Peter describes Jesus' ministry this way, saying he went about doing good. Every aspect of the life and ministry of our Lord was done in the fullness of the Spirit, and it was characterized as Doing good. Christ sought the eternal good, the eternal happiness of all mankind in his life on earth So we're going to examine that more as we continue. But Jesus is the fullest expression of what goodness is. And when we want to know what goodness looks like, we need to look at Christ following his example and seeking to walk in his footsteps. So true goodness this morning, like Christ, seeks to bring others into a relationship with God. There is no greater good than to bring people into a right relationship with God. It was this reality that empowered the ministry of our Lord. Whether he was healing people's diseases, or healing people's souls' diseases by hard preaching and confrontation. He was seeking to bring people into a right relationship with God. I think one example of this that we have examined in recent days is the example of the religious leader Nicodemus. Nicodemus was a righteous man. He was a good man by the world's standards. If he was your neighbor, you'd say Nicodemus was a good man. I think every one of us here would like to have somebody like Nicodemus as our neighbor. And he comes to Jesus, and he comes full of compliments to Jesus. But what does Jesus tell Nicodemus? Congratulations, you're a good man. You're going straight to heaven. No. He tells this righteous good man, you must be born again. And then he says, unless you are born again, you cannot see the kingdom of God. Why was Jesus willing to say such hard, confrontational words to Nicodemus? If you were to say those words to your neighbor who is lost, he might be very upset with you. Nicodemus seemed to be upset. He says, Jesus sees this confusion in his mind, and he tells them not to be shocked that I tell you, you must be born again. But Jesus knew that the only way Nicodemus would ever experience true life, true happiness, eternal happiness Would be if he was confronted with his true depravity, that he was not good, that he was far from the God's standard of goodness, and that he would come to God for salvation. 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verses 3 and 4 says, if our gospel is veiled, it's veiled to those who are perishing. If our gospel is veiled, it's covered over by a curtain, it's hidden. If our gospel is hidden, who is it hidden from? It's hidden from those who are dying. And they're going to spend a Christless eternity under the wrath of God. There can be no greater good than to proclaim the good news of salvation to those who are perishing. This should really be at the foundation of all of our acts of goodness, based on a love for God that spills over into a love for others. that desires to draw all men and women into that relationship with God who alone is good, to know his forgiveness, to know his mercy, to know eternal life, to know the peace that passes understanding. If we are to be like Christ, then we must look to meet the greatest needs of others. There is a lot of ministry that is focused on meeting the felt needs or the physical needs of people. And there is validity to this. Obviously, someone cannot hear the good news of the gospel when they're hungry. And they can't hear the good news of the gospel when they're sick. And so we can help those physically, but ultimately The greatest focus of our ministry and of our goodness needs to be on helping people to come to know God who alone is good. Jesus said in Matthew 16, What will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his own soul? Or what shall a man give in return for his soul? If all of our ministry is meeting people's physical needs, but we never tell them the good news of Jesus Christ, then we have utterly failed to help them truly. True goodness is not blind to people's physical needs and to people's felt needs, but it's also not blind to people's greatest needs. And that is to be forgiven. That is to be right with God and have a relationship with Him through Jesus Christ. Apart from that, all other ministry is merely like fluffing the pillows of the passengers on the Titanic. Gives them a comfortable ride as they perish. It does not help them ultimately. Along this line, true goodness must be willing to confront that which is not in line with the Word of God. Remember when David spoke about God, you are good and you do good. Teach me your statutes. Teach me your statutes. I want to know that which is good. When we saw in Romans chapter 15, the idea of goodness, that they were able to instruct one another. They are teaching one another in that which is truth. The first way we do this, though, is we must confront that which is evil in ourselves. That which is not in conformity to the Word of God in ourselves first, before we go to confront that in others. It's very interesting when you study the the life and ministry of Jesus. I think it's very tempting for us. To look at Jesus and think of Peter's words that he went about doing good. Think about him as when he healed the blind, he was doing good. And when he raised Jarius's daughter from the dead, he was doing good. Or when he fed the five thousand hungry people, he was doing good, and he was doing good. But to kind of miss the fact That he was also doing good and great good when he came into the temple and he cleansed the temple of those who were corrupt. And doing business in the house of God so that people could come and worship in the house of God as they were called to. He was also doing good When he confronted the Pharisees, and he said, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees. Hypocrites. It was a good act to confront them in their sin and to call them to repentance, even if it made them angry, which it did. Because ultimately what was needed was to be brought in conformity to the Word of God. But I think very many times for us who are not like Christ in the sense that we are not sinless. We like to look and we can judge very quickly the sins of other people. And I can see the problems in you, and you've got lots of them. But mine They're all excusable. They're all reasonable. And you should understand why I have them. Because I do. Matthew 7, Jesus teaches us That we are not to be judgmental. He says, if you see the speck in your brother's eye, you need to first remove the log that's in your own eye But didn't say don't remove the speck in your brother's eye. Do you notice that? He says, first remove the log that's in your eye First, remove the sin that's in your eye, and then you'll be able to see clearly to help your brother with that speck that's in his eye. We are called to first deal with our own sin. You must hate sin in yourself more than you hate it in others. Do you hate sin more in yourself than you hate it in others? Do you look at the sins of others and you you judge more harshly their sins than you do your sins? Christ calls us to judge ourselves harshly and to be gracious to others. In James chapter 5, though, we are told, he doesn't say, don't deal with a speck in your brother's eye. He says deal with a log, then deal with a speck. Deal with your sin, then you'll be able to help your other brother. James chapter 5, there's this beautiful verse in verse 19. He says, If anyone among you wanders from the truth, And someone brings him back. Let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins. James says, if you see your brother or sister wandering away from the truth of God, living in a way that is not in conformity to his word, deal with your own sin first. But don't ignore him. Bring him back. Whoever does that will save a soul from death and cover a multitude of sins. That is a great goodness. In this very next chapter in Galatians, we're reading at the end of Galatians 5, we come to Galatians chapter 6, verse 1. He says a very similar thing, and he says, Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, You who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourself, lest you too be tempted. You notice this aspect here. He says, in a spirit of gentleness. Interesting, it's the same word he uses in the fruit of the spirit. The fruit of the spirit is gentleness. So one of the aspects of when we come to a brother or sister who's fallen in sin, who's gone away from the Lord, we are to restore them, not ignore them, we're to restore them, but we're to do so in a spirit of gentleness. First having examined our own hearts. And then with a spirit of kindness and compassion and humility to come and speak to them about their sin. I believe in our culture today, we have an attitude of live and let live. We have a libertarian idea of life and even church life. But the Bible doesn't tell us to do that. The Bible calls us to do good to our brothers and sisters in Christ. By being able to instruct one another. To be able to draw others back into a right relationship with God. You say, well, they might not like me. They might get upset with me. It might, but if you restore your brother or sister, you have saved a soul from death and you've covered a multitude of sins. Is there anything more important than that? There truly isn't. When we think of goodness as exemplified in Christ, this is what Christ did. True goodness also like Christ is sacrificial. True goodness like Christ is sacrificial. Again, Jesus is the greatest example of sacrificial goodness anywhere. The New Testament, the life of Christ, is the greatest example of sacrificial goodness that exists. Remember when Jesus said, I am the good shepherd, what did he say following that? The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. The good shepherd cares so much for the sheep that he sacrifices his own life for the good of the sheep. Similarly, we are called to seek the eternal happiness of others, even at great personal cost. And I think of this in relationship to ministries that sometimes seem very Inglorious. When you're here and maybe you're a Sunday school teacher, or you work in Kids for Truth, or you're involved in the nursery ministry. Maybe say there's there's no glory in this. There's no no gratitude received in this. But there is sacrifice. If you're a Sunday school teacher, you know the hours that are spent in preparation. And I doubt many of the children rise up and call you blessed on Sunday morning. But you're choosing to sacrifice your time for what? To bring them into a relationship with God, which is good. It's a worthy sacrifice, and it is in the pattern of what our Savior has done for us. True goodness gives selflessly for the eternal good of others. In the New Testament, we have a man named Barnabas, who was one of three men in the scriptures in the New Testament who are called good. Jesus, of course, is the only perfectly good one. But we also have Joseph of Arimathea, who was gracious in giving his tomb to Jesus, although it didn't get used very long. It did get used for a couple days. And then we have Barnabas, who is described in Acts chapter 11 as a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith, and a great many people were added to the Lord, it says, through his ministry. You can see here the clear connection between good man and full of the Holy Spirit. Where did his goodness come from? Was it his own? Absolutely not. It was a goodness that was worked through the Holy Spirit in his life. But when we find Barnabas for the first time on the pages of Scripture, it's in Acts chapter 4. And Barnabas gave sacrificially to the physical needs of Christians for the furtherance of the gospel. When the we find Barnabas shortly after Pentecost, shortly after the church is founded, all the believers in the world are in Jerusalem. And this is a problem. The problem is many of the people who came to know Christ on the day of Pentecost were there from other parts of the world, had come there for the celebration of Pentecost and Passover. And now they've heard the gospel, they've gotten saved, and they are supposed to go back home. But there's no church back home. The only church in the world is in Jerusalem at this time. And many of the believers are also facing persecution. from the religious leaders and they've lost jobs and they've had to be kicked out of positions of influence and power. And so there's great financial need that is affecting the church. So to overcome this financial need, believers were giving of what they had to minister to the needs of the believers that were struggling and facing serious physical need. One of the ways they were doing this was selling off property. Now in in ancient days people didn't have 401ks, they didn't have their their savings accounts. But they had land. Even to this day, in Tanzania, most people prepare for retirement by two things. One having children, and two, buying land. And that is the way that most people prepare for retirement. And Barnabas was one of those who in Acts chapter 4 we are told sold a field that belonged to him, and he brought the money and he laid it at the apostles' feet. And he gave a costly gift to minister to the needs of brothers and sisters in Christ to further the work of the gospel in that community. Matthew tell Jesus tells us in Matthew, do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust does corrupt, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break through and steal. Where is your treasure? Are you like Barnabas, seeking to bring others into the relationship with God's goodness by graciously using what God has given you, your time? Your energy, your education, your finances, sacrificing to bring others into a relationship with God through Jesus Christ. That is what God does for us. God is good and he does good. I think of a a young man in our church in Tanzania in the village of Mapeah. He's a subsistence farmer. He makes about $1. 50 a day on a good day. During the dry season, there's no subsistence farming that you can do. And so what most of the young men do is they make mud bricks. And then they'll stack them into a kiln shape and they'll bring wood in, they'll purchase firewood, and they'll burn these bricks, and then they'll sell them. For a tiny price, but it covers the cost throughout the year. This young man named Danny, he's about 24 years old. Last year came with 2,000 bricks that he donated to the church to make a Sunday school classroom so that young people could hear the Word of God taught He didn't have an abundance of resources. It wasn't out of the excess. It was a costly sacrifice. But he demonstrated this spirit of goodness by graciously giving sacrificially to further the work of God in that community. I praise God that building is halfway up and they're working to complete that building. And I encourage you to pray for that too, that God would allow them to be able to do that and that that ministry would flourish and prosper there. But it's an example for us. We have been blessed with so much. And I will say Calvary is a very giving church. And so if you are one who is giving graciously in this way, I'm not knocking you, but I'm encouraging you. Let us lay up treasures in heaven. Let us use what we've been given. To bring others into relationship with God through Christ. True goodness like Christ is sacrificial giving. And lastly, true goodness like Christ is forgiving It is forgiving. The goodness of our Lord was quick to forgive. When we think of goodness as relating to moral purity, it is easy to think of people who stand aloof from others. I am morally pure. I am superior to you. And we have this nose-up in the air type attitude. And they look down on the sinners as if they themselves are not sinners. It could even be used to express a critical attitude of others, but that is not the pattern of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Christ was harsh with the self-righteous. But he was gracious with the broken sinners. To the woman caught in adultery, he said, Neither do I condemn you. Go and from now on sin no more. To the sinful woman who came and anointed Jesus' feet with oil, weeping as she did so, he said, your sins are forgiven. To Zacchaeus, the despised tax collector who had to climb up in a tree to see Jesus, he said, Today salvation has come to this house, since he also is a son of Abraham. And he says, for the Son of Man came to seek and to save him who was lost. He was quick to forgive. Are we quick to forgive? Are we critical and harsh? If we are, that is not the Spirit of God at work in us. That is selfishness. And again, the example of Barnabas is a beautiful pattern for us in the pages of Scripture. This good man, as he is described, Was part of Paul's missionary team. In the beginning on Paul's missionary, first missionary journey, it was Paul and Barnabas going about Evangelizing the Mediterranean world. Along with Paul and Barnabas, there were other men. One of the men was a man named John Mark. We read about him in Acts chapter 13, verse 13. And it just simply tells us that John Mark left them and returned back to Jerusalem. We're not told why he left them, but as we study the rest of Scripture, we come to find out he abandoned them. The work of missions was too hard, and the conflict and the danger was too much. And he abandoned them and he went home. It would be very easy to say, you know what? You've blown it, buddy. That's your chance, and you blew it. And I want nothing to do with you. In Acts chapter 15, it's roughly two years after this point in time, Paul and Barnabas are ready to go back on a missionary journey, strengthening the churches, reaching out with the gospel to new areas, and Barnabas says. Let's bring John Mark along. He's repented. And what does Paul say? No way! Are you crazy? You remember what he did to us? He abandoned us when we needed him the most. And the Bible says that there was a strong conflict between Barnabas and Paul. So strong that they couldn't agree and they split ways. They were still brothers, they still loved one another, but they had such a strong disagreement that they became Two missionary teams. Barnabas went with John Mark, and Paul went with Silas. Barnabas is described as a son of encouragement. He was quick to forgive. And he leads us an example of what goodness, Christ-like goodness, is like. It's interesting as we continue to find the study this out, you see that John Mark truly was repentant. And he truly was a changed man. And at the end of Paul's life, he writes and he says, send John Mark to me. He's useful to me. Paul is a little slower in this. That's why we mentioned in the beginning the fruit of the Spirit. We all have it. If you're a believer, the Holy Spirit will do this in you, but some of us to different degrees and in different ways. And in this way, Barnabas is an example of what goodness looks like. Quick to forgive. In the beginning we said that the fruit of the Spirit is outworkings of love, and then we said that goodness is love purifying. One of the ways it does this is first of all by recognizing we're not good. And we need to come to God for that purifying work in us that He does in us. If you're here this morning and you have never trusted in Christ as your Savior, I want to urge you to recognize that God says you are not basically good. That you are entirely evil. Not that you can't do good things, but that you have not loved the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And you have not loved your neighbor as yourself. And as a result, you have fallen far short of God's holy standard. But Christ died for you. He lived a perfect life. He fulfilled the two great commandments and all the other commandments perfectly for you. And if you come to him by faith, your sins will be forgiven, and you will be restored in fellowship with God. Through what Christ has done. But Christian, if you're here this morning, we ought to be like Christ in loving others and doing good to them as Christ did. That means seeing people as needing the gospel, loving them to Christ, opening our mouths. to share with them the truth of the gospel, being more concerned for their eternal soul than whether they'll like what we say or not , Christ did that. Can I encourage you this morning to let the Holy Spirit do that work in your life? Maybe there's someone the Lord has brought into your mind this morning you say, You need to share the gospel with that person. And while we've been preaching, you've been thinking about that. Maybe you need to surrender to the Lord and say, Lord, I will by your grace open my mouth and do good to that person. physically and spiritually, so they can be brought into a right relationship with you. Is God's sacrificial goodness to you, making you willing to sacrifice for others? Is God's forgiving of you making you quick to forgive others? If not, then I call you to repent because it is sin. And to yield to the work of the Spirit in your heart this morning. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you are good and you do good, and your goodness is greater than we can understand. Hallowed be your name. We praise you, Father, for how you have loved us and shown us good in Christ Jesus. Father, I pray for any this morning who do not know Christ as their Savior, that you would bring them to faith in him this morning. Lord, I pray that they would abandon any thoughts of personal goodness. And they would turn to faith in Christ. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.