We are continuing our study this morning of the fruit of the Spirit. You can turn in your Bibles to Galatians 5 where that listing is found Two of the most celebrated historians of the 20th century were actually a husband and wife team, Will and Ariel Durant. And for many, many years they labored together to produce a multi-volume history of civilization. They taught history together for over 50 years. And after this incredible career, they decided to condense all that they had learned into one concise volume entitled Lessons from History. One chapter of this critically acclaimed book begins, war is one of the constants of history and has not diminished with civilization and democracy. They tabulated in the last 3,421 years of recorded history, there have only been 268 years when there has been no record of war. But they note That is very likely because of incomplete records. Another historian has calculated in the last 2100 years there have been 14,553 wars. Someone cynically said, peace is that glorious moment in history when everyone stops to reload. World peace, of course, has been one of the great dreams of humanity. The intellectual elites have always felt that if all the warring factions in the world would simply sit down, And talk of their differences to each other that we can solve our problems. This idea has been around for a long time. And the idea implicit in that is that as man evolves, as man grows in his knowledge of different cultures and different ethnicities. and different religions even, that there will be more harmony, more peace in the world. This was the thinking behind the League of Nations Which was developed after World War I, and one of their great acts was to outlaw war. They found it very difficult to enforce, however. As you know, it did not prevent the incredible bloodshed that took place during World War II. And after this incredible slaughter, there was the formation of the United Nations. And yet, in every year since the United Nations has been formed, there has been great bloodshed and violence throughout the world. In recent days, of course, you have heard this week of the increased violence between the Palestinians and Israelis living in and around Jerusalem. It is ironic to think that culturally both of these people, their most common greeting to one another is peace. The Palestinians say Salaam and the Jews say shalom. They both pronounce peace, but there is no peace. The true peace that humanity longs for can only be found in the Lord Jesus Christ. On at least six occasions in the New Testament, we breathe that God is the God of peace. The Lord Jesus Christ, his son, is called the Prince of Peace, and His message is called the Gospel of Peace. Therefore, if we are going to be like our Heavenly Father, if we are going to reflect the Lord Jesus Christ, which as I've expressed to you is what the fruit of the Spirit is all about, then we are going to be people of peace. Christians should be people known for their peace. But what exactly do we mean by peace? The Bible has three different senses, three different applications of this concept of peace. First of all, there is our peace with God. This is an objective reality of the fact that we are no longer antagonistic and rebellious against God But that we have been subdued by his grace and we are now at peace with God. This is all entwined with the doctrine of reconciliation, and we'll speak of this in a moment. But secondly, there is the peace of God. This is a subjective sense. This is the peace in the midst of the storm. This is that peace that we have in our hearts because we know that God is in control. And then the third sense of peace. is our peace with others, the absence of conflict, tension, and animosity. Now, these three aspects of peace do overlap and they are built one upon another. The fact of the matter is, until you know for sure that you are at peace with God You cannot truly have the peace of God in your heart. And you cannot really live in harmony with others. unless you are controlled by the Spirit of God. So all of these are but different expressions of the same supernatural peace. The peace that comes from walking under the Spirit's control. So my question to you this morning as we begin is this. Are you at peace with God? Are you known as a person of peace? Do you have the peace of God rolling in your heart? And are you at peace with others? I want to speak to you this morning on how to cultivate peace, the fruit of peace, and we're going to look at these three senses, the three ways that the Bible describes this concept of peace. So the first thing I want you to notice from Scripture is that in order to cultivate the fruit of peace in your life, you must have a right relationship with God. Did you know that humanity is not naturally at peace with God? I think most people, most people who do not know the Lord and do not know their Bible would object to that. Most people that I speak to, even though they may not truly be born again, would not say that they're bitter or angry or at war with God. They would say they believe in God. They would say that on occasion they even pray to God and they have some type of respect. They believe there's a higher power. They're not at war with God, they would say. But the fact of the matter is, is that if you were to bring before their minds and their hearing the requirements of the Lord, His commandments, His law, His Word, what He expects from people, you will find that there is a growing animosity in their hearts. No one's going to tell me what to do or how to live my life. Why are these religious people always trying to force their values upon me? So as long as God remains very abstract, very distance, just a virtual concept that has no basis in reality, in their life, they're okay with that. But when the claims of God and of Christ are brought to bear on their life, you will see an animosity rise up within them. The fact of the matter is that God is holy and we are not. And this undeniable fact keeps us at distance from God. Now there are three key passages in the New Testament that deal with this aspect of our peace with God The first one I just want to quote for you is Ephesians chapter 2, verses 13 and 14. It says, Ye who were sometimes far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. For he is our peace. Jesus Christ is our peace. He is the only way that we can have a right relationship with God. It's only by the death of Christ. That we can experience this peace. Undoubtedly you've heard of the word atonement before. It's a biblical concept, but it of course is even used in other contexts in our language. The fact of the matter is the word atonement comes from an Old English root, and it's simply the combination of three different words. At one meant. At one moment. It speaks of our reconciliation. That we are at one with God. We are no longer at war with Him. The next passage of these key passages and this concept is found in the Colossians. I'm going to ask you to turn with me here to Colossians chapter 1, please. Colossians chapter 1, and I want to begin reading at verse 20. Colossians 1 20. And having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him to reconcile all things unto himself, by him I say, whether they be things in earth or things in heaven. And you that were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled. in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and unblameable and unreprovable in his sight. There's an awful lot here, and I don't have time to expound all of these various phrases. I just want you to notice the essential teaching here. This speaks of a hostility that was evident in our unredeemed state. And it was noticeed rooted in our mind or in our hearts or in the inner man. It had to do with our attitude and our disposition, and this attitude of antagonism leads us to rebellion. And to break God's law. This is why, when someone tells you to do something, and especially if they do so in a demeaning and condescending way , There is something almost automatically that rises up within you that wants to disobey exactly what they told you not to do. Every young person knows what that is, and unfortunately, so do their parents. That is the flesh within you. And it's that way when God, God's truth. uh comes to bear against the heart of those who are hostile against him. And but all of that changes by the grace of God. God has brought about reconciliation. This Hostility is exchanged for harmony. And then the third passage under this heading that I think many of you have memorized is Romans 5. 1. Therefore Being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. We are justified. We are declared not guilty, but righteous. And it's all through this reconciliation. So let me ask you this morning, are you at peace with God? Most lost people assume that they are. But the fact of the matter is often they are not. Well, always they are not if they're lost Do you know that your sins have been forgiven? Do you know for certain that you have been justified, declared not guilty? I am amazed. At how long people will stay in a state where they know that they are lost. They know that they are not in a right relationship with God and they will remain there for days and weeks and months and years So often I've talked to people, and of course there are some times where people were not aware of their spiritual state, and that I can understand to some degree. And when they discover that indeed they are lost , They flee to the cross. But what I'm astounded by is how many people I've talked to who have said to me, you know, I've known for years that I was lost. I've known for years that if I were to die, I would go to hell. I've known that for many, many years. And yet they they they come to church and they hear the word of God on a regular basis. That's just astounding to me. How can you live in such a perilous state? How can you play and minimize something that is so important? 2 Corinthians chapter 5 has this great powerful expression where Paul says, be ye reconciled to God's What's amazing about that passage is he says that when a preacher says that, that we should understand that as he's speaking in behalf of Jesus Christ. He is his ambassador, and so you should hear that message is not coming from that preacher, but coming from Christ Himself. Be you reconciled to God's I want to say to you this morning, those of you that are here, and I know that in a congregation of this size, there are always people in this state. People who are lost, who have no assurance of salvation, I say to you, be ye reconciled to God. You can have no peace in your heart until that is established. You cannot begin to bear the fruit of peace when you're not right with God. So would you seek Him today? Would you find that peace today? And that brings us to the second aspect of peace. And would you turn with me now to the book of Philippians? If you're in Colossians, you just one book away from it. In order to cultivate the fruit of peace in your life, you must learn to trust God with your problems. This, of course, is where many Christians struggle. Everyone has struggled with this at some time in their life, but some people, it seems, struggle with this almost all of the time. A great text for this is of course Philippians chapter 4, verses 6 and 7. Look with me at these verses, verses that we read together this morning. Be ye careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, yet let your request be made known unto God. And the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. How do we experience this promised peace? I want you to notice that this is actually a command when it says, be careful for nothing. That's a command of God. It's not a suggestion. It's a command of God to be at peace and to not worry. I wonder what you think of this command. A century ago, there was a great Baptist preacher named Alexander McLaren who wrote many, many thousands of sermons. And he has a sermon on this text entitled, How to Obey an Impossible Injunction. Because doesn't it at times seem impossible? Have you ever talked to someone who was just absolutely eaten up with worry and said that, listen, don't worry. It's like telling a fish not to swim. It's like saying, stop breathing to that person. It seems ridiculous to them because they're so troubled about something that they're in the grip of it and they don't seem to be able to find a way out. But God has provided another channel for us to put that nervous energy into, and that is prayer. Notice the symmetry of this verse. Be careful for nothing. That's the negative aspect. That's what we must not do. But there's something to replace that. And that is, but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. Someone put it this way, the way to be anxious about nothing is to be prayerful about everything. Now perhaps you would hear this morning and you would say, Pastor, you know, I've tried to pray about my problems, and I still have not found this peace that is promised in this passage. Well, I wonder if you have followed the specific instructions. If you ever put something together, I don't need the instructions, and you put it together and didn't turn out so well. What do you do then? What I normally do is I go back and where did I put those instructions at? I need to look at that again. Look at these instructions. First of all, he has three types of prayer that are mentioned in this one verse. The first one is prayer. This is a general term for prayer. I think that Paul is calling on believers to worship God when we are tempted to worry. These two things are antithetical to one another. Do you know that? You cannot really, from your heart, worship God and worry at the same time This is a wonderful key to victory over this. Because worship invariably drives out worry. What we need to do when we feel absolutely crushed with a problem, with a scenario in our life, and it just seems to be sapping us of all of our life energy and all of our focus We need to focus our mind on what is true. And the greatest truth in the universe is God's. We need to think about the greatness and glory of God and worship Him and praise Him and take our mind off of our little problems and see the big You know that pastors are people who struggle a great deal generally with worry. Did you know that? Because everyone comes to them with problems. When someone calls me up and says, Pastor, I need to talk to you tomorrow at 2 o'clock, I know they're not going to come and say, you know, I just want you to know I'm having a great day. Things are going fantastic for me. That's not why they call and schedule appointments. There's going to be a problem that they unveil there for me And so every day, every single day, there are problems. I'm saying this to you not to say, don't bring me your problems. This is right. This is appropriate. This is what you should do. But I'm saying that this passage is very real to me because it's something that I have to wrestle with and struggle with. And so often I have to just get away and I have to spend some time and I have to refocus and I have to worship God And I like to go somewhere and often see God's handiwork, and I like sometimes to go out over here and look at this beautiful scenery we have, and I walk out there and I'll say, you know what? The same God who designed all of this The beautiful seasons, these trees, these flowers, the beauty of the sky, the same God that designed all of this is able to deal with my little petty problem. See, so often we become microscopic in our view and we forget and and it distorts our whole perception of reality. So we need to pray, we need to worship God. And then the second type of prayer here is supplication This is an expression of our need. We need to humble ourselves and demonstrate that we are dependent on him. Have you ever noticed that usually you worry the most about situations that you cannot change? Right? You can't do a thing about it. Your hands are tied. Maybe it's somebody else and their heart, you know, one of the most distressing things is that you can't change other people's hearts. You can pray for them, you can talk to them, you can plead with them, you can do what you want. But the fact of the matter is, you can't reach in there and change their heart. You can't do it. So what are you going to do? You've got to go to the Lord in prayer. It's God's desire that our perplexing circumstances humble us. so that we come before him like a desperate beggar. You see, so often we would prefer not to go to the Lord in prayer. We would prefer to figure out a way to fix the problem. Did you know that sometimes God puts us in a situation where we're in a conundrum where we're between a rock and a hard place, we cannot fix a problem because He wants us to know that we are not in control. This is one of the reasons why we worry so much, because we want to be in control of our world and our life. I want to be able to control these things so that I have exactly the kind of life that I want. But you know what? It doesn't work that way. God will constantly put you in situations where you have absolutely no control. And that's when we must rest in Him. We find verses like this all through the Psalms, right? Call upon me in the day of trouble, I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. God wants us to rest in him and leave the matter with him. And then we have, thirdly, our request. These are our specific petitions. Our prayer should not be general and nebulous. We should ask the Lord for specific things. We should pour out our hearts to Him. I notice that Paul adds the attitude by which we must pray, and that is with thanksgiving. Don't pass over that little phrase. That's very, very important. You see, when we begin to reflect and think about all that God has done for us, all the way that He has blessed us. It helps us to put our present crisis into context. It is so easy that when we are in the midst of a difficulty, I know that there are many people here. That are in situations like that right now. When you're in there, it's like there's a storm cloud over your head and you can't see the sun. You can't see anything. You're in a fog bank And it seems like the whole universe is like that. Not true. Your whole life has not been like this. God has blessed you and answered you and helped you and delivered you countless times. That is why it's so important that you count your blessings. This is a great anecdote to the poison of anxiety. It also will remind you that you have been in dire situations before and God has delivered you. Can't you recall situations in your life where it seemed absolutely hopeless and yet God found a way and brought you out? That's what you must rest in. What must we do with our problems? We must commit them to the Lord. 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 7 says, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Peter there is Echoing, he's really quoting or paraphrasing the Psalms. Psalm 37 verse 5 says, Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. Psalm 55, 22, cast thy burden upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee. He will never suffer the righteous to be moved. I wonder if you trust the Lord enough to give him your problems. Okay? Now, I want to make a very important distinction here. This verse and other verses are not saying that if you have a problem and you take them to the Lord, he's going to take away your problem. It doesn't say that he is going to answer your request and all of your health concerns are going to be gone and suddenly there's going to be a windfall of cash that comes your way. And your your kids are going to be walking with the Lord all over overnight. It doesn't say that. It doesn't mean that. Sometimes God does do those wonderful things and condescend to answer our request. What a blessing that is. How many situations I can recall like that in my own life. But you know what often the Lord does? He doesn't remove our burden from our shoulders. He gives us the spiritual stamina to bear up under that. He gives us peace in the midst of the storm. And that is what is a great testimony to the world and to our Christian friends. when they see that we are being sustained and undergirded by the grace of God. Now I know that this is hard to do. I know that sometimes this is a real struggle for people, and some people have a disposition that they tend to struggle with this much more than do others. That's why we have this wonderful promise, this incentive that's thrown out in verse 7, and the peace of God which passeth all understanding will keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. It is saying that you can experience the peace, believe it or not, that God possesses. There's no being in the universe that isn't more peace than God. This is very much what Jesus said to the disciples in the upper room. My peace I give unto you. The peace that they saw. All through his earthly ministry when they lived with him, when they were out in that boat on the Sea of Galilee, and this great storm came up, and they all thought, these experienced fishermen, that they were going to perish in the waves, and he's asleep in the back. He's at peace. And they say to him, Carest thou not that we perish? And he stands up and he says, Peace be still. That's the kind of peace that God offers to his people. The peace that passeth understanding, that surpasses our ability to really comprehend it and understand it. And Paul here describes this. He personifies the peace of God as a soldier that marches around the perimeter of our hearts and minds. He's guarding us. And if we will rest in him and we will take our problems to him, we will experience this preserved peace, this promised peace. Sometimes God does remove the cause of our care, but most often He wants us to learn to rest in him even though the problems yet remain. We sung a hymn together this morning that was taken from Isaiah chapter 26, one of my favorite passages, it says, thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee. because he trusteth in thee. Trust ye in the Lord forever, for the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength. And in the margin of my Bible for everlasting strength, it says, literally, rock of ages. That's what it is in the Hebrew. What a wonderful thing that is to consider. God is our rock and our fortress. we can rest in him. You see, it all really comes down to a matter of trust. If we say that we believe that God is in control of all the circumstances in the universe, and even the circumstances of our lives, that he knows what he's doing. He has a plan. And we don't need to wring our hands and say, what's going to happen? My life is out of control. He is in control. We must simply rest in him. Learn to trust in him. You know, this is a real problem for some people. Because there are certain types of personalities that always want to know what's going to happen next You ever notice that? God makes us all different, doesn't it? There's some people that they just kind of, you know, go through life and things happen. And uh they're not worried so much about things and and they come here and uh they they want to know what schedule. You know, when I We have missionaries come for conferences and so forth. I've always noticed there's some missionaries that, you know, they're real laid back, you know, whatever you want me to do, whatever, just tell me when to show up, okay. And there's other missionaries that they want to know how every minute is going to be spent. Because they can't really rest unless they know it, you know, at 5 02 I go here That's just a personality. I'm not making fun of them at all. But it's just the way people are. You know what? God does not give you a time schedule of what's going to happen in the future You've got to rest in him and trust in him. Take him your problems. And that brings us to this third aspect of peace. In order to cultivate the fruit of peace in your life, you must learn to live in harmony with others These things are all interrelated. You see, you can't really have a great sense of peace and harmony in your heart when you're warring with someone. Have you ever noticed how much tension and stress comes into your life because you're at odds with someone else? Because of something that was said or something that was done or something that you're just mulling over in your mind that happened years ago So much of the turmoil of our hearts is because of our relationships with other people. Now I think that in Galatians chapter 5, I want you to turn with me there, that when Paul writes the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace. that this is probably the sense of peace that he has in mind. Why do I say that? Well notice the context. Look at verses 13 through 15. For brethren, ye have been called unto liberty, only use not your liberty for an occasion of the flesh, but by love serve one another. For all the laws fulfilled in one word, even in this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. There were some problems there. These early Christians were feuding with one another. Now look at this listing of the works of the flesh. Notice what he says here beginning in verse 19. I want to go down towards the end of this list in verse 20. He mentions, notice, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings. That 's the largest number or grouping of sins that are mentioned there. And all of those have to do with strife and turmoil. with other people. This is the most prominent manifestation of the flesh that he mentions here. This is a real problem. This is a huge problem that people have to deal with in their lives. So what is the key to living at peace with others? So often when I talk to people, they think that somehow in Their lot in life, they have just been surrounded by really annoying, difficult, offensive people. Know why it works out that way, but it seems to be that way in their experience. There's a more biblical explanation for that. It is true that you're surrounded by people like that because we're all fallen. I want to have you limber your fingers up, and we're going to look through a few passages here quickly, one after another. Turn with me, Book of Romans, chapter 12. This is one of the second half of this chapter has one of the best discussions about living at peace with others. Notice where it begins in verse 16. Be of the same mind, one toward another. Mind not high things. But condescend to men of lowest state. Be not wise in your own conceits. You know what so often creates turmoil? It's not what is said. It's the tone in which it is said. It is the vibe that that person takes from you. If you treat people in a condescending way like you're better than them, like they are inferior to you. If you talk down to them and deal with them in that manner, it's going to generate strife and animosity. Now look with me, if you would, at the book of Ephesians, chapter 4. Remember, we're trying to find what is the kernel, what is the number one issue that creates strife. Ephesians chapter 4. I'm going to read the first three verses of this chapter. I therefore the prisoner of the Lord beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you're called how Verse 2 with all lowliness and meekness with long-suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Notice all that's mentioned there in verse 2. It all has something in common. Now look with me at Philippians chapter 2. See, this is a big problem. This is why Paul addresses it again and again and again. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1, if there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bows and mercies fulfill you my joy, that you be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. He's calling on the church at Philippi to be unified. Let nothing, verse three, be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man other also on the things of others. And then let's turn to one more, Colossians chapter 3. The next verse, next book over, Colossians chapter 3. I'm going to begin reading at verse 12. Put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved, vows of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind. meekness, long-suffering, forbearing one another and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as quarrel Christ forgave you, so also do ye. Above all these things, put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness, and let the peace of God rule in your hearts. to the which ye are also called in one body, and be ye thankful. Do you see the answer? It's humility It's humility. That is the key to unity. That is the key to living in a harmonious way with other people. What do I mean by this? A humble person is not someone who pretends to have a low view of his abilities. It's not a person who never looks you in the eye, who's always saying that he's sorry for himself. A humble person is a person who has a realistic view of who he is when viewed against the greatness and glory of God. See, a humble person is a person who accepts reality as it is. A prideful person is a person who's living in a fantasy world. They think the universe revolves around them. They think they're much more important than they are. Everybody else can see it. They think they're just seeing things as they really are, but they're not. Their own blinders, their own perspective is distorted. They think there's something they're not. They're not nearly as great or as important or as significant as they are. But a humble person, no matter how talented, how intelligent. They may be. They understand that whatever they have that's good has come from God. And that when measured against the greatness of God , They realize that they're not that great. It's nothing to brag about. And so when they are properly related to God and they see everything from God 's viewpoints, it changes how they interact with others You see, a humble person is not easily offended. Because even though what the person said may not be true, They recognize there are many other things that are true about them that are very humiliating A humble person understands that apart from God's grace they are nothing, and therefore they treat others with love because God has loved them in a gracious way. They treat others better than they deserve because God has been gracious with them. They are patient with others because God has been so patient with them. This is the only way to live at peace with others. So let me ask you: are you often at odds with others? There are people who live their life in incessant turmoil. My heart really goes out to them. They're always warring at home. They're warring at the workplace. They're warring at church. There's always Combat going on. There's always turmoil and hurt feelings and offense being taken. What a horrible way to live. What a horrible testimony. Can I just say something for a moment? The Christian home should be a place of peace. A place of quietness. It should be that when you leave the turmoil of the world And the dog-eat dog world at work, that you should be able to come home, it should be your refuge, it should be a place of solace and of peace. Now it's so often, even in our Christian homes, it's not like that. I can remember growing up You know, when you're a kid growing up in a household, you tend to think that every home's just like yours, right? You just think that every mom and dad's like your mom and dad, and Everybody does things. But then as you get a little bit older, you start coming of age, you start going to other people's homes and spending more time with other people, you start to realize not everybody does things the way we do. I remember talking with my peers and them talking about all the yelling and fights and battles going on incessantly in their homes And I remember saying, what is that like? I've never seen that in my house I always think of this verse in Proverbs. Proverbs 17. 1. Do you know this verse better is a dry morsel and quietness therewith than a house full of sacrifices with strife? Let me put that in context for you. It's better to live in a little shack with very meager food resources. than to live in a giant mansion with steak for dinner every night, but yet there's tension and strife throughout that home. Whenever I've ever talked about this, you know what happens? Things get quiet like this. Because I know I've touched a nerve. Mom and Dad, it shouldn't be like that at home. It should be a place of peace, a sanctuary from the world. So many people, however , in their homes, it's either too noisy because there's a lot of yelling taking place, or it's too quiet because there's no communication taking place. Neither one of those is good. How many people go through their life, their experience, their day-to-day life, and their heart is filled with anger and bitterness and resentments and hurt feelings And this is the world in which they live. This, can I say this? This is not the normal Christian life. This is not the fruit of the spirits. This is not what God wants for his people. This is not the legacy of peace that Jesus left to his followers. And there's only one reason that you encounter such tension in your life, and that is pride. You are being more controlled by your flesh than you are the spirits. Remember what it says in Proverbs 13, 10, only by pride cometh contention. It is true that some people you just can't live at peace with. That's what it says, remember in Romans 12, as much as lieth in you Live peaceably with all men. There's some people that you're just going to have to, maybe, because there's this constant flare-ups on their part, you're just going to have to kind of keep your distance from them because that they just cannot get along with you at all. But there shouldn't be animosity in your heart. There shouldn't be ill will within you You see, when we are humble, broken people, we can get along with just about anyone You can't offend someone who is humble. You can't humiliate a person who's already humble. This is what God wants from us to be. This is how he wants us to live with one another. The fruit of the Spirit is peace. This couple Wednesday nights ago I taught of the life of William Carey, the father of modern missions, this man who came from an obscure region of England. Very poor situation. He was just a man who repaired shoes. He made a globe out of leather in his shop, and he dreamed about being a missionary, something that was almost unheard of at the time. God called him to India. And there he went. And he knew earn early on that he needed a team of missionaries, so he had two other families that came and lived in the same household, the wards and the marshmallows, three families with their children under one roof. And he knew that that could be a recipe for disaster. So one of the things that he did is that every Saturday night before the Lord's Day, they would all meet together, and if there were any offenses that were made They aired them then, and they asked one another for forgiveness. And they did that every week. And for many decades, those three families lived together in perfect harmony. And they exhibited The fruit of the Spirit, the Spirit of peace. That's God's will for his people. That we have peace with God, we have peace within, and we have peace with others. Let's close in prayer. Our Father, these things are easier said than done. We can't do this through our own willpower or strength. We need the Spirit of God controlling our hearts Helping us to mortify our flesh. To drain us of our natural selfishness and pride. I pray that you would help us to be a people who are at peace with others because we have been humbled by your grace And we do not think of ourselves more highly than we ought to think. I pray that you help us to be a people that have peace in our hearts that we can go through life with our various problems and difficulties and yet be at peace in the midst of the storm because Christ is with us. And his spirit brings comfort to our hearts. I pray, Lord, that we would be a people who are at peace because we know you, the God of peace. I pray again, Father, for those who are here today, who are strangers to your grace, who are yet fighting against you in some respect who have not put their faith and trust in Christ alone and experienced that Peace that passes all understanding. I pray, Lord, that today they would come to Christ and be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.