If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me to Galatians chapter 5. Galatians 5, 22, we read, but the fruit of the Spirit. is love, joy, peace , long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith There's a traditional Hebrew story about Abraham. It's probably apocryphal. It's certainly not found in Scripture The story goes that one day Abraham looked out of his tent and he saw an elderly man out, roaming around. And so Abraham rushed out to greet him and brought him in. And of course, hospitality was a great responsibility in their culture and so he brings the man in and he washes his feet and he orders food to be prepared. And the food comes, and the old man immediately begins to eat without saying any prayer. And so Abraham asks him, Don't you worship God? And the man just says very curtly, I worship fire and no other God. When Abraham heard this, He became indignant and he grabbed the man by the shoulders and threw him out of his tent into the cold air. And when the old man had departed , God spoke to his friend Abraham and asked him where the stranger was, and Abraham said, God, he didn't worship you, so I cast him out. And the Lord answered, he said, I've suffered him , suffered with him now for some eighty years, though he dishonors me. Could you not put up with him for one night? This morning I want us to consider the fourth fruit of the Spirit in our list. And that is this matter of long suffering. So what exactly do we mean by long suffering? Let's talk about this for just a moment. This same Greek word is elsewhere translated as patience. Some of you may be using a version have patience here. But it's important to understand that they're two different Greek terms or concepts of patience. They are related, but there is very much a difference. As well. There's one Greek term that literally means to bear up under a burden. The idea of a person who has a heavy load on their shoulders. But by God's grace, they have endurance and stamina, and they're able to escape under that burden, under that trial, under that difficulty. without becoming bitter and angry, and without quitting on life. That's a very important quality. It's found some 59 times in the New Testament. But that's not the word that's used here. There's a different Greek word that's used here. The Greek word that's used here is the word makrothumia. It's made up of two parts. Macro, which we have this prefix in our English language, like macroeconomics. It's a word that means big or long or large. And the last part of the word, through thumia , is the derivation of our English word thermos. And the idea of being their thermos is something that keeps something warm or hot. And so there's this symbolic reference to heat. When we say a person has a bad temper, we say that guy's a hothead, right? So the idea here is literally the word means long and becoming angry. It is the exact opposite of the expression we use of someone who has a short fuse. And so the first word, that's often translated patience, has to deal with the ability to endure difficult circumstances and trials This word has reference to being able to endure difficult people. That's the word that's used here in the fruit of the Spirit. It should not be surprising to us because I've mentioned to you the broader context. In the verses that precede this, both in verses 13 through 15 and that listing that is the works of the flesh, there is a great manifestation of the tension and the stress that takes place in human relationships. So we should not be surprised that that is really the focus of the fruit of the Spirit here. Now I wonder if you know any difficult people. You ever met any? You live with any? Do you work with any? It's impossible to go through life without encountering difficult people wherever you go. Because we are flawed human beings. I used to know a pastor who liked to bring out the meaning of this word, long suffering. By holding out the long, he would say, God calls us to be long suffering And it's really right. And I like this translation, long-suffering, because it brings not only the meaning of this Greek term, but the mood of it as well. To put up with difficult people involves what? It involves to some degree some suffering that you must accept and take. And so God has called us to be long-suffering. It's interesting that this word long-suffering was coined by William Tyndale. in the 1500s, and it was adopted by the King James translators. This type of response is not natural. It is supernatural. I think the best definition I've ever found of this Word, long suffering. It's by Jerry Bridges. He says it's the ability to suffer a long time under the mistreatment of others without growing resentful or bitter. That is really difficult to do. That is something that you cannot do in your own strength. You need the Spirit of God. to fill you and to strengthen you to deal with people who are annoying and offensive and unfair and unreasonable with you So let me ask you this morning, would anyone say that you are long-suffering? Would your family members, your neighbors, your co-workers, will they testify that person is patient with people? You see, this is not natural. This is not easy. This is supernatural. This calls for nothing less than divine empowerment by the Spirit of God. I want to speak to you this morning on how to cultivate the fruit of patience with others. I want you to notice, first of all, that in order to be long-suffering with others, you must recognize how patient God has been with you. This is where we must begin. There is often found in Scripture where you find the term long-suffering, you'll find in the immediate context a reference to humility. And when we recognize how patient God has been with us, how much He has put up with us. The more we will be able to be long-suffering to others. The Bible reminds us of this quality of the Lord again and again. It tells us that He is slow to anger. And long suffering to us. I've mentioned to you before this word slow to anger literally means long of nostrils in Hebrew. It refers to the fact that probably that the ancient peoples um uh would see sometimes when people are angry they they flare their nostrils as they take in more oxygen because they're about to explode. And so the idea was that maybe if a person has a really long nose, they will have a long fuse And so this word means long of nostrils. We read this sort of thing all the time in Scripture in Exodus 34, 6, when God revealed himself to Moses And he said, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abundant in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgressions. Earlier this year we studied Psalm 103, and in verse 8 it says, The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger. and plenteous in mercy. In Naham chapter 1 and verse 3 it says, the Lord is slow to anger and great in power. What an apt description this is of the Lord. Do you remember the story of the reluctant prophet Jonah? God caused this prophet to go to Nineveh, which was the capital city of the Assyrian Empire. And Jonah, the disobedient prophet, does not go. He gets a ship going in the opposite direction, but God intervenes. A great storm comes up. To make a long story short, they throw him overboard. He is swallowed by a great sea creature. And after repenting He is spit off on dry land on the shores that would make it easy for him to go And there he goes, and he preaches to this pagan land, these pagan people, this great world power at that time. And he has a very short message. God 's judgment's going to come in 40 days unless you repent. That's the end of it. Let's pray. And amazingly The people repented. They were struck with terror at the fact that God, Jehovah, was going to bring judgment on them. And they put on sackcloth and ashes and they turned from their sins. And you know what? Jonah wasn't a bit happy about it. You know what he says in chapter 4? Let me put it in our language today. He said, I knew that was going to happen. He says, I knew that thou art a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger and of great kindness. Now, why was it that Jonah did not want God to show long suffering towards these people? It's because they were brutal, barbaric people. They were the ISIS Of their day. They were known for the no-holds-barred approach they took to warfare when they subjugated a people. They didn't just defeat them, they decimated them, they humiliated them, they tortured them. I won't go through and describe what they did to people. But they were the great scourge of the world. Everybody hated them. It would be like God calling someone to be an evangelist to ISIS today. You might have mixed feelings about it. There might be some people down the depths of your heart you would say, I'm not sure how successful I want him to be. Because I want them to experience the judgment of God. That's the way Jonah felt. But God is a God who is slow to anger and long-suffering. And He showed pity even for these wicked people. 2 Peter 3 and verse 9 says, God is long suffering to us word not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. One reason why God is long-suffering. with sinners as he is giving them time, ample opportunity to repent and be saved. But that is something that you must not presume upon. Aren't you glad that God is long-suffering to sinners? Did you get saved the very first time you heard the gospel? Probably not. The vast majority of people who come to Christ hear the gospel again and again and again and again, and finally they believe they are saved. That is God showing His long-suffering nature to you Did you know that this quality of the Lord was perfectly reflected in his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ? There has never been a human being on the face of the earth that has been more long-suffering than the Lord Jesus Christ. He was long-suffering with everyone. He was long-suffering towards the Pharisees who denounced him and charged him with ridiculous charges. He was long-suffering with sinners. He ate in their homes. He gave time to them. He spoke to them. And he was long-suffering to his disciples. How often do we read the Gospels and we see their blunders? We see them failing again and again, and yet the Lord was patient with them. Even at the very end of his ministry, the night before his crucifixion, we see them arguing about who is the greatest and who's going to have the best seats. Then we see their leader, Peter, saying arrogantly, though all may fail you, Lord, yet will not I. Lord, they may all turn away. That's not going to happen to me. And of course, in a short time, he would deny him three times. The Lord was long-suffering with them. Lord was long-suffering with all of humanity. I think of this at the cross. If you read the accounts in the gospels, you'll see representatives from every segment of society, men and women, rich and poor, young and old, Jew and Gentile, all of them were there mocking the Savior as he hung on a cross. But Jesus cry, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. He was the most long-suffering person who has ever lived, and the more we become like Christ. the more long-suffering we will be. Romans chapter 15 and verse 5 says, now the God of patience, the same word here, and consolation grant you to be like-minded. One toward another. That's a command. We are commanded in Scripture to be long-suffering toward one another. There is a vital connection between our humility and our patience with people. The more humble you are, the more you recognize that God has been so patient and so long-suffering with you, the more you will be long-suffering with others. So we need to learn to be patient with those who offend us and annoy us. Those who get under our skin because God has been long-suffering with us. It brings me to the second point here. In order to learn to be patient with others, you must genuinely love them. And I invite you to turn with me now to 1 Corinthians chapter 13. This, of course, is the Bible's great description of love. We have in verses 4 through 8 all of these different descriptions of what love is not and what love is and how love responds and I want you to notice the very first thing on the list in verse 4 Charity or love suffereth long. I mentioned to you earlier in our study of the fruit of the Spirit that there's a sense in which a person could say, that all of the other fruit of the Spirit are but manifestations of the first one, which is love. If you think about it, you know this is true. If you love someone, really care for them, you are also what? Long-suffering to them. You are patient with them. You'll put up with many things that you would never accept from someone who didn't love you. When you love someone, you can tolerate a great deal. Have you ever known a wife who was married to a difficult man? and yet was able somehow to look past all of his faults and love him? Have you ever known a grandmother who so only saw only the best in her grandchildren, though they were far from being angels? And y you you see the way the child maybe of that that person, that loved one, uh speaks to them and acts around them and you think to yourself, how in the world can can this individual put up with that? And the answer is that they're long-suffering. Now, let me say, give this disclaimer, I am in no way, shape, or form condoning or excusing abuse. I'm speaking here more of annoyances and offenses that grate on our nerves. When you love someone, you can put up with a lot. In Ephesians chapter 4, we see this connection again It says in Ephesians 4. 2. Well, let me start at verse 1. I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you're called with all lowliness and meekness with long-suffering. Forbearing one another in love. This is why we as Christian people must treat others with love. We must be slow to retaliate, slow to respond in anger This is especially true with our brother and sister in Christ, which is the context of both of these passages that I've just read to you. What did Jesus say? By this shall all men know that you are my disciples if you have love one for another. And one of the outworkings and evidences of that love is being patient. With your brother and sister in Christ. It requires patience. This is why we must not write people off. This is why we must not Treat them without civility and without respect and without love, even though we find their particular personality and the way they think of us and speak to us. Difficult to handle. If you're ever going to really be used of the Lord in the lives of other people, you must be long-suffering. And patience. If you were to trace this term out, you would find that often it's used in the context of ministry. You want to serve the Lord? You want to be a Sunday school teacher? You want to be a deacon? You want to mentor people? And really sit down and have Bible studies with people and work through their issues and so forth. You know what you're going to need? You're going to need a very large dose of patience And this works both ways. I think the more that you use that, the more you minister, the more your heart is connected with others that you're ministering to, the more that this is stretched and developed by God's grace. Let me give you some examples of this from the life of the Apostle Paul. Turn with me, if you would, to 2 Timothy We're going to look at this last book that he wrote. Look with me at 2 Timothy chapter 2. Paul's writing to Timothy, this man he's mentored for the ministry who at that time was serving as a pastor. 2 Timothy 2, look at verse 24. And the servant of the Lord must not strive but be gentle unto all men, apt to teach. Patience in meekness, instructing those that oppose themselves if God peradventure will give them repentance for the acknowledging of the truth. and that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who are taken captive by him at his will. This is a very challenging passage to me, and I think about it often. When he speaks here of the servant of the Lord, he's talking about a pastor. He's writing to Timothy, who was a pastor. A pastor has to be patient and long-suffering with people. And if you're involved in any kind of ministry with people, you're going to need the same as well. Look with me at the next chapter, it's chapter 3 and verse 10. Paul here uses himself as an example. He says, But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, long-suffering, charity, patience. Paul could say, you folks there, you know my life. He could say, Timothy, you know my life. You've worked with me, you've lived with me, you know that by the grace of God I'm a man who is long-suffering. with people. And then you can see one chapter over again in chapter four in verse two, the stirring passage This is the most common passage preached at ordinations. Look at chapter 4. And verse 2: preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. A pastor can't quit and say, well, I don't see, they don't seem to be changing, they don't seem to be accepting this, they don't seem to be acknowledging God's word. No, you just must be faithful and continuing to preach the truth. You're going to desperately need this if you want to minister to people. And by the way, everyone should be ministering to someone. Okay? Let's say you're a Sunday school teacher. I see a lot of times people begin teaching Sunday school class. They have a lot of enthusiasm. And I think they have perhaps some unrealistic expectations, whether they're teaching adults or children. And they go in there and they begin to teach, and maybe they get some good feedback, and they hear they have all these people saying they're going to come to class, and then you know what? They don't come to class. And sometimes they'll come to me and I I try I try very hard to um To not smile when they tell me these things because this is just the way people are. This is the nature of ministry. If I had a dollar for everyone who told me, Pastor, you'll see me there on Sunday, I would be well off. But you pour your your time into it, your talents into it, then you come to church and they seem disinterested. You stayed up to midnight and hear half the class is falling asleep. And if you're not careful, you're going to say, why in the world am I doing this? Hopefully for two things, because you love the Lord and because you love the people. You have to be long-suffering. Long-suffering. Dealing with unreasonable people and unreasonable expectations and unreasonable demands. That's part of what it is to be a servant of the Lord's. Hudson Taylor said, the great missionary, my greatest temptation is to lose my temper over the slackness and the efficiency. So disappointing in those on whom I depend. He says, Oh Lord, it is such a trial. But that is what God wants us to do. He wants us to be long-suffering. And that brings me to the third point. In order to cultivate the fruit of the Spirit that is described here as long suffering, you must learn to graciously respond to difficult people. And now I invite you to turn with me to Colossians chapter 3, please. Everybody here knows this difficult people in your life Let's just survey some of this territory here. This is the great section of the book Where Paul is applying the doctrines that he's laid out in the first two chapters. And he uses the analogy of taking off and putting on a garment. And so in verse 8 he says, Now put off also All these, anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth, lie not one to another, seeing that you have put off the old man with his deeds. These are the works of the flesh that have no part in a believer's life. And you'll notice that the first few items in this list have to do with angry outbursts. Angry outbursts. You know what I've discovered? I've discovered that people who get angry always have a ready excuse as to why they get angry. And dealing with them over the years, I have found this again and again and again. They will say say things like, well, you know, I just have a short temper. Or I'm the kind of person who just blows up, but I don't hold a grudge. Or that individual deserved what they got for me. They've been pushing me a long time, and I just couldn't take it anymore, so I just unloaded on them. They had it coming And so often people who have a reputation for becoming angry and losing their temper have no idea how much devastation they bring into the lives of others. others. So often, so often, when I deal with young people who are having behavioral issues They will almost invariably bring up a mother or father who would unload on them on a regular basis, lose their temper, say a lot of very hurtful things. And that happened many, many years ago. A few words said in the heat of the moment can bring difficulties for decades to come. This is one of those so-called respectable sins that we have in the Christian community. You know? You do some things, people write you off, lose your temple. Everybody blows up. The Bible condemns it as a work of the flesh. Of course, there is such a thing as righteous indignation. It is possible to be angry and sin not. But the vast, vast majority of time, of course, that is not the case with us. Then we have a contrasting list, just like we had in Galatians 5. Look at verse 12. Put on, therefore, as the elect of God holy and beloved, bows of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering, there's our word. Forbearing one another and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. It's important to understand that we have prerequisites in verse 12 that are essential for us to respond the way we should in verse 13, that is, to forgive and to forbear. Verse 13 contains two participles with the force of a command. We are essentially commanded to forbear and to forgive, and the word forbear means to put up with. And to forgive means to let go of. These are twin admonitions. That if we would follow would solve the vast majority of the relational issues that we deal with. If we would, by God's grace, forgive and forbear. Let me ask you if you're growing in grace. The more you're growing in grace, the more you will be able to forgive people. and let offenses go, the more you will be able to forbear people to put up with their annoyances With their harsh words, with their condescending attitudes, without it ruining your day, the more you will be able to let it just roll off of you and go on with the joy of the Lord's. See, this is a real test of your spiritual maturity. This isn't something about, you know, just get in line and do this and put this on and come here at this time and you're good. No, no, no. This takes a real transformation of God's grace in your heart to accomplish this. Whenever I preach about these things, I always find that there are so many people that will admit that there are people that they will not forgive. People they will not talk to, they have nothing to do with them, they haven't spoken a word to that individual, it may be a relative, it may be a loved one, it may be someone who was once a close friend, but they have not said a word to that person in twelve years and they have no intentions of ever doing so. I'm always thinking of the conversation that Wesley had with that one man when the man said, sir, I want you to know that I never forgive. And Wesley said to him, then sir, I hope that you never sin. Because God says that those who will not forgive will not be forgiven. We need compassion, long suffering. I think all of these things that are mentioned here of mercy or compassion, kindness, and humility and meekness are all kind of connected into this matter. You see, if you really understood people, if you knew where they were coming from, if you knew what they had faced throughout their life and what they were currently facing, you would probably have a lot more empathy for them. If you recognized how God has been so gracious and so good and so compassionate to you, how much more compassionate and meek we would be with others. This is what Christ has called us to do. The reasons why we find it so difficult to obey the instructions in verse 13 is because we have not obeyed the instructions in verse 12. We have not been putting on these vows of mercy and kindness and humbleness of mind and meekness and long-suffering. Therefore, we cannot begin to forgive and forbear others. Canadian preacher Gary Inrig defines forbearance this way. He says, to forbear is to grit your teeth. And put up with differences, mistakes, and failures in an attitude of grace because we are deeply and humbly aware of our own need of grace. It's impossible to be around in close proximity to other human beings without at times being annoyed and irritated and disgusted by them, their words, their attitudes, and their behaviors. That's just a reality of life. We live in a fallen world with fallen people. That's the challenge that we face. The fact is that we are all different. We have different likes. Have you ever been amazed? at how some people like certain individuals and you say, I can't, every every quality that you like in that person completely turns me off about that person. You know people like that I don't want to get into politics here. But you know, some people like a person who was outspoken, opinionated, and tells it bluntly the way it is. They like Donald Trump. Other people look at that and say, that's the last person in the world. I wouldn't want anybody with those qualities and leadership. You see, we're different. There's some people who are very affectionate. You know who you are. You love to hug. You know, you meet someone in the supermarket you've never talked to before, and 30 seconds when you leave, you're hugging them. For all you know, they might be an axe murderer or something. But you're just a sentimental kind of person. Just hug everyone. And then there's other people you don't hug your parents. I mean you you just prefer nobody to touch you. There's some people who are very, very structured You know what I mean? You go to their desk and you open it up and everything on the desk is like square and everything is evenly divided and everything else. I want you to know if you come into my office and you look at my desk, it will not look like that And there are some people who are much more free-spirited. They live from moment to moment. Some people live every moment planning on what to do in future moments. They never live in the moment because they're always thinking about what's going to happen next. My point is that we're all very, very different. And we get irritated by different things. You know, I have uh, and please I'm not asking anybody to fix this at all. It's not a big problem, as I'll explain. But in my office, you know, I have these huge air handlers right over top of my ceiling tiles And when they kick on for the sanctuary, they rattle the ceiling tiles. And it'll rattle, rattle, rattle, rattle. You know what? It doesn't bother me in the least. I can sit there, I can work for two hours without rattling. I don't even know it's there. But people will come into my office and they'll say, Oh, I don't know how you can put up with that. It's just driving me crazy. Didn't bother me in the least. Fine. I didn't even know it was there until you said something. We're different. So you you put people with all of these different triggers, different personalities, different backgrounds, and you put them all together in a place like this, you know what? There's going to be people who get on each other's nerves and annoy one another and are hurt by one another. So how do we get along? I think this passage in Colossians mentions several things. Number one, we must continually be ready to demonstrate grace towards one another. It says that we are to put on as the elect of God. That is, we are continually taking God's grace and letting it work through us. You know what this practically means? This may sound disturbing to you, but it means that every time you come to church, you should be prepared to put up with people who annoy you. Including the pastor, by the way. You should be prepared to do that. That's part of the way God is changing us and smoothing off the rough edges. You know what He does? He brings someone into your life who's like a piece of sandpaper. They're abrasive. And what we want to do is say, I want to get away from that sandpaper and never touch it again. God might put you in a situation where they're right there against you and they're rubbing against you all day long, but they're making you beautiful. And smooth and a trophy of grace when you respond to that with the quality of being long -suffering. And I want you to also notice that this is a reciprocal relationship. It says that we are to forbear one another and forgive one another. This is one of those one another commands in the New Testament. You know what that means? It means it goes both ways. I've said this to you before. When you come and you think about people who just get under your skin and drive you crazy, remember you're that person for somebody else. Now that may be hard for you to imagine. Me? I annoy people? I could ever offend people? Yes, you. You, we all have someone, undoubtedly, that we annoy in some way, maybe just because we're so sweet and nice Some people are annoyed by that. And the third thing I would say is that you must Forgive others the way Christ has forgiven you. Forbear one another. Forgive one another, put up with one another, and when they do wrong us, we let it go. We don't harbor it. We don't bring it in and meditate on it and think about it and tell everyone about it. And just brood over it until it takes on a life of its own and it becomes ten times magnified. We don't do that You see, forgiving people are patient people. They're long-suffering. They're able to stay in there and minister and deal with people even though that individual is incredibly obnoxious and annoying. Because the grace of God has changed their hearts. The Spirit of God has empowered them to do what is not natural, but what is supernatural. Let's close in prayer. Our Father, we are fallen people. We so easily, Father, respond in the flesh, convince ourselves that our anger and our resentment and our bitterness is natural and normal and fine, but yet you have caused us called us, Father, to something much different. You have called us to be humble and broken and loving and meek. You have called us to forbear one another and forgive one another. And Father, we know that this is only possible when we are your children. Think of those this morning who are here, who are yet lost in Their sins, they pray, Father, that they would seek you. That perhaps even the conviction they feel about their own anger and the pain and suffering they've brought into the lives of others would draw them to you that they might be saved. And Father, for your children, who indeed have not responded in the spirit, but by the flesh, I pray that you would help them to turn from their sin and to rely more on the grace of God and to seek, Father, to walk. By the Spirit's control. We pray that you would give us an assembly of people who are long-suffering to one another because we love one another. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.