Would you turn with me to Galatians chapter 5 this morning? I was watching a news broadcast a few weeks ago from an Israeli news source broadcasting from Jerusalem. with updates about the war in the Gaza Strip. And the broadcast began with the announcer saying, Shalom from Jerusalem. This is an Israeli, an Israel at war update. Today is day 137 of the October 7th war against Hamas terrorists. And then the broadcast continued on with information about what was taking place in Gaza at the time. But what struck me was the way the broadcast began with the words Shalom. This is an Israeli war update. It's an interesting word for the nation of Israel for their greeting. A nation that has known so very little peace in its many thousand-year history. But that is the yearning of every soul. We long for peace. We long for peace with our neighbors. And peace with our family members, and peace with other nations, and peace with ourselves, and peace with God. And ultimately it is that peace with God that is at the core of all the other peace that we seek in our lives. And the question I want to ask this morning as we begin is: are you at peace? Could you say that your life is characterized with peace? God wants you to have peace. He is called the God of peace. The gospel we preach and believe is called the gospel of peace. Our Lord told us the night before he was crucified, peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give it to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. So this morning, as we look into the fruit of the Spirit, we're going to be examining the fruit or the aspect of the fruit of the Spirit that is peace. We began this study several months ago, and it's been a bit of a disjointed study, and that's part of the reason why I chose this, because I could take one aspect of the fruit of the Spirit and begin to delve into that. And then if we were separated by two months before we had looked into the fruit of the Spirit, then we could look at the next aspect of the fruit of the Spirit. But just by way of recapping to catch us up to where we are at this point, what we've seen so far is that the Christian life can only be lived in a continual dependence upon the Holy Spirit. We must live day by day, depending moment by moment, upon the power that is only available through the Holy Spirit We read this morning in verse 16 of Galatians 5, he says, But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the spirit, and the desires of the spirit are against the flesh. For these are opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things that you want to do. The reality is that we are living in a battle. We are living in a battle. We are locked in a life or death struggle. Against the flesh. The Spirit, the Holy Spirit working within us, is seeking to make us walk in obedience. So that we will not gratify the desires of the flesh. And that can only be done as we depend upon the Spirit day by day. And we do so listening to his voice through the word of God, which is. the sword of the Spirit, and living in obedience, dependence to him. We were looking at this a little bit later and we saw that The Holy Spirit's desire is to reveal Christ to us, to show us who Christ is, to make us like Christ, and he does that Through the Word, He does that through Christian fellowship, and He does that through suffering. That the Holy Spirit uses suffering as a pruning tool to make us more like Christ. We also saw at the very beginning of this list is the word love. And love is the very essence of God. Twice the Bible says that God is love. We are told that That behold what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. that this love that we have received in the gospel, this love we have received in salvation, is an a love that is an out-of-this world love. It is a love that doesn't make sense by human characteristics. And we are called to grow in our knowledge of this love, to grow in relationship to this love, to then love our Father more and to love one another more as we come to understand this love. And in a very real sense, love is at the very front end of the fruit of the Spirit. You notice it doesn't say the fruits of the Spirit, but the singular fruit of the Spirit, because love is the encapsulating of all of the other aspects of the Spirit. of the fruit of the Spirit. We mentioned that joy, when we looked at joy, that it was love exalting. And today as we look at peace, we're going to see that it is love at rest. Peace is love at rest. That's why the song today really couldn't have been any better We're called to rest in Christ, in his love for us. This love resting, we might say it's one aspect of the fruit of the Spirit, but. This one aspect of the fruit of the Spirit has three different expressions of it. And I don't believe we're going to get through all three of them this morning, but there is a vertical, an internal, and then there is a horizontal expression of peace. We could say it is a peace with God, a peace of God, and then a peace with others. When we understand the peace with God and have the peace of God, it allows us to live at peace. With one another. But apart from the peace with God, there can be none of the other aspects of peace that we desire in our lives. The first thing I would like us to see this morning is that God desires you and I to have peace with Him, and that has been provided through our Lord Jesus Christ. The peace that the Holy Spirit gives us is first and foundationally. A peace with God. It is first and foundationally a peace with God. Before coming to know Christ, or if you are here this morning and you have not come to know Christ as your Savior, The reality is you are by nature and by choice an enemy of God. And so the promise of peace is made all that more amazing when we think about the fact that we are by choice and by nature, by birth. An enemy of God. The united testimony of the Bible is that all mankind, no matter how religious, no matter how righteous, is inherently A sinner by nature and a sinner by choice. Ephesians 2:1 reminds us that apart from Jesus Christ, you and I were dead in our trespasses and sins. Not sick. Dead. We were utterly dead, utterly helpless to do anything about it. We were in an utterly hopeless and lost situation. Romans 5 tells us even more about this in verse 10. It says that outside of Christ we were enemies of God. Not a little twisted, a little bad, but enemies of God And you might not like to think of yourself as an enemy of God, but if you've never repented and put your trust in God, that is what you are. That is what God says about you. It's not my word. It is what God says about you. In Isaiah 57 He tells us this, that the wicked are like the tossing sea, for it cannot be quiet, and its waters toss up mire and dirt. So he compares the wicked with a sea that is raging, that's just billowing up the dirt and the sand from underneath it. And he says, There is no peace, says my God. for the wicked. There is no peace with God. There is no peace with within, and there is no peace with others. For those who have not submitted to the Lordship of Christ. This was the point that Jesus tried to tell Nicodemus Remember in John chapter 3, probably one of my favorite interactions that we find in the Gospels is when Nicodemus the righteous, the self-righteous Pharisee. The religious leader, the religious teacher, a man who that if any one of us had as a neighbor, we'd say, he's a good guy. He came to the Lord by night and he complimented the Lord, telling him, We know that you are a teacher sent from God, because no man can do the things that you do except he be sent from God. And what did Jesus tell him? Unless you are born again, you cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus, it doesn't matter how righteous you are, how religious you are, how good you might think you are. You need to believe in me. You need to put your trust in me. As Paul said in Ephesians 2 3, apart from the grace of God, we are all under the just wrath of God because of Of our sins. the So it's in light of this reality, the enmity of God, the fact that we are enemies by birth and by choice to God, that the message of peace is so beautiful. It stands out in stark relief. And the beauty of this is that there is a sacrifice for us to make peace for us. And God is satisfied with what Christ has done on the cross of Calvary. That peace is possible because of what Christ has done on Calvary. I read recently of a Bible translator that was working in the jungles of Colombia and with the tribe that he was working with, he was having trouble coming up with a word to translate peace. Have you ever done translation from one language to another, you'll you'll realize especially in some of the more uh primitive languages, there there are sometimes concepts. that are not available in a language very easily that to bring over more esoteric concepts into another language. And the word peace was one of those words that he was, this Bible translator was struggling with And in the course of events, the chief of that village had decided that he would take a plane ride, a 20-minute plane ride, that would save him a three-day hike through the jungle. Well, the plane was delayed, and so the chief was impatient and he left and started to hike through the jungle. After he left and had gone a little ways, the plane arrived. So they sent out a runner to bring the chief back. But the the runner was delayed in finding him, and it wasn't a little bit later till he came back by that point in time the plane had gone And the chief was angry, and he came to this Bible translator and he began to let him know in his language with quick, rapid words, how angry he was. And just what Bible translators tend to do when they're trying to learn a language, they record conversations. And so he pushed play as the chief was going off on them. And was he was recording the conversation and later on he he he came and he went to review what the chief was saying because there's a lot of things in there that he didn't quite understand with the rapidity of the the words that were coming out of the chief's mouth. But he noticed a repeated phrase the chief kept saying to him, saying, You don't have one heart with me. I wonder what that means. And he kept saying this throughout the time. You don't have one heart. You don't have one heart. So he asked other people in the village, what does it mean to have one heart? And they said, oh, that means basically the idea that there's nothing between you and that person. If you have one heart, there's nothing between you and that person. He said, that's my word for peace. That is my word for peace. And that is the word that God has given us in Jesus Christ. That as you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, there becomes therefore nothing between you and God the Father He makes peace for us through Jesus Christ. The word that's translated peace in Galatians 5. 22 here is a Greek word that simply means to join. or to bind together. That's the idea of a pact or a bond, a joining together of one heart with the Father. I think of many Christians who have come to know and trust in Jesus Christ as their Savior, but because of the weaknesses of human nature have felt a lack of assurance. Of their salvation. Perhaps you can identify with this, where at times in your life you've wondered, am I truly a child of God? Am I truly a believer? Did I pray the right prayer when I came to know Christ as my Savior? Maybe you thought to yourself, did I have enough faith? Did I understand enough? Am I truly a child of God? Many well-meaning but misguided Christians have tried to comfort other Christians who are struggling with with doubts and failures of assurance and have told them, well, you probably just need to pray to receive Jesus again. And I would say that's an unfortunate, unfortunate way to respond to this. That doesn't do anything but give a temporary leaf, which kind of kicks the can down the road. And in a very short time you'll begin to wonder, did I pray the right prayer then? Did I understand enough then? Did I have enough faith then? The solution isn't to look at yourself and to be internally focused. But to be focused on Christ. The solution is to look at Christ who is the satisfaction. For of our God. He is fully satisfied in Jesus Christ The good news that Jesus Christ provides is that he is the answer to our soul's need. He fully satisfied our Father. In Colossians chapter 1, verses 19 and following, it says, For in him, in Jesus Christ, all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. And you who are once alienated and hostile in mind doing evil deeds. He is now reconciled to himself through the blood of his cross. He made peace through his cross. Jesus made peace with God Through the blood of his cross, that is, through his sacrificial death, the wrath of God was fully satisfied. The law of God was fully fulfilled in Jesus Christ. And if you have trusted in Jesus Christ, As your Savior, then God is satisfied with you. He is at one heart with you. He is at peace with you. But not only is God satisfied with what Christ has done, but also if you are in Christ, you have been justified by grace. Because God has been fully satisfied with Jesus' sacrificial death, we are justified. Romans 3, verses 24 and 25, right after the famous verse. Which says that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, he says this, and are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. whom God put forth as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness because in his divine forbearance he has passed over former sins. So we see here this justification that we have received by faith in Jesus Christ, we receive freely as a gift from the Father. Through Jesus Christ. Justification means that not only are our sins fully taken away, they are fully satisfied The wrath for those sins are fully satisfied in the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, but also the perfect righteousness of Jesus Christ is given to us. So that we stand before the Father, clothed in the righteous robes of Jesus Christ. Just two chapters later in the book of Romans, in Romans chapter 5, and verse 1. The connection between justification and peace is made explicit. He says this, therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Because now the Father, when he looks at you, he doesn't see you in your sin. He sees his Son Jesus Christ and His righteousness. And you have peace with God being justified freely as a gift by faith. So, Christian, if you're struggling with a lack of assurance, the answer is not to look at you. The answer is to look at Christ. To rest in what Christ has done for you. Rest in his love. Christ is our all-sufficient Savior. By his grace that we have received as a gift, we have been justified freely. The Father is fully satisfied in the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. And there's nothing that you and I can do. To add to that in any way, but simply to believe it, simply to receive it. If you're here this morning and you do not know this peace with God I could not urge you any more than to say this: please turn from that warfare, that rebellion. Repent and trust Christ. He died for you. He died for you. His sacrifice is sufficient. And all you are called to do is to, as Christ says, come unto me, all you who are weary and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. He's calling you to come unto him, to put your faith and trust in him, and find the peace that only he can provide. It's this vertical peace. This peace with God that then enables us to have an internal peace To have a peace that is the peace of God. But so often, if you're uh honest with yourself, even as a believer, you know there are times when you don't experience that peace. What robs us of this internal peace? Is it anxiety? Is it fear? Those are definitely contributing factors. I'm going to say there's an aspect, a very significant aspect, that is facelessness. That anxiety and fear are really expressions of facelessness. As we fail to trust a God who grants us peace. So God desires not only every believer to have peace with him, but also the peace of God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what's being spoken of here in Galatians 5. 22. This internal peace is a work of God through his Holy Spirit. It is as we walk in fellowship with the Spirit, we are reminded of the truths of Scripture, and we live in obedience to the working of the Spirit in our lives, that we can experience this. peace on a very practical day-by-day basis. This means that if you're not filled with peace this morning, It's because in some way you're exhibiting the works of the flesh. Because what do we say? What do we say already? That the spirit and the flesh are at enmity with one another. They are warring against each other. And so if you're not experiencing this aspect of the fruit of the Spirit, which is peace, that is just a revelation. It's a barometer, a spiritual barometer for your soul, that there is an aspect that you are not walking in the spirit, you are walking in the flesh. It's like a spiritual reminder. You're not right here. There's an area of repentance that is necessary. Your thinking has become fleshly and your focus has turned away from God. Anxiety in a very real sense is a preoccupation with the things of this earth, with things of lesser importance. With a false confidence that if somehow these things that are bothering me right now, if they get taken care of, if they get resolved, then everything will be fine and I'll have peace and life will be good. But that is not the case. The reminder for anxiety is to bring our cares to the Lord and to rest in Him. That is why we said that peace is love resting. We are resting in the love of the Father, which allows us then to have peace internally. When we have assured our hearts of God's love for us, then we can run to Him and leave all with Him. So our internal peace, first of all, is not The absence of trials. It's not the absence of trials. In John chapter 16, our Lord, just before he went to the cross, he said this in verse 33: I have said these things to you that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation, but take heart, I have overcome the world. So our Lord told us very explicitly that you should expect tribulation while we live in this world. If you are a child of God, that should not be unheard of. It's important to notice that the peace that Jesus promised is not an absence of problems. He said, you will have tribulation. In some sense, all people who live in this fallen planet will have tribulation, we will have trials, we will have distresses, because we live in a sin-cursed world. But there's a very real sense in which Christians are told to expect more tribulation, more trials, because we are living as foreigners and pilgrims in this world. And we are told to expect that the enemy of our souls is going to be at war with us. And so we should not be surprised when we do find that is the case. And then we do have trials of even a greater degree. Think of what the Bible tells us about trials. In Job chapter 5, Eliphaz is speaking to Job, and he says, But man is born to trouble as the sparks fly upward. That's just a basic reality of life. You fix your car one week and two weeks later, something else goes wrong You start feeling better from one sickness and another sickness comes. Man is born to trouble as the sparks fly upward. It is just a reality of life on a sin-cursed world. Peter reminded the believers in 1 Peter 5 9 that we are to resist the devil, firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of sufferings, the same kind of sufferings that they're experiencing, are being experienced by your brotherhood. Throughout the world. I read even this morning from the magazine The Voice of the Martyrs, and we're reading of believers who are facing great persecution and death in the country of Burkina Faso. Because of their testimony, Christians who are murdered, pastors who are shot in their churches, because they are believers. And he said, expect this. This is the reality of those who follow Christ. James chapter 1 says, count it all joy, my brethren, when you meet trials of various kinds. He said, this is your lot. Expect it. But recognize, count it all joy, because God has a perfect purpose in that trial. So in this world we are told to expect trials of various kinds. We live in a sin-cursed world. It is under the sway of the devil. He is called the God of this age. And although Satan has a degree of authority that he exercises in this world, all of those authority that he exercises under the ultimate authority of our God. And that is why we can be at peace. Because we are in Christ and Christ overcame the world. We are in Christ, and Christ has overcome the world. Remember that as Jesus is saying this, peace. You'll have tribulation. Be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. He sees the cross right before him. But he knew that he'd be victorious over the cross. And he proved that with his resurrection. It's this resurrection that allows us to have peace. It is the resurrection that enables us to have peace that when no one else has peace. What is the worst that this world can do to a believer? What's the worst that they tried to do to those pastors in Burkina Faso? They killed him. That's why Jesus said, do not fear those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul. As a believer, we can respond as Paul did. For me to live is Christ. To die is gain. To die is victory for the believer. So for those pastors who died , In their churches preaching the gospel. What did they do? They gave them a martyr's crown. It was victory for them. Christ defeated the grave. And we are in Christ. He has overcome the world. We can have peace resting in his love for us So our internal peace is based upon this resurrection power. It's also based upon the sovereignty of God over all things. Job understood this when he lost his children, and he lost his wealth, and he lost his health, and he lost his reputation. And his wife was bitter with the pains of this, and she urged him to curse God and die. And he said, Shall we receive good from God? And shall we not receive evil? What was he saying by that? That God is sovereign. God was sovereign over the Chaldeans who came and raided his herds. God was sovereign over the storm that destroyed the lives of his children. Children. And he trusted that God was still in control, although he didn't understand why. He never understood the why of his trial, but he never lost sight of the who of his trial. He understood that ultimately this came from the Lord. And he was able to rest in that. It's very much like what you hear the Apostle Paul saying. When he talks about the thorn in the flesh that he had, he said, He received a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to buffet him. to try him. So it came from Satan in a direct sense, but in an ultimate sense, it came from the Father And the Father allowed it into his life so that he would learn to not be proud, he learned to depend upon the Spirit, and that his strength would be made perfect in weakness. And so that Satan had a purpose, but God had an overarching purpose. And so in all of our trials, that is the reality We can have peace because we have a sovereign God who is greater than our trials. When Jesus told the disciples to be at peace, and take heart because I have overcome the world. He was saying that by his death and resurrection he had been given all power and all authority. If you were to look at Ephesians chapter 1 And verses twenty-one and twenty-two, would you just turn with me there briefly this morning? Ephesians chapter one. We're told that Jesus Christ has been exalted, it says here, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, above every name that is named, not only in this age. But also in the one to come. So he has all authority, all dominion, all power. He is exalted above all angels, above all principalities, not only now, but for eternity. And then he says this, and he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church. Is that not beautiful? Isn't that not encouraging? That ultimate sovereign authority that Christ has, not only in this age, but for all eternity, because He is our head and we are His body, that is at work for us. God 's sovereign or Christ's sovereign authority over all things in this life and the life to come is to the benefit of the church, which is his body. And so we receive the benefit because we are united with the sovereign ruler of creation. And that's the beautiful truth that's coming out in Romans chapter 8. When Paul says, and we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good for those who are called according to his purpose. And then just a few verses later, he says, or he asks this question: Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulations or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword or bankruptcy or cancer or car accident or unemployment or broken relationships Who's going to be able to separate us from the love of God? A couple of those I added on there, if you didn't notice And then Paul reminds us, for your sakes, we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. And he says, what is he saying? He's saying, we should not be surprised. He's quoting Psalm 44, 22. Trials are to be expected in the life of a believer. And then he says, but in all these things we are more than conquerors. Through him who loved us. We not only conquer because Jesus has conquered sin and death, but also we are more than conquerors. Because as you respond to these trials and persecutions and bankruptcy and health issues By faith, believing in a sovereign God who is good, and you rest in his love, in his wisdom, and you experience the peace of God at that time, you are gaining treasure in heaven. And in a real sense, it's like you're gaining stepping stones to greater glory. And so we conquer, and we are more than conquerors, through him who loved us We conquer and are more than conquerors in Jesus Christ. So how do we yield to the Spirit and gain this internal peace? I want us to look at a passage of Scripture this morning in just a couple minutes in Philippians chapter 4 and to gain a bit of a prescription for this internal piece. In Philippians chapter 4, verses 5 through 7. This passage of scripture is actually given in the context of interrelational conflict. with the members of a church who are having some difficulty together. And so the internal peace that comes as a result of having peace with God. Enables them to walk in peace one with another. But he says here, beginning in verse 5, let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything. But in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God, and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. So what does he say here is the prescription for peace. There's four elements here. First of all, it comes to reminding yourself of the fact that the Lord is at hand. That phrase can mean either that the Lord is coming soon, or it could refer to the fact that the Lord is present. And I think that's probably the idea that the apostle is saying here: the Lord is present. Be not anxious. Be not disturbed at mind and in heart because the Lord is present with you in this situation. So what Jesus reassured the anxious disciples as he was preparing to ascend up into heaven. When he said, All power has been given unto me in heaven and earth. Then at the very end he says, Behold, I am with you always, even unto the end of the age. I am with you. Wherever you go, in whatever you experience, I am with you. And that reality that the Lord is at hand in your trial, in your difficulty, in your distress. Is a great comfort. God is not absent from you. Many times in our trials, we become so preoccupied with our trial we fail to see and understand that God is walking with us in that trial. And God is using that trial in our lives. So one of the first things we need to do is to come and say, God, I know you are here in this trial. And I thank you that you are with me. Secondly, this inner peace comes through running to God in prayer. You notice that we are commanded here not to be anxious. It's a command. Be not anxious. Anxiousness. Is a sin. Worry is a sin because it practically denies the presence and the power of God. It's when we feel anxious that we must recognize that it is sin and we run to God in prayer. There's three words that are used for prayer in this passage of Scripture. Prayer, supplications, and requests. And everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. And they're pretty much Synonyms. They can be used very much interchangeably in the New Testament. If there's any distinction, it may be that the first word for prayer has the idea more of worship. The idea of coming before God and worshiping Him. If there is any distinction with these words, that would be it. And I believe that's important for us. The Christian's response to anxiety is first to repent of that anxiety. And then to come worship God. To come worship the sovereign God of all creation. And then it is to lay our request and burdens before the Lord. One of the things that we can do is in times of anxiety is to come and open up the Psalms. And read of who our God is and worship God. Remember his faithfulness to past saints and find peace in who he is in worshiping him. But then is also bringing your request to him because he is a God who answers our prayers. Jerry Bridges asked this question. So why do we worry? And he answered, because we do not believe, we are not convinced that the same Jesus, who can keep a sparrow in the air, knows where our lost luggage is. Or how we are going to pay for the car repair bill, or how we're going to get to that destination on time. The wonderful truth is that God invites us to bring all of our cares and our needs to Him in prayer. Nothing is too big. Nothing is too small. He says, in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. So the first thing is to recognize that he is with us. Secondly, it is to come to the Lord in worshipful prayer. Thirdly, this inner peace comes through thanksgiving. When we are filled with anxiety, when we are filled with disturbance in our soul, probably the last thing that comes to mind is thanksgiving. But it is what we need to be doing. We need to be very purposefully giving thanks to God for his kindness and his graciousness to us. What an encouragement to be able to recount God's goodness, to what He has done for us in the past, answers to prayer that you have received in the past, the forgiveness of sins, the justification that you have received. But also you can give thanks in the trial for the trial. You can give thanks to God in the trial for the trial. Because what did Paul say? In all these things we are more than conquerors. In all these things. In famine, in persecution, in distresses. In bankruptcy. In all these things, we are more than conquerors. So then I can give thanks to God for the trial. He works all things together for good to them that love God. So, Lord, I believe you and I give thanks to you for this trial. God is working his good will for us through them. I was reading again, I mentioned I was reading the Voice of the Martyrs, and there it had an article about Pastor Pierre Lassane in Burkina Faso, and he was describing the persecution that they've received and how they've had to flee to a refugee camp. And not only Christians are fleeing to refugee camps, but even Muslims, because the Muslim terrorists are actually extracting a great deal of torture upon their their fellow Muslims. But he said, what has it done? It's made them open to the gospel. Muslims who normally said wouldn't even talk to me now come and they hear the gospel and they're being saved. And he said, we can give thanks to God in the trials because he's opened the gospel to people who would normally never hear. We can give thanks to God in our trials because in these trials God is glorified as we respond in faith and obedience to Him. And the last aspect here that I want us to see. Is that this inner peace comes whether the trial is removed or not? It comes whether the trial goes away or stays. Because what does he say? Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God, and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ. Christ Jesus. He didn't say, and the trial will go away and you'll be just fine and you can have peace. He never said anything about the trial going away. But he did say there's a peace that passes understanding. The implication is very clear. The trial continues. But instead of anxiety and fear, there's a peace that comes. A peace that passes understanding because it doesn't make sense. It is from God. It is love resting in who God is, resting in what He has promised Resting in the victory he has provided, the peace that he has provided, and now I can trust him in the trial, and I can give thanks to him in the trial. One reason why this peace is often absent from Christians who have come to the Lord in prayer is because they're not looking for God's will to be done, but instead for deliverance from the trial. When we come to the Lord in prayer, we need to say, Lord, your will be done. And I will thank you, and I'll rejoice in you, regardless if this trial goes or comes or stays. I will rest in your love. There is a lot more that we could say about peace, and our time is up this morning. But God desires every believer to know this inner peace. And it is as we walk in communion with His Holy Spirit, Yielding to his word, what it says. A lot of things I've said this morning are very counter-cultural. Somewhat counterintuitive. But as we yield to the Spirit and allow his word to change us, it is then that we find this peace. If you're here this morning and you do not know Christ as your Savior, the first step to finding this inner peace is Is a peace with God. Peace with God that you cannot do on your own. You simply must come and yield to Him. Receive the gift that He has provided in Jesus Christ. He's calling you today to come and receive peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Lord, I thank you for the fact that you are the God of peace. And the gospel we proclaim is the gospel of peace. Lord, I pray for those in our midst that do not know this peace. Would today be the day that they begin for the first time to experience the peace with God and the peace of God? I pray for believers who may be anxious over a variety of concerns in their lives. Would you help them today to learn to rest in your sovereign love? To yield to the Spirit's direction and to experience the peace which passes understanding. Father, we thank you for your word. We pray you'd use it in our lives this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen.