If you have your Bibles, you can turn with me once more to Galatians 5. If you're visiting with us, we are going through a study of the fruit of the Spirit. Galatians 5. 22 says, But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith. meekness, temperance. This morning we come to the first one listed in verse 23, which is meekness. Several years ago, Rand Hummel of the Wilds came and preached for us. I remember him telling a story that he observed on one occasion. He was in line to purchase something at a store and uh it was one of these situations where there was not a well-defined line and there were like two lines merging into one. And there was a mother and her teenage daughter there. And he thought he heard the mom say to her daughter, be a servant. And that is because uh the daughter let someone else go ahead of her. And after he got out of line, he went up to the mother and daughter and I said, that was uh great. I heard what you said to your daughter. You said be a servant. And the mom said, no, no, I didn't say be a servant. I said be assertive. And she didn't listen to me I wonder what you think of that story. Who was right, the mom or the preacher? This morning we come to An attribute, a quality, a virtue known as meekness. And we're told that this is a byproduct of the Holy Spirit's control of our life. I've been saying to you several times as we've gone through this study that this is very important for us to understand these virtues. Because it's very, very important for us to understand how the Bible defines spiritual maturity. You know, if you have the wrong goal, the wrong targets. then you're going to be way off from where you should be. And the Bible describes for us here, as it does in other passages , That true spiritual maturity is something that involves a transformation of the inner man so that we become more and more like the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not something that is just a matter of changing our appearance, although that may indeed might be a byproduct of it. But it's something that's essentially internal. And it's a lot more difficult than just attending church, which is very important, by the way. or changing your outward appearance, those things you can do without the Spirit's help. But you cannot change your hearts. unless you yield to the Spirit of God. Now what exactly did Paul mean by meekness here? Let me start off with what it doesn't mean. It doesn't refer to timidity or lack of courage. The Bible extols this importance of being courageous and standing for the truth. It's important that we understand that meekness here is not a personality trait. It's true that some people are more quiet and more reserved and easygoing, but this is not referring to a personality type. And meekness does not denote someone who lacks confidence, someone who is easily intimidated. Meekness is not weakness. This particular Greek word was used by the ancient peoples to describe an animal that was tame or horse that was broken or dog that was domesticated. It describes power under control and it's presented in Scripture as a facet of humility It's closely related to this term gentleness. In fact, if we were to take our time and look at the 16 various references in the New Testament where a form of this word is used, we would find that often in context there's also the word gentleness. It's a near synonym of this. In fact, some of you may have that in your translation today. And of course, earlier in our study, we talked about gentleness and the fruit of the Spirit. So let me give you a couple descriptions of this virtue. One modern writer says that it's a disposition that is even-tempered, tranquil, unpretentious, and has its passions under control. I think my favorite definition is by Derek Prime, who described it as an inward attitude that enables us to be submissive. to God's will irrespective of difficulty and to treat others with gentleness, humility, courtesy, and care. That's what Paul's talking about here. Now, meekness has never been popular in the world, and it's certainly not in vogue today. There are many reasons for this. For one, our flesh recoils from the concept of meekness. We much prefer telling people off. We much prefer going to battle and having that competitive spirit. And this is something that is kind of ingrained in our American psyche. Fighting for our rights, standing up for our own. We much prefer being self-driven than being spirit controlled. The world dismisses, of course, this matter of meekness as nonsense. The world says that nice guys finish last, that you must step on others as you climb up the ladder of success. If you don't stand up for yourself, no one else will. Meekness is absolutely counter-cultural. A Bible scholar of over a century ago wrote in his book that very, very few Christians ever pray that God would make them meek. And he said, Of all the virtues that are found here in the fruit of the Spirit, this is the one. that is least prayed for. But that should not be, because this is an evidence of our spiritual maturity. It's an evidence that we are becoming like Christ. Remember in Matthew 11, 29, and that great invitation that Jesus gave, where he said, Come unto me all you that are weak and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. He said, For I am meek and lowly of heart. This was our Lord's own self-designation. And in 1 Peter chapter 3 and verse 4, we read that a wife that has a meek and quiet spirit is of the sight of God of great price. And I would submit to you that all believers, men and women, boys and girls, should seek to cultivate this rare fruit. And I want us to find four reasons that are found throughout the scriptures where this term is used. Every believer, every believer should seek to cultivate this fruit of meekness. I want us to turn now to the Old Testament, to the book of Numbers. Numbers chapter 12. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers. The book of Numbers tells us a great deal about the life of Moses, and we are going to Dip into Numbers 12 and a very incident, very interesting incident in the life of Moses. I'll begin reading at verse 1 of Numbers 12. And Miriam and Aaron spake against Moses because of the Ethiopian woman whom he had married, for he had married an Ethiopian woman. And they said, Hath the Lord indeed spoken only by Moses? Hath not he spoken also by us? And the Lord heard it Now the man Moses was very meek above all men which were upon the face of the earth. And the Lord spake suddenly unto Moses and unto Aaron and unto Miriam, Come ye out, ye three, unto the tabernacle of the congregation. And they three came out. And the Lord came down in the pillar of the cloud and stood in the door of the tabernacle and called Aaron and Miriam, and they came, and they both came forth. And he said, Hear now my words, is if there be a prophet among you, I the Lord will make myself known unto him in a vision, and will speak unto him in a dream. My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all my house. With him will I speak mouth to mouth, even apparently not in dark speeches, and the similitude of the Lord shall he behold. Wherefore then were ye not afraid to speak against my servant Moses? And the angle of the anger of the Lord was kindled against them, and he departed. Now what I want to focus in on, of course is verse 3. And I want to start out by making this note that obviously it's not describing a person who is weak or a person who has a very laid-back personality because Moses did have a temple. Remember he once killed an Egyptian who was beating a Hebrew slave. And you may recall that by the grace of God, Moses stood up and defied the most powerful man on the face of the earth, Pharaoh. Who was the head of the most powerful empire in that day? And he stood up and he defied it and he said, Let my people go. Here we read of Moses ' brother and sister, Miriam and Aaron, disapproving of his marriage to an Ethiopian woman. I don't have time to go into all the details about this and all the questions that you might have because I only want to focus on this one point. They said to him, Do you think that God only speaks to you? Now I want you to notice that verse 3 is a parenthetical. It has parentheses around it, and it's answering a question. The question it's answering for the reader is this. Why didn't Moses defend himself? Why didn't he, this great leader, why didn't he blast them and let them have it? and say, who do you think you're talking to? The answer is found in verse 3. Now the man Moses was very meek above all the men which were upon the face of the earth. The answer is because Moses was a very meek man. Now let me stop and say that there is a time to defend yourself Obviously, if you're being physically beaten, there's a time to defend yourself or to leave the premises. And we know that there's a time to defend yourself even when people verbally attack you because The Apostle Paul did that when people, uh, Christians were trying to discredit his credentials and say he really wasn't an apostle, and what he's saying wasn't true. And in books like 2 Corinthians, the Apostle Paul stands up and defends himself because the gospel was at stake. There's a time to defend yourself, but honestly, most of the time When we are very strong in our defense, it's because we are proud. And we want to destroy those who would attack us. But the fact of the matter is that meek people are able to not attack others, but to let the Lord defend them This is something that we see that is indeed a characteristic of meekness, something that is very unnatural to us. Sometimes people become easily offended even when they are not attacked, but they perceive an attack. They perceive injustices. They read into comments and statements and actions. And this is often because they have not grown in humility and they are too self-focused There are people that perhaps you know that are always bent out of shape about something They are always upset that someone has wronged them, someone has snubbed them, someone has said something to them, and they're always brooding over some offense. If you're like that this morning, I want you to know that one very likely explanation is because you have not cultivated this fruit of meekness. You will not be easily offended and you will not be quick to lash out at others. When the Holy Spirit controls your heart and mind then you're able to endure justices both real and unreal. How is it, you might say, that Moses could not did not defend himself? It's so unnatural. The answer is because he left the matter with the Lord. In this passage, you'll notice the Lord comes to his defense. I often wonder how Aaron And Miriam felt, I think they were very, very afraid at this point when the Lord appears and calls them out. What a fearful experience that must have been. As we grow in grace We will learn to leave matters with the Lord. Don't you admire someone Who is powerful and who is the leader, and they are attacked by those And yet they do not repay in kind, you admire that kind of person who is able to endure criticism. able to endure unfair attacks and not become bitter and angry and resentful towards them. This is part of what it means to grow in grace. This is what the meekest man who ever lived did when he was wronged. And I'm not speaking of Moses. I'm speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ. You don't need to turn there, but let me read for you from 1 Peter. chapter one it says this of our Lord first Peter chapter one Actually it's chapter 2. And it written down wrong. It says, for even hereunto were you called, because Christ also suffered for us. leaving us an example that you should follow his steps who did not sin, neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered he threatened not but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. Jesus left the matter with the Lord. A person who is meek is able to endure the attacks of others without seeking revenge. And secondly, a person who is meek is enabled to be corrected by the ministry of the word. And now we're going to turn to the passage that we read together this morning, the book of James. Would you turn with me to James chapter 1, please? James chapter one. And our focus, of course, is going to be verse twenty-one. Well that's where I want to begin reading anyway. It says, wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness and receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. Receive with meekness the word of God In context here, James is contrasting the type of reception of the word of meekness with that which he has preceded in verses 19 and following. Look at verse 19. Wherefore, my beloved brother, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath, for the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. The picture here is of a person who is angered by the preaching of the word. The book of James is one of the earliest books written in your New Testament. Most early Christians did not have a copy of the scriptures like you possess. When they heard the word of God, it was when they gathered together and it was read to them and someone preached from the word. And so that's the context here. Now, why would a person get angry when the word of God is preached? There could be several reasons. It could be because the preacher is mishandling the word of God. I used to know a very quotable preacher who would say there are only two things that get him really upset, and that was good preaching and bad preaching. You can think about that for a while. Sometimes preachers do mishandle the word. Sometimes they use the pulpit to further their own agenda. But in context here, the reason that people were getting angry at the preaching of the word is because their sin had been exposed. Notice what it says in verse 21. Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness. It's saying that the human heart is naturally filled with an abundance of wickedness. But the word of God, like a sword, lays it open and exposes the sin of our hearts. Most people think, you know, they've got a little little problem. They've got a few issues here and there that maybe they need to resolve, but but overall they're a really, really good person. and and everyone likes them and they really don't have much of a sin problem. But the fact of the matter is that when the word of God really comes to bear on your life, it will expose that there is an abundance of wickedness that is yet within you. In fact, this is kind of an interesting thing. You know, the closer you, the further you go in your Christian walk, the more you are aware of your sinfulness. It's kind of the reverse of what you might think. If you think here that you're doing very, very well and you have very little sin and you can't remember the last time you asked the Lord to forgive you for something, that's not because you're spiritual. It's because you have a whole bunch of problems that you are unaware of or you are ignoring intentionally The word of God and the preaching of the word is designed and intended to expose our sin. The question is, what will your response be? Will it be one? of anger and wrath and resistance? Or will it be one of repentance? You see, a proud person will become angry But a meek person will receive the correction of the word of God. We use a term that we often use today, and that is this term of teachable. A meek person is teachable. A person can take an open Bible and show them why their behavior or their thoughts or their speech is wrong. And they will receive it. This is such an important component in our spiritual growth. If you are not teachable, you will never progress in your Christian life. Because spiritual growth only takes place in the soil of humility and meekness. It will not grow in that hard soil of pride. You've heard me say before that I make people angry every Sunday morning. I do. I'm not exaggerating when I say that. And so often, and I know it's stereotypical, but so often people will say, I feel like you were preaching right at me. I'm not preaching at you intentionally. I don't know most of your circumstances Someone hasn't texted me this morning and say, make sure that you hit on this, please. My husband really needs some work in this area. All right? I don't get those texts, and if I did, I would ignore them. But we must be meek and receive the word of God. There are some people here under the sound of my voice that are very teachable. You have heard strong words of correction from me. And you have responded in repentance. There are people here who have come so far in your Christian walk. Because every step of the way, when you encounter God's truth and your sin, you say, you know, the word of God is right and I am wrong. and I need to change, I need to repent. This is a stronghold in my life and I need to root it out of my heart. And you you've come so far. But there are also people here that have never received correction And that every time the word of God has been preached and it's touched on some area in your life, you've simply resisted it and strengthened your opposition and you have not grown at all. You may be in church, you may carry a Bible, you may know Christian language to use, but you haven't progressed because you don't have a meek heart. That's like soft soil that receives the Word of God. Oliver Cromwell, the great Puritan leader of England, said only those with and inflated self-opinion think that they have nothing to learn from others. The fact is that you will never grow in the Lord as you ought unless you Let the word of God cut you and pierce you because it's only then that you can be healed and become more like Christ. There's a third reason that we should want to be meek, and that is that the fruit of meekness enables us to gently minister to others who have fallen into sin. Turn with me. to the book of Galatians where we started out. I want you to notice something here. In verse 23 of Galatians 5 which we read earlier, we read of this quality of meekness. And just a few verses later, in chapter 6 in verse 1, we encounter the same exact word again. Brethren If a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness. Considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Some of you might like the idea of opening up a Bible and correcting others. If that is appealing to you, you're not qualified to do it This is delicate work. This just should be something that no one is eager to do Now the term here in chapter 6 and verse 1, where it says, restore such a one, was a word that was used for the setting of a bone. That is delicate work. It must be done firmly but delicately. Often when a doctor has to set a bone, that person is in great pain and suffering, and they wince with every single time they touch that broken bone. And so when we confront a brother or sister who has gotten into sin We have to be very gentle, very delicate with them, because they are in pain. We must never come to them and minister to them with a condescending attitude. We must never think, I would never do anything like this. I would never fall like this. I'm so much more advanced than this person is. I can't believe they got into this sin. We must never think that way. We must think, but for the grace of God, there go I. This could be me. And I did not necessarily face the same temptation that they did. I was not in the same station of life that they are in. How do I know that if I were in their shoes, I might fall the same way? That's the kind of meek spirit that we must have when we try to help those who have fallen into sin. I want you to turn with me now to the book of 2 Timothy, which has a very similar context here. 2 Timothy chapter 2. Paul writing to young Timothy, who was probably the pastor there, the church at Ephesus. This is one of the pastoral epistles. It says in 2 Timothy 2 verse 24, and the servant of the Lord must not strive. He must not be harsh and aggressive and a bully, but he must be gentle unto all men. apt to teach, patient, look at verse 25, in meekness, instructing those that oppose themselves. If God peradventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, and that they may be recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who are taken captive by him at his When we deal with someone who has gone astray, we must be patient and gentle and meek. How can we have that right approach to people? We have to see them as they really are. So often we see someone who's in sin. And maybe we see the uh harm that they're doing to others and the evil influences having on their children, and we become angry, we come at them with a spirit of anger. We might think of it as righteous indignation. How dare they sin this way? How dare they harm and be a bad influence to these other individuals? And indeed They must be confronted with their sin. But we must also recognize that not only are they the agents of sin, but they are the victims of sin as well. That's what this passage brings out. Talks about those who oppose themselves. So often when people get engaged in sin, the person who suffers the most is themselves. It describes them in verse 26 that they may recover themselves. And the idea here is that they have become addicted and intoxicated by some sin. So it's not going to be easy to draw them out of that because they're under its control. It goes on to describe them as being in bondage to the wicked one. They are like a slave, a captive of this sin. And so we must view people with this kind of compassion and pity. Look at the way they are enslaved in this sin. The way they are bound by it, the way it's controlling them, and the way it's destroying them. And when we see people that way, the way the Lord Jesus Christ saw people. Then we will respond to them with compassion and with gentleness. Christ was gentle with the broken He was patient with doubters. He was comforting to the fearful. He was merciful to the sinful. And the more we take on the Spirit of Christ, the more we will be gentle with those who have fallen into sin. And finally, this morning, I want us to note that the fruit of meekness enables a person to live in harmony with difficult people. And there are many passages of Scripture in the New Testament that point to this. I want to begin in Ephesians chapter 4. Ephesians chapter 4. Begin reading at verse one. Paul writes, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you That you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called with all lowliness, with meekness. There's our word. with long-suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. And what we see here at the outset of this new section in Ephesians is that the harmony and unity of the church is a key part of living up to God's high calling for our lives. The church is not like a theater or an arena where people who are complete strangers come and sit next to one another. and then they leave and they have no idea the person that was next to them or anything about them. They're just there to watch the show. That's not what a church is. The Bible pictures the church as a family, where there are close bonds that are formed as we worship and serve the Lord together. But that is a challenge because we're different. We have different backgrounds and different personalities and different views on things. Yes, we are united in Christ and the things that matter most. But it's so easy for us to allow those differences to create isolation and distance from one another. But part of living up to Christ and the gospel and his calling in our lives is that we would be united. But how does that take place? Verse 2 answers. with lowliness and meekness with long suffering, forbearing one another in love. It begins with humility. C. S. Lewis said, the first step in developing humility is to recognize that you are very proud. Do you think that's true? You think you're a proud person? Perhaps you don't But you are. It's your pride that keeps you from admitting that you're proud The more I, the longer I live, the more I realize what a huge problem this is In my own life and in the lives of people that I seek to help. You ever replay the conversation that you had with someone in a situation, and as you replay it, You're embarrassed about how much you refer to yourself and how or how you said things to kind of make yourself look better than you are. Maybe you kind of shaved the truth and molded the truth a little bit so that people would think higher of you. That's all pride. You ever evaluated your own thought patterns and recognized how egocentric you are? How everything revolves around you, how that when there's something wrong with you, there's something wrong with everything in the universe And you're oblivious to everyone else around you that you're just living in this little bubble of self If you really, really start to break things down and analyze the way you think, the way you talk, the way you interact with people, why you do what you do, you will come to the very disturbing reality. That we are all very proud people naturally, even though you may have very little over which you should be proud about. We desperately need the Spirit of God to make us humble and meek As I said to you before, humility does not mean that you go around thinking low thoughts of yourself and thinking that I'm a nobody, I can't do anything right. No, that person who thinks that way is actually very proud. The reason they're so upset with that and obsessed with that is because they don't want to be that way. No, a humble person simply sees themselves in reality as they really are in relation to God. And they recognize that anything good they're able to do is because of the Lord, not because they are superior And the more you grow in grace, and the more you will be disturbed by the depth of your pride, and the more you will desperately go to the Lord to help you with this. And this shows up in our relationships with others. If we are humble and meek and long-suffering, which is of course the fourth fruit of the Spirit, and we are forbearing, which I said to you before, simply means to put up with. In love, then we will be able to live at harmony with others. This is the only way. We often think, well, that person who is so annoying to me, they need to be straightened out. They need to fly straight and do what's right, and then I wouldn't have that annoyance in my life. And they may be thinking the same thing about you. We need this quality of meekness in order to have harmony. We see the same thing over in the twin of Ephesians, which is the book of Colossians. Would you turn with me there just a few books further back? Colossians chapter 3, verses 12 and following We see here that this is one of those garments of grace that we are to put on, another analogy for spiritual maturity. Paul writes in Colossians 3. 12, put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved, vows of mercies. kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering, forbearing one another, and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye And above all these things, put on charity or love, which is the bond of perfectness, and let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful. You see, meekness is right in there with those other attributes. This is the only way the body can be one when we are meek, when we have died to self. Harmony will never exist in the body of Christ without humility. It's like an oil that reduces the friction as we interact with one another. I want us now to turn to one more passage, and that is the book of James. James chapter 3. James is going to speak of meekness again. This is a wonderful passage of Scripture worthy of Much time and consideration, but we will look at it very quickly. James 3, I want to begin reading at verse 13. Who was a wise man? And endued with knowledge among you, let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not and lie not against the truth. This wisdom descendeth not from above But as earthly sensual devilish. For where ending and strife is, there is confusion in every evil work But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace. We have this arresting phrase in verse 13 with meekness of wisdom. The idea here is that meekness is a byproduct of wisdom, true wisdom, God's wisdom. Knowledge often inflates a person with pride, but true wisdom produces humility. A truly wise man is not arrogant and bombastic, but they are humble and meek. What happens if a person does not possess this meekness of wisdom? That's what we see in the verses that follow, in verses 14 and through 16 , that we see here bitter bitterness and envying and strife. That's what your life will be characterized by. And verse 15, it goes on to describe this wisdom, this worldly wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly sensual. devilish. You see, if there is strife, contention, disorder, if your life is filled with fractured relationships. That's not the fruit of the Spirit. That's the work of the flesh. And then in verses 17 and 18 we have this beautiful picture, but the wisdom that is from above, that is from the Lord. is pure and peaceable, gentle, easy to be and treated. That is a person who is responsive to correction They're very reasonable, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. And this is the fruit, verse 18, of righteousness, and it produces peace. You might think you're spiritually mature because you've memorized dozens of verses and come to church all the time. But if there's no peace in your life, if at work and at home and everywhere you go you're engaged in conflict with other people, my friend, you have not gone far in your Christian walk. You 're still being controlled by the flesh and not the spirit. It is the meek who live in peace. As Jesus said, it's the meek who will inherit the earth. Meekness is essential to our spiritual growth, for unless we receive the Word of God with humility, we will never be corrected. Meekness is essential for effectively ministering to people who are entrapped by sin. Meekness is the only way that we can live at peace with others. Meekness is indeed a precious commodity. In the summer of 1986, two ships collided in the Black Sea off the coast of Russia. Hundreds of passengers died as they were thrown into the icy waters. There was a big investigation. Some suspected it was because of the fog, because it was a foggy night. But after the investigation was over, they concluded that it was not fog that caused it. It was human stubbornness. These two sea captains saw each other miles away. But they refused to alter their course. They stood out for what they believed were their rights. They were not going to be pushed around. And they collided, and hundreds of people died. When we stand up for ourselves, when we exert our flesh, when we aggressively say, I will be first. Others will suffer around us, including ourselves. May God help us to be a people who bring forth the fruit of meekness. and reflect our Lord Jesus Christ. Let's close in prayer Our Father in heaven, we thank you that you are a patient God. You're patient with us even as we fail you so often. And though we are so frail and finite, yet we, like little children are proud and arrogant and stubbornly insist on our own way. And pray that you would use the word today to Expose the pride of our hearts. And give us a thirst, a desire for meekness and humility. and to rely more on the Spirit of God. Father, I think of those who might be here this morning that are yet in the cap and captive to sin and Satan because they are lost They have never been born again. Their heart has never been set free from the bondage of iniquity. I pray that today they would see that they cannot begin to bring forth the fruit of the Spirit. They cannot begin to really change until they have come to the Master and confess their sin and put their trust and faith in Him alone as their only hope of redemption. I pray that you would use even something that has been said today To cause someone to seek you, that they would think over these truths, that they would evaluate their own lives and heart. And that they would come to trust in Jesus and to be born again. Father, thank you for this time we've been able to spend together. I pray that it would be helpful and useful. To us in our Christian journey. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen