If you would take your Bibles with me and turn to Galatians chapter five, as we read this morning in our scripture reading, we're going to be looking at the fruit of the Spirit But we'll be looking at just one aspect, one flavor, you might say, of the fruit of the spirit, which is joy. And I apologize in advance, I have a stuffy nose So you'll just have to forgive me as I have a a little bit of a frog in my throat and a little bit of a head cold, but I feel well, so I appreciate uh your understanding with that. It 's interesting as we come into Christ uh we're going through Christmas, the season of joy. There's a lot of uh misunderstandings about joy. I've heard a commercial several times this this Christmas season about Chick-fil-A chicken nuggets. And the the speaker on the commercial says he loves them because they bring him joy. I thought, eh, I don't really think that's what what Galatians five is talking about. Chick-fil-A, chicken nuggets. But Christmas is described as the season of joy. We see the word joy all over the place. We sang, Joy to the world, the Lord is come. Yet when you talk to people, There is this sense of anticipation, excitement, but many people describe experiencing post-holiday blues. In fact, This week, between Christmas and New Year's, is considered by many people to be the peak of seasonal depression. Others say it peaks on January 2nd, right after New Year's Eve. The holiday is over, the celebrations are done, and it's back to the old grind, back to work, back to routines. And there there's is it it's uh exacerbated by a number of things. It is it could be things about sadness over family and friends leaving, a good thing, anticipation of their coming, but now that they're gone, there's that sadness It could also be the fact that family and friends may not have shown up. And there's been a sadness over that leading to pensive thoughts about The brevity of life, the emptiness of life, the vanity of it. Could be frustration over painful encounters with family over the holidays. Probably many of us could testify to painful, difficult encounters that happened. Or weight gain due to too many cookies and too much good food around the house leads to Sad, depressing thoughts, or overspending, because we bought all these great Christmas presents and we went on these trips and now the bills are coming due. Other people have unrealistic expectations and hopes that this Christmas I would get the ring or this Christmas this would happen and it didn't happen. And as a result, sadness and depression sets in. There's even what's known as sad, seasonal affective disorder, due to the lack of direct sunlight on these shorter days of the year, and which really peaks at this time of the year. So it seems very appropriate that as we're looking at the scriptures this morning, we're looking at Galatians chapter 5, we are going to be examining this One aspect of the fruit of the Spirit, this flavor of joy. Well, we've been called to be a joyful people, and the Holy Spirit is working in the lives of believers to produce joy. Now This study on the fruit of the Spirit has been hit and miss. And I kind of chose this topic of the fruit of the Spirit because each of these lessons can stand alone. Because there's large gaps between when I have opportunity to preach on a Sunday morning and and when I'm not. So I just want to give a quick review though of the things we've learned in the lessons leading up to this point. Lesson one, we saw that the Christian life can only be lived in a continual dependence upon the Holy Spirit. The flesh and the spirit that is alive in both in believers, they're locked in a life or death struggle. The reality is that each one of us who know Christ as our Savior Can testify to the battle that takes place within us between the flesh and the spirit. But verse 17 says that if we, or verse 16 says that if we walk by the Spirit, We will not gratify the lusts of the flesh. And so the key is to walk in the Spirit so as not to gratify the lusts and the desires of the flesh. Walking by the Spirit, then, involves a continual moment-by-moment communion with the Holy Spirit. It's listening to his voice through his word on a regular basis. It's obeying that voice and responding with agreement to his word and dependence upon him. In lesson two, we saw that the Holy Spirit desires to reveal the Lord to us. He desires to show us Christ and give us a desire to walk as he walked. And he does that again through his word. As we study the word of God, we see Christ exalted, his life, his pattern, his fellowship with the Father and the Spirit. And we are urged to follow in that same pattern. Also, Christian fellowship, when we meet together as believers, it's not merely to sing songs and to hear the Word of God preached. But before and after, we're encouraged to fellowship with one another and to build one another up and to encourage one another, to provoke one another to love and good works. to following the Word of God faithfully. And so that's why we meet together. It's one of the reasons why I love the fellowship here at Calvary, because it is not just get in, get our obligations done, and get out. But there is a genuine fellowship of encouraging each other to walk in the Lord. But the Lord also uses suffering. To conform us to the image of Christ. And suffering is not something that we necessarily desire, but it's part of God's plan, the pruning process to produce in us a likeness to Christ. Apart from suffering. Most of us, maybe all of us, would not be conformed to Christ. In lesson three We saw the first aspect of the fruit of the Spirit, and it's love. And it's not an accident that that's placed at the front of the list of the fruit of the Spirit. Because love is the very essence of God. Twice in the Bible it says that God is love. And we were told that it's an otherworldly love. He said, Behold, what manner of love is this? That God has bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. It's a incomprehensible love that we have been given. And we are called then to receive that, to think on that, to meditate upon it, to learn about it, to grow in our knowledge of it, and then to reflect that back to God. In our love to Him and obedience to Him, and then to reflect that to one another, that vertical love we've received, we respond in love to God, and then horizontally to one another with love to each other. We mentioned that all of the other virtues that are described in the fruit of the Spirit are actually an outworking of that one that starts the list of love. Joy, the second flavor on the list of the fruit of the Spirit is love exalting. Love exalting. Peace is love resting. Patience is love enduring. Kindness is love serving. Goodness is love purifying. Faithfulness is love being dependable. Gentleness is love in refinement. And self-control is love that is obeying or yielding. So love is the essence of the fruit of the Spirit. It is one fruit with many flavors inside of it. And so today, by God's grace, we're going to look at the second aspect of joy, love exalting. Now, I want us to see that joy is the right And responsibility of every Christian. If you're a believer in Jesus Christ, it is your right to be joyful. And it is your responsibility to be joyful. I want to ask this question just right at the beginning. Would you characterize yourself as a joyful person? Maybe I better ask this question. Would others characterize you as a joyful person. Or would they they say, you know, he's just a draining person. I I mentioned this in the first service. If you were here under Pastor Childs' ministry twenty some years ago, you hear him occasionally talk about VDPs. Very draining people. Are you a very draining person? Do other people find that you just like drag them down with depressing thoughts, complaining thoughts, bitter thoughts? Or are you a joyful person that others are encouraged to follow the Lord more closely when they're around you? The beautiful truth is the God we serve. Is a gloriously happy God. Do you think of God that way? Do you think of God as happy? Maybe when you think of God, you think of God as stern. God is angry. God is almighty. You might think of God is holy. Yes, he is holy. He is separate from sin. He is almighty. He is righteous. He is love, as we've seen. But God Is happy. See, well, where does the Bible say that God is happy? In 1 Timothy chapter 1, in verse 11, Paul is telling Timothy to rebuke the false teachers, to rebuke those who are disobedient, and he says to rebuke them according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust. The word blessed, when we think of the word blessed, we often think of the idea of giving glory to, or worship, or exaltation to. And that is an aspect of the word blessed, but that's a totally different Greek word. than what is found in this passage of scripture. The word that is found here is another word that simply means joyful Or happy. And so Paul is saying to rebuke them according to the glorious gospel of the joyful God or the happy God which was committed to my trust. Do you think of God that way? As happy? As joyful? That makes a big difference in how you you serve Him. In Romans chapter four, this same word that's described, blessed here, we see it, it says, Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin. So he's saying, happy is that person who is forgiven, who their sins have been wiped out by the grace of God. They are in a position of happiness. Because of God's grace. In 1 Corinthians 7, Paul is speaking to the widows, and he's urging them to continue in their widowhood, and he says this. But she is happier, the widow, if she so abide after my judgment. And I think also that I have the Spirit of God. That word happier is the same word that's translated blessed. She is happier if she remains in her unmarried state and she continues to serve the Lord with greater freedom. He says, are you a widow? Are you a widower? Praise God. It's happier for you if you use your widowhood, your unmarried state, to serve God with greater vigor, with greater freedom. And it's a blessed condition to be in. That's the same word that's just used to describe God as a happy God. He is a joyful God. God is gloriously happy. In himself. He delights in his own perfections throughout all eternity. He delighted even in himself and then within the Trinity. But he's also gloriously happy in the outworking of his sovereign plan. He has a plan for creation. He has a plan for your life and mine. He has a plan for the nations of the world. He has a plan for his church. And he's gloriously happy in the outworking of his plan. He delights in his son. Several times in the gospel, the Father audibly speaks, and he says of Jesus, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. He's delighted. He's joyful. He's happy in Christ. He delights in all of his works. And Isaiah chapter 46. Verses nine and ten, he says, I am God and there is none else. I am God and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times. So he says, I am God. And one of the ways that I prove I am God, one of the ways that you can have confidence in my Godhood is that I Tell the end from the beginning. And Isaiah is full of fulfilled prophecies. Things that God said will happen and happen in minute detail. I had the privilege of leading someone to the Lord based on a prophecy of Isaiah that he saw fulfilled and he said, Only God knows the future. But notice what he says here at the end. He says, my counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasures. When God is working out his sovereign plan for the world, there may be times when we look at it and say, the world is in rebellion against God, and it seems like everything is upside down. It's not. It's not. God is sovereignly working out his plan through the wicked, sinful desires of mankind to bring glory to himself. And he is perfectly pleased in all he does. Do you know that God sings for joy? God sings for joy. You think , where the where does the Bible talk about God singing? Well, in Zephaniah chapter 3, verse 17 It says, The Lord, or Yahweh, thy God, in the midst of thee is mighty. He will save, he will rejoice over thee with joy. He will rest in his love. He will joy over thee with singing. Do you think about that? That the God you serve, the Almighty Creator of the ends of the earth, of the heavens and the earth, He rejoices, He sings over you. When he brings you to Christ and when you follow in obedience and he works out his plan for your life, he is rejoicing and singing over you. The Lord Jesus spoke about this in his three parables in Luke chapter 15. You have the parable of the lost sheep, you know, the 99. that are fine and the one goes astray and then the lost coin, the woman who has ten coins and one is lost and she searches for it and finds it. And then the lost son, sometimes called the prodigal son. And the point of all three of those parables is one, that God delights to rescue lost, repentant sinners. It is his heartbeat. It is his passion. It is his delight. But you notice what it says there twice in those verses. He says that there is joy in heaven over one sinner who perish or repents, and then he says there's joy in the presence of the angels when one sinner repents. Who is that talking about? God. He is the focus of those parables. God is the one who is in the presence of the angels. God is the one who is in heaven who is rejoicing over a sinner who repents of his sins and places his trust in Christ. He is delighted In the salvation of a sinner. And he's delighted in your salvation and mine. In Isaiah chapter 62, verse 5, he says this: as the bridegroom rejoices over the bride. So shall your God rejoice over you. If you're married here, you know the joy that you had on your wedding day when you took to yourself A bride. And the joy that filled your heart. He says, that's the way God rejoices over a repentant sinner. Do you think of God that way? It's important. Because it will affect how you live your Christian life. Can you begin to see why a joyless Christian, a dour, gloomy Complaining, bitter Christian is a blasphemy against God. I'm a follower of the joyful God, but I have no joy Why? Do you understand why it gives a bad picture of the God we serve when we walk around with a sour countenance and a complaining lips? The God we serve is joyful, and he is good, and he is sovereign, and he is wise. Joy reflects our God. And as a result, joy is our right as Christians. We have a right to be Joyful. An unbeliever has no reason for joy. But a believer has every reason for joy. The only people that can truly, really be joyful in this world are those who know the Lord. I was reading recently a story about Asahel Middleton, who was a 19th-century evangelist who the Lord used to bring many thousands of people to Christ, and how he got saved. And it goes back to a time in the year 1800, on a Thanksgiving night, he had a large gathering of friends, a party into the evening. And the following day, he was reflecting on the fun he had with his friends. He was a young man looking forward to the year ahead and all the fun he was going to have in the year ahead, but he remembered, and just in this flash, That all of the people he had so much fun with would one day die and stand before the Lord. And then what of their fun? What of all the sinful things that they were enjoying? When they had to stand before God and give an account. Ecclesiastes chapter 11 speaks of the fact that it says, Rejoice, O young man, in your youth. He says, enjoy your youth. Enjoy the vitality of your youth. Enjoy the things that you can do as a young person. But remember, for all of those things, you will give an account for them. So enjoy and use your youthfulness. For the glory of God. And then you'll have no regret. Asahel Middleton began to ponder The meaning of life. And over the course of six months, he felt the weight of his sin down upon himself, and he repented, and he came to know Christ as his Savior. And God mightily used him. But it came with a reflection on what good is all this fun if I have to stand before God and give an account for my sins. And I can't I can't enjoy my s my my sins in hell. An unbeliever really has no reason for joy. They do not know joy. A Christian has every reason for joy. Remember, what did Jesus say when he when he came to this earth? He said in John 10, verse 10, The thief comes not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly. He says, I have come. The purpose of my coming is that I might give to those who are lost in their sins, who are destined for hell life. Not just eternal life, but life here that is abundant life. So what does abundant life mean? Abundant life is isn't an especially long life. You may have that, but that's not the promise. Abundant life doesn't necessarily mean an easy, comfortable life. You may or may not have that. The Bible says that in this world you will face tribulations. An abundant life isn't a life that is full of material wealth. You may or may not have that. But an abundant life is a life of satisfaction, a life of contentment in Christ A life of purpose that is found in knowing God, your creator , and doing his will. It's a life that has meaning. That's why Solomon in the book of Ecclesiastes, he goes through all the things that people try to find meaning in life in. He find he looks to alcohol, he looks to accomplishments, he looks to women, he looks to all these different things, to education, and in the end he says It's all vanity. Blessed is that person who realizes that all the things that the world offers are ultimately vanity apart from God. But if you can enjoy the things of this world with God , you will find true joy. It's interesting that even as Jesus was preparing to leave the world, he was on his way to the cross. He knew that what was facing him was a violent death. Was he depressing and complaining and grumbling? Oh, woe is me, I have to go to the cross. I have to die for you all. No, he talks about joy. Seven times in John 15 through 17, he talks about joy. He says in John 15, 11, These things have I spoken unto you that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. Jesus says, I have told you these things so that you might have true, lasting joy. In John 17, in his high priestly prayer, he prays to the Father, And now come I to thee, and these things I speak in the world, that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves. There is a joy that comes from following and knowing Christ. The joy of Jesus is the right of every believer. It's why it's an oxymoron to say a joyless Christian. It doesn't make sense. If you're a joyless Christian, it's like saying that there's dry water. What is that? It just doesn't make any sense. A Christian is to be joyful because our Lord is joyful, our God is joyful. Therefore, not only is it the right of every believer, it is the responsibility of every believer to be joyful. We're talking about Galatians chapter 5 here, the fruit of the Spirit. We're talking about walking by the Spirit. Our responsibility to walk by the Spirit So that we will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. There's the responsibility aspect. The Holy Spirit is doing this work, but we are responsible to walk by the Spirit. to in to allow the Holy Spirit to do this work in us. So there is this responsibility. When we are told that the fruit of the Spirit is love and joy, it's not just that we stand there and let it zap us. That we have a responsibility to walk in communion with the Holy Spirit and thereby allow him to produce this joy in us. We are commanded to rejoice. We're commanded by God to rejoice. In Philippians chapter 4, he says, rejoice in the Lord always. And again, I say, rejoice. This is a command. Twice he emphasizes this point. Rejoice. In 1 Thessalonians 5:16, we're told to rejoice always. That means that being joyful is not something you can ignore and say, well, you know, it's inconsistent with my melancholic personality. I just, that's just not who I am. I can't do that. That's not the way I get it. There are different personalities. I understand that. But you are commanded to rejoice. You are commanded to be joyful. And it is the Holy Spirit who will do that work in you as you yield to Him moment by moment. Jerry Bridges expressed it this way. He said, It is a contradiction for a Christian who professes to be a child of the one and only God, who created the universe for his glory and for the good of his people. To wear a gloomy countenance. It's a contradiction. It shouldn't be. And I want to be careful what I say here, but much of what is often called depression Is not a psychological problem. It's a theological problem. Much of what the world calls depression has nothing to do with psychology. It has everything to do with our relationship with God. F. B. Meyer said wisely, it is a duty for us to cultivate this joy. We must steadfastly arrest any tendency to murmur and complain. And I want to make note of that. Joy Is defeated, it is arrested by murmuring and complaining. So one of the things we have to do in order to maintain a joy that is of the Lord is to get rid of. Murmuring and complaining. Then he says this: to find fault with God's dealings or to seek to elicit sympathy. What is that? Self-pity? Complaining. He says this: we must as much resist the temptation to depression and melancholy as we would to any form of sin. Hmm. It's a sin To not be joyful. To not rejoice in the Lord. To not allow the greatness of what God has done to us to affect our countenance and be joyful. So what is joy? Many times people express a false dichotomy between joy and happiness. And I've done this in the past. I have said, well, joy, joy is a a deep abiding contentment, while happiness is a fleeting delight based on current circumstances. That's how I have defined it in the past. And as I studied it out for this message, I found out I was wrong. And so I'm just going to say that's not what the Bible describes. The Bible really calls them pretty much synonyms. Joy and happiness are synonyms. In Deuteronomy chapter 33, verse 29, it says, Happy art thou, O Israel, who is like unto thee, O people saved by the Lord? The nation of Israel, God has chosen you, He has saved you, you are happy. We've been grafted in. If you're a believer in Jesus Christ, you've been grafted into that salvation, to that happiness. It's the same word that's used in Psalm 1. 1 where it says, blessed or happy is the man that walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful. Happy is that person who knows the Lord and who walks in obedience to his word. It's the same reality that Jesus spoke about in the Beatitudes on his Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 5. Where it says, blessed are the poor in spirit. That word blessed could be translated happy. In fact, we lived in Tanzania for 10 years, and we spoke Swahili, that was the national language. And in Swahili, the word for the Beatitudes, those first verses of the Sermon on the Mount, is called the Hedi Nane. Hedi Nane means the eight happinesses. The eight happinesses, the person who is a citizen of the kingdom of God has this happy position and these citizen character traits. It's important that we realize that there is a counterfeit fruit of the Spirit. But when we talk about joy, We're talking about an abiding happiness that is rooted in an unchanging gift from God and is unchanging character Our God is the unchanging giver of every good gift. Satan is the counterfeit giver, but his gifts lead in death, lead to death and destruction. God is the unchanging giver of every perfect gift. So the joy that we are called to have is a happiness that is based on grace. The word in the New Testament for joy is closely related to the word for grace. It's not an accident. Because the fruit, or the root, I should say, of joy is the grace of God. That's why the more we know of God's grace, the deeper our joy will be, the deeper our happiness will be. John Sanderson pointed out that the reason why the legalists in Paul's day were filled with backbiting, and everywhere you find legalism, no matter what generation, even to this day. Everywhere you find that, you're going to find backbiting, you're going to find complaining, you're going to find the polar opposites of joy. And he says, it follows that we cannot have joy and backbiting at once. For joy comes from grace. And backbiting is a result of dependence on works. Legalism leads to, I did this and therefore I deserve. And if I don't get, then I'm going to backstab and I'm going to complain and I'm going to murmur. That is a pride that brings out those attributes. Joy comes from grace. I deserve nothing but judgment, but God has been good to me. The greater your awareness of and your dependence upon the grace of God, the greater will be your joy. It will be that way. It's called the Feast of Booths Or the Feast of Tents. In Deuteronomy chapter sixteen talks about this feast. It's a feast that took place right after the harvest. When the harvest is in, everyone's in a good mood. The feast was to live in a tent in your backyard, actually lean in a lean to in your backyard for seven days. Now, I don't know about you. That's not my idea of a good time. To live in my backyard and a lean to for seven days. I I have a lot of I have a nice bed. And I would much rather I mean I can I can I know how I'd be. I'd be sitting there in the in my in my tent going, the bed is right over there. Why am I hurting all night long? But that's what God commanded them to do. Every year, right after the harvest, when they brought in their abundance, they were to spend seven days living in lean twos in their backyard. Huh. Why? Well, it was to commemorate their time in the wilderness wandering when God graciously brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of slavery. and into the promised land and deliver them safely into the promised land. And he does that at this time when the harvest is complete, when the tendency is to be proud in what I have accomplished and what I have received. And he says, remember. It is all of grace. You were slaves in the land of Egypt. I brought you through the wilderness, and I have given you this harvest. And he says this in Deuteronomy chapter 16, verse 14, and thou shalt rejoice in thy feast, thou and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy manservant, and thy maidservant. Rejoice. In your lean to, in your backyard, remember the grace of God. What I have done. Remember when Jesus sent out his seventy disciples to preach the gospel of the kingdom and to do miracles and they went out and they accomplished amazing things and they went throughout the land of Israel. And the Bible says they returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through your name. What did Jesus say to them? I'm so glad you're joyful. That's wonderful. Ministry success is a beautiful thing. Enjoy it. No, he doesn't say that. What does he say? He says, notwithstanding, in this rejoice not that the spirits are subject unto you. He said, Don't rejoice that the demons obeyed you, and they were cast out. Rather rejoice, because your names are written in heaven. What is he pointing them to? Rejoice in the grace of God that allows you, a sinner, to have your name written in heaven eternally secure. Rejoice in your position as a Christian who has been saved. The success that those disciples were enjoying was temporary. It wouldn't be long before those same disciples would be cast out of the synagogues. Persecuted, some of them even killed for their faith. And he said, your joy has to be deeper than just success Your joy has to be deeper than just what happens to you in this world. Your joy must be rooted in where you are in Christ, the gift that you've received, the secure salvation you have in Christ. And so maybe right now you're in the midst of a severe trial today. Maybe as you look at 2024, you're going, Man, if 2024 is anything like 2023, it's gonna be a rough year. Maybe you're beginning to have some fear about the year ahead. However, if your name is written in heaven , you have a secure salvation that is not based upon what you have done, what you have accomplished, how hard you are preserving yourself But it is based upon what God has graciously given to you. And you may have great trials this year, but you can also have the joy of the Lord. Our Lord had joy as he faced the cross. I want to call you if you're here this morning. And you don't know that your name is written in heaven. You don't know for sure that you have had your sins forgiven and that you have a home in heaven. And you can't say for sure if you were to die that you would go to heaven. I want to urge you, all the things of this world, you may have a great party tonight, you may have a wonderful job, you may have physical health, you may have good money in the bank, but none of those things mean anything if you don't know that your name is written in heaven. That is the absolute bedrock to eternal joy. Because this world has ups and downs. But that is secure. In Revelation chapter 20, verse 15, it describes that fearful future day when both the dead, both small and great, are brought before their Creator. And they have to give an account of the God, the God that they serve. And it says there, and whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. So I want to ask you this morning, do you know that your name is written in the book of life? Are you confident that if you stand before God, you can say, it's not of me? It's not my good works, but my name has graciously been placed in the book of life because I have trusted in Jesus Christ. I've trusted in his death and his resurrection for me. If not, I want to urge you tonight , before 2024 even comes. To make sure that your name is written in the book of life. If you'd like to talk to someone more about that after the service, I would love to. I would love to go sit down and open the Bible and answer questions and pray with you. Help you know how you can know Christ as your Savior and that your name is written in the book of life. In the few minutes that we have left, I want to encourage us in a couple areas. If you're a believer here this morning, how can you grow in joy? We've been told it's our right. We've been told it's our responsibility. It is the characteristic of our God and of our Savior. So what do we do to cultivate joy in our lives? First, there are some weeds to be rooted out that hinder joy, and one of those is unconfessed sin. Unconfessed sin is a major enemy to the experiencing of the joy that God desires you to have When David sinned with Bathsheba and he committed adultery with her, and then he murdered her husband He experienced a prolonged period of joylessness in his walk with the Lord. In Psalm 51, when he confessed and he repented after being confronted by Nathan, this is what he said. As he repented, he said, Restore unto me the joy of what? My salvation. The joy was gone. For all those months. He had no joy. He describes physical pain that came as a result of the guilt of his sin. If you're living in unconfessed sin, you know what I'm talking about. Sin has pleasure for a season, but in the end, there's guilt. There's sorrow. There's heartache. There's death. Unconfessed sin will rob you of joy. In another one of David's Psalms of Repentance, in Psalm 32, David says, Many sorrows shall be to the wicked, but he that trusts in the Lord, mercy shall compass him about. Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, you righteous, and shout for joy, all you that are upright in heart. And what is he talking about? The sinless? No, the forgiven. Shout for joy because you have been forgiven. When you come to the end of yourself and you repent and you bow the knee and you humble yourself before God and you receive that grace, it brings Joy again that you have been forgiven. David knew the sorrows of a heart that was burdened down with guilt. But when he confessed and he repented, he experienced again that joy of salvation. If you're here as a believer and you don't know this joy, it's because there's unconfessed sin that is blocking the joy that God desires for you. Joy is available like it was for David because his sins were forgiven. It's available because his guilt was gone. The guilt that he bore upon himself for all those months was gone. And the fellowship with God was restored again. Sometimes, because of unconfessed sin, the Lord brings us through periods of chastening. Maybe you're experiencing that or you have experienced that in the past. And you know the feeling when God is dealing with you, and you're under the chastening hand of God, it's not a pleasant experience. In Hebrews chapter 12, Verse 11, it says, Now no chastening for the present seems to be joyous, but grievous. And if you've experienced that, you can say, Yeah, that's true. I've experienced the grievousness of the chastening of God. But if you have experienced that, praise the Lord. Because the Bible says that he chastens his children. It's because he loves you. Because he doesn't want to let you stay in that state of unconfessed sin. He wants you to be conformed to the image of his son. He is doing a work in you that he himself is rejoicing in, and he chastens you in love. Nine times the Bible tells us to rejoice in the Lord. In the Lord. One of the other enemies of joy is self-confidence. When we are confident I can do this, I am able to do all this, it is the enemy of joy. We said that grace and joy work hand in hand. Pride and self-confidence kills joy. Because it's not based on what you have been given graciously, but what you have accomplished. There's also some false fruit that needs to be identified. You know, not all fun is the same thing as joy. Fun does not we uh I saw a church recently that was called Adventure Church and they talked about how they want to have fun in every service. Fun, fun, fun. Like that's really not what what the uh the Bible teaches. Joy, yes, fun is a different thing than joy. Not that fun in itself is sinful. There is a sinful fun, and there is a good fun. God is the giver of every good gift. The Bible says at his right hand are pleasures forevermore. God is the creator of all the good things that we enjoy when we come together as a family and enjoy the Christmas celebration. That is, and we're enjoying the food and the feasting. That is a fun gift from God. That's not a wrong thing. But there is a fleeting pleasure in sin. And the pleasures of sin are illegitimate counterfeits to joy. They're temporary and they lead to death. Hebrews 11 speaks of these fleeting pleasures of sin, but they're short-lived. And after that, after you taste of that, very much like Eve, when she tasted the fruit, what came next? was oh no, guilt, shame, death, sorrow Sin costs you more than you want to spend. It takes you farther than you want to go, and it keeps you longer than you want to stay. My parents always taught me that when I was a youngster, and that's been really helpful to remember in my own life. So not all fun. Is good friend. Similarly, not all laughter is joyful. Not all laughter is the same. You realize that? Not all laughter is equal. There's certain types of laughter the Bible speaks of as a blessing. And laughter should be a good thing. It should be part of our lives. The Bible says that a merry heart does good like a medicine. The idea there is of laughter and joy. But the Bible also speaks of the laughter of fools in Ecclesiastes 7. The Bible also speaks about when a wise man tries to rebuke a fool, whether he gets anger or laughter, there's no profit. Because it's a laughter of mockery and rebellion. Smokey Robinson sang a song that speaks about the the vanity of laughter. He said, Now there are some sad things known to man, but ain't too much sadder than the tears of a clown when there's no one around. Some of you are nodding your head, you know that song. The tears of a clown when there's no one around. You know, maybe in your own life, you've been filled with laughter in front of people, but when you got home there's this emptiness and sorrow. What is that? That's not joy. That's a counterfeit to joy That is a satanic fake. We are called to cultivate joy. So how do we cultivate joy? Well, one, I want to say this and it's going to sound funny. Let your sorrow be full. What? Let your sorrow be full? Sorrow is one of the keys to experiencing joy What are you talking about? Think about this for a second. Godly sorrow over sin causes us to repent, which leads to grace. Which leads to what? Joy. John Sanderson stated this way. Those who feel the worst over their sin feel the happiest about their forgiveness. It's true. This is what James speaks about in James chapter 4, when he says, Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to heaviness. Humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. He says, you need to weep, you need to mourn over your sin, because then you will be lifted up when you receive the grace of God. You will then understand what true joy actually is. Even one of the verses that many people think of when we speak of joy. The joy of the Lord is your strength. What is the context for that verse It's in Nehemiah chapter 8, when they've just been read the law of God, and they have wept. They're weeping at that moment because they realize they have violated the law of God in so many ways, and they are under the judgment of God, and they weep. And they repent, and then they're told, stop weeping, rejoice, because the joy of the Lord is your strength. Where is that joy? It's in the grace of God. Because they have been forgiven. So let your sorrow be full. Sorrow over sin. Watch what the Bible says. Blessed are they who mourn. Right? Mourn over what? For the lost loved ones? No, over your sin. For they shall be comforted. Then you will know joy. Secondly, out of this, we need to not only let our sorrow be full, but we need to listen to the promises of Scripture. In Romans 15, Paul urges the Gentile believers to take heart. And to consider the promises about salvation to the Gentiles. And he says in verse 4, For whatsoever things were written before were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. And he says, the scriptures were written so that we might understand what God is doing, that we might have patience and hope and rejoice. And then in verse thirteen he says, Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in me. Believing, that you might abound in hope through the power of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit uses his word to teach us of God's great plan. And he gives us hope. leads to joy. It's impossible to have the joy of the Lord without utilizing the tool of Scripture. It's one of the tools that God has given us. Essential, vital tools. Because the Word of God is the Word of the Holy Spirit. And if we're to be walking by the Spirit, we must then be receiving what the Spirit of God tells us. and living by the Word of God. That's why we have the Bible reading schedules in the lobby. I want to encourage you. Here we are, the last day of the year. Take one of those Bible reading plans that are out there and begin a daily diet of the Word of God and allow the Holy Spirit to use his word to produce hope and joy. Thirdly, look with the eyes of faith on that which is unseen. That's what the Lord did in Hebrews chapter 12. It says, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. So when Jesus was going to the cross, knowing that terrible pain was before him, he was able to rejoice not in the pain and the suffering, but in the joy that was set before him. That as he was obeying the Father, that he was glorifying his father in obedience to his command. He was delighting his father, and he found joy in that. Not in the pain, but in the obedience and in the smile of his father. First Peter five, it's an interesting verse. First Peter one, verse five, I should say, says that we who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. wherein you greatly rejoice. So rejoice in the salvation you have, that your names are written in heaven, that you are kept by the power of God. But notice this. Though now for a season, if need be, you are in heaviness, through manifold temptations, that the trial of your face being much more precious than of gold that perishes, though it be tried with fire, might be found under praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. You're in a trial Rejoice in the Lord. You are secure in him. Your name is written in heaven, and he is working a plan in your life, and your obedience is a reason for glory. And praise to God. Rejoice even in the trial. So you look with eyes of face on that which is unseen. Lastly, cultivate the soil of gratitude. Cultivate the soil of gratitude. You will never be joyful if you're not thankful. This is an essential aspect of joy. Recognizing the gracious gifts that you've received day in and day out. The Bible says to give thanks in everything, even in your trial. Because why? Do we believe that there's a sovereign God? That is my God, he is good, and he is wise, and that all he does is right? Do we believe what the Bible says? That all things work together for good to them who love God? Well, if we do Then we ought to be thankful even in trials. We ought to be thankful for difficult things that come into our lives because God is working his good plan in my life. Cultivate the soil of gratitude. Make it a practice. If you're saying, I struggle with grumbling, I struggle with complaining, I struggle with being a little more on the depressing side of things. Maybe you need to start a thankfulness journal where every day you're writing down something to be thankful for. And you are thanking God for what He has done for you. It doesn't take much to realize you've been given many, many gifts. Again, the soil of joy is grace. And that's what gratitude is. It's a realization of the grace that you Received. And when you begin to be thankful, you'd be surprised at how your perspective on things change and how joy floods in. We are called to be joyful. We are called to be thankful. We have a God who is gloriously happy. And we serve a Savior who knows the fullness of joy and came to give us that. We are to be a joyful people. Let's pray. Father, we come before you. We stand in awe of you. Praising you, Lord That you are gloriously happy. And you have brought us into this happiness through your Son Jesus Christ. Thank you, Father. That you saw us in our wretched state, saw us in our sin and our rebellion, and you loved us with an everlasting love, and you poured out that love to us in Jesus Christ. Christ. Oh Lord, I pray for any here this morning who do not know Christ as their Savior, that do not know that grace, Lord, would today be the day of their salvation? Would you work a mighty work in their hearts? Show them that you are the God who delights to forgive, that they might know that you are rejoicing over them with singing. And Father, for those of us who are believers, may we live out these truths, walking by faith, living a joyful life in this year to come. Because our names are written in heaven. And we thank you for this in the name of Jesus, our Savior. Amen.