If you have your Bibles, please you can turn with me to the book of Galatians, Galatians chapter 5. In my first year of seminary , I worked as a dormitory counselor in one of the men's dorms on campus and I had many functions. One was sort of to be like a parent. One of my responsibilities was to help the students, the young men there who were struggling academically. As I met with them individually, I discovered that they were not necessarily unintelligent. But they didn't like to get up in the morning, they didn't like to go to classes, and they didn't like to do homework. So I was puzzled about exactly how to help them. Decided I went out and I knew of some booklets that were very good about the importance of discipline and how to structure your life and use your time effectively. These were not lengthy booklets, but I purchased them and brought them in and gave them to each of those young men. And I said, we're going to meet every week and we're going to go over a section of this and I want you to read it and and this is going to help you. What I discovered is that virtually none of those young men read the booklets. And after trying for several weeks to instill upon them the importance of discipline and so forth , I finally gave up and said, all right, just bring your booklets back. And the booklets that came back were completely mangled and virtually unusable. And the other half never made it back at all. They couldn't find it. That experience taught me in an unforgettable way that without discipline or self-control, you cannot achieve any meaningful goal. This morning we come to the last of the fruit of the Spirit. Let me remind you that the fruit of the Spirit is something that is very important for us to consider. The Lord has given us this list because it is a very condensed and unmistakable expression of spiritual maturity. So often we are tempted to measure our spiritual growth by artificial standards. by things that we do or uh superficial changes that we might make But nobody can fake the kind of changes that are in view in this text These fruits are evidences that you are spiritually alive and being transformed into the image of Jesus Christ. It says in Galatians 5. 22, but the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace. Long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. Now this morning we come to the last of these nine qualities. It's rendered in my Bible as temperance here. Language is a constantly changing medium. When this translation was completed in the 17th century, the word temperance had a very broad meaning. But in time it began to narrow to the abstinence or restricted use of alcohol. And so in the mid and late 19th century there sprung up a number of temperance societies. in the United States and England. And although this is certainly an application of this truth, we need to understand that the Greek term here is referring to a much broader set of issues than just that one item. It's interesting to note that the Greek word that's used here in Galatians 5. 23 is made up of two smaller words. The prefix on the front of this word means in or inner. And the second part of the word means might, strength, rule, or even governance. So literally this word has the idea of inner strength or inner rule. Often we describe this quality today as discipline or self-control Now it's important for us to recognize that in context here, when we speak of self-control, we're actually speaking of spirit control. This is not a call for you to exercise more willpower. This message is a call for you to yield to the Spirit's control in your life. Now it's interesting that this is called the fruit of the Spirit. That is, of course, the Holy Spirit. There are many people today who think that if you're filled with the Holy Spirit, you lose control. They claim that when the spear comes upon a person, they will laugh and cry and roll on the ground and speak an ecstatic speech. But when you look in Scripture, you see that when the Spirit of God is in control of a life, it brings more control, not less control. Now this last root of the Spirit is one that probably all of us recognize a need for in some area of our lives. You might be very disciplined in some areas of your life. And completely undisciplined in other areas of our life. I must tell you that I thought long and hard about whether or not to postpone this message until after the new year. Because who wants to talk about self-control just days before Christmas? However, I've decided this is what the Lord would have for us, and what I want us to see this morning. Is that every Christian should seek to develop the fruit of self-control. And I want to provide three reasons why we should seek to develop this. Number one Because without self-control, you will never be able to become spiritually mature. It is absolutely impossible For you to really grow into the person that God wants you to be apart from self-control, let me remind you that this is a portrait of spiritual maturity. We all know that a mark of immaturity is a person who has no control. What happens if you leave a little toddler with a bag of candy? Will they exercise restraint and eat eat one or two pieces? No, they'll eat the whole bag until they're sick. We know that little children have trouble controlling their emotions sometimes. I saw this yesterday as I was out shopping. And saw a little child, a little two-year-old, that was very unhappy because she wasn't getting her way. And she got louder and louder, and she started stomping her feet. Her foot on the ground and her lip came jutting out. I wanted to uh it took a great deal of self-control on my part not to tell the mother some helpful advice. And to say, I know exactly how to take care of this problem. But my point is that immature people Don't exercise restraint. And the fact of the matter is that this Last fruit of the Spirit, I think, is not placed here accidentally but intentionally. It's would think about it as kind of the capstone Or maybe you could think of it as a bookend. Because if you think about it, all these other qualities cannot take place unless there is some level of discipline and self-control. You cannot be a person of love and joy and peace unless you control your emotions and your thoughts and your actions. You're not going to be a person of long suffering and patience unless you have this spiritual fruit of temperance or self-control. You will never be gentle and kind and meek to others Until the Spirit of God is in control of your hearts. You see, this is absolutely vital and essential. That you have this quality in your life and that it's being developed. I want to ask you to turn with me now to further back in our New Testament, to the little book of 2 Peter. Did you know? that this is another listing of spiritual qualities, and it's the one that's most similar to the fruit of the Spirit. It's 2 Peter chapter 1. And I'm just going to begin reading at verse 1, the first verse of this new book. Simon Peter, servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ to them. that have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and of our Savior Jesus Christ. Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord, according as his divine power hath given us all things that pertain unto life and godliness through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue. Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises, that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. And besides this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge, and to knowledge temperance and the temperance, patience, and the patience, godliness, and the godliness, brotherly kindness, and the brotherly kindness charity or love. For if these things be in you and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now, if you were paying attention as I read this in verse 6, you came across twice this word, temperance. It's the same Greek words. So in this listing of spiritual qualities, we see it's included here again. There is no way that you can become a mature and fruitful believer. apart from the quality of self-discipline. Now some of us here at Christmas time, we will be assembling different things. And I have to tell you that I'm not an expert in these things. And sometimes I will assemble something and it has uh you know page after page after page of instruction and I put it all together and when I put it all together and it works But yet there's a little pile of things over here. And my wife will ask me, what is that? And I'll say, spare parts. Spare parts. I want you to know that self-control or temperance is not a spare part. It's an essential. It will not run. Your Christian life will not run apart from this. This is why Proverbs says in Proverbs 25-28, he that hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is broken down and without walls. In the ancient world, if you lived in a city that had no walls, you had no security. Anybody could come in. A person that has, that lacks this essential quality, they're very vulnerable to difficulties and problems in life. This is actually one of the qualifications for being a faithful disciple of Jesus Christ. You don't need to turn to it. But I'm going to read for you Matthew 16, 24. Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself. and take up his cross and follow me. This quality that he pinpoints here of self-denial is essentially the same thing that we're talking about here in Galatians chapter 5. You cannot be The disciple that God wants you to be unless you have this quality of self denial. And you may know that this statement of our Lord is repeated again and again in the gospels. It's found in Mark 8. 34 and Luke 9. 23 and again in Luke 14. Again and again the Lord said, this is an indispensable qualification. Self-denial. You can put it this way, you can't be an effective disciple without discipline. And the fact of the matter is we live in an age where there is very little discipline. We live in an age of self-indulgence, not self-denial. But the Bible frequently calls us to a rigorous lifestyle of discipline. That is why we have these pictures of the Christian life as that of an athlete or a marathon runner or a soldier. Because these pictures emphasize the truth that it's hard and it's difficult and it takes discipline and governance of our hearts. I would invite you to turn with me to the passage that we read together this morning, 1 Corinthians chapter 9. I thought about spending all of our time in just this passage. It's certainly worthy of that kind of attention, but I decided to be more broad than just this one passage. But this passage certainly exemplifies this quality of self-control. This is the Apostle Paul speaking. And in the section of Corinthians, he is addressing Christian liberty. He says this using the analogy of an athlete. Know ye not that they which run and erase run all, but one receiveth the prize So run that you may obtain. And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we and incorruptible. I therefore so run not as uncertainly. So fight I not as one that beateth the air, but I keep under my body and bring it into subjection, lest that by any means when I preach to others I myself should be a castaway. Now there's so much here that is worthy of our attention and exposition that I'm going to have to leave untouched. But I want you to see here Paul's approach to the Christian life. We see here that first of all we must be dedicated. He says, so run that you may obtain. The Christian life is not a stroll through the park. It's more like a grueling marathon. And we would put it this way today. You have to be in it to win it. You have to be committed. You have to be dedicated People generally don't decide to run a marathon as a casual affair. They don't say the day before, you know, I think I'm going to run a marathon. Perhaps you would if you're a really good athlete. But I wouldn't suggest that you do that unless you've done some training. We must be dedicated and we must be disciplined. He says here, temperate in all things. And what he's referring to here is that athletes in the ancient world and still today, they regulate everything in their lives, their diets, their exercise, their training. Often they will go to a special facility and they're monitoring how much sleep they get and even who they interact with. They discipline every area of their life so that they can be the very best athlete that they can be. And Paul here says, this is my approach to the Christian life. I'm disciplined. Now they do it, he says, to obtain a crown that's corruptible, and that is the ancient uh laurel wreath that an athlete would get in the AJ games. They didn't get gold medals back then. They got a laurel wreath. And the athlete would take that home. It was a symbol of honor. But you know what? It would dry up and turn brown and it would die and it would be gone. But Paul says that the crowns that I am after are incorruptible. Now then you see that you must be determined. He says, I keep under my body. I have to stay on top of it. I have to be the master of it. It requires constant attention. The fact is It's impossible for us to grow in spiritual maturity without discipline. This is true of the Christian life. Let me just make one application here. You're never going to go far in your Christian life until you discipline your use of time. You know what you'll find? You will find that unless you're very disciplined and ruthless and intentional with yourself, There'll never be time for you to read your Bible. There'll never be a good time for you to pray. There will never be a good time for you to disciple others and minister to others. You will find many other worthwhile endeavors, at least in your mind, that will fill up that time. And you know what? There'll never be time for you to go to church on a regular basis. All of these things require structure, discipline, and constant attention. It's not going to happen automatically But you'll never grow until the person that God wants you to be apart from this quality. The second thing I want to touch on is that This quality of self-control is essential because of the day of moral decadence in which we live in The fact of the matter is, like never before in this nation's history, we are swimming upstream. The current of the age is against us, pushing against us. Battering us, bombarding us, trying to push us with its flow. There was a time not that long ago when the mainstream society and the values and the disciplines and the morality of the world, at least in this country, was not that far off From what the scriptures taught. There was a time in which every child just about was taught in this nation the difference between right and wrong. They were taught to be disciplined. They were taught to face hardship without complaint. They were taught to do their chores and to do their duty. And today that is fading quickly. But this virtue of self-control has application in many different areas of our life. Let me touch on six of them very, very quickly. All of them are worthy of the sermon itself. Number one, we must be disciplined in our use of time. Ephesians 5. 16 says, redeeming the time for the days are evil, buying up every opportunity for the Lord's. The fact of the matter is all of us only live for a certain number of days. Our time is our life. And it's the most precious possession that we have. You know, when you give someone your time, when you give some activity your time, you're giving it a piece of your life. You can never get that time back. That is why how you use your time is a very significant thing. That's a piece, a chunk you might say of your life. Now I know that we live in an age and people always say this to me, Pastor, I am so busy. And I sympathize with you. But the reality is that we have more discretionary time than any people in the history of the world. What are we doing with our time? Are we throwing it away? Are we wasting it on a thousand worthless pursuits? Are we disciplining our use of time so that we can serve the Lord most effectively? Number two, we must be disciplined in the management of our money. Jesus said that we are to lay up treasures in heaven and not on earth. And many of you know that he taught extensively about money And he says that if we will not be good stewards of money, that God will not entrust to us true riches. It's amazing to me that these words that our Lord gave were given to people that we would consider incredibly poor. They were peasants. who were living on the edge of survival. But we, by contrast, are incredibly wealthy. What are we doing with this blessing? The Bible has this principle, to whomsoever much is given of him shall much be required. God has given us much. We live with a standard of living. I've said this recently in weeks. It's still an astounding thing to me. Virtually everyone here, every household here is in the top 1% of people in the world as far as wealth goes. We are incredibly blessed. What are we doing with the resources and the money that God has given to us? We have to be disciplined in that, or you know what? Every single penny that we spend, we will be spending on ourselves. Some of you know what it is. Uh you were you were you were married and you were living on a shoestring, you hardly had anything, you lived in a little apartment somewhere. And you live and your budget, I mean you think back on it now and how much you were living on, and you thought to yourself, at that time, you know, if I could just make a little bit more man, I would be sets. And now you're probably making four or five times that amount. And you know what? We find so many people are still struggling to pay their bills. Because you know what happens the more money you make. The more expenses you have, the more needs you think of things that you have to have. That's just the way human nature is. We have to be disciplined in our use of money. We have to also be disciplined in the way we express our emotions. We must not be filled with anger and bitterness and And the contrast of the works of the flesh in that passage of Galatians 5 and the fruit of the Spirit presents this incredible contrast. You remember there's all this emotional upheaval there in the works of the flesh. A person who is controlled by the flesh, their emotional life is an absolute mess. They're always in turmoil. The fruit of the Spirit brings love, joy, and peace. Proverbs 16, 32 says, He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city. It's a better quality to be able to control your spirit than to be some guy who goes in as a hero and conquers the city. We must be controlled fourthly in our speech. We must use our words not to wound and destroy people, but to heal and affirm people. Proverbs 15, 4 says, a wholesome tongue is a tree of life. They're people that they go around and with their words and with their very presence They uplift people. They strengthen people. They encourage people. They're like a fruit tree that feeds all the animals and the birds and everything else around it. It's a tree of life. Proverbs 21, 23 says, Whoso keepeth his mouth and tongue keepeth his soul from trouble. How much trouble do we bring into our lives because of things we say? Number five, we need to control our thoughts. Our thoughts. God is not just satisfied when we control our actions. When we control our words, believe it or not, he wants us to even control our thoughts. Matthew 23, he condemns the Pharisees He says in verse 25, Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you may clean the outside of the cup and the platter, but within they are full of extortion and excess. And the word excess there. is the exact opposite of this word self-control. It speaks of self-indulgence. In other words, these Pharisees, who were regarded by everyone as incredibly stringent and strict and disciplined, they fasted every Monday and every Thursday. A whole day, nothing to eat. Very careful about everything they did, but he said to them that their hearts were wicked and filled with greed and with lust. They were completely unrestrained in their mind, but outwardly they looked like they were very disciplined people. God wants our thoughts to be under His control. And finally, number six, we must seek to govern our physical appetites. We are physical beings. God made us this way, and we need physical resources to survive. We need sleep. In the book of Proverbs, we find warnings against getting too much sleep, although I suspect that most of you here have the opposite problem. We need drink to hydrate our bodies. We need food to fuel our bodies And the fact of the matter is that most people who have lived on this planet have not been greatly tempted to eat too much. That wasn't a problem they faced. The food resources available to them were very meager, and the food that they did have was coarse and nearly tasteless with very little variety. If you've only ever lived in America and you've never gone overseas, you may not realize this. There are many places in the world With what they have for breakfast and for lunch and for dinner. In many places they don't have three meals a day, maybe they have two, but it's the same thing. They eat the same thing every day virtually. We have all kinds of variety and all kinds of flavorings and we have all kinds of recipes and food channels and everything else to interest us in eating more and more. It's interesting that in our nation, even the poorest Have a high rate of obesity. Sin makes the soul the slave of the body. But I want you to know that I do not think that is primarily what Paul had in mind when he penned those words in Galatians 5. 23. I suspect that most of us, when we read those words, that may have been the first thing that came into our minds But most scholars, most commentators will tell you that what he was focusing on, and I want us now to turn back to Galatians chapter 5 Is this matter of sexual restraint? Notice how the works of the flesh begin in verse 19. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these: adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness. Adultery, of course, is unfaithfulness in marriage. Fornication is an umbrella term that refers to all sexual relationships outside of marriage It's used in the Bible to describe premarital sex, incest, homosexuality, adultery, and the list goes on and on. Uncleanness here. refers to moral degradation and the psychological sense of being filthy that comes with immorality. Lasciviousness refers to uninhibited sexual indulgence without a sense of shame Paul was writing in a context, believe it or not, where things were very, very bad. In fact, one could argue that they were much worse than they are today in our culture. And you see that he emphasizes it in his writings all the time. These Gentile converts that came out of that world, he's taking them to a new level, a new sense of morality. And explain to them what God requires of them. I don't think I need to convince you that this is a pervasive problem in our culture today. We are living in an age where there has been a radical shift away from a biblical view of morality. to a morality that is self-determined. It's the individual's choice that matters, not what God says in his word, or what is good for society, or even good for that person, but whatever they want to do. Virtues that were once taught to our children, even in school, like modesty and purity, are now long ago abandoned. We live in an age where most children today are born to parents who are not married. And pornography, which once had a great stigma attached to it. Is now regarded by many as harmless entertainment. Thanks to the internet and to smartphones, this poison is available to almost anyone at any time. And as a result, millions of people, both men and women, are enslaved to sexual sins. We don't like to talk about these things, but this is an epidemic. I talked to pastors, I've looked at research, and the fact of the matter is this is the number one counseling issues that pastors deal with in America today. is people who are addicted to pornography. And it's not a few people. It's like nearly half the population. We're facing a moral epidemic, and it is not harmless. It is unraveling the very fabric of our society, the family. It's destroying marriages. And therefore, it's something that we must understand requires Absolute discipline and self-control in our part. The Lord did not mince his words when he addressed this matter in Matthew chapter 5 and the Sermon on the Mount. If you would like, you can turn with me there to Matthew chapter 5 and verse 27. He says this. Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, thou shalt not commit adultery. But I say unto you, that whoso looketh on a woman to lest after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. So what's the solution? Look at verse 29. If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out. Cast it from thee. For it is profitable for thee that One of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell. And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off, cast it from thee, for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast. Into hell. Jesus is not advocating self-mutilation here. What he is saying is that you must take radical steps to free yourself from the bondage of sin, whatever it takes. When I deal with people who are involved in this sin, you know what I say to them? Say to them, you've got to get rid of your smartphone. You've got to unplug from the internet. But I need that. I've got to do that for. Do you want to have victory over this sin or not? I have never ever dealt with someone who was truly entrapped in this sin, who didn't take that step, who found victory. You can't take half measures with it. It will destroy your soul. Those are what our Lord said. We find more about this in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Perhaps you would like to join with me in that passage. 1 Corinthians chapter 6. This is what the Apostle Paul says in a society where immorality was the norm, they are in Corinth. 1 Corinthians 6, verse 18, he says, flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body, but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. What know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which you have of God, and ye are not your own, for you are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. Paul argues for sexual purity on several grounds. He says that sexual sins in a special way are a sin against one's body. That's a very curious expression. There's an awful lot been written about it. I don't have time to go through the various views. But there's no such thing as an innocent victim in sexual sins. If no one else is victimized, you are It wears away at the very person that you are. Another reason he gives this because your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. A temple is a holy place reserved for worship. And that's the way we must regard ourselves, that we belong to God's. You're not your own, he says. You have been bought with a price. And we know that that price was the precious blood of Jesus. It's not up to us to decide what we think is right and moral and acceptable It's God that calls those shots, who makes those decisions. We belong to Him This is why Joseph could say when he was confronted with incessant temptation, how can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? And that must be our perspective in the age in which we live. There's a third reason that we must exercise self-control, and that is because it is a significant way in which we can bring glory to God. Now there are some qualifications I feel like I need to mention about this whole matter of discipline. Number one, discipline or self-restraint is not presented in Scripture as an end in itself The Bible does not teach asceticism. That's a fancy sounding word. It's a word that means, it's the philosophy that believes that the body is inherently evil. And so the way to grow spiritually is to deprive your body of basic needs and comforts and punish your body. This was the thinking behind monasticism. These monks, you know, they made certain they never got a good night of sleep. They had bells that would ring throughout the nights, and they slept on a hard stone floor. And the clothes that they wore were very scratchy and uncomfortable, and sometimes they wore belts that had nails in them that would pierce into their bodies. And they would nearly fast themselves to death. They were emaciated because they believed if I punish my body, it will be pleasing to God. And I will make great headway in my Christian life. It's not true. That's not what the Bible teaches. The Bible is not calling us to a lifestyle of self-improvements Now the reason that you want to be disciplined and in control makes all the difference in the world. This is where I need to conclude this message. The motive behind your discipline makes a great deal of difference. This is not a message that says, you know, show a little restraint this Christmas season. That's not what this message is all about. This is calling us in every aspect of our lives to be disciplined so that we can more effectively serve the Lord. and bring glory to his name. In other words, you could be very disciplined in the way you eat and how you exercise and how you spend your money. But the question is, why do you want to be disciplined in these areas? Is it because you want to impress people? Is it because you want to be considered an attractive person? Is it because you want to feel good about yourself? Is it because that you want to save up your money and be very frugal with it so that you can then indulge and really buy something grand that you want? a real status symbol. So you see, just because you're disciplined doesn't mean it's pleasing to God. You have to be doing it for the right reasons. God is not calling us to live a lifestyle of self-improvement. He's calling us to die to self and live for Him. He wants us to order our lives in such a way that people can see that he is our treasure, that he is more important to us than anything, than any desire, than any appetite that we possess. He wants us to live our life in such a way that people can see that Christ is our master and that we are not on the same worldly quest that they are a part of. He wants us to govern our lifestyle in such a way that he is glorified. This is why Paul would write a little later after that passage of 1 Corinthians chapter 9. In chapter 10, verse 31, whether therefore ye eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do it all to the glory of God's God wants us to conduct and structure our lives in such a way that the world can see that we are different. And this brings glory to God. There was a great missionary from England in the late 1800s and early 1900s. named Amy Carmichael. She came from a privileged background, upper middle class in Victorian England, had a very comfortable lifestyle ahead of her Living in polite society, having everything provided for her. But she decided that God had called her to go to India as a missionary, and so she gave up that lifestyle. And she lived very, very simply ministering most of her life in an orphanage. And many of you know that she was also a wonderful writer of Christian poetry. And this is something that she wrote. She said, Lord, harden me against myself. The coward with a pathetic voice. Who craves for ease and rest and joy, myself, arch traitor to myself My hollowest friend, my deadliest foe, my clog whatever road I go. She understood that the battle that she had was a battle with herself, and we need to discipline ourselves, our bodies, our times, our minds. our resources so that they are under the control of the Spirit of God and bring glory to his name. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, how desperately we need your help. How much we are reminded today that we fall short. I pray that you would help us. Do you view our lives as that of a soldier, as a pilgrim, as an athlete, not as those who are lost in this world, who are just simply defined their paradise? And their heaven here. Help us, Father, to demonstrate in the choices we make, in the lifestyles that we choose, that we are children of the King. And that we are loyal to his purposes. Pray, Father, for those here this morning who are not your children. Who cannot begin to live for your glory, I pray that today they would seek you and they would come to trust in you. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.