Bibles to Isaiah already. I saw many of you flipping to Isaiah. But we're in the book of Galatians. It's been a while since we've been here. John Stott is an evangelical Anglican pastor and author who died in 2011. He's famous for writing a number of books. One of his more famous is Basic Christianity. In 2005. Time magazine named John Scott one of the 100 most influential people in the world. Every morning, John Stott, when he woke up, would pray this prayer. Heavenly Father, I pray that this day I may live in your presence and please you more and more. Lord Jesus, I pray that this day I may take up my cross and follow you. Holy Spirit I pray that this day you will fill me with yourself and cause your fruit to ripen in my life. Love, joy, peace. Patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control And it's been said that John Stott was one of the most spirit-filled believers that anybody had known. I believe that would be a very appropriate prayer for us every morning to pray. And this morning, as we look at this passage of scripture, we're dealing with the fruit of the Spirit. It is our prayer that these Characteristics of the fruit of the Spirit are found in us. Now it's been a while since we examined the fruit of the Spirit. So just by way of reminder, when we looked at this in lessons past , we saw that the Christian life is a life that can only be lived in the continual dependence upon the Spirit of God. We are locked in a life and death battle as believers with the flesh. The spirit lusts against the flesh, and the flesh wars against the spirit. Verse 16 says, if you walk in the spirit, you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. And so the key to the spiritual life is to walk by the power of the Spirit, walking in communion with the Spirit, moment by moment, day by day, so that we do not fulfill the lust of the flesh or the works of the flesh. which were described, we read this morning in verses 19 through 21, a list of things that nobody wants to be known by. Where he says the works of the flesh are evident, sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy. drunkenness, orgies, and the things like these. This is not an exhaustive list, but it is a list of the works of the flesh. And the way we do not allow those things to have power in our lives is to walk by the Spirit, walking in communion with the Holy Spirit, listening to his voice, and then walking in obedience to him. When we came to the fruit of the Spirit, we noticed that these characteristics that are called the fruit of the Spirit are actually the attributes of God Himself. The very top of the list, that heads up the list, is love. And love is the very essence of God. Twice in the Bible we are told that God is love. And in 1 John 3. 1 it says, Behold, what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. The idea is that the love that we have been given is an otherworldly love. It is a love that is beyond explanation, and it is the characteristic of who God is. So when we are walking by the Spirit, he enables us to know and understand his love and then to reflect that back to others We mentioned in the past that the other eight characteristics of the fruit of the Spirit are actually the outworking of love. Love is the essence of the fruit of the Spirit, and these other eight characteristics are the outworking of that. So we see peace is love resting. Patience is love enduring or forbearing. We find here that kindness is love serving. We're looking at kindness this morning. Kindness is love serving. Now, kindness is one of those words that seems pretty straightforward. We have a lot of people that put out signs, be kind, and people tell their children, be kind. But the idea here is something significant for us to understand. This is the fruit of the Spirit singular, and you'll notice that there's a significant amount of overlap in these characteristics of the fruit of the Spirit. especially between the words kindness and goodness. And I would gather that you'd have a little trouble trying to differentiate between these two aspects of kindness and goodness. In some some places in the Bible, they seem to be synonyms, but there is a difference in the way that they are used here. It's interesting as well that when we come to the list of the fruit of the Spirit, kindness comes after patience. Also, when Paul defined love in 1 Corinthians 13, he said, love is patient, love is kind. So you see there's a connection between this word kindness and patience. Love is patient, love is kind. And it's not an accident that these two words are used together in Romans chapter 2, speaking of God's dealings with mankind. In verse 4 of Romans 2, it says. Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness Is meant to lead you to repentance. God is kind to us, but in his kindness, he is also patient towards us to bring us to that place of repentance. So God's patience is his long suffering towards us as sinners, to give us an opportunity to repent of our sin and rebellion towards him and to turn to him in faith. God's kindness is demonstrated in the good that he does to all mankind. We sang about some of these things this morning, but he gives reign to the just and the unjust. He gives food to those who reject him, and light, and health, and joys, and blessings that really we can't even begin to enumerate. But the greatest of those is the gift that he gave at Christmas, the gift of his own son as salvation for us. Patience in God is his love not giving us what we deserve, which is judgment and wrath. Kindness in God is giving us blessings which we do not deserve. Kindness then is the sweet. disposition that desires to bless, desires to benefit others, even at great personal cost. And in a way that is not deserved. So, Christians, we are called to reflect the kindness of God by putting on kindness in the power of the Spirit. God calls Christians to be kind because it is an expression of his character. We have all been created in the image of God. And we are called to be image bearers, reflecting the image of our God. But not just in our being. We are image bearers in our being, but also image-bearers in our character. God says, be holy. For I am holy. In a similar way, now we come to the fruit of the Spirit. God is saying, Be kind, for I am kind. Be kind, for I am kind. So God delights to show kindness. In the Old Testament, God is often praised. For his kindness. In fact, God highlights his own kindness again and again. When God speaks of himself, it is the attribute that he most highlights about himself. The Hebrew word Hesed is found throughout the Old Testament. And if you've many of you have studied this word at different times in your lives, you've even had Sunday school classes about this word. It's a word that doesn't have an exact parallel in our English language. So sometimes in different translations of the Bible, we'll find it translated differently as they're trying to to get their hands around the meaning of this Hebrew word. Sometimes it's translated love. Sometimes it's translated steadfast love Other times it's translated mercy or kindness or loving kindness. I believe as I looked at this in my study, most frequently in the Old Testament, it is simply translated kindness. And it is an attribute that God speaks of with regards to himself. It speaks of God's kindness in relation to his covenant promises. The fact that he pays attention to our needs and he seeks to meet our needs in relation to his covenant promises. So when God revealed himself to Moses in the book of Exodus, in Exodus 34, and he proclaimed his name to Moses. The Bible says the Lord passed before him and proclaimed, the Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious. slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love. Here's that word has said. Abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generation. So twice in God's self-declaration of himself, he says that he is kind. And that kindness is described in numerous ways. In Psalm 145, verse 17 It describes God's care for all living creatures when he says, the Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his works. So when we come to the New Testament, Jesus is speaking about the kindness of God in Luke chapter 6. And he says that God is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. Have you ever tried to be kind to someone who's ungrateful? How does your flesh respond to being kind to someone who's ungrateful? It's hard, isn't it? It's hard to be kind when someone is ungrateful. It's hard to be kind to someone who doesn't seem to appreciate the kindnesses you're showing and rather seems to throw it back in your face. But we see this, we're going to look at this a little bit more a little later in this message, but God's kindness is broad In Romans 2, 4, we are told that God demonstrates the riches of his kindness to mankind, and that that riches of his kindness is intended to lead us to repentance. As we receive the kindnesses of God again and again, we are forced to realize that He is a good God. He is worthy of our love. He is worthy of our faith. He is worthy of our obedience. God's kindness, however, does not mean that there are no consequences for our sins. I believe many people, when they speak of kindness and they say, be kind, they are they're often saying, don't tell me what I'm doing is wrong. Don't tell me that I am sinning. Be kind to me. Don't judge me. But the Bible says that God is kind. But he also says that he is a God of justice. Speaking of the nation of Israel in Romans chapter 11, verse 22, it says, For if God did not spare the natural branches, Neither will he spare you. Note, he says, the kindness and severity of God God is abundantly kind, but God is holy. We said to God is holy, be holy for I am holy, be kind for I am kind. God is holy, and his kindness is a holy kindness. And therefore he will not turn away from righteousness and justice in his kindness. In Ephesians chapter 2, verse 7, Paul speaks about the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. Maybe you're struggling to believe that God has been kind to you. Maybe you can look around at other people in the church. Maybe some of your friends and maybe other family members or neighbors, and you can say, yes, God has been kind to them. But to me, I don't really feel that God has been kind to me. Well God's kindness is seen in a million ways in your life. But most of all The Bible says that you are not in hell. We notice the link between God's patience and kindness. The very fact that you are not in hell now is an example, a demonstration of God's abundant kindness. that he has been patient, he has been kind to you to give you an opportunity to come to him in repentance. If you're tempted to doubt God's kindness. And I want to encourage you to go to the foot of the cross. This morning in your mind, spend some time thinking and meditating about the very fact that God Himself became a man. And he went to the cross for you. Look there upon the anguished face and the suffering and the humiliation of the Son of God, the beloved Son of God, who died so that you would not have to go to hell. And that God has given you opportunity to hear this message, and he has been patient to you so that you would know of his love The kindness of God will ultimately be the theme of believers throughout all eternity. We read already Ephesians chapter 2, verse 7, which is written in the context of our helpless condition Because we are, it says there in Ephesians 2, we are dead in our trespasses and sins. The very fact is that we are dead in our relationship to God, we have been separated from a holy God, but now we've been raised up. with Christ, to be seated with him in the heavenly places. And he says, in the ages to come, we will forever be discovering the more immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness towards us. That we are going to be continually discovering more of God's kindness. more of God's grace, understanding in a deeper and deeper way throughout all eternity the riches of the kindness that we have received. Continually we'll understand more the full nature of the wickedness of our sin and the crushing eternal blast of the wrath of God that we deserved, but also We become more aware of the nature of God's grace, the fullness of God's grace, the riches of God's grace. all that God has done for us by sending his own son to die for us. And we will be through all eternity proclaiming the kindness of God in Christ Jesus. But because of God's undeserved kindness to us, God calls us to demonstrate undeserved kindness to others When we think of the fruit of the Spirit, we need to think of something that is a supernatural work of God in the life of believers. It's not to say that an unbeliever can't demonstrate kindness or cannot be kind, but the kindness that is the fruit of the Spirit is a kindness that is a supernatural work of God. So not surprisingly then the Holy Spirit works in the life of all true believers. If you're a Christian here this morning, you must be kind. There must be this outworking in your life. Now, maybe it's not as obvious as it should be, maybe it's not as abundant of a fruit as it should be, but it should be, it must be in your life if you are a child of God. But it's not something that we produce by mere passive acquiescence. We sit there and let the Holy Spirit just do his work. The Bible tells us that we are to work in coordination with That's why in Colossians chapter 3, verse 12, it expressly tells us this: put on then, as God's chosen one, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts. And kindness. Kindness is something that we are to put on. It is something that we are to demonstrate in our lives in coordination with the Holy Spirit. So just as God's kindness to us is unconditional, so too we are to show unconditional kindness to others I'd like for you to turn with me to Luke chapter 6 in your Bibles. Luke chapter 6. You see an amazing thing that Christ calls us to demonstrate in our lives. God's kindness here is described as being poured out on Not just the undeserving, but the ill-deserving, those who deserve actually judgment In Luke chapter 6, verse 27, he says, But I say to you who hear, love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Bless those who curse you. Pray for those who abuse you. To the one who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other also, and from the one who takes away your cloak, do not withhold your tunic either Give to everyone who begs from you, and from the one who takes away your goods, do not demand them back. And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them Wow. You think about that command. That is a very challenging command. He says, love your enemies, do good to your enemies. I want you to think in your mind to the person that you might consider to be your enemy. And now think about loving them, doing good to them. Praying for them. He says, lend to those expecting nothing in return. And then he says in verse 35. Verse 34. And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners to get back the same amount. But love your enemies and do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for ye is kind to the ungrateful. And the evil. God has been abundantly kind to you and I, even when we have been ungrateful, even when we have been evil. So if you show hospitality just to to others who will invite you to their home so you can see what their house looks like, or because that you you think those people are pretty interesting and you'd enjoy Spending time with them and getting to know them, that is not the essence of Christian hospitality. If you only love those who you think you'll be able to get some help from in the future, that's not Christian love. God loved us even when we were utterly helpless and unable to give back anything to Him So in light of that instruction, Jesus commands, love your enemies, do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for He is kind. He does those things to us. It is this kindness that God calls us to imitate, a kindness to the ungrateful and the evil, expecting nothing in return. God did not and does not require us to demonstrate worthiness before he pours out love to us. And neither should we set a prerequisite for others in order that we show kindness to them. In Romans 12, we have this difficult passage of Scripture to deal with. He says, beloved, never avenge yourselves. Believe it to the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry. Feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink. For by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. So what does that mean? It means the enemy your enemy obviously didn't deserve your kindness. But neither did you deserve the kindness of God. Neither do you deserve the sacrifice of God's own Son on the cross for you. And so we are called to love like our Father loved, to show kindness like our Father showed kindness. And maybe you're saying to yourself, I just don't think I can show kindness to that person. You know, we have not gotten along in a long time. It would be awkward. You just don't understand the relationship that we have right now. If I were to go out and show kindness to them, it would be something that would stand out. Well, shame on you, first of all. But secondly, pray for God to grant you the power that you need in his spirit to demonstrate kindness to that person. Praying for God to help you to be able to show genuine kindness to that person. And then secondly, you need to go and do it. Remember that when we obey God, there is a power that comes in the doing. We can talk about obedience all we want. We can talk about what we should do, but the power of obedience comes in the doing of that act of obedience. And not until we take that step of obedience do we experience the power of God to make it possible. One of the ways that we show this kindness is by forgiving. Forgiveness is an essential aspect to kindness. It's interesting that in Ephesians chapter 4, it links kindness with forgiveness, not only with patience, but with forgiveness. In Ephesians chapter 4 it says, be kind to one another, tender-hearted. Forgiving one another as God in Christ forgave you. You can't say, I'm going to wait for them to ask forgiveness from me first. I'm going to wait for them to take that first step. They wronged me. He says, as God in Christ forgave you, so too you must forgive. The reality is, in our homes and in the church, There is ample opportunity to practice this instruction. There is ample opportunity because in the church. There's a lot of sinners rubbing shoulders with sinners. In your home, in your marriages, it's sinners rubbing shoulders with sinners. There is ample opportunity to practice forgiveness as God in Christ has forgiven you. This forgiveness is patterned after the forgiveness that we have received in Christ. So if you're ever tempted to say, I'm not going to forgive, or that's asking me too much. Maybe in your mind right now you're saying that's too much. Pastor, you are asking something that is just too great for me. You need to remember how Christ forgave you. You need to remember the forgiveness that you have received. We are called to forgive as God in Christ has forgiven us. And this is the enablement of this command. Commands are powerless, but the enablement of the command is on looking at Christ, remembering what Christ has done for you. As we look to Christ, we see how God has been kind to us for Christ's sake. And therefore we must treat others for Christ's sake. As God has treated us for Christ's sake. God has been abundantly kind to us for Christ's sake. And so therefore I can be abundantly kind to others. In Psalm 130, verse 3, the psalmist cries out, If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? If God were to take a tally of all your iniquities, this past week, this past month, we're coming to the end of 2024. all your iniquities this past year and say, I'm not going to forget your sins this past year. Where would you be? What hope would you have? We would have none. And yet we're very quick to mark iniquities on others. But she did this. She said that. He did this. And we mark iniquities and we remember them. How is there forgiveness with us? Because God in Christ forgave you. That is, he has dealt with you with his eye on Christ. God looks at you this morning if you're a believer in Jesus Christ with his eyes on Christ. He sees Christ. In you or you in Christ. He never deals with us apart from Christ. That's how we can have full forgiveness. So how does God forgive? Well, God forgives by reaching out to the bad and wooing them and drawing them to himself and seeking reconciliation. How does God forgive? God always takes the first step in forgiveness. God is always the one that is reaching out in forgiveness. God forgives sins knowing that we will sin again. If he only forgave the sins that we never would commit again, where would we be? But he forgives sins, knowing that we will sin again. God forgiveness is so complete and glorious that he doesn't just forgive us, but he grants us adoption and he calls us his children. God in his forgiveness bore all the penalty for our sins. God keeps reaching out to men for reconciliation, even when we reject him again and again. Have you ever been rejected as you try to love on somebody? You try to show kindness to somebody? How many times does God reach out to us? And we rebuff his kindness. We rebuff his his his love to us. And he calls us to do this again and again. God requires no probationary period to receive his forgiveness. He doesn't say, okay, I'll forgive you, but you're going to take six months and you're going to be sitting over there in the doghouse for six months. And I may look at you at the end of six months and have a conversation with you. Immediately. 1 John 1. 9 is such a beautiful verse for us. that if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness for in six months. No, immediately we are cleansed and forgiven. There is no probationary period. God's forgiveness is full and free. It is abundant. And he calls us to show this type of forgiveness to others because God has forgiven us in Christ Jesus. God's kindness demands that we be others focused. Now, the challenge with kindness is that we are so often selfish. The opposite of kindness, of course, is selfishness. You can look through the Bible and you can find all sorts of examples of people who were kind. And when they did their kindness, when they demonstrated kindness, it was it was a selflessness that was being Described there. We think of Ruth when she speaks to her mother-in-law and says, Your people will be my people. Your God will be my God. What was she doing? She was saying, although I've suffered greatly, I'm going to identify with your suffering and I'm going to be with you. Or David in his dealings with Mephibosheth. But the greatest example of others-focused kindness is in Jesus Christ. He is the epitome of kindness When we think of Jesus Christ, and he told his disciples, whoever will be great among you, Let him be the servant. He said, I came not to be served, but to serve and to give my life a ransom for many. Jesus' entire ministry is encapsulated with the idea of compassion and kindness. I thought it was very interesting that Pastor Nathan brought up that point that the the attribute that's most described of our Lord is his compassion towards others. He had compassion on the 5,000 who were hungry. And he could have said, hey, I didn't tell you to come out here in the wilderness. You came and you should have brought food. But he fed them. He had compassion on the widow of Nain, because she was a widow and her only son had passed away. And so he raised him up and showing kindness to her. He had compassion on the leper and he healed the leper. He had compassion on the blind and he made them see. Jesus demonstrated his kindness. In the interruptions that he experienced day by day by needy people. One book I recently read described Jesus' life as a theology of interruptions. A theology of interruptions. Because so much of Jesus' ministry came in the interruptions. Think of Jesus rushing to a medical emergency with a child who is on the point of death, and a woman who is sick reaches out for a healing to him. And he has time for her. Think of Jesus traveling from Jericho with a huge crowd following him When suddenly there's a shout of a blind man over the din of the crowd, and everyone else is trying to quiet down this man. Be quiet. This is the master. He's too busy for you. And the Lord calls him. And he speaks to him and he heals him. Think about Jesus suffering on the cross in agony. And if ever there would be a time when he would be filled with self-concern, you would think he'd be on the cross. He's humiliated. He's in excruciating pain. But what does he do? He sees his mother there, who is also suffering. And he takes care for her through his disciple. He sees another man dying in a similar condition, and he gives him comfort. Jesus was willing to be interrupted in a service of other people. How do you respond to interruptions? Interruptions of your schedule and your plan. Now, if I were speaking to an audience in Tanzania, this question wouldn't come up. Interruptions are life. But in America, this is a big deal. We don't like interruptions. We make our plans. If you want it compassion, you should have scheduled compassion with me. It's not your time for compassion. But Christ showed compassion in the interruptions. This is there's a cost to our Kindness. It costs us time. It costs us our schedule. It costs us our plans because pain and suffering and need doesn't have a schedule. Are you willing to allow the Holy Spirit to guide you to show kindness in the interruptions of your life To see the needs of others, get your eyes off of yourself and see the needs of others even when it isn't convenient for you. So many of the opportunities to demonstrate kindness. Really cut cross-grain to our busy schedules. It's easy to be so self-absorbed and say, I just don't have I don't have time for this. I would love to be able to do that, but I don't have time for this. Well, God is calling us to follow the example of our Savior and allowing ourselves to minister in those interruptions. So, how do we cultivate this fruit of kindness in our lives? It is the fruit of the Spirit. The Holy Spirit must do the work, but we are to put on kindness. It is something that we are to cultivate within ourselves in coordination with the Holy Spirit. Well, first It is the fruit of the Spirit. You must first come to know God's kindness to you in Jesus Christ. If you're here this morning and you have never come to know Christ as your Savior. Then that is the first step. You must realize one that you have sinned against an infinitely holy God. He is high and lifted up. He is exalted. He is holy. He is just. He is a God who hates sin, and your sin has separated you from God, but he loves you. And in his kindness he sent his son to die for you, to pay the penalty that your sins deserve, so that you could be brought near to him. And he is calling you to himself today. He is asking you, he is inviting you to come to him. And experience his kindness in Jesus Christ, to repent of your sins and put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Secondly, if you're a believer here this morning, you need to meditate on God's kindness to you Take time to think about your condition before coming to Christ. Take time to meditate on the fact that you were a child of wrath. Even as others, you were a recipient, you were deserving of the wrath of God, but God in his patience and God in his kindness reached out to you and drew you to himself Every breath you breathe is a gracious kindness from God. He would have been just to send you and I to hell for our sins. But in his kindness, he gave us an opportunity to repent. He was patient, and he poured out his kindness to you in innumerable ways Giving you air to breathe, shelter, food, water, family, warmth, sunshine, the beauty of this world, all of these things are his kindnesses that are lavish on us Day by day, moment by moment, and even on cold days and bitter winter nights, he often gives us the beauty of snow. And he shows his kindness to us in a million ways that we so often overlook. But over and above all of that, he poured out his lavish kindness to you. When God became a man, when God suffered and died for you on the cross. Could you ever have imagined, had you never been told the gospel, that your creator, that your your holy God would become a man, and that he would take upon himself your human flesh and your human weaknesses, and that he would willingly be punished for the sins that you have committed. Had you never been told the gospel, you would never have dreamed up a gospel like that. You would have never dreamed up a love like that. But he's done this for you. Meditate on God's kindness to you. Thank God for his kindness to you. How often do we take for granted all the kindnesses we've received? Let the kindness of God lead you to repentance. And then the thankfulness. Thirdly, ask God to show you opportunities to be kind to others. And I want to encourage you in this area. Don't say, Lord, how me to show kindness to that person? They've been really kind to me. That's fine. Ask God to show you how to be kind to your enemy. Ask God to show you how to be kind to that person that rubs you the wrong way. That's the type of kindness that our Father has showed to us. Fourthly, others focused kindness should start where you are. Kindness should start where you are. Remember, a little kindness goes a long way. Be ready to show kindness in the little things. The temptation for us is to look for acts of kindness that are grandiose, that are almost heroic acts of kindness. And in that there is a bit of a selfishness. But look for the kindness that others may not even notice. But your first priority for kindness should be in your home The first priority for kindness is to those that God has placed you in close relationship with, and yet it's often the place where we are the least kind with one another. Are you kind to your wife? Are you kind to your husband? Are you kind to your parents? Are you kind to your siblings? Are you kind to those that God has placed you in close proximity to by His will? Jerry Bridges said that when he teaches young people about serving others, he says, I encourage you to show kindness at home first. For some reason, cleaning up after a weekend conference at church is more pleasant than cleaning your dad's garage. Isn't there a truth to that? Maybe parents are saying, yes, amen. But I think moms and dads, the same thing is true in our marriage relationships. Much marital strife. comes from the conflict over the mundane. A selfishness that doesn't seek to serve the other and show kindness to the other. Obviously there are different roles and responsibilities within a marriage, but are you showing kindness to your spouse? Are you serving them? Ministering to their needs, aware of their concerns. In the simple things. Dads, are you doing diapers? Are you taking out the trash? Are you showing kindness in the little things? A little kindness goes a long way. Seek to do to outdo one another in practicing kindness. Not to keep score for the next argument. You know how many times I took out the tracks last week? You know how many times I did that? That's not the point. Seek to outdo each other in acts of kindness because Christ showed us abundant kindness. And lastly, let us show kindness in our words. Let us show kindness in our words. In Proverbs 31, there's an interesting description of the excellent wife. And one of the characteristics of the excellent wife that always jumps off the page to me is it says that the law of kindness is on her lips. The law of kindness is on her lips. She is a person who served in acts of kindness. In that same passage of Scripture, it describes how she tirelessly reached out to the needy in her community, and she served her family, made sure their needs were met, but the law of kindness was on her lips. She spoke words of kindness. Do words of kindness flow from your lips? Or are you more critical? Well, I just like to say that how it is. I'm just a very blunt person. Are you kind? Is the law of kindness on your lips? This ought to be just not just a characteristic of the excellent wife, but of all, both men and women, married and unmarried. The law of kindness should be on our lips because it was on the lips of our Savior. Study the life of Christ. See the kindness that he spoke to those that are hurting, to those that are in shame, to those that were grieving. The law of kindness was on his lips. Sometimes no words are even necessary. It could just be the ear of kindness. Just listening to someone who needs an ear. Just ministering to someone by hearing them. And praying for them. Who would God have you show kindness to this week? Maybe with a phone call, maybe with a note, maybe with a listening ear. There are many, many hurting people in our community, in our church, that need kindness. And we have been called to do this. But ultimately, what could be more kind than sharing with others that God has been kind to them in Christ Jesus? sharing with others the gospel of Jesus Christ. There is nothing more kind than telling people who are under the just wrath of God that there is a savior, that he loved them and he died for them and he gave himself for them so that they could be reconciled with God. There is nothing more kind than that. There are ample opportunities for us to be kind as our Father has been kind to us Remember when you heard the message of God's kindness for the first time. Remember how that felt? To know that there is a God who has loved you that way. There are so many people walking all around us at work in our community, in our neighborhoods, who don't know anything of God's kindness. And they might be cranky. They may be the ungrateful. They might be the ones who you look at and go, wow, that's extreme. But maybe they're that way because they don't know of God's kindness. And God has placed you in their path so that you could give them the message of his kindness. Let's ask God this week to open our eyes to the opportunities to show kindness. In our lives. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you that you are kind , that your kindness is truly Unsearchable. You are kind in all you do. Father, I pray that you would bring conviction in our hearts. That you would Conform us to the image of your Son, who is the perfect example of kindness to us. Lord, would you help us to be willing to face interruptions so that we might show kindness to others? Lord, did you help us take our eyes off of ourselves and our own needs and look to the needs of others? But Father, I pray for those this morning that do not know Christ as their Savior. That have never received that forgiveness of sins. Oh God, I pray that you would convict them. I pray that you would draw them to yourself. I pray that they would see the kindness of God and it would lead them to repentance. Would today be the day of salvation for them we ask. In Jesus' name, amen.