If you would, I would encourage you to open your Bibles to Galatians chapter five. Galatians chapter five, we're going to be looking at The fruit of the Spirit. We'll be looking at Galatians chapter 5, verse 22. And we're going to be looking at one, just one aspect of the fruit. Of the Spirit. Galatians 5, verse 22 says, but the fruit of the Spirit is love. The fruit of the Spirit is love. I've been reading recently and enjoying reading Matt Conrad 's book, our missionary that we have been praying for, and one of the missionaries. That we support. His book, one of his books, is called Daring Dependence. And it is a missionary devotional book. There are thirty-one chapters in there that correspond with the days of the month, and they are just Little blurbs, little highlights of the lives of different missionaries, pastors, their wives, uh, in the work of the gospel. And sometimes there are characters that are lesser known in church history, which is really enjoyable. And it says, oh, makes me think, I want to read that biography. Oh, I want to read more about that person. And it's been enjoyable to read his book. And I would encourage you, if you have not, I believe we actually have it for sale in the lobby and you could pick one of those up. But one of the characters in there is uh a Chinese husband and wife team that were ministering to the opium addicts. in China in the 20th century. And it was said in those, actually believe it was the 19th century, it was said in those days that 11 out of 10 people in China were opium addicts. And that was a serious problem. We think we have drug problems today in many of the cities of our land, and we do. They had a very serious drug problem in their day as well. And Pastor Zhi Zhengmu and his wife Ji Shi Mu lit ministered in the Shangxi province in northern central China. And they started some refuges for uh the the uh opium addicts where they could come, they could hear the gospel, they could receive some medications that would help them to break the addiction of opium to opium. And the gospel was being proclaimed and Christ was being magnified and churches were being started, but they had a burden to reach into the next city, which was Huocho. And they wanted to see the gospel brought there. They wanted to see these refugee places uh made available for opium addicts in that city But it's a costly endeavor, and they were very poor and unable to uh to afford that that uh the medicines that were necessary, the facilities that were necessary. So they began praying that God would provide an open Open a door and that he would provide finances for them. As a couple, they prayed about this. And one day, Ji Shimu, she heard her husband praying about this in the room next door to her. opened up her wedding chest. And inside her wedding chest were these these gifts that she'd been given and that were hers to keep. They were kind of like an insurance policy. that that that Chinese women were given when they were married, in case their husband were to die or famine would strike the land, they could use these things. There were some gold trinkets and and silver and jade jewelry along with some silk garments. They could use these things, they could sell them to provide for their needs. In days before there were life insurance policies, and days before they could quickly bring in food from other regions, this was an essential part of the safety net that was part of the culture. She opened that chest and she went to her husband and said, God has provided for us to go to Huochou and to start this opium refuge. And the Lord blessed that ministry. Christians or people got saved. Believers were brought to Christ. The church was established. Local gospel preaching pastors were trained up, and the Word of God was greatly prospered because of the gift of this Woman, of that which was so precious to her? How does a pastor's wife part with her treasured possessions? How does she part with her life insurance policy For the sake of filthy opium addicts. It's the love of Christ. It's the fruit of the Spirit at work. Now it's been a while since we looked at the fruit of the Spirit. In fact, you may not even remember that we started looking at the fruit of the Spirit. It's been a few months And my opportunities to preach on uh Sunday mornings have been limited even um because of other responsibilities, and I'm not complaining of that at all. But uh you may not remember that we actually had a couple lessons leading up to this. So just by way of review, in lesson one we saw that the Christian life can only be lived in dependence upon the Holy Spirit. Spirit. In absolute moment by moment, day by day, dependence upon the Holy Spirit, because the flesh and the spirit are involved in a death struggle, a battle. For the soul. So if you walk in the spirit, verse 16 says, you will not fulfill, you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. So walking in the spirit is the way to overcome the desires of the flesh. But it requires a moment by moment, day by day, yielding, listening to the voice of the Holy Spirit inside of you. In lesson two, we saw the Holy Spirit reveals Christ to us and gives us a desire to walk as he walked. This is what the Holy Spirit does in the life of a believer. And he does that through his word. He does that through Christian fellowship. We've already seen that we are not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together. Because it is in the assembling of ourselves together that we provoke one another to love and good works, which are what? They are the fruit of the Spirit. This is what we do with one another when we meet here together. We provoke one another to love and good works. But God also uses suffering as a pruning tactic to bring forth more fruit. God's work through his spirit. Involves pruning. So I want to encourage you to be back this evening. Pastor Nathan is going to continue his series on abiding in Christ. He's going to be doing so from from John chapter 15, which describes our vital union with Christ, how we are dependent upon the Spirit of God working within us to produce the fruit of the Spirit in our lives. And as we come to this, the list of the fruit of the Spirit, we notice that it's singular, but the fruit, doesn't say the fruits of the Spirit, but the fruit of the Spirit, and he begins with love. And the reason he does so is because love. Is the essence of God. Love is the essence of God. Twice in Scripture we are told that God Is love. God is love. It's important to note that he doesn't say God is loving. God is loving, but it's more than that. This is the essence of his nature, who he is. And the word that is used here in Galatians 5 and also in 1 John is the word agape. It speaks of the divine love. Choice, a volitional love. It is a love that gives and it serves with humility. It is the highest kind of love. It is a love that is only possible in the power of God. 1 John 4, 7 and 8 says, Beloved, let us love one another. For love is of God. And everyone that loves is born of God and knows God. So we see there very clearly that the love that is being described here is unique to those that are born of God. It doesn't exist outside of those who are born of God. He that loves not knows not God. For God is love. Love is an essential aspect of who God is. It's also an essential aspect of who believers are. are because we have been born of God. When we examined the attributes of God last year on our Wednesday night series, We saw that love is one of those those attributes that is described. And it is a love that is out of this world. Verse 1, it says, Behold what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God. And that word there, what manner? We're told to behold this, to look upon this, what manner of love the Father. That word literally means what kind or how great. It actually could be literally translated from what country. From what country is this love? Meaning it's not from this country. It's not from this world. It is an out-of-this world love. It is a love that is different from human love It is incomparable to anything else that we see in this world. In fact, it's the same word that's found in Matthew chapter 8. And I was reading this in my devotions this week. And this passage where Jesus rebukes the wind and the sea. And there's this great calm. In fact, what's amazing about it, as I was talking afterwards with someone that Jesus was asleep in the boat. He was asleep, and the disciples are trying their very best as accomplished sailors to get the boat across the lake safely. And they're, don't you care that we perish? And the Lord rebukes them The howling wind and the waves that are crashing. And the Bible says there was a great calm. It was like glass. It's one of those perfect days on the water. I told my wife at that moment when I was reading, I said, I would like to be there. I would like to have seen that. Ways, and then the waves just like a dog that's found its master and just heals. And then the disciples said, What manner of man is this. This man isn't from around here. This man isn't from the earth. That even the winds and the sea That's the exact same word. Behold what manner of love the Father has given to us. From what country does he come? Because I've never seen this before. And the love of God is the same. We who were formerly enemies of the Almighty God by nature and by choice have been reconciled to him, but also made to be the sons of God. We have an inheritance with Christ. Because of this love. The Apostle Paul prays for the Ephesian church in Ephesians chapter 3, that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith. That you, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and the length and the depth and the height, and to know the love of Christ, which Passes knowledge. He says, My prayer for you is that you understand what is the depth, the length, and the height, and the breadth of the love of God, but it's a love that really, no matter how deep you go, you'll never reach the bottom of it. No matter how high you go, you'll never reach the top of it. No matter how far you go, you'll never reach the end of it. It is a love that passes knowledge. And so you can plumb as deep as you want to go. But you'll never find the end of it. That is the infinite love of God. And the Holy Spirit produces in us a deepening love for God. And then it works itself out in a love for one another. This love is the love that God is. He is this love. It is the love that God demonstrates to us. In Romans chapter 5, it says, but God commends, or he demonstrates, or he shows his love to us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died. for us. It's a love that is not motivated by anything good in the recipient. We'll look at that a little bit more later. But it's a love that simply does for the good of the recipient. God commands, this is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved one another. That's exactly what Zi Shimu did when she sold her jade and her gold and her silver and her silk garment. To minister to the opium addicts. And this is a love that God provides as we walk by the Spirit The existence of this fruit in the life of a believer is a result of that regenerating work in us But then it is a growing love that begins to just in it begins to have a blossom, and then the fruit comes of consumption. Consistent love. Romans 5, 5 says, and hope makes not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given to us. The Holy Ghost, the Holy Spirit works in us. He sheds abroad. That word means to pour out. He pours out a revelation of God's love to us, which in turn causes us to worship Him and to love Him more and to love others more. This is the revelation of the gospel that he does when we come to know Christ. That's interesting as we come to Galatians 5 and we see love at the beginning of this list. It's not an accident that Paul says Now, the fruit of the Spirit is love. And it heads the list of it. Because it is the greatest of the Christian virtues. Love really is the sum of all the other virtues. The other eight virtues that are listed in this list. Because the fruit of the Spirit is love. You could reverse that equation. You know, if X equals Y, then Y equals X. You could reverse that equation in this instance. You could say, love Is the fruit of the Spirit. Love is the fruit of the Spirit. And these other attributes here, these other virtues here are examples of, they are outworkings of love. We see this being described in Colossians chapter 3. When Paul is talking in verse 14, he's been telling them about these virtues that they are to put on. Put on these Christian virtues of mercy and kindness and humility and meekness and long-suffering and patience kind of reminds you a little bit of Fruit of the Spirit, doesn't it? Now he's telling you, put them on. So this is the fruit of the Spirit, but we have a responsibility to put these things on in our lives. But then he says, above all these things, put on Charity or love, which is the bond of perfectness, which literally means which binds these things together in perfect harmony. That love binds together humility and forgiveness and mercy and patience and kindness. It is the totality of these other virtues. Martin Luther, in his commentary on Galatians, he said this. It might have been enough to have said, but the fruit of the Spirit is love. And not to mention anything else. Because love is the totality Of the fruit of the Spirit. Love extends to all the other virtues that are mentioned. These other eight virtues are really just the outworkings of love. Joy Is love exalting? You might say love rejoicing. Peace is love resting. Patience is love enduring. Kindness is love serving. Goodness is love purifying. Faithfulness is love being dependable. Gentleness is love in refinement. And self-control is love obeying. These are all love in the various facets that they are demonstrated. But not only is love the sum of all the other virtues, Love is also the opposite of the works of the flesh. We didn't take time to read through the list of the works of the flesh in verses 19 through 21, but If we were to look at them and compare them to love, you could very easily see that each of them are the opposite of love. Now, the word love today has been co-opted. by the LGBTQ community in an attempt really to silence opposition. You probably on your way in here this morning you probably passed a few yard signs on your way Way in that said love is love. And the idea there is that you can't deny me love. Well, the reality is that agenda is the opposite of love, it is self-focused. Not love in its essence. Now, if you're here today and you're struggling with homosexual desires and tendencies, we love you. We truly do. We love you enough to tell you that that is sin and it's dangerous and it is damning and we desire and we urge you to repent. We cannot say that homosexual relationships are love. They're not. If anything, they're really hatred because they are self-focused. And they point And they turn one away from God and they invite the damnation of God on one's soul. And that is the opposite of love. Jesus is God's expression of love on the earth. And we often think of Jesus as gentlemen. Jesus, meek and mild, and he is. But he's also more than that. And his love was not a permissive love. It's not a love that said, anything goes. It was a holy love. It was a benevolent love. It's magnanimous. It was thoughtful. It was generous. It was giving. It was patient, but it was unchanging. And it demanded holiness because love is holy, because God is holy. It was a love that denounced the hypocrites. Some of the harshest words that Jesus brought out were for the religious Hypocrites. It was a love that called sinners to repentance, sinners who were caught in sexual sin. He didn't say, don't worry about it. Love is love. He said, go and sin no more. And it called them to repentance. It was a love that rebuked his doubting disciples. It was a love that even on the road to Emmaus called them you fools. How could you be so slow of heart not to believe all that the Father of Scriptures has spoken? It was a love that used a whip to cleanse the temple, a love that was stern and angry over unbelief. It was a love that was faithful to God. and uncompromising towards all that is evil. That is the love of our Savior. So when we examine the deeds of the flesh here, these are contrary to, these are opposite to, the expression, the reality of love. Because God is love. So when you see things on the list of the works of the flesh, adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, these are just words that cover the totality of sexual sin. This is a perversion of sexual love that God has designed to be permanent, selfless, and in a heterosexual marriage. And this is a perversion. Those things are a perversion of that. Idolatry and witchcraft are next on the list. That's a perversion of the love for God, which is the first and great commandment, to love the Lord your God with all of your heart. Soul, mind, and strength. He then says hatred, variants, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions. Heresies, envyings, all of these things are perversions of the love that we are called to show to one another as fellow creatures of God. Then he talks about drunkenness and revelings. This is a perversion of the love of God's good gift that results in these perversions. Love is the totality of the fruit of the Spirit, but it is antithesis of the works of the flesh. They are at enmity. That's why verse 16 says, Walk in the spirit, and you will not fulfill the lusts of the flesh, because they are at enmity one with another. It is not possible to do so. So the Holy Spirit produces love for God in us by revealing to us the love of God in our salvation. We all know that 1 John 4:19, which says, we love Him. Because He first loved us. And that speaks, first of all, to the order that we if you if you're a believer, you can say, I love God. Well, yes, you do, but why? He loved you first. He showed you that love. love first, but it also speaks to the basis of our love. This is uh that is our love for God grows when we have a growing understanding of God's love for us. If we want to grow in the love for God, then we need to understand in a deeper way the fullness of God's love for us. That's why Paul said in Ephesians 3, that you might know what is the height and the depth and the length and the breadth of the love of God. The more you know the love of God, the more you will love God. The more you will be called to worship and praise through the inner man. You'll desire to worship and obey God. When we think of the love of God revealed to us in salvation, first thing we see is that it's a spontaneous love. Spontaneous love. What do I mean by spontaneous? I think sometimes when we think of the word spontaneous, we think of someone who is controlled by their impulses. Maybe a little child who just he sees something and he grabs it. He does it without any forethought. And that that could be the idea of of spontaneous something that is sudden That follows the urges, but that's not what I mean. That's not really what the word spontaneous means, actually. It has to do with something that is completely without external cause or external impulse. So when you think of the spontaneous love of God for you, I want you to think of it in light of spontaneous generation, that disproved theory that life can come from non-living things. And Louis Pasteur, as he demonstrated through his swan-necked vial to show that life can only come from life. Non-living things cannot produce life. Because they would look at a piece of meat and then they'd come back the next day and they'd be like, oh look, there's maggots and there's worms on it. Life spontaneously generates. He said, no. Life did not spontaneously generate, and he used that swan-necked vial to prove that life can only come from life. Similarly, love can only come from God. Who is love? His love for you is not based on any goodness that you may imagine yourself to have. He didn't look at you and say, Oh man, I see a lot of good in her. I think I'm gonna love her. I'm gonna save her because she's a pretty impressive person. That's not how God's love is. It is a spontaneous love. Isaiah 64, 6 says, but we are all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses All our good deeds, all our religious works are as filthy rags, and we all do fade as a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, have taken us away. All our righteousness are like filthy rags in the sight of God. He didn't love us because we were lovely. He loved us. Because love emanated spontaneously from him. God's love for us is totally undeserved. It would be wrong for us to think that God loved us because we were neutral. And he set his affections on us because we were neutral and he moved us to love. The reality is that we were enemies, the Bible says. That we were enemies of God. We were not neutral. We were actually opposed to Him. We had actually taken up arms against him. We had actually rebelled against him, and the demonstration of that is our sin. So if you're here this morning and you've never repented of your sins and trusted in Christ as your Savior, that that means even this moment here at church, you are an enemy of God. You may have sung all the all the hymns, but if you have not repented and put your faith in Christ In trust in Christ, you are an enemy of God. And the evidence of that is your lusting, your cursing, and your adultery, and your lying. And you're fudging on your taxes. You're stealing. It's your hatred. It's the What is it? It's the works of the flesh. The violation of God's commands show that you love yourself more than God. And you've made yourself an idol. The reality is that we've made ourselves idols. And we bow down and we worship ourselves every time we commit sin and reject his right, his authority, his command. Over our lives. But even now, in this spontaneous love, not because there's anything good in you, he is calling you to repentance. He is urging you, come unto me If you're a believer here this morning, I'd encourage you just to spend some time in Ephesians chapter 1 and meditate on it. But verses 4 and 5 say, according as he has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world. That we should be holy and without blame before him in love, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children. By Jesus Christ to Himself. So all these things, the salvation that you and I have received in Christ, why? Why did he love us? Again, it's not because he said, I see a lot of good in him. But according to the good pleasure of his will. According to the good pleasure of his will. Because he spontaneously loved you before the foundation of the world, having done neither good nor evil. He loved you, knowing you would be a rebel. Why did God choose you? According to the good Pleasure of his will. I tell you, that humbles you. When the Lord revealed that to me many years ago, I wept, honestly, I wept. And I remember thinking, wow. Why would he love me? There's nothing good in me. And yet he loved me And from time to time I come back to that passage of scripture and I cry again and I marvel. And the result is that it says it should result in us praising him for the glory of his grace. Because He did this. Out of a spontaneous love. Secondly, the love that the Holy Spirit reveals to us is that it is a self-giving love. Spontaneous, and it's self-giving. John 3. 16 says, For God so loved the world. In this way he loved the world. How? That he gave his only begotten. And notice here it's God the Father loving. When we went through the attributes of God, we said A lot of times we think that Jesus is love, but God the Father, he's kind of mean and harsh. That's wrong. That's absolutely wrong. For God the Father so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. First John 4, 9 and 10 says, In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world. That we might live through him here in his love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the prophet. Repitiation for our sins. God the Father loved us and he gave. It is a self-giving love. The reality is that your sin is a big deal. It is a big deal. It's such a big deal to a holy God that no matter how good you think you are, your salvation costs you the life Life of the Son of God. That's how big a deal it is. But God loved you and He loved me enough to send His Son. To be the propitiation, to be the wrath absorber for our sins. That's why Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Life. No man comes to the Father but by me, because I am the one that absorbed the wrath of God for you. There is no other way. Jesus says, I am that way. Salvation. When we come to appreciate the awesomeness of God's love, by the working of the Holy Spirit inside of us, He produces in us a love that is like God's love. That resembles his love because it is his love produced through our vital union with Christ. Christ. The Holy Spirit helps us to love what God loves. He helps us to love what God loves. When we think about this, and this goes back to the works of the flesh, the deeds of the flesh that are mentioned in Galatians chapter 5. God loves righteousness. God loves holiness. Psalm 11, verse 7 says, For the righteous Lord loves Righteousness. It is not surprising. He's called the Holy Spirit. He produces holiness because he loves holiness. He produces love for righteousness because he is the righteous Lord. That's why one of the evidences that you are a believer is that you hunger and thirst after righteousness. If there's no hunger and thirsting after righteousness, then don't fool yourself to believe that you are a child. Child of God. That is what the Holy Spirit does in you. He makes you hunger and thirst after righteousness. Now, remember, the reality of hungering and thirsting after righteousness is that you're not full. And so you're going to look at your life and you're going to say, why do I hunger and thirst for righteousness so much, and yet I'm still not there? Well, he says, you will be fooled. But it's not yet. But he creates in us a love for that. And that is one of the evidences that you are a child of God. In first John three, we we read this verse in the beginning of our Lesson here this morning. But I want us to see where it leads to. God. Therefore the world knows us not, because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it does not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him For we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath this hope, this hope that we shall be like him, purifies himself, even as he is pure. Where does that come from? The Holy Spirit. As He creates in us a hungering and thirsting after righteousness. Do you love righteousness? If you do, praise God. If you don't, you can say, I really don't care. Well then don't kid yourself. Child of God. This is what the fruit of the Holy Spirit does in the child of God. I know we don't love him perfectly. We don't love righteousness perfectly. But you have a desire to be righteous. Do you have a growing hatred of your sin? So Pastor Nick prayed for that our love for sin would wither and die. That happens through the Holy Spirit. Jesus said, if you love me, keep my commandments. What is the real test of my personal love to God? It's not my words. It's not how well I thing is do I love what he loves? Do I love righteousness? The Holy Spirit secondly helps us to love those whom God loves. The Holy Spirit enables us to love other Christians. 1 John 4, 20 and 21, it says, if anyone says, I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar. For he who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God, whom he has not seen. And this commandment we have from him, meaning from Jesus. Whoever loves God must also love his brother. This is just a baseline necessity. If you say you love God and you hate your brother, the word of God says you're a liar. I didn't say it. God said it. These two things cannot be. Because love for God, whom you have not seen, will always manifest itself in love for your brother. whom you have seen. Always. You know, the reality is a lot of times when we love our ordinary human love, it's because there's something in that person that kind of resonates with us. There's something we have similar hobbies, interests, desires, background, whatever. There's something that kind of resonates there. What resonates with the believer in the life of another believer? It's Christ. Christ in that person resonates with them. It's like when you're striking the chord on a piano and the other other uh Instruments of that same key are gonna resonate because that that is the same. We recognize that in that person. Christ is in them. I'm telling you, when you come to the church, there are differences within us. We're quirky. We have issues. We are sinful. We fail one another. Hang around here long enough and you will see it. But what I love is when I see believers who would never be associated with one another apart from Christ together and loving each other. When you see that, you say, that is the fruit of the Spirit that God has worked into Theodore Epp said, one of the remarkable aspects of this kind of love is the ability and power and determination to love people we ordinary ordinarily do not like. Mm-hmm. Yeah. That's the Holy Spirit doing that work. That means, on the corollary, if you refuse to forgive, You hold a grudge against your brother in Christ. It could be your husband. It could be your wife. It could be someone you meet here at church. You refuse to forgive that person. Who are you refusing to forgive? God. Hmm. It changes forgiveness, doesn't it? Changes how we look at love Because you're holding a grudge against Jesus Christ Himself, who loved you and gave Himself for you, and who cried out, Father, forgive them, for they know not what to do. When you live in the body of Christ, there will be trying, there will be testings of this. But it is the Spirit which helps us. It's interesting that we are told in Ephesians 4, forbearing one another in Love. Forbearing one another in love. Well, you don't have to forbear someone that you had and have no trouble getting along with. But that's the way it is in the body. Forbearing one another in love. The first quality of spiritual love named in 1 Corinthians 13 is love suffers long. That's what love is. Who is it you cannot forgive? Remember the cry of our Savior on the cross. Father, forgive them. Real love is intensely practical. It really is. Thirdly, the Holy Spirit enables you to love not only what God loves and who God loves, but to love as God loves Which is to love the lost to Christ. To love the lost to Christ. 2 Corinthians 5, verses 14 and 15 says, For the love of Christ constrains us. It means controls us. Because we thus judge that if one died for all, Jesus, then we're all dead, and that he that died for all, that they which live meaning us, should not henceforth live unto ourselves, but unto him which died and rose again. So the point is what? If Christ died for them, And Christ loved them enough to die for them, then we who are brought to life through him, we should do the same. We should love in a similar way. Christ loved our neighbor enough to die for him, so should we. That lost neighbor, that coworker. We should be praying for them. We should be loving them in practical, tangible ways to get opportunity for the gospel. And all the humanitarian efforts of love that we can do in this world, apart from the gospel, they're not bad, but they leave a person ultimately lost. We ought to be loving people to Christ. If we feed bellies and we take care of school backpack needs and we forget the gospel. All that love is worthless. Alan Cairns said it this way: if we love as God loves, we must love men to Christ. We must love men to Christ. We are to love what God loves, we are to love who God loves, and we are to love who As God loves. And this is done as we gaze upon the love that we've received in Christ Jesus. It's interesting that the Apostle John John. He's called the Apostle of Love. Because if you notice, most of the verses I've quoted about love came either from the Gospel of John or the Epistles of John. But how does he describe himself? The disciple whom Jesus loves, he was enamored with the love of Christ to him. So much so that it became the theme of his life, his ministry. My little children love one another. This is who John is because he was enamored with the love of Christ to him. And as we gaze upon Christ We learn to love more. If you're here this morning, you do not know Christ as your Savior. I want to tell you Jesus died For you. He sacrificed his life on the cross for you. And he's calling you. Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. He's calling you to repent of your sins. And trust in Christ. Put your face in Him alone. I urge you this morning, do not turn your back on the love of Christ for you. For you. Respond in faith. If you have questions, you'd like to know more, you'd like to talk more, I would gladly be available after the service. But do not turn your back on the love of Christ for you. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you are love, and in you we seek True love. Lord, I pray for any this morning who do not know Christ, who never experienced this love in their own lives, I ask You, Father, that you would open their eyes to understand, convict them of sin, show them the massive, infinite nature of your love for them. Help them Lord, to believe. I pray for us who are believers, that we would gaze upon your love and we would stand in awe of it, that we would know what is the height and the depth and the length. And the breadth of the love of God which passes knowledge. And that we would give praise to you, and that we would pour out this love then to others. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen