If you have your Bibles, you can be turning to Galatians chapter 5. If you're visiting with us today, we have been studying the fruit of the Spirit. Galatians 5. 22 says, but the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace. Long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. And this morning we come to the second of these nine items. the fruit of joy. The man who's generally credited as being America's first foreign missionary was Adonairam Judson, a remarkable man of keen intellect from New England, who felt God's call to him to serve on the other side of the world in what was then known as Burma. sometimes referred to as Myanmar today, that was unheard of. He didn't know of any missionaries. We take those sort of things for granted today, but he was a trailblazer. So he finally made it to the mission field and faced grave difficulties. He would bury two wives and several children. He would labor seven years before he would see his first convert. He faced brutal imprisonment and torture, and on many occasions he nearly died. And after his wife died, he spent nearly two years out in the jungle mourning her loss in the profound depths of depression. But the Lord brought him through that dark valley. He began to get back into the ministry, back into the word. Eventually, thousands were saved under his ministry. Over a hundred churches would be established in his lifetime. And after spending 30 consecutive years on the mission field, he finally returned home. When he came back to America, he says he felt like a stranger. Things had changed so much he could hardly speak English because he rarely spoke English during those 30 years. But he was somewhat of a celebrity. He went on a preaching tour all over New England to the churches that were supporting him. And one day he arrived in Stonington, Connecticut, and there was a young boy who was playing along the docks there. And he saw this man get off of a ship. He didn't know who he was, but he was struck by this man because he had a human face like he had never seen before. He said there was so much joy and radiance that it seemed as if a light was set on his face. He would come to learn that that man was the famous missionary Edinarm Judson. This little boy was so struck by that that he would himself become a preacher someday and a famous author. He wrote a book. with a chapter in it entitled, What a Boy Saw in the Face of Adonair Judson. What did he see in the face of that veteran missionary? He saw a holy man of God who was controlled by the Holy Spirit. and who is producing the fruit of joyfulness. This morning we come to the second fruit of the Spirit, the fruit of joy. Once you notice that these nine virtues can be divided up into three groups of three, this is not my observation, but the general consensus of Bible scholars down through the centuries. The first three virtues go together, of course, love, joy, and peace. These have to do with what we might call our personal attitude or even our disposition, although we're certainly not talking about a personality trait here. Did you know that everyone, deep down inside, wants to be this person? I've seen different surveys that have been taken and people would like to be thought of as loving and joyful and peaceful. I've also seen surveys that say that people want to be around this kind of person. This is the kind of person you want to marry, young people. Did you know that? A person who's filled with love and joy and peace. I mean, if you married a person like that, you'd have a wonderful life. This is what you look for in a best friend. These are wonderful qualities, universally admired. But they seem so often unattainable for us. Now, before we really get into the thick of it, I need to define what we mean by joy. Let me say first of all that this is not a personality trait. It is true that some people are born with a sunny disposition. They tend to be joyful and humorous and positive in their outlook on life. It's just the way they've been put together. It's their personality. And the fact is that they would be like that even if they were lost and never heard of the name of Jesus Christ. That's not what we're talking about. What we're talking about here is not something that is natural, but something that is supernatural that comes about by the Spirit of God controlling a life I want to also say, and this is very important, the Lord is not saying here that there is no place for grief or sorrow in the life of a believer. I have heard this passage preached in such a way that that's the impression that is given. But the fact of the matter is, mature godly people often walk through dark valleys Adonar Judson is an example of that. He had two years of his life where he did virtually no ministry because he was so profoundly depressed. And yet he was a very godly man. And I could give you many more names of wonderful Christians throughout history. that have struggled with periods in their life like this. According to Solomon, there is a time to weep. And our Savior knew what it was to be sorrowful. He is described as a man of sorrow. And Peter concedes in the passage that Pastor Steve read for us a moment ago that he says, if needful you are in heaven is through manifold temptations. There is a time in our life when we are sorrowful. There are valleys in our Christian journey. And I have heard many preachers preach on this in such a way that they would imply that anybody who is ever impressed or ever in sorrow is somehow living in sin and in wickedness. And that not only is not helpful, it's often cruel and harsh. And so we should not interpret this listing of the fruit in the spirit to be saying that. The Lord is also not saying that we are to manufacture a superficial joy. He's not calling on Christians to put on an artificial smile and to somehow mask our true feelings. He's not calling on us to be always humorous and silly. What he's talking about here is the habitual attitude of a person who is controlled by the Holy Spirit. It's a fruit. That manifests itself in their life. And it's important for us to note that the joy is not the same as happiness The Bible does speak of happiness, and often the term that's used there, however, is different from what we think of as the English concept of happiness. Our English terms happiness and happy come from the same roots. That's because there's a connection often in our minds What we think of will make us happy is what happens to us. That is our circumstances in life. And so people think, you know, if my circumstances were different, I would be a joyful person. I would be happy. If my financial situation was better, I would rejoice. If my family was not so fragmented and unstable, I could rejoice. If my job was not so stressful, I would be a joyful person. And they give out all of these different excuses based on their circumstances. But true spiritual joy is not based on a person's circumstances. This is why Paul could sing hymns of praise when his feet were in this torture device of those stocks. This is why he could write this incredibly joyful epistle, the book of Philippians, even though he was in a Roman prison. Because joy is a fruit of the Spirit that is not the result of favorable circumstances. I'm going to preach to this morning on how to cultivate the fruit of joy. The first thing I would say is that you must recognize the importance Of joy in your Christian life. This is not an extra. This is not an accessory. This is a very important and significant part. of our Christian experience. And the Bible places a big emphasis on this, believe it or not. Now there have been Christians in history that have mistakenly thought that to be godly is to be gloomy They have selectively used scriptures to teach the Christian life as a lifestyle of sorrow, contrition, and repentance. And of course All of these do have their place in our lives. There is a time to mourn. But that should not be the normal state of the believer. Did you know that God has commanded you as his people to be joyful? Psalm 37 verse 4 says, delight thyself in the Lord. This is a command. Psalm 100 and verse 2 says, serve the Lord with gladness. Paul says in the book of Philippians again and again, rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say, rejoice. In 1 Thessalonians 5, 16, we read, rejoice evermore. And these are all commands. God commands us to be joyful and to rejoice. The joy of the Lord is also a necessary safeguard against temptation. We read in Nehemiah 8. 10, the joy of the Lord is our strength. Matthew Henry, the famous commentator, said, The joy of the Lord will arm us against the assaults of our spiritual enemies and put out of our mouths a taste for those pleasures which the tempter baits his hooks. You see, if you're discontent, if you're filled with bitterness and anger, and you're very discouraged in life, you will much more easily succumb to temptation. Because the human heart desires joy. It's going to find it somewhere, even if it's short-lived, it's going to seek some path of happiness and contentments. And so if you are filled with sorrow or with bitterness or with anger, whatever emotion it may be, whatever emotion has come into your life and settled in as now your disposition, you will be very easily Tempted to find some path to at least some short-lived joy. Joy is essential. Did you know it's one of the dying legacy that Jesus left his followers the night before he was crucified in the upper room? He says these things. These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy may remain in you, and that your joy might be full. He said a little bit later that night, Your sorrow shall be turned into joy, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you. God wants his people to have the normal setting, the normal attitude of joy. You might say that's our default setting. We are joyful people. Now it's true that Jesus is called in Scripture a man of sorrows, but that is a reference to his suffering on the cross. I believe that joy that Jesus was the most joyful person who ever lived. on this planet. This is, I think, one reason why the children came to him so often and he received them gladly. You know, children don't usually go up to a grump. But they like to come to people who are joyful and make them feel at ease. They will come to them. And the children were always coming to Jesus because they saw the radiant joy that he possessed. He delighted to do his Father's will. And the more like Christ we become, the more joyful we will be. Did you know that God requires that we serve Him with joy? I remember the first time I really grasped this verse in Deuteronomy, it just. Blew me away. Deuteronomy chapter 28 verses 47 and 48 don't need to turn now. I'll read it for you. It says because Moses is speaking of the children of Israel who have been in the wilderness wanderings now for 40 years. He says, because thou servest not the Lord thy God with joyfulness and with gladness of heart, For the abundance of all things therefore thou shalt serve thine enemies which the Lord thy God shall send against thee Because you complained and griped so much in the wilderness, God says, you're going to serve your enemies. God wants his people to be joyful. You see, a miserable complaining Christian is a horrible testimony. If you have the reputation at work for being bitter and unhappy and critical and a negative person, no one's going to come up to you and say, what's your secret? They know how to be that person. They're everywhere. God wants us to be joyful. I like what John Piper says, God is most glorified in me when I am most satisfied in him. It's a profound thing to consider. And joy is the unmistakable evidence that we are being controlled by the Holy Spirit. You might think you're a very spiritual person. You come to church all the time. You read your Bible you have for years. Those are wonderful things. But I want you to know that if you are a sour person, if you are a bitter person, If you are an angry person, if you're angry at the world and everything that's happening in the world, and there's just this negative disposition that you have, I want you to know you are not a spiritually mature individual. Let me show you how often you find in the New Testament the connection between joy and the Holy Spirit. Of course, we found in our text this morning the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, Galatians 5. 22. I want you to turn with me to the next book in your New Testament, the book of Ephesians, chapter 5. Ephesians chapter five, I'm going to begin reading at verse eighteen. This is a very important verse in this book. Paul writes, and be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be filled with the spirits. What happens when a person is filled with the Spirit? Notice this. Verse 19. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Verse 20, giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now, the term joy is not expressly used in these two verses. But everyone, I think, here would describe what you find in verses 19 and 20 as this spirit of joy. It's a person that has a song in their hearts. It's a person who was always overwhelmed with God's goodness to them. They're grateful. They get up every morning and they say, thank you, Lord, for another day of life, another beautiful day that you've given to me, another day to serve you and to bring you glory. That's the work of the Holy Spirit. That doesn't come naturally. You don't need to turn to these passages. Let me read a few more to you. 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 and verse 6, Paul says And ye became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction. And then this, with joy of the Holy Ghost. These early believers at Thessalonica, when they turned to God, they were persecuted for being followers of Christ. Brutal affliction, but you know what? It was compensated for with the joy that came from the Holy Spirit. It's possible to be in the furnace of affliction you see and still have joy in your heart In Romans chapter 14 and verse 17, Paul says this, a very important statement, for the kingdom of God is not meat and drink. But righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. Joy in the Holy Ghost or the Holy Spirit. That's what it's being a Christian is all about A little bit later in that same book he says, Now the God of all hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing that ye may abound in hope through the power of the Holy Spirit. How is it that we are filled with joy and peace and hope only through the power of the Holy Spirit, he says in Romans 15, 13? So you want to know if you're being filled or controlled by the Spirit of God? Would anyone ever describe you as a joyful person? Do people want to be around you because you are a positive and encouraging person? You see, this fruit is really important. The Bible places a premium on this. This is essential that we be joyful people. It's part of our testimony. It's part of the evidence of God's work in our life that the flesh is being defeated. And that brings me to the second point. If you are to cultivate the fruit of the Spirit in your life, you must remove the hindrances to joy from your life. What are the obstacles that rob us of joy? You could view these almost as weeds since we have this analogy of growing things here. Well, the fact is the Bible speaks about a whole bunch of them. That could be an entire sermon there. I'm just going to have time to look at a few. First of all, there's the guilt of unconfessed sin. You remember King David, the sweet psalmist of Israel, a man who wrote these wonderful, joyful psalms of praise to God. There was a time in his life, a dark chapter, when he fell into sin, when he committed adultery, when he had this woman's husband murdered. And he says this about that time when I kept silence, that is, when I did not confess my sin. My bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me, and my moisture is turned into the drought of summer. That is why he cries out in Psalm 51 in verse twelve, Restore unto me the joy of my salvation. One of the things that keeps us from joy in the Christian life is this guilt. The sense that we will not relinquish our sin. We will not turn from our sin. We think it's too important. We think it's giving us pleasure. But it's really making us miserable. If you're a child of God, you can't really live in sin and be joyful. Because the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit of God, dwells within you. And he will convict you. And he will be grieved and vexed if you continue in sin. There are so many Christians who live their lives this way. They're miserable Christians. Because they know deep down inside they're not living the way God wants them to. I'm not saying that they just struggle with sin. I mean they've surrendered to sin in some area in their life That's just the way I'm going to be. That's the way I'm going to act. That's the way I'm going to respond. This is what I'm going to do. And there's that guilt because they're not right with the Lord. Let me mention another weed that hinders the production of joy in our life, and that is bitterness. Whenever I preach on bitterness, I get a lot of response from people because there's an awful lot of people that are bitter. You've never met a joyful, bitter person. Can't have one and the other. And it usually happens because of something tragic. offensive that's happened in a person's life. And everyone is going to have things like that occur in their lives. Some more than others. But what happens is they have a normal emotional response of sorrow or maybe of anger or maybe with hurt But somehow they never work through that. They never move out of that. They stay stuck in that place. And ten years later they're still feeling that way. They're still dominated with that. And it becomes a worldview for them It's like they have dark tinted glasses on, and everywhere they look, everything is dark. They can't see the lights. Somebody that they are so angry at, they can't get past what that person did to them. Often at the root of it. is they're bitter at God. They're disappointed with God. Somehow they bought into this notion that if they followed Christ, they wouldn't have these problems in their life. They wouldn't have these obstacles, they wouldn't have these disappointments, they wouldn't have these tragedies. And here they are, and their life seems filled with one great difficulty after another, and so they feel that God somehow has not fulfilled his end of the bargain. And of course, all of that is rooted in a very humanistic and distorted view of God. He's not here to serve you and make your life pleasant and easy and free of difficulty. But so many Christians fall into that trap. And they just stay there year after year after year after year. Bitterness. There's something else that robs us of joy. And that is self-pity. Self-pity. Remember the great prophet of fire, Elijah? Remember his great victory over the false prophets of Baal and Mount Carmel? It was a great a great day of triumph, and the people cried out, the Lord He is God, and he felt finally The people have turned back to God. And then the next day he receives this note from Jezebel and he flees into the wilderness. And he says, I've been very jealous from the Lord God of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant. They have thrown down thine altars and slain my prophets with the sword. And I, and I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away. I'm the only one. I'm the only one that is left. Of course it wasn't true. It was a lie. There were 7,000 that had not bowed the knee. But it's very easy when you face a major disappointment or difficulty in life to start feeling sorry for yourself. It's easy to think and compare yourself with others and say, you know, my friends, my peers, they don't seem to be experiencing what I'm experiencing. Their kids don't seem to be like my kids. Their health doesn't seem to be like my health Their financial situation is not like mine. It's not fair. It's not right. It's tempting. To fall into the snare and to count your problems and to name them one by one And it's very easy to fall into a pattern where you establish, as it were, a rut in your thinking, and you just naturally think through those progressions. There's a perverse sense of pleasure that people get from indulging in self-pity. But it's kind of like a man stranded in the middle of the Pacific Ocean in a raft. He's dying of thirst and he's surrounded by water. And so he thinks to himself, you know, I'm just going to take a little drink. It'll make me feel better. So he reaches over and he puts his hand into the ocean and he takes a little drink And for a few seconds he feels a little better. His mouth is not so parched and dry But it's short-lived because now he has more thirst because of all that salt in his mouth. And his body begins to dehydrate, and he drinks more and more, and he brings about death. Self-pity is the same way. It's deadly And it can quickly become a habitual way of thinking. I know people who habitually think this way. You know how I know they think this way? Because every conversation you would have with them follows the same pattern. And they count their problems and they name them one by one. And they all go in the same order and they say the exact same things about them. every single conversation you have with them. How does that happen? Because they've gotten stuck in this matter of self-pity and they have no joy in their hearts. That's not what God wants for his people. Self-pity is deadly. Another problem hindrance is anxiety Worry. Philippians chapter 4, this great book of joy. He says, rejoice the Lord always. And again I say rejoice in chapter 4 and verse 4. Let your moderation be known unto all men the Lord is at hand, and then be careful for nothing. Literally stop being anxious. But in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God And the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. He follows this command for us to rejoice with this admonition not to worry. Because so often that is what hinders our joy. We are worried. We are fearful. It's an amazing thing if you think about it. We live in the most secure and safe lifestyle that people have ever lived on the face of the earth. We there's nobody here that's thinking, I wonder if I want to get a meal this week. There's nobody here under the sound of my voice that's thinking, I wonder if I have a roof over my head. And yet, we are the most anxious society in the history of the world. Anxiety robs us of joy. So if you're going to cultivate the fruit of joy in your life, you must recognize these weeds and pull them out. Not allow these to be established in your hearts. And that brings me to the third point, and that is that you must learn to base your joy In God 's unchanging truth. Let me explain this to you. You see, if you base your joy on your circumstances, on your sense of well-being, even in good things, If you base it on anything other than God, you are going to be profoundly disappointed. You hear people that say that if you have your health, you have everything. Right? You ever heard that statement? That's not true. I hope you know that. I hope you don't say that. That's a lie. A lot of very healthy people go to hell. That portrays a humanistic, materialistic worldview The fact is that if you base your sense of well-being on how you feel physically, if you live long enough, you're going to lose your mobility and your health. And your ability to do things like you used to do them. That's just the reality of life. And so that must not be your basis. Many other people say as long as I'm financially secure, I'm alright. As long as I know I've got my nest egg, I've got this provision, I've got this insurance, I've got all these things lined up As long as I have that, then I can go to bed at night and I can get a good night of rest because everything is set and lined up. So what is the real basis of your joy and peace? You know what's interesting about that? There are people I've met who are multimillionaires. They have no sense of joy because they don't feel like they have enough to really be secure. You see how much is enough When do you have enough when you can say, oh, no matter what happens, I'm good. I'm set. Don't have to worry. Economy collapse. I'm good. My kids will be fine. You see, it's never enough You never have everything exactly so that you have no contingency or no problem that could rob you of your lifestyle. 1 Timothy 6, verses 9 and 10 says, But they that will be rich, that is, who set their will on being rich. Fall into temptation and a snare and into many foolish and hurtful lusts which drown men in destruction and perdition For the love of money is the root of all evil, which after some have coveted, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. He's saying there that money is more often a source of sorrow than it is of joy. And he says a few verses later in verse 17, charge them That are rich in this world. Let me pause there for a second. You know who's rich in this world? Every single one of us here. If you were to compare yourself with everyone on the face of the earth, I think that probably just about every single one of us is in the top 1%. Maybe some of you who are struggling now, maybe you're in the 2%. But if you think about it, you line up 100 people in a row, from the richest to the poorest, you're either first in line or second, everybody here. You don't think of it that way, do you? But that's the reality. We are all rich in this world's goods. And Paul says, exhort them not to be high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches. If your trust is, you know, I've got this money in the bank, I've got this 401k, I've got these CDs, I'm set, I'm good. Don't put your trust in that. It could all go. So you say, what am I supposed to trust in? You're supposed to trust in God. Exhort them to trust in the living God who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. If your joy is based on what you have or how you feel, then you're going to be setting yourself up for misery. Or how about this? How about your family? Now we're getting a little closer to home. This is what many Christians do, many wonderful godly Christians do. They put all of their eggs, you might say, in this basket. As long as my kids are doing well and walking with the Lord and doing everything they're supposed to do and having productive, wonderful lives. Then I can be happy. You put your eggs in that basket, I'm here to tell you you're going to be disappointed. What you say, what do you say about my kids? I'm saying your kids are human beings. Your kids are human beings You see, children will make mistakes. They will disappoint you. They make very poor gods, as I've said to you before. And in our society, even in our Christian society, we tend to make them our little gods, our little idols. We sacrifice so much of our time and our energy and our money. into our children, pouring our lives into them, hoping that they will make us happy. And so often they don't at the end You see, if we are going to have lasting joy, we have to build it and establish it and ground it in something that will not change. And that is God. He is the only foundation for our joy. This is why in Nehemiah chapter 9, verses 23 and 24, we read these verse, thus saith the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. Neither let the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. But let him that gloryeth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me that I am the Lord. You see, if you glory in your mind, your keen intellect, you know someday you might lose that, you might become senile. If you glory in your body and your might and your physical prowess, that's going to go downhill someday. If you glory in your riches that can all be stolen and taken away, none of that is a good foundation for your joy. What is that you know God? We read this passage today in our bulletin, Luke chapter 10. Marvelous passage for us. Very instructive for us. Very instructive for me personally. You know what these disciples were so joyful about and so glad about? It was their ministry. You know what pastors? are tempted to put as the foundation of their joy how their ministry is going. And so when a pastor is in a ministry and things are in decline and people are not being saved and people are going away and the ministry is falling apart or stagnant and nothing exciting seems to be happening, it's very easy. For a pastor or anybody in any kind of ministry, whether it be a missionary, evangelist, or whatever, to become profoundly discouraged Our joy has to be based in God alone. We read this passage, the disciples were sent out on a mission team, and they come back and they're Just brimming with joy and gladness. Lord, even the devils are subject unto us. We were able to cast out devils, Lord. You believe it? And he rejoices with them for a moment. He says, but don't rejoice in this. Rejoice that your names are written in the book of life. You see, this is the ultimate ground of our joy that we know God. Would you turn with me to the passage that Pastor Steve read at the beginning of our service? Book of 1 Peter, chapter 1. The book of 1 Peter was written to Christians who were scattered all over the Mediterranean world because they were being oppressed and persecuted. I begin reading in verse three, according as his divine power Nope, that's 2 Peter. 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 3. Blessed be God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you. Do you see how secure that is, verse 4? Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time What should be our response to our salvation, our great salvation? Verse 6, wherein ye greatly rejoice. That's our default setting. But then he concedes this, though now for a season, if need be, you are in heaviness through manifold temptations. Okay? It's all right to weep. It's alright to mourn. God made us with these emotions, but we shouldn't stay there And then he goes on that the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. And then notice what he says to them, whom having not seen you love, and whom, though now you see him not, yet believing you rejoice with joy unspeakable. And full of glory. That should be the normal Christian life. That we're filled with joy and rejoicing that we never get over that our sins have been forgiven, that we have a home in heaven, that we have eternal life, that we know God. This is the foundation of our joy. And as the Spirit of God works through us, that should be manifest to everyone around us. So let me ask you this morning, do you have this joy? Do you know that your sins have been forgiven? Do you have the assurance that your name is written in the book of life? Do you have what is described here in verse 4, an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away reserved in heaven for you? Do you have that assurance? You cannot be filled with joy unless you know that. How can you live with joy? If you strongly suspect you're not really a child of God and you've never been born again and you're not really saved, I'm amazed at how many people are in good churches, churches like this, people that are here this morning, and they go years and years and years in the misery of no assurance and of not really knowing the Lord. Lord doesn't want you to live that way. That's not the path of joy. You can't be filled with joy. It can't be overflowing from your life if you're not really sure you're a child of God's. So my prayer to you this morning is this, if you don't know the Lord as your Savior, would you seek him now? You cannot begin to manifest the joy of the Lord until you know the Lord of joy. Many years ago, there was a boarding school in London, of course, in the 19th century, 1900, or the 1800s, we should say. It was very common for British people to send their children to boarding schools. And in this boarding school there was a headmaster by the name of Brady. He was a devout Christian who was legendary for his godliness and joyfulness. In fact, the young boys in that school said that Mr. Brady went to heaven every night. Because when they saw him at school every morning, he had a smile that looked as if it came from heaven. One day one of the boys asked Mr. Brady why he was so joyful. And he said this, joy is the flag that has flown over the castle of your heart when the king is in residence. Wonderful thing for us to consider. Are you joyful? Is the Lord the King of your life? Is the Spirit of God producing joy in your heart that is manifest to others? Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you. For your word. We thank you that it is your truth. Thank you that it instructs us not only how we should behave, but how we should think and how we should feel. I pray that you would help us to be a joyful people. I pray that we would manifest in our homes, in our workplaces , in our church. in our neighborhoods that the Lord has made us glad that Because we know Him. And we know we have a home in heaven. And because the Spirit of God has cast out all those manifestations of the self-life and is working. in this area that we can be people of joy. Father, I pray that this message Would not fall on the ears of those who are profoundly discouraged and depressed and make them further angry, but I pray, Father, that it would give them hope. And I pray, Father, that you would help us to be a people who know you and walk with you. And for those who are here this morning who do not know the Lord as their Savior, I pray that they would seek you today. That they would not leave here until they have that joyful assurance that Jesus is theirs. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.