Well, it's good to be with you all tonight. Let me go ahead and begin the word of prayer before we start. Father, we thank you that yours is the glory. And it is your glory forever. Praise we open the word tonight, Father, that you would give us eyes to see your word, that you would guide your teacher, your preacher, Father, as we look to grow in godliness. And to make you the point of all honor and glory in our lives. And we ask this in your Son's name. Amen. If you will turn in your Bible with me to 1 Samuel 17. If you know that chapter well, you know that we're turning to the story of David and Goliath. I'm going to go ahead and begin to read the first eleven verses. Now the Philistines gathered their armies for battle. And they were gathered at Sukkoth, which belongs to Judah, and encamped between Sukkoth, Azekah, and Aph and sorry, Aphri's Dedim. Saul and the men of Israel were gathered, and encamped in the valley of Elah, and drew up a line of battle against the Philistines. And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side, with a valley between them And there came out from the camp of the Philistines a champion named Goliath of Gath, whose height was six cubits in the span. He had a helmet of bronze on his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail, and the weight of the coat of mail was five thousand shekels of bronze. And he had bronze armor on his legs, and a javelin of bronze slung between his shoulders. The shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron, and his shield barrow went before him. He stood and shouted to the ranks of Israel, Why have you come out to draw up for battle? Am I not a Philistine? And are you not servants of Saul? Choose a man for yourselves and let him come down to me. If he is able to fight me and kill me, then we will be your servants. But if I prevail against him and kill him, then you shall be our servants and serve us. And the Philistines said, I defy the ranks of Israel this day. Give me a man, that we may fight together. When Saul and Israel heard these words of the Philistines, they were dismayed and greatly afraid. So I have a question for you. What makes you upset? Maybe you were upset today. Now this isn't a holiness test. No one's getting in trouble for being upset today. But there are some things that should make us upset. Right. Abortion, crime , disease Persecution, famine. Yes, there are things that should make us upset, and that list could go on. But even as you sit and think about these different things that make us upset There's one topic that should be rightfully near the top of that list, and that should be God not being honored. Does the disrespect and dishonoring of God, Jesus, make you upset? I'm sure we'd all say yes. But I wonder if that has practical weight in our lives. Can you tell me the last time you defended the honor of God in public? I'm not talking about condemning sin. That's a little trickier to do in public, but a direct attack on the name of God or the person of Christ, using the names of the Lord in vain. Deriding him, ascribing to him any less glory than he is due. That's dishonoring our Lord. And if we're at all honest, I think we're not as upset as we should be when the Lord is dishonored. We need boldness in defending the honor of our Lord. And more so, a clear picture of what it means to honor the Lord, honor God with our lives. So to learn about honoring God, I'm taking us to 1 Samuel 17. We've already read the introduction. The great story of David and Goliath. This introduction of the book serves to set the stage and presents the crisis of the narrative. What's the crisis of the story of David and Goliath? It's that somebody openly defies the God of Israel. They dishonor God. In other words, they mock him They deride him, they challenge him, they contempt him, they disparage Yahweh. That's where the story starts. So I want to give you a brief introduction. We should cry too about the Lord being derived. I want to give you a brief introduction to the setting and the place of the story. So the where we're starting tonight. is in the middle of the book of 1 Samuel, which is in the history, if you know your Bible. 1 Samuel is the story of the rise of David. Right, it's the rise of the monarchy, David over Israel. The book of 1 Samuel addresses this while 2 Samuel deals with his kingship and his decline. Pretty easy. Historically, the book of Samuel is coming out of the book of Judges. And what we dealt with in the world of Judges was the widespread apostasy and disbelief among the people of Israel. This eventually results in the people of Israel demanding a king, demanding someone to lord over them. That's where we find ourselves as we enter Samuel. Even though the Israelites entered the land in judges, they conquered, they took over, they weren't unified, they weren't together as a plan. Eventually multiple different nations were attacking them. They just couldn't handle it all together. And it results in them deciding they need a king to stand up. They were weak. They were losing battles. There was no united Israel. And Saul was the first one to unite Israel into one Yet as we know, Saul loses his blessing from God by offering false idols worship. And David gets anointed the next king. Yet that has not happened yet here in 1 Samuel 17. But now we find ourselves in the valley of Elah, where the Philistines approach the Israelites once again. By conservative estimates, this is the fifth battle that the Philistines have brought up in the book in the two parts of 1 Samuel. Maybe there are others. But the two camps are set up opposing each other. It would not be the last time they meet, but this battle, of all the battles, is arguably the most detailed narrative of the battle of the Philistines in the entire Bible. So with that, we have to ask ourselves a question as we look at this. Why is this narrative so detailed? It's just a battle. What's the point? Well, if we understand our scripture and we appreciate the Lord's guidance to us in it, we must look at this narrative with a lens of being a narrative, being a story. This section of scripture clearly addresses something by the story, by the narrative format, that we should pay attention to. As I mentioned, this is the longest narrative of battle, but it's also one of the longest narratives of David in relation to any kind of fighting he does. It's very long for a fighting of any other enemy. What's also strange about this in the scope of Samuel, if you're doing a Bible reading plan by the year, you're probably not quite at Samuel yet. Maybe you're somewhere in Leviticus or moving on. But this narrative has 22 quotations. That's the most of any story narrative in Samuel. It's the longest quotation of any foreigner, Goliath, at 33 words. Verses 8 through 9. This dialogue, then, this 22 quotes, were intended by the author to communicate something to us. There's something important about this dialogue that goes on here Also, this story has a number of details that are not included at all in any other narratives. Well, as we look down here , when David It talks to his father, you know, in verse 18, he says, take these ten cheeses to the commanders. That's a lot of detail, ten cheeses. Why is there so much detail with numbers such as 10 cheeses or just the number of people talking to David? All of these have details that help us understand the nature of the narrative, like the weight, again, the weight of the armor. So this story, this narrative follows A common pattern of a story. A narrative. We've all learned it in school. The introduction, the crisis, the rising action, the climax, and then the conclusion. I would argue that in the story the verses 1 through 23 are really introduction to story. They just set the settings. You read the first bit up to the up to the climate, to the crisis. But the meat of this story happens in verses 24 through 49 with the conclusion that follows. The climax being the deliverance of David over the Philistines, and as awesome that is that is. I'm not sure that defeating your enemies by faith is really the main point of this story. Many commentators have taken the story of David and Goliath in various directions. You've probably heard some kind of allegorization of, you know, a big faith conquers big obstacles, or power of faith to overcome your struggles. There actually was even a secular author, Malcolm Gladwell, who sets this story as someone using their disadvantages for creative strategies to overcome difficulties. That's ridiculous. But it's depressing even more so how many Christians read that book as a commentary The problem with all of these views, looking at this story, this narrative, is that there's an inherent underpinning nature of the condition of that focus being a single character, and that's David. Now, while there's some merit to that conclusion, and David is very important to the story, which we'll see, I want to propose a different theme for you to think about tonight on this story. simply by focusing on a different character. And that character is God. The main theme I want to propose to you tonight is that the theme of David and Goliath is about honoring God. Why do I think that? Well, you could argue that, right? Well, hey, hey, Pastor Tobin, God's not even mentioned in this story. Doesn't speak of him as near, he doesn't talk. How can it be about God? It's clear as we look at the words that David is the central character in the narrative. But it's for the issue of the theme focused on David, David is the central character. But it's really about what David brings our attention to. What does David talk about? What is David's concern? It's not about David facing these giants. What is David primarily concerned about in this story? That's how narrative works, right? That's how story works through dialogue, focus, plot, and even in the nature of A biblical narrative like this, the Bible frequently uses faith and virtue and demonstrates this through the use of contrasts, which we see a lot in this story. This is clearly the case when we come to David and Goliath. In the story, you're introduced to many sets of contrasts, yet all these focus around a particular character, David. Right? You have David and the men of Israel. You have David and his brother. You have David and Saul. You have David and Goliath. Even a little bit of David and God. David's name is used 36 times in the book, far more than anyone else. Because we look at the dialogue of David, you will see that David is not talking about faith over fear or overcoming your weaknesses with faith. He's chiefly concerned with the honor of God. So why does this matter? One commenter said, David is mostly focused on Yahweh, on Yahweh's reputation, because it's at stake and it matters to him, and it matters enough to risk his life for it. So tonight we ask ourselves the same question. How much does the reputation of God, our Lord, and his honor matter to us? Enough to risk our lives for it? So let's turn to the text as we go through the rest of this story. But I want to present three ways to you tonight that we honor God, that we learn from this story. I'm going to do this by focusing on David, and I'm going to work through three specific conversations that David has. I'm going to chunk them. Each of these presents a truth about the honor of God in our lives as Christians. Through the narrative of David, he confronts different characters, and those characters again provide a contrast and provide a backdrop for us to talk about. But it's the words of David that hold the theological truth of what God is trying to show. in including this in his story. Now, obviously by the fact that we're covering the entire chapter 17, there's going to be stuff that I leave on the side. I can't address everything exegetically in this. But there are good secondary cast members in the story that are helpful. I want us to focus on what David's trying to get us to understand from this story. So point number one. Honoring God defends God's holiness. We honor God, we defend his holiness. I'm going to begin reading again in verse 24. All the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him and were much afraid. And the men of Israel said, Have you seen this man who has come up? Surely he has come up to defy Israel. And the king will enrich the man who kills him with great riches, and give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel. And David said to the men who stood by him, What shall be done for the man who kills this Philistine takes away the reproach of Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God? God. And the people answered him in the same way, so shall it be done with the man who kills him. Now Evav, his eldest brother Heard when he spoke to the men. And Avav's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why have you come down? And with whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know your presumption and the evil of your heart, for you have come down to see the battle. And David said, What have I done now? Was it not but a word? And he turned away. from him toward another, and spoke in the same way, and the people answered him again as before. The men of Israel are afraid. We get that in the narrative. Their response to the taunt of the Philistine is fear. They know what will be done for the man who challenges. Goliath, they say he's gonna get Saul's daughter, his father's house is gonna be free. They know what is at stake, but they will have no part in it. David and this group of men responds in verse twenty-six, when he says, What shall be done for the man who kills the Philistine and takes away the reproach of Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the army of God? enemies of the living God. Do you realize that this sentence is the first words of David in the entire Bible Have we thought about that? David is a literary mute up to this point in Scripture It is not insignificant that the narrative, this narrative is our first introduction to the words of David. Which introduce his thoughts, his mind, his heart, the character of David. We've heard about David. We've been kind of being narrated to all through the book of Samuel about who David is and what he's going to do. This is the first time we hear from the man. We hear his own words. And what we hear now is representation of what we know about David. God chose him because he saw his heart. He didn't choose him to be and choose him to be king in 1 Samuel 16, just a chapter before. But now we get to see what that means. When God says, I chose him for his heart. See, David's intent here is to further encourage the men by asking a rhetorical question. You see, this question he's asking, what shall be done for the man who kills the Philistine, they already know the answer to this question. It's meant as a rhetorical question. It's a way of kind of uh reemphasizing or making the points. And he also asked the question again and again. It says in verse thirty he spoke in the same way, kind of building the guys up. He's trying to rile the men up. He's trying to bring them to the same kind of level of upsetness. About the defiling of the name of God. But we also learn about his brother, Evav. But his brother will have none of that His comments in verse 28 highlight Vav 's contrast to David. See, some commentators speculate that his response here might still be his bitterness from being passed over in the previous chapter. Right? He was the first brother brought out, and Saul says that's not him. Maybe a little bitter still. But as we see his response as we look at it, we kind of understand, yeah, that's kind of the response of an older brother. Kind of doubting, condescending, contrasting. Yet the larger contrast is with the men of Israel and David, and we see his theological concern here in verse 26. For who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God? You see, his anger is not roused that the men are weak, that they're fearful. It's that they're openly allowing someone to defy God and they're okay with it. That's God's chosen people and purposes are being put under reproach. Disgrace is another word to use for this word, defy in the Hebrew. Goliath openly puts himself in opposition to God and to Israel in verse 10. He's in effect calling their bluff of faith. Of this is your God, let's see you work. In verse 26, this serves as a voice. The voice, the call of a man after God's own heart, a man who obeys and does the will of God. And his first words have this narrative weight of a fantastic foreshadowing for the rest of David's life. He says, Who is this that he should defy the army's living God? David's only thought is the glory of God. In the face of such open and clear opposition, his first words are defense of his holiness. The true honor of God defends the holiness of God in every sphere of life. It's coming back to us. Coming back to our conversation on being upset. Does the dishonor of God make you upset? One of the most practical ways we likely experience this is when we hear people take the Lord's name in vain, in public. His Lord's name is used profanely. But this could also extend to the good things of God being used for unholy means. Sin being tolerated in the church. When unrepentant sinners claim the name of God but do not submit to him. Or the distortion of the gospel into the prosperity gospel. To honor God means that these things would upset you, so it would be the defense of the holiness of your God. So how about us? How do you defend the holiness of your God? Personally, we have to strive to defend the holiness of God in our own lives. to our private lives, our practice, our walk with the Lord. Anytime the opposition of God's glory comes in, where do you stand in opposition to that in defilement? Would anyone consider you a defender of God's glory, God's honor? And people know you as a defender of God You see, it's also God's providence that we're in the world, but how do you react when the honor of God is being defiled by the world? Do you cower like the men of Israel? Or do you cry out? I know we all need the Lord's strength to do this. Whether we're standing in the line of the grocery store or among our co-workers, that if someone uses the Lord's name in vain, that we would defend the honor of our Lord right there May we be vigilant in this kind of protection of the honor of our God. That's where David starts, and that's where we start. Start. But the story goes on. Point two. Honoring God trusts God for deliverance. I'm going to pick back up in verse 31. This is the next conversation that David has. When the words of David spoke were heard, they repeated them before Saul, and he sent for him. And David said to Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him, for your servant will go and fight with this Philistine. And Saul said to David, You are not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him, for you are but a youth, and he has been a man of war from his youth. But David said to Saul, Your servant used to keep sheep for his father And when there came a lion or a bear, and took a lamb from the flock, I went after him, and struck him, and delivered it out of his mouth. And if he rose against me, I caught him by his beard and struck him and killed him Your servant has struck down both lions and bears, and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be like one of them, for he has defied the armies of the living God. And David said, The Lord who delivered me from the paw of the lion and the paw of the bear will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said to David, Go, and the Lord be with you. Now we see this second major dialogue of David. Now this time though, not with the men of Israel, with Saul. The contrast that the author is setting up for this session is for Saul and David. Saul is the king. Saul is notably seeing a battle in front of him in one dimension. Right? Look at his comments. He sees size of Goliath. He sees Goliath's age. He sees David's age. He sees David's experience. He sees Goliath's experience Saul's words here tell us more about his faith than he would on the surface. His weakness is trusting God. He looks with his eyes. But what else do we know about Saul when we think about Saul coming into this narrative? What's the big attribute of Saul? Well that he's big. Right? He's head and shoulders bigger than the rest of Israel. 1 Samuel 9, it talks about that's why they picked him, right? He's a big tall man The thing we're missing though in this story is that Saul should be the champion of Israel Now he's not as tall as Goliath, but this dialogue is important, not because Saul is king, but because Saul should be the one out there fighting Goliath. Saul's the most experienced battleman. He's the tallest. He's the strongest. He's the well- most well-armored, as well as being the tallest. The men of Israel will not fight, and now the champion of Israel will not fight either. David responds with a lengthy recounting of God's character and his deliverance in his response. David's faith had been strengthened by the deliverance of God, and his confidence had been bolstered time and time again. You see, for David it's not a matter of opposition or armament, but of God's hand and his trust in God. But we can look at verse 37 again as David speaks the theological key to our dialogue here. He says, The Lord who delivered me from the paw of the lion and from the paw of the bear will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine. Because honoring God means trusting God. David's simple message is this: He delivered me before, he'll deliver me again. Yahweh is the same every day. His promises do not change, his character does not change, he is the immutable God. His purposes have been stated, tried, and prevailed time and time again. See, there's no doubt in David's mind. He's fully trusting God for this situation and circumstances. He trusts God will defend his own honor. Trusting is the inner posture of David's heart. It flows from his experience with God, his relationship with him, and he knows God and he trusts him. Honoring God by trusting him can be seen in two ways. Trusting in the promises of God and with God's dealing with you. See, for us, we have the Word of God. And surely David knew and had his own revelation that he would be king. But he knew the word of God. He trusted in the promises of God. He trusted in who God was by knowing it and living it and seeking to obey it. But David also experienced God. He experienced those promises again and again. We too have this experience of experiencing God and developing trust. Right? Through answered prayer, through successful deliverance, through providential provision, so many of the ways the Lord works in our lives and shows us that He's trustworthy. We develop trust in Him. So how do we honor God? By trusting Him, by knowing His word and trusting His promises When we commit to knowing his word, trusting in them, strengthening it, using it to bolster our own trust in him. But there's also the second part, which is the majority of what David talks about. It's the recounting of God's provision. How often do you sit and just meditate on what the Lord has done for you? I know I confess that there's many times I don't think of it quite as often as I should. What the Lord has done time and time again to recount stories. That's why it's so good to fellowship, isn't it, when you have Christians over and you hear their testimony, and this reminds you, and you share more of your testimony as you see what the Lord has done over and over again. That's how We trust the Lord. We see him more and more. He provides again and again. He's showing grace to you. And a lot of it is recounting the provisions of God and worshiping from that. We ascribe him glory in that. Honoring God trusts God. But our third point for tonight is that honoring God also relies on God. And relies on God's power. Look at verse 38. We'll continue. Then Saul clothed David with his armor, and he put on a helmet of bronze on his head I 'm sorry. And clothed him with his coat of mail. And David strapped his sword over his armor, and he tried in vain to go for it, and he had not see not yet tested them. Then David said to Saul, I cannot go with you, these, for I have not tested them. So David put them off. Then he took his staff in his hand and chose five smooth stones from the brook, and put them in his shepherd's pouch. His sling was in his hand, and he approached the Philistine. And the Philistine moved forward and came near to David, with his shield bearer in front of him And when the Philistine looked and looked and saw David, he disdained him, for he was but a youth, ruddy and handsome in appearance. And the Philistine said to David, Am I a dog that you come to me with sticks? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the air and to the beasts of the field. Then David said to the Philistines, You come to me with a sword and with a spear and with a javelin. But I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defiled. This day the Lord will deliver you into my hand, and I will strike you down and cut off your head, and I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day to the birds of the air and to the wild beasts of the earth, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. and that all this assembly may know that the Lord saves not with sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands. And when the Philistine arose and came and drew near David to meet David, David ran quickly towards the battle line to meet the Philistine. And David put his hand in his bag and took out a stone and slung it and struck the Philistine on his forehead. The stone sank into his forehead, and he fell on his face on the ground. This is the third and final major dialogue of David, this time between David and Goliath. The contrast here between belief and unbelief, the measures of the world, the measures of faith, but the tension in the story is at an absolute climax, and so is the contrast. Nine-foot Goliath with hundreds of pounds of armor, taunting, ready, face to face with a boy. A boy who is the opposite of Goliath in every way. There cannot be a bigger mismatch But I'm not talking about David in Goliath. I'm speaking of God in Goliath. David's speech is the key to this text and to the conflict. Again, a David is a theological speech. speaker in this narrative who gives us insight into the purpose of this text. You see, David is not trusting in his sling. He's not playing some kind of strategic advantage like the secular authors want to tell you. David makes it clear by his text that he sees this contrast in one clear way. Again, look back at 46. This is the day the Lord will deliver you into my hand, and I will strike you down and cut off your head, and I will give the I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day to the birds of the air and to the wild beasts of the earth, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. He's coming on the basis of his honor of God, his faith in God, his own desire for God to be glorified and honored that comes as he comes in the name of God. In the honor of that name. It's not personal. It's in a sense that in a sense that it's some kind of contest between David and Goliath. No, David comes in complete reliance on God. As an agent of God in the name of God. We see this contrast of the weapons of Goliath and the puny weapons of David. What really at stake here is not a military contest. But a test of the God of the Israelites. And David knows his God, and he relies on him to prevail. You see, because what we see in this story is not about little guys using the advantage for big guys. What we see is that honoring God relies on God's power. For the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hand. In David's mind, he is simply an instrument in the hands of God. He's relying on God for the victory of this situation. In a worldly view, we can clearly see the odds are completely against him. But David's not relying on the odds. He's relying on God. Relying on God is more than trusting. You may be thinking, all right, Pastor Tobin, like trusting or relying sound very similar. But trusting is something we do with our hearts, something we do and hear. Relying on God requires that our faith get practical as we act out in the world. Reliance is trust manifested in action. We trust in the heart, but we rely when we work, when we act. David is in full reliance on God here. Reliance is not a blind face that doesn't see the world and ignores challenges. No, reliance is something that sees God as bigger than those challenges. And relies on him as we act. I mean think about this. Think about the number of shaking heads in that tent when David puts the armor away. Can you imagine all the other Israelites probably like, what what is this kid thinking? This is not gonna work out. Not good. Not good. But they had no concept of the reliance. How will the world see the trustworthiness and reliance of God if not through the people of God? It's not through the people of God relying on him in every conflict, every challenge, every strife So how do we demonstrate that kind of reliance in our lives? How are we moving forward in God's will even when the odds don't seem favorable to us? Now this isn't putting the Lord to the test. We know we don't do that. Yet it's acting on the words of God and his promises and faith. Let me give you a couple examples. Like financial decisions. We all have financial decisions. Trust says, well, God will provide. The Lord owns a cattle in a thousand hills. That's trust. Reliance, though, is giving sacrificially even when the money's tight. It's refusing unethical shortcuts for those financial gains. It's choosing generosity even when the market 's a little too volatile. It's acting in faith. Or even in decision making, right? We know trusting God is, yes, God is sovereign. He works all things for good. We can trust him. Yet reliance says, maybe I should wait before I make this decision. Wait for God. Or refusing to make panic-driven decisions. Maybe even seeking counsel and following it. You know, it's not what you agree with from godly men and women or even scripture before acting. Right? That's relying on God. What about parenting? That's a hard one. We know, we trust in our heart. You know, God saves. I can't change my child's heart. But reliance is faithfully disciplining without resorting to manipulation, praying consistently for spiritual fruit. And maintaining biblical standards rather than reacting emotionally or with the climate of the culture. That's relying on God These can all be practical ways we're relying on the Lord. See, we're acting in accordance to his promises, to what he said he is, what he will do, in dependence and acknowledgement, that we need him to prevail in that sense. Scenario. I know I've talked to so many of you over time. I know there's these stories that exist in our church. People didn't know how it was going to work, but they acted in reliance on the Lord. And Lord prevailed. It's a wonderful blessing. He's asking you, he's telling you to honor him by relying on him. By taking that step of faith and following his command, even when the odds don't look good by worldly standards. Verse fifty begins with this So David prevailed over the Philistines with a sling and a stone, and struck the Philistine and killed him, and there was no sword in the hand of David. This is our indication that our story is moving to a different place now. As we if we think about our our movie, right, we had the kind of the zoom in, the drone footage coming into the field, the backstory, and then we had the dialogues. And now the camera's kind of coming back out. The narrator speaking, kind of giving us the summaries. We've reached the conclusion. of this. The climax is over. David has been sla uh slayed, Goliath. The tension is released. And we move back to this summary. The narrator condenses what happens next as it zooms out, and we see David in the larger story once again. Yet this story is just beginning for the soon-to-be King of Israel. But what we've seen and learned about David in this narrative is our first interaction with David in the whole of Scripture. David's actually mentioned more in Scripture than most characters. Characters. But we have seen is that when God chose a man after his heart, that that manifested in a man who was very passionate about the honor of his God. The glory of his God. The honor of his God in defending his name, in trusting him, and relying on him It did not matter who David went up against. It's actually not that important. Because it's not about the physical overcoming or the underdog story. knows about the honor of God and the heart of a man of God who defends the honor of God and trusts him in his heart and relies on him for his needs. That's what we see about David in this story. May God help us to be like David and desire the honor of our God. Let me close in prayer. Father, we thank you for this wonderful story and for the bringing of Jesus through the line of David, Father, that we have eternal hope in you. Father, may you be honored by us. May we go about our lives seeking your honor and your glory that we would trust you in all things, showing the honor of our God to a fallen world. A world that trusts in stock tickers and trusts in life hacks and trusts in all of these things that do not prevail. Let us be a people who obviously And boldly trust in our Lord and rely on him and act accordingly, that we would be people after your own heart as well. And we ask this all in your Son's name. Amen.