It's good to have you here this morning. One of the Most amazing missionaries that I've ever read about was a Scottish missionary named John Payton. He was a missionary that went to the New Hebride Islands, which is in the Pacific Ocean. He felt called of God to an island that was inhabited by cannibals. That had killed and eaten the missionaries that had previously gone there. When they went there, they faced daily danger. The natives wanted to kill them. One night they were in their little cabin and they could see that there was a vast army. of locals around them with torches in their hands preparing to set their little humble abode on fire and kill them. They could not call for help. There was no one to help them. All they could do was pray. They fell to their needs. And they prayed this prayer that God would deliver them from evil. And to their surprise The attack never came. The next morning they got up and everyone was gone. Their house was still standing. They were still alive. Didn't know what to make of it. Sometime later, the chief who had orchestrated that attack actually came to faith in Jesus Christ. And one day they asked him about that faithful night, why is it that your men didn't come and set our hut on fire? Why didn't you kill us that night? We had no defenses. And the man said, Well, we couldn't attack because your hut was protected by an army of men in shining garments And so we didn't go any further. I don't know what you make of that. It'd certainly, I think, be an extraordinary answer. to this petition that we come to this morning in the Lord's Prayer. Matthew chapter 6 And verse 13, the final quotation says, but deliver us from evil. There is some debate among scholars whether or not this prayer has six. or seven petitions. There are many who see the sixth petition as just having two parts. Others say, no, it's a separate one. This is the seventh one. Those who tend to be into the study of numbers say, well, you know, seven's the number of perfections, so it must be seven petitions. Those who like symmetry say, no, there's there's three and three. Three for for God's rights and three for man's needs. And I just say it really doesn't matter at all whether there are six or seven petitions. What we do know is that these two parts are intricately connected. Lead us not into temptation. That should be the cry of every believer. Because we are weak and because our foe is strong and because we've fallen so many times in the past, we should always have this prayer. Father, do not allow me to face great temptation today. But sometimes It will be the Father's will that we are placed in a very tempting situation through no fault of our own. And it's in that situation that we should pray, deliver us from evil. Now, what does this phrase mean? What is it referring to? What's actually quite broad, I think. I think it means that we should pray that God would deliver us from falling to temptation, referring to the evil of sin. That seems to be the immediate context. I think it means that we should pray that God would deliver us from evil people who would do us harm. Dave read a psalm for us today, Psalm 31, and many of David's Psalms we see him crying out for God to deliver him from the evil one or from workers of iniquity. There are people who attack the body of Christ. There are those who seek to destroy the work of God. We should also pray that God would deliver us from this present evil age, the evil world in which we live, referring, of course. to the values, the attitude of resistance against God. It permeates the atmosphere in which we live. And if we are not careful, it will infect us. But I think that primarily what is being expressed in this final petition is that we should pray that God would deliver us from the evil one that is the devil. This is the way most scholars take this final petition. Now I wonder what you think of this. I wonder if you think it's ridiculous and preposterous in the 21st century to think of there being a personal devil. In fact, I wonder if you've ever really prayed in your life that God would deliver you from the evil one. Has that ever been your petition or anything like it? I suspect that there are many Christians that have never prayed anything similar to this petition. And the reason is because You don't really think you're involved in spiritual conflict, and perhaps you're not really convinced in your heart that there is a devil, that there is a being called Lucifer or Satan who is your adversary. The great Oxford scholar C. S. Lewis wrote a book, a classic entitled The Screwtape Letters. about one older demon writing to his, I think it was his nephew demon, and and giving him the uh the the the teaching him the ropes as it were, showing him how to be effective in and tempting Christians and deluding them. And he says in the introduction to this book, there are two equal and opposite errors into which our race can fall about the devils. One is to disbelieve in their existence. The other is to believe and feel an excessive and unhealthy interest in them. They themselves are equally pleased by both airs and hail a materialist or a magician with the same delights. saying that in response to this issue we tend to make one of two errors. Either we become obsessed with it or we completely deny the existence of the forces of darkness. So if we are going to effectively pray for God to rescue us from the Prince of Darkness. We must know something about our adversary, his weaponry, and the means that he uses to trip us up. I'm going to speak to you this morning on praying for deliverance from the evil one. And in order to really pray for deliverance, we must understand the adversary who tempts us. The Bible Throughout its pages tells us that often a person's name reveals something of their character. And the Bible has given many names to Satan, our adversary. We don't have time to look at all of them this morning. I'm going to just look at a few. The Bible describes him as a bully or a dominator, as a prince or a ruler. In John chapter 14 and verse 30, he's described as the prince of this world, and chapter 12 and verse 31 as the ruler of this world, in Ephesians 2. 2 as the prince of the power of the air. And in 2 Corinthians 4 4 it says he is the God of this world using a small g. There are not two gods, there's only one. But in the world's estimation, he is like a God. People often scratch their heads at this and say, I thought that God was in control of this world. You know, we sing the hymn, This is my father's world. The Bible says the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. So how can these both be true? I think the best way to think of this, and it's not a perfect illustration. So think of a man who owns an estate, who owns a home, but he has a renter who lives there. This renter might tell all of his friends, this is my house. I do whatever I want in this house. He may lay down certain rules for the people who live in that house. He may treat that home as if it is his own. He may put holes in the wall. He may destroy the carpets. But it's really not his house. It belongs to the owner. I think that's the way to view These two truths. Satan is the God of this world, but the world is ultimately owned and controlled by the Lords. And the devil can do nothing apart from his permission. Satan dominates the world stage. He incites the persecution of believers. He empowers evil dictators to do his bidding. Satan is a dominator. He is a ruler. The Bible also teaches that he is a destroyer. In John chapter 8 and verse 44, it says that he was a murderer from the beginning. That is his nature. He is a destroyer. He seeks to destroy human life. He delights in the common practice of abortion. He loves the drift towards euthanasia. He loves for human beings to perish because man is made in the image of God. And he loves to destroy Christians spiritually. In 1 Peter 5 and verse 8 it says, Your adversary the devil walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. Satan loves to destroy lives, believers, families, churches He does not create, he destroys. Satan is also a defiler. In Matthew chapter 12 and verse 24. Speaks of him as Beelzebub. And this is a reference to 2 Kings chapter 1, but refers to the Lord of filth. One writer called him the genius who presides over all corruption. In the Gospels, when the Lord cast out spirits, demons, they were called unclean spirits. Satan defiles all that is holy and good. He takes something that God has designed that is wholesome and beautiful, and he distorts it and defiles it. He is the mastermind behind the pornography industry. He uses it to destroy marriages and families. He seeks to degrade and defile all that is holy. He delights in destroying the innocence of childhood. He corrupts everything that he touches. Satan is also a deceiver. It says in John 8. 44 that he is a liar, that there's no truth in him. He is the father of all lies. This is one of his most powerful and effective tools is to lie people and to get them to believe his lies instead of God's truth. Satan is the fountainhead of all deceit and trickery in the world. 2 Corinthians 4. 4 says that he blinds the minds of the lost lest they believe. This is why some of you have had opportunities to witness to someone who is lost in your family, and it seems so plain and so apparent and so clear to you, and yet they don't see it. Because they've been blinded doesn't make sense. It's foolishness to them. This is why so many Christians who seem outwardly at times to be healthy and strong spiritually and to be thriving and growing. They go to church, they serve, they do all kinds of things. And then all of a sudden it's like they fall off a cliff spiritually, and people say, How did that happen? You know how it happened? They believed a lie instead of God's truth. They became convinced of something, and they acted upon it And even though that lie is completely refuted in Scripture and the Bible says the exact opposite, they still cling to it and they won't release it, and they believe it, and they live their life by it. So much of what spiritual counselors do, so much of what pastors do, is try to convince people that the lies they're believing are not true. He is a deceiver. Satan is behind all false religion. He is behind the proliferation of false teachers. Every time God establishes something that is true, like the church, there will be Myriads of false churches. I'm not saying that every church that doesn't cross their T and dot their I exactly like us is a false church don't misunderstand me But he does propagate a false gospel because he's deceiver But Satan's not only a dominator and a defiler and a deceiver. He is also a discourager. Our English word devil comes from the Greek term diabolos, which means slanderer or accuser. Revelation 12, 10 describes him as the accuser of the brethren. This is where Satan uses psychological warfare. He convinces us, reminds us of our sins, of our inconsistencies, of our failures. So that we will be cast down and discouraged and want to quit It's this great instrument of discouragement that he's used so effectively to bring so many pastors out of the pulpits. Unfortunately, you sometimes hear of pastors who fall into scandal. It's a horrible thing. And that is the work of the devil often as well. But for every pastor who gets out of the pulpit for that, there are many, many more who get out of the pulpit because they're so profoundly discouraged. This is one of his great weapons. Discourage people. Convince them there's no point to it. They're accomplishing nothing. This is what brings most missionaries home from the fields. They study and they prepare and they raise support and they gather all a whole support network behind them and they go to the field and things don't work out the way they thought they would. They encounter resistance They have people who supposedly get saved, but then they go back to their old life and it happens again and again and again and again and after how many years they labor, they say, what's the point of this? What have I got to show for my labors? I poured my life into this and look at it. And they quit. Satan likes to whisper lies in their ears and discourage them and accuse them. But we must not be ignorant of the adversary. There's so much more that could be said. But I want to now turn to my second point. And that is in order to pray for deliverance, we must understand how our adversary tempts us. And the best place for us to find that is in Matthew chapter 4. We have been studying the Lord's Prayer in Matthew chapter 6, which is part Of a larger section called the Sermon on the Mount, which runs from Matthew 5, 6, and 7. But right before that, at the inauguration of his ministry, we have our Lord being tempted in the wilderness. And I suspect that when the Lord called his disciples to pray, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, he was thinking about his recent conflict in the wilderness. This was not some theoretical academic instruction. This was practical. This was real. This was where he had just come from. I want to read quickly the first eleven verses of Matthew 4. Then what Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward a hunger. And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. But he answered and said, It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Then the devil taketh him off into the holy city and setteth him on the pinnacle of the temple, and saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, Cast thyself down, for it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee, and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against the stone. Jesus said unto him, It is written, again, thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Again the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain. And showeth him all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them. And he saith unto him, All these things will I give thee if thou wilt fall down and worship me. Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan For it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. Then the devil leaveth him. And behold, angels came and ministered unto him. Before we look at these three waves of temptation, I want to make some general observations from this encounter. I want you to notice, first of all, that the devil will tempt us only by the permission of God. It says here in verse 1, Jesus was led up of the Spirit into the wilderness. And in Luke's account, we find this as well. And in Mark's account, he uses a term that speaks almost violently of God thrusting him into this place of temptation. We must pray, lead me not into temptation, but sometimes God will put us in a place where we will be tested. And if he does so, of course, he will provide us the grace to endure and to be victorious. I want you to also notice the devil will often tempt us when we begin to actively serve the Lord. It's not a coincidence that right as the Lord began his public ministry, We see him right before this being baptized, the beginning of his ministry, and the very next thing that we read of in all the gospel counts is the temptation in the wilderness. Often when an individual, I've seen this time and time again, when they take some real steps forward spiritually, they say, I am going to serve the Lord, I'm going to get involved. I'm going to join the front lines and I'm going to enter the battle. It is then that Satan will train his guns on them, and they will face the attacks of the wicked one. I want you to notice the devil's temptations are custom-made for his opponents. The kind of temptations that we read of here would not work for us. But they were exactly what would work for the Lord if indeed he would fall. My point is the devil knows what bait to use with every individual. Some things that you struggle with, the person sitting next to you in the pew, they don't struggle with that at all. It wouldn't be a temptation for them at all to be put in a certain situation. So we need to be aware of this. We see that the devil's temptations will often come at your weakest moments. Notice the very first temptation. He comes. It says the tempter came to him when he was a hunger. After he was a hunger, he had gone forty days and forty nights without any food. And now he comes and he tempts him to make bread out of these stones. The Lord was at his weakest moments. You see, Satan not only chooses his bait, he chooses his moments as well to tempt us. I want you to notice the devil will tempt you by appealing to your self-interest. All of these temptations were directed to our Lord's self-exaltation, self-preservation. They were all things that Jesus had a right to enjoy. You see, the devil will always appeal to our sense of fairness, our sense of what is right for us, of what we've earned. of the respect that we should have, of the privileges that we should enjoy. He will appeal to our selfish interests. People love to talk about their rights. Business knows this, this why and banks they have up signs that talk about the customer's bill of rights and hospitals have the the customers' rights and everywhere you go everywhere I've got my rights And that's where Satan will appeal to us. We see that the devil will tempt you more intensely at some periods in your life than in others. The last verse of this account says that the devil left him, at least for a while. We read together this morning. From Ephesians chapter 6. I believe it was verse 13 where it spoke of standing in the evil day. Some days, some days it will seem as if you are just enduring one barrage of assaults from the wicked one after another. And it may not just be a day, it may be a period of time in your life when you're under a very violent assault, and then other times the sea will be quite smooth. We have to be aware of this. But now I want us to turn to these three specific avenues of temptation that the devil uses. Oh, there are multitude of varieties of these, but they always will fall into these three. This follows the same thing that you see in the devil's tempting of Eve in the Garden of Gethsemane. It corresponds to what you read. in 1 John chapter 2 and verse 16, for all that is in the world, the lust of flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. There are really only three major avenues that Satan has to tempt us. And here they are. The devil tempts us through our appetites to enjoy things that are outside of God's will. Our Lord in this account is starving. He's gone forty days without food. The devil suggested he turn the abundant stones out there in the wilderness that even look like little flat loaves of bread. He says, just turn one of these into breads. And how appropriate that would be. He after all is the bread of life. He was the one who provided manna in the wilderness. Why should he not meet his basic and essential physical needs in this way? The need was real and the remedy was easy, but it would have been contrary to his father's will. You see, every time we read in the Gospels of Jesus performing a miracle, it was not for his own. personal comfort and needs, it was for the glory of God. And so this would have been outside of God's will for his life. Satan still seeks to use our natural physical desires to enslave us. This is why so many people are addicted to substances. They are slave of their own passions, their own appetites and desires. They rule their lives And so many people fall and become enslaved to these. They think in their minds, again, remembering that Satan is a deceiver. God would not have given me these strong desires unless he wanted me to yield. And God wants me to be happy. And so fulfilling these desires would make me happy. So this must be God's will for me. And what we see here is that the question is not, how do you feel? But is this God's will for you? Is this what God wants you to do? Not is this what I want to do? Is this what God wants for you? That's the question we must ask. We have to be very careful that we do not allow our appetites to rule us and cause us to go outside of God's expressed will for our lives. We see secondly the devil tempts us by our ambitions to achieve things that are outside of God's will. In verses 5 and 7 through 7, we come to the second phase of this temptation. The Lord's taken to the top of the pinnacle in the temple. Josephus tells us that this pinnacle was 450 feet up in the air. It provided a spectacular view of Jerusalem. And here the devil tempts him to act presumptuously. and cast himself down to the ground so the angels could rescue him. He even has a verse for it. As you know, he quotes from Psalm 91, which speaks of the fact that God will protect his own. And certainly, if God would protect his own people, he would protect the Son of God's. What a spectacular thing this would be in his mind, to leap off of that pinnacle and to have the angels rescue him and bring him softly down to the ground, perhaps. Insinuating that people would come to believe in him. We need to be very careful that we do not act presumptuously. That we do not think that doing something outside of the will of God will in fact result in something really good happening. I can do something wrong, but maybe something really great will come from it. So often people fall in this area. We also see here that just because something has a Bible verse attached to it Does not mean it's God's truth. Of course, many of you know that he leaves out part of the quotation here. In all thy ways. That is, if it's according to God's will. But the very thing that Satan is trying to do is to act, to get the Lord to act outside of his Father's will. And this is what he seeks to do with us. And at times we might even have a Christian brother or sister. It says, you know, I think it'd be alright for you to do this. You know, I was reading the Bible today. I came across this obscure verse here. It seems to me that that gives you permission to do this, sir. It would be fine for you to do that. I know there's other verses that say you shouldn't, but I think God wants you to do this. I think I can see good things coming out of this I can't tell you how often I've heard of situations like this where people have done things that are categorically condemned in the Word of God because of some obscure verse that some friend supposedly told them. Made it all right. We must not be ignorant of his devices And the third and final phase we see is that the devil tempts us by our avarice or our greed. to obtain things that are outside of God's will, verses 8 through 11. The next temptation is most likely a vision. Because there is no mountain in the world from which you can see all the kingdoms of the worlds So in this vision, in a moment of time, our Lord beheld all the great kingdoms of the world, the Roman Empire, Jerusalem, Syria, the Egyptian kingdom, all the splendor of the inhabited world passed before his eyes. And the devil says to him, you can have all of this if you just bow down and worship me. We say ultimately all temptation comes down to a matter of the hearts and what we worship. Now there's a sense in which the devil had no right to make this offer because he's just a renter, remember, the world's not really his. And in fact, what he is suggesting that the Lord could have all of this is something that is told us in Scripture that someday he will rule over all of that. What the devil is proposing here, and this is what I want you to see, is a shortcut. He's telling him that you can have the glory and the exaltation over all the earth and you can skip the cross. You don't have to go through all of that pain and suffering. You can skip that and still have all the advantages and all the blessings. This is one of Satan's most effective lies, is it not? Doesn't he always propose people shortcuts? You don't have to work hard, save up money, slowly establish yourself. You can steal it, or you can gamble your way to riches. Or you can plunge yourself into incredible debts. You don't have to work hard and earn and slowly. No, just get there in one step. You don't have to wait till marriage. You don't have to be committed to someone. You can have, this is the great lie of Satan, you can have the blessings of God. And all of your sinful desires fulfilled at the same time. It doesn't have to be an either-or proposition. This is why false religion is so appealing to people, because that's what people want to hear They want to enjoy the pleasures of sin and the blessings of heaven. They want to have it both, not either or. You don't have to suffer. You don't have to do what's difficult and painful. You don't have to go to the cross. You don't have to take up your cross and follow the Savior. No, no, no, no. None of that self-denial is necessary. That is why that whole truth that is so often repeated in the teaching of our Lord is all but vanished from modern Christianity. Why is that? Because so often we have a commercialized gospel, and the idea of taking up your cross, denying yourself, and following him doesn't sell very well. You see, the devil's shortcuts are always the road to misery. And my third and final point is this, in order to pray for deliverance, we must understand how to resist our adversary who tempts us. We've talked about his characteristics, his attributes, as it were, that are so daunting to us. We're talking about the tactics that he uses to destroy us. Well, what can we do about it? I want to begin by asking you to turn with me to Luke chapter 4. In Luke chapter 4, you have Luke's account. of the temptation of Christ. And I want to note you to notice something that Luke brings out that Matthew doesn't emphasize. Look with me at verse 1, Luke chapter 4, verse 1. And Jesus being full of the Holy Ghost. returned from Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness. So then we go right into the temptation. But notice we see that he was here filled with the Holy Spirit. Now skip down with me to verse 14 of the same chapter. This is the conclusion of it. It says, and Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee. Now look with me at verse 18. This is what he said when he went to Nazareth and opened the scroll in the synagogue. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Because He hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives. And the recovering of sight to the blind to set at liberty them that are bruised to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. Notice in all these references that we just looked at, it speaks of him being controlled and empowered by the Spirit of God. This is why Galatians 5. 16 says, walk in the spirit, and ye will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. You know why the Lord Jesus Christ was victorious in the temptation of the wilderness? One reason is because he was filled with the Spirit of God. This is why we need to walk with the Lord and make sure that we are empowered by the Spirit of God because He is the only way that we are going to be able to stand in the evil day. If we are being controlled by our flesh, we will fall. But if we're filled with the Spirit, we can be victorious. We can resist the devil's temptations So we must first of all be filled with the Spirit. And secondly, we must use Scripture as a weapon. I'm sure you've noticed that as we look at those three phases of temptation, in Matthew chapter 4 that in every case the Lord quotes from Scripture. It's interesting to note that he quotes From the book of Deuteronomy. In the first temptation, he quotes from Deuteronomy chapter 8 and verse 3. And what's interesting is that there are two amazing parallels with the verse that he selects. And that is that Israel was being tempted in the wilderness, was being tested in the wilderness, and God was feeding Israel with manna, bread from heaven. My point is there could not have been a closer parallel in the entire Old Testament to the situation that he was facing. The Lord knew the exact verse to go to And the next temptation, he quotes from Deuteronomy 6, verse 16, ye shall not tempt the Lord your God. You see, Israel was tempting God, and now Satan was seeking to entice the S. entice the Savior to test his father's will. And in the final temptation, he quotes from Deuteronomy 6. 13, thou shalt fear the Lord thy God and serve him. And in context, Israel was tempted to worship the false gods of the people around them in order to obtain the deliverance and protection that they felt they needed. We don't have time to go into all the details of that, but let me just say this. In every situation, the Lord had the exact right verse that paralleled the context, the nature of the temptation. He had the right verse. Let me put it to you this way. For every poisonous Assertion and lie of the wicked one, there is an anecdote of truth in the Word of God. For every lie, there is a corresponding truth that will defeat it. And it's up to us to know that truth. This is why it's so important for us to be students of the Word of God. This is why we have expositional sermons that go sequentially through verses and books of the Bible. This is why we have Sunday school classes. This is why we have programs where our children memorize scripture. This is why our young people memorize Scripture. We need God's truth to permeate our minds so that when Satan's lies come upon us day by day, we say, no, that's not true. That's a lie because God says this. And we repel it and resist it with God's specific truth There's two different Greek words for word. And the one he used here by every word from the mouth of God is a word that does not refer to the entirety of scripture. There's a word for that, but one that refers to a specific truth of scripture. And that's what he uses. You see, the Lord was finding the exact truth. That would counteract the lie of the wicked one. And that's what we need to be able to do. We read together this morning that wonderful passage on spiritual warfare in Ephesians chapter 6. And if you Carefully noted, the only offensive weapon that is mentioned was what? The sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. It's the only weapon we have as spiritual warriors. Is God 's truth. That's what we use to attack and to fight back against the wicked one. The final thing I want to say about us defeating Satan is that we must pray to defeat Satan. And now I've come full circle. We started out with the Lord's Prayer. Deliver us from evil. Now I want you to think with me for a little bit. I carefully looked at all of the accounts of our Lord's tempting in the wilderness, and it doesn't say specifically that he prayed. So I don't want to be too dogmatic on that point. But don't you really think the Lord was doing a lot of praying during those forty days that he was in the wilderness and he was fasting? Didn't the Lord teach his disciples those things go together, prayer and fasting? What do we read about the Lord when he went away from the crowds? It speaks about him going up into a mountain and spending the whole night in prayer. Speaks about him going away from his disciples into the wilderness to pray. And now he's forty days and forty nights in the wilderness, and he's fasting. And he's been led there by the Spirit of God and he knows he's facing temptation. What do you think he was doing in a large part during those 40 days? He was praying. I feel certain of it. The Lord was a man of prayer. This is why Jesus said to his disciples , In the Garden of Gethsemane, when the powers of darkness were fully energized, he said, Watch and pray that you enter not into temptation. And this morning we read together that passage in Ephesians 6. Did you notice the very last verse that tops it off? Says this, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit You see, this is absolutely vital to our spiritual warfare. We are to pray daily. Deliver us from the evil. Deliver us from the evil when we pray to God. We put on, as it were, the whole armor of God in that verse in Ephesians 618 says that we also are to make supplication for all saints. We are to remember our brothers and sisters that are also involved in the conflicts. And we pray for them. We pray for our children. We pray for our parents. We pray for our spouses. And we should pray daily, because we're soldiers in a vast conflict. So do you realize you're in a battle? Do you really believe that there is a personal devil and that he has a vast host? Of co-conspirators and demons that do his bidding. And they are seeking to destroy your faith and destroy your family and destroy your church and destroy your nation. We're in a battle. And that's why we desperately need to pray. One of the most interesting individuals In the history of the church was this poet William Cooper, friend of John Newton, the hymn writer. William Cooper wrote a number of our hymns. There is a fountain filled with blood. He wrote other hymns like God moves in mysterious ways his wonders to perform. He was a man who struggled with mental instability. He tried to take his own life several times, but he wrote some wonderful truth. And one of the things that always stands out that came to my mind as I was preparing this message was this. The devil trembles when he sees the wicked, weakest saint upon his knees. It's a wonderful truth. You might say, I feel so weak. I feel so inadequate. I can't stand up to Satan and his host. You're absolutely right. That is why you must get on your knees. And though you may be weak and inconsistent , And you've made lots of mistakes. When you draw on the resources of God, you can stand. And you can be delivered from all of the snares of the wicked one. Let's close in prayer. Our Father, how weak we are, how often we go astray How even the best of us here this morning have failed miserably and at times have been so easily defeated by the temptations of the wicked one. And so, Father, we pray to you as a body That indeed you would deliver us from evil, that you would strengthen us by your grace, that you would fill us with your spirit. That we would walk in newness of life. Oh Father, keep us safe, for this world is indeed a battlefield. And we are soldiers of the cross. Help us, Father, to remember that. Help us to live in light of this truth. To remember that this world is not a playground, it is a battleground. That we must be watchful, we must be ready, we must be fortified. We must stand together. Help us, Father. To become men and women of prayer That we might stand, that our families might stand, that our church might stand. Oh Father, use these words to accomplish your purposes in our lives. And help those, Father, who are here this morning, who are yet deluded into thinking that their own righteousness has saved them for their own good deeds have earned them your merit. I pray that they would see that this is indeed a lie of the wicked one. And they would resist this lie, cast it down, and trust in the gospel of grace and seek the Lord. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.