And in that sermon, I quoted Matthew 10, 34, where Jesus says, think not that I am come to send peace on the earth. I came not to send peace but a sword. And I mentioned in that sermon that this verse doesn't give us a warm, fuzzy feeling inside. And then I said you'll never find that verse on a plaque or a wall hanging. Well, a few weeks later, I got this plaque in the mail that somebody had made up for me. Think not that I am come to send peace on the earth. I came not to send peace for the sword. That's why a pastor should never say never when he's in the pulpit Jesus does divide people. It's always been that way. A key verse in our passage this morning is John 7. 43, which says, so there was a division among the people over him. And notice the division was all about Christ, the division over Him. The great divide in humanity is not between races or ethnicities. It's not between male or female or rich or poor or educated and uneducated. No, the great divide is between those who know Christ and those who do not know Christ. This morning we are concluding John chapter 7. In this chapter, Jesus is ministering in Jerusalem during the Feast of Tabernacles, which was in the fall. In verse 37, we come to one of the most dramatic events. in the life of Christ. It's the final day of this festival. The streets of Jerusalem are crowded. People are packed in around the temple. And in a moment of silent worship, Jesus stands up. And he lifts up his voice and he says, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink, and whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. This was Jesus' great invitation on the great day of the feast. And the rest of John chapter 7 is a record of how the people responded to those words. And we have two broad categories of responses that make up two brief paragraphs. In verses 40 through 44, we have the response of the common people. And then in verses 45 through 52, we have the various responses of the authorities or the leaders of Israel. And also that paragraph explains why they were unable to arrest him at this time. Now, why does John record these various responses to Jesus? This is not what we would tend to find and think of as the most interesting portion of God's Word. There are portions like that in the Bible. Don't misunderstand me. It's all profitable. It's all given by God. But there are portions of scripture, like in this case, where somebody says this and somebody says that and somebody says another. And we kind of wondering, like, why why is that there? Well, ultimately it's there because God, the Spirit, has spoken through John and to have him write this down exactly as he wanted. But John, I think, had three reasons As to why he has recorded these different responses. Number one, because the response expressed by the people All concern the theme of this book, which is the identity of Jesus Christ. The whole Gospel of John, from beginning to end, is seeking to answer this question: who is Jesus? And secondly, the opinions expressed by the people, when properly understood, actually testify to his unique identity. For example, when the temple police went to arrest Jesus and they came back empty-handed, they say, no one ever spoke like this man. And in saying that, they are giving testimony to the identity of Christ. They're saying more than they perhaps knew they were saying. And a third reason that John has included these responses is because these are still some of the ways that people respond to Christ today when they hear the word of God preached. No one remains neutral under the preaching of the gospel. Either your heart Is softened, and you say, yes, this is who I believe Jesus is, and my faith is strengthened because I've heard the word of God declared today. Or you say, that is not what I believe, and your heart is hardened There's a sense in which everyone here this morning, you're either coming closer to the Lord, your faith is increasing, whatever level it might be at. or you're drifting further away, your heart is becoming harder. The presentation of Christ always creates different responses in people. There's different ways of looking at this passage. I want us to see six representative responses to Jesus that are found in these two brief paragraphs. The first one is that some people, when the gospel is preached, will believe that Jesus was just a great man. Look with me at verse 40. When they heard these words, some of the people said, this really is the prophet Now the words that they are referring to that they heard were the words that Jesus just said on the last day of the feast when he invites those who are thirsty to come and drink. And notice the first response of some of the people is that he was the prophet, not a prophet, but the prophet. This is a reference to Moses ' prediction in Deuteronomy chapter 18 about a coming prophet. He says in Deuteronomy chapter 18, verses 18 and 19, I will raise up for them a prophet like you that is like Moses. From among their brothers, that is, he would be Jewish. And I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And that verse is the key text in the Old Testament that prophesies the prophetic ministry of Jesus. Now, why did they equate what Jesus had just said to the word to Moses and what he said in Deuteronomy 18? I think it's because It was Moses in the wilderness who on several occasions brought water out of the rock to give drink to those thirsty people. And now Jesus says, if any man thirst. And they're thinking to themselves, this kind of sounds like something Moses would say. And Moses did predict that someday a greater prophet than him would come. And so they make this connection. This is not the first time that we've seen Jesus referred to as That prophet. In John chapter 6 and verse 14, after the feeding of the 5,000, the people say, This is indeed the prophet who is to come into the world. Now we know from the remainder of that chapter that that was not a true expression of faith. Because the next day in the synagogue at Capernaum, Jesus preaches the gospel. And the people go away, and they walk no more with him. They believed he was the prophet, but they did not have saving faith. Now what might be confusing to you is that right after this first identification, we read of people saying in verse 40 that this is the Christ. And you might say to yourself, I thought that you just said that This prophet was a reference to Christ. It is. But we know that in the first century, there were at least some rabbis who thought they were two distinct individuals. We find this misunderstanding reflected even in the Dead Sea Scrolls, the Qumran community of the first century. This was a wrong understanding of the Word of God, but it was prevalent. And so what people I think were confessing when they said that he was the prophet is they were professing that he was a great man, like John the Baptist. That he was a great example of morality, that he was a great spokesman for God, that he provided a great example of self-sacrifice, but they are not saying that he is the Son of God. So these people have part of the truth, but not all of the truth. There are many people today who will say that Jesus was a great man, but they will not acknowledge him as the Son of God. Now let's move to the second response. When the gospel is preached, some people will believe that Jesus was The Messiah. Now the second response certainly seems to be the right response, and perhaps it was We see in verse 30 it says, another said, this is the Christ. The word Christ is the Greek form of the verb that means to anoint. The Hebrew equivalent is the word Messiah, which comes from a Hebrew verb Meshiach. Messiah and Christ are just two languages expressing the same truth that Jesus is the anointed one. Throughout the Old Testament, we read of important spiritual leaders being anointed. We read of the high priest Aaron being anointed. We read of prophets like Elijah being anointed. We read of kings like David being anointed. And this was all a picture of the facts. That someday the ultimate anointed one would come who would be our prophet, priest, and king. But there is a question about the validity of these people's faith because elsewhere in the Gospels we often read of people acknowledging that Jesus is the Christ. the anointed one, or the king, but not having saving faith. Because they thought of him as a political deliverer As someone who would free them from the bondage of Rome, but they weren't looking for someone to free them from the bondage of sin. We can't say for certain we don't have enough information to know if the second group truly knew the gospel and truly were responding and saving faith. But what we can say is that it's possible for a person to have the right profession, to make a right identity of the person of Christ And yet not be truly born again. At the end of the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus says in Matthew, seven twenty-one not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. There are people who have a right theology, who identify Jesus as the Son of God, but they are just words. Their lifestyle does not reflect that they are under his authority. They don't obey his word. They don't live for him. They don't think of him. They don't pray to him. They have a formality of religion. They might go to a place of worship. People might think highly of them. But they are not truly born again. Thirdly, we have a third response here. Some people will believe that Jesus is not the Messiah. Look with me at the latter part of verse 40. But some said, is Christ to come from Galilee? Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the offspring of David and comes from Bethlehem, the village where David was? These people object to the earlier identification of Jesus as the Messiah. These people were probably the residents of Jerusalem. You can see throughout this passage this anti-Galilean bias of the people of Jerusalem. We see it here, and you'll see it at the end of this chapter. They ask the question, is Christ to come from Galilee? And the question expects a no answer. Instead, they said, has not the scripture said that Christ comes from the offspring of David? Of course, it does say this. There are about a dozen Old Testament scriptures. That tells us that the Messiah would be a descendant of King David. The two most important are 2 Samuel chapter 7, where we find a Davidic covenant. And then Psalm 89, which speaks of that. But it's also mentioned many times in the book of Isaiah and in several other prophets. And then it says that he would be born in Bethlehem. And of course they're correct about this because we find this prophecy in Micah chapter 5 and verse 2. So there's an assumption that these residents of Jerusalem have made, and that is that because Jesus was known as Jesus of Nazareth. And because he was brought up in that village in Galilee, therefore he must have been born there. But of course they were wrong about that. He was not born in Nazareth. He was born in Bethlehem. Their objection was rooted in ignorance. I suspect that since John was the last gospel that was written, and there is evidence throughout this gospel that John assumes that many of his readers have read the other gospels that were written earlier. He says this here, assuming that many of his readers will seize on this and say, they've got this wrong. Jesus was born in Bethlehem. Because in Matthew and in Luke, both of those infancy narratives are crystal clear about that. There's a great emphasis on the fact that he was born in Bethlehem. And the genealogy of Christ points out that he was a son of David. So their objections are not valid. Now we see something here that I must comment on for a second, a very common phenomenon, and that is that just because someone or some group quotes a verse does not mean that their point is valid. Even False teachers, like Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormons, and even Muslims, will at time Use scripture, taken out of context, misinterpreted for their purposes. Have you never had someone come to your door? I have. And they, when they find out you're a Christian, they will instantly start trying to use verses to prove the opposite of what the Bible actually teaches. We have like an entire book of the Bible, the Gospel of John, the book we're studying now, that points out the deity of Christ. And yet there are millions and millions of people that will seek by misusing Scripture to say that he is not the Son of God. So do not think for a moment that just because there's a Bible verse attached to something that it makes that statement true It could be misinterpreting that portion of God's word, and we must always look at the whole of Scripture that is a coherent message that does not contradict itself. Now in verse 43, John summarizes what is taking place. He's just given three opinions of Christ, and he says, so there was a division among the people over him. And then verse 44 is a transitional verse into the next paragraph that says, some of them wanted to arrest him, but no one laid hands on him. So now we're going to consider the response of the people that were in the authority to Jesus. And what we see here is that some people will admire the teaching of Jesus all throughout this festival. The religious leaders of Jerusalem have been trying to arrest Jesus. In verse 32, we read that they sent officers to arrest him. These officers would have been temple police. They were Levites who were charged with keeping order in the temple precincts. Now, we read of that in verse 32, but we don't know what happened to it. So now at the end of this chapter, John's going to give us the conclusion of their efforts to arrest Jesus. For several days, they've been looking for the right opportunity to arrest him They did not want to arrest him when he was around a lot of people because they didn't want there to be a riot or disturbance. They didn't want the Roman soldiers coming down and clamping down on the people and ruining this festival. So they're trying to do it quietly and discreetly when he is alone or just with a small gathering of people so that they can snatch him up and take him away without a lot of people realizing what had happened. But they return empty handed. Why is that? Look at verses forty-five and forty-six The officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees, who said to them, Why did you not bring him? The officers answered, No one ever spoke like this man. Now I think there's two things being conveyed here with these words. Number one, I think they're conveying the idea that Jesus was such an effective speaker. That he always had a large group of people around him, and therefore they didn't have the opportunity to arrest him. But I also think, secondly, they are saying that his words impressed their hearts and minds as well. They were mesmerized by his words. And it had to be something that was powerful because surely they knew that if they returned empty-handed, the authorities would not be happy with them. But they returned empty-handed anyhow. What was it that was so striking about his words? Well, we're not told in this passage. We do find at the end of the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 7. That the people said that Jesus spoke with authority and not as the scribes. That 's what they found striking. And perhaps the same thing was here too. Jesus sounded like they imagined the prophets of old would sound. They spoke with power and conviction and authority. I think there was a combination in Jesus' teaching of power and compassion and insight to the human condition and also a revelation of the glory and holiness of God. And they were spellbound by his words, and they dare not arrest this man. The authorities were not pleased with their lack of results. And they assaulted this man. They claimed that they had been deceived by him and they had been swayed by the crowds that surrounded them. There are still people like these temple officers today. They admire the words of Jesus. They may even memorize some of his famous verses that are found in the New Testament. But they do not believe that he is the Son of God. And what these men profess, giving a testimony that John places in his gospel As one of many confessions about Jesus was a truthful and off-handed comment, but it was saying more than they knew. This is still true today. No one has ever spoken like Jesus Sometimes people will come to me as a young person, and this may shock you and surprise you to hear me say this. And they will say, you know, Pastor, I've only been like raised in one faith tradition and I I think I really I'm going to study some of the other religions, and so I think I want to read like the Quran and I think I want to read like the Book of Mormon. and maybe the Bhagavad Gita, and I'm going to try to see like and compare them with Scripture. And I always say to them, go right ahead. Go right ahead. You compare the words of Muhammad with the words of Jesus. There's no comparison. There's nothing that has depth and power and authority and strength and truth like the words of Jesus. Go ahead and compare the writings of Joseph Smith. There's nothing that he said that's anywhere similar to what Jesus said. And as for other so-called sacred writings, they're so mystical that you don't even understand most of the time what they're even saying. They don't really speak to you. But the words of Jesus are very, very different. But what we see in these men who came to arrest him is that sometimes people will admire the words of Jesus, but they will fail to trust in him. Then we have a fifth category. Some people would declare that Jesus is a deceiver. This was the opinion of the Sanhedrin, the governing body of Israel at this time. There were two elements in this body. There were what's described here as the chief priest who were the Sadducees. They were the liberals. They did not believe in the supernatural. And they had great power, wealth, and influence because of their family heritage coming from other high-priestly families. And then you had the Pharisees who were the conservatives, the separatists, and they were trying to preserve the purity of their faith. But they were the ones who were constantly the antagonist of our Lord. They were the ones who were behind arresting him and killing him. This dark thread runs through this whole chapter. In the very first verse we read that the Jews, referring to the leaders of the Jews, were seeking to kill him. In verse nineteen, Jesus asked, Why are they seeking to kill him? In verse twenty-five, we read the people asking, is not this the man that they are seeking to kill? In verse thirty, we read that the authorities were seeking to arrest him. In verse thirty-two We read of the temple officers being sent to arrest him. We read again of their desire to arrest him in verse 44. And then finally in verse 45. we read of their failure to arrest him. So throughout this whole chapter, there is tension, there is controversy because the authorities are trying to arrest him to put him to death. And let me remind you again of why they wanted to murder Jesus. Because he threatened their religious monopoly and he exposed their religious hypocrisy. And so he had to go. In verse 47, they charged these temple police with being deceived by Jesus. In their minds, Jesus was a dangerous and deceptive people. person that was leading people astray. And and why were they, what evidence do they give of this? This is very telling. Look at verse 48. They ask this question, have any of the authorities or the Pharisees believed in him? When I first read that verse, I didn't understand fully of what it meant. This question expects a no-answer. What they were arguing is simply this. None of the religious experts think he is the Messiah, so he is not the Messiah. In contrast, it was the crowd or the common people who were being swayed by his words. Look at verse 49. But this crowd that does not know the law is accursed. This is this is really exposing their hearts These leaders, these members, these powerful men, these leaders of the Sanhedrin, they spoke with contempt about the common people, the people who had come from all over the Mediterranean world for this festival and crowded into Jerusalem. They spoke with them with contempt. They call them this crowd, or some translate it, this mob. It's a a term of contempt. And they describe them as people accursed by the law. They're saying these people don't keep the law , they're cursed by the law. Even the legendary rabbi Heleo, who lived a generation before Jesus, said that no member of the common people is pious. So what we see here is the contempt with which the religious establishment viewed the common people. They saw them as wicked and worthless and their opinions as invalid. This still takes place today And this is something that pastors have to be careful of. We have to be careful that we don't inadvertently give people the impression That unless you know Greek and Hebrew and have gone to seminary, that you cannot know what the Bible means. You have to be part of the elite class to know the Bible's meaning. That's not true. The Bible was written so that regular ordinary people can understand the Word of God for themselves by simply reading and studying it. This is one of the big differences historically between Roman Catholicism and Protestantism. The Roman Catholic Church teaches that the only way you can understand the Bible is by listening to the teaching of the church, because ordinary people cannot fully understand what the Bible means. You have to have the church interpret it for you. And that is why for most of their history, the Roman Catholic Church advised their people not to read the Bible. It's only in recent times with the sway of public opinion and the wide availability of the Bible, that they change their tactic on that But this was part of the Protestant Reformation. Tyndale translated the Bible into English so that the plowboy The boy who's not very educated but knew how to read, he would be able to read the Bible in English and understand God's revelation and the eternal gospel. But there's also something else here. We see here that rarely Do elite, powerful, wealthy people come to trust in Christ? Did you know that's true? It's true. It's true. Because of their pride and their status and their self-sufficiency Most elite people do not think they need the Lord at all in their lives. This is something I discovered when I first entered ministry When I was still in college, there's exceptions to this, but there's few exceptions to this. This may bother you. I might get mail about this. I don't know. But I learned after doing this for a while that the the the nicer the home the colder reception you're going to get, generally speaking. In other words, you go to a big huge mansion and you knock on the door, they're probably not going to come to the door. And if they do come to the door, they're going to tell you to get away. They don't need the Lord. You go to some broken down little hovel, they're going to open the door and they're probably going to welcome you in And they're going to listen to you share the gospel with them because their life is in tatters and in ruins, and they have a great need. Wealthy, elite, educated people generally reject the gospel. It's always been that way. And sometimes there's Christians who think, you know, maybe if we can get like some some some really famous Christian celebrities, actors or sports stars and everything, and they profess their faith in Christ. then then maybe the elites of the world will say, you know, those Christian people aren't so bad after all. I think we'll let them into our club. It never works It's never worked. We must be content with the scorn of the world. Jesus says, easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter heaven. Jesus said in Luke 10, 21, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise. and understanding and reveal them to little children. Yes, Father, for such was your gracious will. And in First Corinthians chapter 1, we have a that concluding paragraph. That says God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. Because salvation is by grace alone. It's not those who are wealthy and knowledgeable and have a great head on their shoulders. Salvation, generally, those people reject the gospel because they think they don't need it. And so what does this mean about us? What's the application for us? We should never go around thinking that we're elites. Or boasting that, you know, I I understood a good deal when I heard it. And so, you know, that's why I came to Christ. No, it's only by God's grace. Our boast must be in the Lord And then finally, some people will think that Jesus might be the Messiah. Here I'm talking about Nicodemus. In verses 50 , Through 52, we read Nicodemus, who had gone to him before, he's referring to John chapter 3, and who was one of them, that is, he was a member of the Sanhedrin Said to them, Does our law judge a man without first giving him a hearing and learning what he does? And they replied, Are you from Galilee too? Search and see that no prophet arises from Galilee. Now, Nicodemus here very tentatively defends Jesus. They have just said to these poor temple police who came back empty-handed, look, does anyone in the in the elite classes of Judaism believe in Jesus? And their answer was, of course no one would. But they were wrong about that. There was one in their midst Who was still thinking about Jesus? And notice how they try to shut him down. They insult him by saying, Are you from Galilee? We might say, are you from the country where people are uneducated and uncouth and unsophisticated? And then they add, no prophet arises from Galilee. This was not true. We know that the prophet Jonah clearly was from Galilee, and Jewish tradition says there were many others as well. They're overstating their case. And of course, they were wrong. The scriptures never spoke of the Messiah ministering in Galilee. Probably the clearest reference is in Isaiah chapter 9, where we read that the people dwelling in Galilee of the Gentiles, that they would see a great light. A passage that we almost always read on Christmas Eve in our service here. A great light would come. That would be the Messiah. Jesus of Nazareth. He would come and he would perform miracles and he would preach the gospel. And this is confirmed in Matthew chapter 4, who quotes Isaiah 9 and says this was true of Jesus. So the question that people always want to know is this. Was Nicodemus A believer in Jesus Christ at this time when he makes this hesitant defense of him Most scholars would say no. But by chapter 19, we see him bringing embalming spices to the grave. indicating that indeed he was one of those who was a follower of Christ. But I think here in chapter 7, I think Nicodemus is still thinking about things. He's still seeking the truth. He's still trying to decide who is this Jesus. And perhaps you're here this morning and that's your situation as well. You would not claim that you are Christian, but you are seeking the truth. What should you do? The answer is you should continue to seek Jesus in his word. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. God uses his word to show us who we are like a mirror and to show us the glory of Christ so that we are convicted. So if you are searching for the truth, you must read his word. And you must listen to the preaching of the word. There's something about the public proclamation of the word of God that God powerfully uses to awaken those who are dead and slumbering and to open the eyes of those who are blind. Now John includes these responses to Jesus that we have explored this morning. so that the careful reader will investigate these claims and objections and come to a settled conclusion about the identity of Jesus Christ. So my question to you this morning is this. Have you come to a settled conclusion about who is Jesus? And has that conclusion made any difference in your life? There are millions and millions and millions of Christians, excuse me, millions and millions of Americans who would say, yeah, I know Jesus died on the cross. You know, I know he's the Son of God. They would say that, but it makes absolutely zero difference in their life. It never enters into how they're going to use their time or their money. Or their plans, or where they want to do with their life, or where they're going to worship, those things. He never comes into that equation. Because they're living life on their own terms. But if you read this paragraph with the eyes of faith, these are the kind of conclusions that you should come to. You should investigate that first claim that he is the prophet, and you should come to the conclusion that he is the ultimate prophet. That he is much greater than all the prophets that came before him. That he is the ultimate revelation of God's truth And you should come to the conclusion that Jesus is the anointed one. He is our prophet, our priest, and our king. He is all that we need. And you should come to see that Jesus indeed, despite their objection and their prejudice, that Jesus would come to minister in Galilee as the Bible predicted. Because God likes to use the weak and the ridiculed elements of this world to confound the mighty. And that Jesus is indeed the offspring of David. Just look at the Matthew or the Gospel of Luke. It's so clear they have the genealogies there so the reader can investigate himself. And Jesus was born in Bethlehem. And Jesus spoke like no other human being has ever spoken, because he is the word made flesh. And they thought that they were demeaning him by saying the common people wanted to follow him. You know, the people who are cursed by the law. Well, you know what? That's the only people that will ever come to follow him, those who recognize they are accursed by the law. And they come to believe that Jesus became a curse for them on the cross, that he bore their sins and their iniquities. Those are the people that will be saved. Do not misunderstand me. Both the elite and the common people are all accursed by the law. We are all sinners. But it's only those who recognize their sin and their need of a savior who will be saved. Jesus is the Son of God. He is worthy of our trust. Let's close in prayer. Father. We thank you for your word. We thank you for providing a great Savior. We thank you, Father, that there is abundant evidence that He is who he claimed to be. We thank you, Father, that by putting our faith and trust in Him, our sins can be forgiven And we can live with him forever. I pray, Father, for those who are here today under the sound of my voice, who are yet lost in their sins. They might be young, they might be middle-aged, they might be elderly, but they've never come To rest in Christ alone. I pray, Lord, that today would be their day of salvation and you would not give them peace or rest until they come to rest in Christ. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.