20th century. He was a groundbreaking philosopher, a leading mathematician, and a Nobel Prize-winning writer of literature. He was also a very strong antagonist of all religion. He once was asked, if you meet God after you die , What will you say to him to justify your unbelief? And he replied, I will tell him that he did not give me enough evidence. That response has been copied by many intellectuals since that time I've spoken to many people over the years who have said to me that they would like to trust in Jesus the way I do. But they just can't suspend all reason and trust in an invisible God. But John chapter 3 tells us of another reason why people reject Christ. Today we come to the end of a famous section in John chapter 3. This first part of the chapter that deals, first of all, with Nicodemus's nighttime interview with Jesus. Where Jesus tells him repeatedly that he must be born again. And he concludes By pointing him to that illustration in the Old Testament of the serpents that were biting people so that they would die, but then Moses at the instruction of God put up a bronze serpent, and when people looked in faith at that bronze serpent, they were healed. And then in verses 16 through 21, John is going to reflect on that conversation and make his own application to the reader. It begins with what is arguably the most famous verse in the Bible, John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And then these words John provides three compelling reasons why a person should put their trust in Christ. First of all, because Jesus is the only Savior that God has provided. There won't be another. There never was another. There never will be another. He is his beloved son and the only savior of the world. Secondly, because God has promised incredible privileges to those who believe in Jesus, and that great privilege is to be not condemned but justified and to be a possessor of eternal life. And then the third reason that he gives why we should believe is because God provides here a serious warning for those who respond in unbelief, and that is that they are condemned. So in a very real sense, he says, because this unbelief is willful, they have condemned themselves. They have chosen not to believe. But that raises the question, why is it that people who have been presented the gospel clearly still choose not to believe? I mean, if Christ came in love on a mission of mercy and he died on the cross, wouldn't you think that that would turn people to trust in him? I've noted that many times when I have preached the gospel or others have preached the gospel, people will say, you know, if I was at that service, And I was lost, I would have been saved. Because it was so compelling and so clear. And sometimes they will add, I don't understand how lost people can reject the proclamation of the gospel. So how does John explain the unbelief of sinners? Or to use the analogy of our text, why is it that some people will not come to the light? And why is it that others do? I'm going to preach you this morning on why people have different responses to the light. And the first point I want to make is this. People will not come to the light because their hearts are turned away from God. And what I want to focus on in verses 19 and 20 is these words of the heart of love. And hatred. We read of love in verse 19. It says, and this is the judgment. The light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness. rather than the light, because their works were evil. Then verse 20, for everyone who does this wicked thing hates the lights. Now he begins in verse 19 by saying, this is the judgment. The word judgment is related to the word for condemn. It would perhaps best be rendered as a verdict. The idea is a verdict that is handed down in a court of law. John here is explaining that unbelievers have condemned themselves. They have signed, as it were, their own death warrants. How have they done this? Because he uses the illustration of when Christ came into the world in the first advent. You'll notice in verse 19. that he uses the past tense throughout this verse. He says the light has come into the world, and people love this darkness rather than light because their deeds were evil. He is referring to the way people responded to Christ in the first advent. Now, who is this light that has come into the world? It is, of course, Jesus. We'll see later in John chapter 8 and verse 12 and chapter 9 in verse 5, Jesus will say, I am the light of the world. And in John chapter 12 and verse 46, Jesus says, I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. So the light is Jesus and the gospel of salvation that he provides. And yet humanity has in large part rejected this light. And this is the way it was at the beginning. Have you ever thought about how amazing it is of how the Jewish people rejected their Messiah? If there was ever a people prepared for the coming of the Lord, it was these people. They alone were the recipients of the oracles of God, as Paul puts it. That is the scriptures. They had a covenant with God. They had Abraham as their ancestral father. They had the history of God's dealings with his people. They had all these types and symbols and titles and prophecies that pointed to Jesus. And yet we read in John chapter 1 and verse 11, he came unto his own, and his own people did not receive him. What an amazing response. Not what you would have predicted. Just consider all the prophecies that Jesus fulfilled. The prophecies of the tribe he would come from, and the place where he would be born, and the work that he would do. And the miracles that he would perform. And I've just named a few. He fulfilled all of the prophecies of the coming Messiah. And these were the people of the book, and yet they did reject him. And then think about this Jesus came as the Son of God, a man who never sinned, a man who never violated God's law, who never wronged anyone. No one could point at him and say, this man sinned against me. Peter summarizes Jesus' life. In Acts chapter 10 and verse 38, he says, he went about doing good and healing all that were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. You would expect that the one sinless human being who's ever walked on this earth would be loved and accepted by everyone And think of how much misery he relieved from people. We read of him healing the sick and the diseased and giving sight to the blind and hearing to the deaf, and casting out those who were possessed by demons, and on at least three occasions he raised the dead. And yet the leaders of these people, God's people, conspired to murder him. And the nation representatively, as they walked by the city gates, On the day of Passover, as he hung on a cross, they mocked him, they insulted him, they ridiculed him. They indeed rejected him. So how do we explain this unbelief? This is how John explains it. And the idea is this is still the reason today. Look at verse 19. He says, light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light. Because their works were evil. And I want you to notice that this was a matter of the heart. It says that people loved the darkness. And this is that word that John often uses, this word agape. You know what people do when they love their sin? They'll make sacrifices for it. They will destroy their health. They will rise up early or stay up late. They will spend lots of money and lots of time. They will sacrifice their marriage to follow the cherished sin. This is a sacrificial love. This is the way lost people love their sin. Their rejection was not just a superficial or an external thing. It was a matter of the hearts. And then we read in the next verse that the lost world hates the lights Perhaps you've heard it said before that you tell me what a person loves and hates, and I will tell you who he is. This is true. All lost people naturally love the darkness and hate the lights. Now you might object and say this is not so. There are many lost people who are members of churches. But often they might be churches that do not preach the gospel. And they might be there for other reasons. We live in a nation where many lost people would yet claim that they admire and respect and perhaps even love Jesus. But the Jesus that they love is not the Jesus that's revealed in Scripture, the Jesus that exists. He is a cultural Jesus who loves everyone and is tolerant of everything. But he is not the Jesus who is the Lord of their life. He has no impact on the way they live their lives, how they spend their money or their time. And the fact is that if Jesus was alive walking on this earth today calling on them to deny themselves take up their cross and follow him, they would reject him the way the Hebrews did 2,000 years ago. People will not come to the light because they have no heart for God. Or to put it another way, they don't want to come to the lights. When I first started out as a pastor, I observed a phenomenon that I thought was strange, but I've since found is very normal. And that is that I would visit people in our community, and I would share the gospel with them. And many times they would say they were believers. And then they would say something like this, Pastor, you're going to see me on Sunday. You're going to see me in church on Sunday. I'm going to come. You can count on it. And so I would go to church expectantly, and they never showed up. And then I would contact them and they would mention all these excuses and everything. And this just kept happening again and again and again and again and again. And I was like, what is going on here? And then finally I realized they didn't really want to come. They were never planning on coming. They were just being polite. They were just saying the thing to say. But they never, ever had any intention of coming to church. Because for most lost people, church is not a comfortable place to come to. It's a place where there is light. So often people think of Christianity or being a Christian They think of it as following certain rules and ethics, and indeed it should affect our behavior. But there are many people who can be compliant at least for one day of the week But the reality is they have no heart for God. Let me ask you this morning, do you have a heart for God? Do you love to be with other believers? Do you love to worship him privately and corporately? Do you love to sing his praises, even though you may not have the greatest voice in the world? Do you love songs that speak of Christ and his sacrifice and his love and his care and his concern for his people. Does that touch your hearts? You see, those who are the Lord's people have a heart for God. And those who do not, they may endure it, but if they really think about the words, it seems kind of strange. It doesn't connect with them My friend, if you love the darkness and hate the lights, you desperately need God to be at work in your hearts And that brings me to my second point. People will not come to light because they want to continue in sin. Why do lost people love the darkness rather than the light? The answer is found in the last five words of verse 19, because their works were evil. Notice John is using the past tense here, looking back. at the people who rejected Jesus when he came. But this principle is still true today. The word evil here is a very strong word. It's used only two other times in the Gospel of John. In John chapter 7 and verse 7, Jesus says, the world hates me because I testify about it that its works are evil. And then John 17, verse 15, in the high priestly prayer, Jesus says, I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one, a reference to Satan. Now, this would be a revelation again to lost people. They think that they're just doing what they want to do, but the fact of the matter is they are actually doing the works of Satan. Jesus says in John chapter 8, to those proud but lost Pharisees, you are of your father the devil. Now notice verse 20 begins with the word for because it's a further explanation of what was just said. For everyone who does wicked things hates the lights. And here the word wicked has the idea of worthless things. How many people in the world give their time, their energy, their affections, their life, resources to what is absolutely worthless? In light of eternity. This is the way the world has always been. This is how lost people live their lives. They believe that their lives is theirs to do with as they please, and if they want to throw it away on frivolous things. Nobody can question them for it. It's my life. I'll live it my way. The only problem is you were not created. To do that. You were made to worship and glorify God And so when you try to live life on your own terms, it will never bring you the joy and the satisfaction and the fulfillment that you think it will. In 1 John 2, verse 16, John gives us that famous explanation of the world for all that is in the world, the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes. And the pride of life is not from the Father, but is from the world. The world lives for what is sensual. And that doesn't just mean sexual, although it includes that. How many people in the world give their lives to eating at fine restaurants and drinking fine wine? and enjoying what they consider to be the fruits of their lifetime of labors. And that's the sum and substance of what excites them. What a waste of a life. Your life was made for greater things than the fulfillment and indulgence of your senses. And it talks about here the pride of life that is living for what's superficial, living to impress people, living to demonstrate to people that you've achieved a certain status. Or this last one here Desires of the eyes and then the pride of life, the material things, how much of our American lives is consumed. with thoughts of money, investing money, saving money, spending money, protecting our money Of course, God has called us to work, and He blesses our labors. But this is not a good focus for our lives. It's not the reason that we exist. These verses, I have to say, that I'm preaching from today are very insulting of humanity. You see, people like to think that everyone's essentially good, but because of bad influences and bad examples and bad experiences, people do bad things. But the Bible teaches exactly the opposite. It teaches that the human heart is desperately wicked. Who can know it? Which means That you're a lot worse than you think you are. If you really, really would probe the depths of your being as God does, You would see that you are a needy person, needy of God's grace. Now, I think that most people would reject this, this idea that's that uh that the reason that they don't believe is because of sin in their life or because they want to live life on their own terms, I think most of them would say, no, that's not true. I've encountered so many people over the years Who have said to me things like, I would like to believe, but I'm a man of science and I need facts. Or I'm an intellectual and I don't go in for that faith stuff. I'm just not ready to accept that the Bible is true and to live my life by some ancient writing. So are these people just lying? Perhaps some of them are, but I suspect more commonly it's that they are ignorant of their own heart. In other words, they may actually believe that what they're saying is true. Let me remind you that the Bible teaches that Satan is the great deceiver, the father of all lies. It also teaches us that our sinful desires deceive us. Ephesians 4, it speaks of deceitful lust. Do you know what that means? It means that when we are tempted to sin by some desire we have, we think that the promise Of following something that God says is wrong. We think the promise of pleasure and of joy and of satisfaction is much greater than what it actually yields. There is pleasure in sin for a season, but just for a season. This is why so many people are caught up in a cycle of addiction where they are hoping that the next fix Will satisfy them and appease them, and yet, of course, they're just in a vicious grip and cycle that they cannot seem to break because they've been deceived. And now they're held captive. And the Bible says that your human heart is darkened and ignorance. We perhaps take great offense to the fact that we don't know ourselves very well But I want you to know that so often we are strangers to our own hearts I think of this man that I mentioned before when I car broke down and called AAA and then this tow truck driver came and he was very talkative. And I was witnessing to him, and he in all honesty and sincerity said to me, the way I look at it, I think I've committed two sins in my life. And I wanted to tell him you've committed more sins than that since we've been in the truck here. But he was being honest. He wasn't trying to be funny. In his estimation, he didn't really need to get saved because he's a good guy, meaning he's only committed two sins. So he doesn't need a great savior. Just needs a little clean up his act. This is the way so many lost people think. They don't think their sin is that bad. They don't think it really has much impact on them. They don't think their sinful desires are really a problem. And so they minimize their sin and maximize their good deeds. And studies have shown that Most people think that they're far superior morally than the average person, which statistically can't be true, right? If everyone thinks they're above average. This is the human hearts. It is deceitful, it is deceptive, it is darkened, it is ignorance And this is true when it comes to this matter of why they will not trust in Christ. They may actually believe, well, I just I just I need more evidence. I I need facts. The scriptures are filled with facts. And then this leads on to this next thing The reason the people do not come to light is because they love the darkness and they want to continue to live life on their own terms in their own way. And then verse 20 says, lest his works should be exposed. And the idea is exposed, the idea of convicted or exposed the shame. Are you one of those people that sometimes things bother you and and then finally the day comes and you're like, I just gotta take care of it. I'm one of those people. Like you've got to clean things up, you know? You put up with something for a while, then you're like, All right, I can't take this anymore. So, and this is nobody's fault. Please no one come and apologize to me. But there was a bunch of like rotting wood that was down there by the fire pit right on the edge of the woods. And it was under partially under a tarp, and it had been there for several years, and it was it was rotting and all these weeds were growing up through it and everything. And I would, you know, walk around and I would I'd been seeing this for years, and finally the day came. I wasn't dressed for anything. I was dressed for church and I was like, you know what? I can't take this anymore. I'm going to clean this up. So I went over there and I'm pulling up these these rotting old pieces of wood and they're like stuck into the dirt and I'm pulling them out and I found all kinds of interesting things there. I found all kinds of bugs and all kinds of worms and I saw some mice and I saw a snake. And you know what? When I pulled those logs away, they all slithered and ran into the woods out of sight because they preferred to remain in the darkness. Out of sight. That's the way we are as lost sinners. We don't want people to really know what we are inside. And we want to continue on our lives and yet have the facade of respectability. I realize there can be many good reasons why we desire our privacy. We don't want a police state. We don't want the government tracking everything we do. And sometimes people complain about cameras. By the way, you're on camera. We have cameras everywhere in this building. You can't well I mean there's yeah, they're not in the restrooms, of course, but There's not many places you can go where there's not a camera here. And people sometimes are very concerned about that. I just wanted to remind you of something. God sees everything. All right? God sees everything. Now I think as he continues down through verse 20, we're getting to the root of the matter. And you could put it like this. Why is it that p people don't come to light? Because if they come to light, their sin will be exposed, and if their sin is exposed, They might just repent of their sins and they love their sins so they don't want to come to the lights. One of the things that people struggle with. And I understand this. I am not, I am not at all minimizing the struggle that people have. The people struggle with lost ones who die and seemingly go to hell. That is a troubling, troubling thought And sometimes those individuals are very tempted to think that God is not just. to send someone into eternity simply for not trusting in his son. I've heard it from many over the years, and I understand, especially if it's someone that you love. But I believe on the basis of this scripture and on other scriptures that on judgment day, when the truth is known And those who have not come to light are condemned. Everyone will see that God's judgment was just. It was just. That brings me to my third point. People who do come to the light come because God's grace has been at work in them. Look with me at verse 21. But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out. In God. You'll notice this verse begins with the word but because it's a verse of contrast. In contrast to those who flee from the light, believers have come to the light. And notice how they are described here. They're described as those whoever does what is true. This is a person who lives the truth. Now this passage could be very easily misunderstood. You could easily think that this is saying that bad people don't come to light, but good people do come to the light. That's not what it's saying, because that of course would be exactly what the Bible refutes again and again and again. People do not earn their way to heaven. This is precisely the kind of thinking that Jesus was refuting in his conversation with Nicodemus. Now the fact is that we are all sinful people who would never come to the light without the gracious work of the Spirit in our lives. A little later in this gospel, John chapter 16, in the upper room, Jesus speaks of the Holy Spirit. And his coming and what the work he would do. And in John chapter 16, I'm going to begin reading at verse 7. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth. It is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper, a reference to the Holy Spirit, will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. And when he comes , He will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. What's the sin he's going to convict them of? Concerning sin because they do not believe in. It's the Holy Spirit who convicts the loss of their sin of unbelief. And in John chapter 6 and verse 44, we read that the Father draws sinners to Christ the light. And so by the grace of God Sinners seek the Lord even though in the past they may have had nothing to do with him. And when the spirits at work in our heart convicting us of our sin He will bring us to the place where we say, I want to be right with God. I want to know that my sins are forgiven. So even if It exposes my sin and it's embarrassing and I have to give this up and turn away from this. That's what I'm going to do because I want to be right with God. And they come to the light. So what are the characteristics of a person who has come to the light? Three mentioned here. First of all, we seek to live God's truth. We're not perfect, but we seek to be people of integrity We seek to be holy. We hate our sin. And we continually turn from it in repentance. Is this true of you? Secondly, we keep coming to Christ. The tense of the verb here is not just that we come to Christ once in faith and then we're saved. The idea is that we keep coming, we keep coming to Christ, we keep coming to the lights. We come to Him in prayer and Bible reading. We come to hear the preaching of the word We read our Bibles. We have a heart for worship. This is one of the distinctive characteristics of a believer. We can't stop coming to Christ. When we fail him, we come. When he is blessing us, we come. When we are being afflicted, we come. We come to him. We don't flee from him. We don't run from him. We don't hide from him. We come to him. And thirdly, we seek to bring glory to God. The most important part of understanding verse 21 is this last phrase. that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God. Now this verse again may cause you to scratch your head because it would be very easy for you to misunderstand it. It seems to be saying that the reason we come to light is because we want everyone to see what God is doing in our life, that we are in fact a superior person. But that's not what it's saying. You remember in the Sermon on the Mount that Jesus rebuked the Pharisees for doing their deeds to be seen of men. The way they would have their public prayers, where they would stand on the corner of the street and lift their hands up to God and speak out loud where everyone's walking around them using eloquent language. Or the way they would fast and they would make their face look very solemn and sad. I'm fasting today because I'm better than you. Or the way they would give to the poor, and they did it in a very showy way, and where their coins would rattle through these metal containers. So everyone in the temple knew, wow, he's a very generous man. Jesus said, don't do that. Don't, don't, don't do your deep your good deeds to be seen of men. But he also says in that very same sermon, let your light shine before others that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Matthew 5, 16. The Lord is not calling us to parade our piety, but to reflect the reality that because of our relationship with Christ, who is the light of the world, we have been changed. We 've been changed from the inside out. He describes that at the beginning of that sermon in that very famous section known as the Beatitudes. So we are people who are poor in spirit. That is, we are humble. We are people who are meek. And we mourn over our sin, and we hunger and thirst for righteousness, and we're merciful and pure in hearts, and we are those who bring peace to the lives of others, and we are willing to endure the ridicule and persecution of this world gladly. All of those things are counterintuitive, not the way people naturally respond, but the way we respond because God has changed us from the inside out. So this is what we find in this great passage. We see That those who do not come to the light, those who reject and refuse to believe, in the end will have no one to fault but themselves. But those who come to the light and by God's grace are saved have no one to credit but God. Ephesians 2, 8 through 10 summarizes this very clearly. For by grace you have been saved through faith And this is not your own doing. It is a gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. Which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. John Newton, the former slave trader and author of the hymn Amazing Grace. Said this, I am not what I ought to be. I am not what I want to be. I am not what I hope to be in the eternal world, but still I am not what I used to be. And by God's grace, I am what I am. This is the heart of every Christian. I haven't achieved. I haven't arrived. I'm not what I want to be. But by God's grace, I am very different from what I used to be. Now I would like to conclude with one point of application. Verse 21 is kind of the end of this first half of John 3, which is heavily evangelistic. In this passage, there is a clear contrast that is presented. We have those who are born again. and those who are not born again, those who have eternal life, and those who will perish eternally. Those who are condemned and those who are not condemned. Those who believe and those who will not believe, and those who come to the light and those who will not come to the lights. So which group are you in? Right now. I've said throughout this seven -sermon mini-series within the Gospel of John that everyone here is in one category or another. There is no in-between. You're either dead or you're alive. You're either condemned or you're not condemned. You either have eternal life or you don't have eternal life. You either believe or you don't believe John has written these concluding three verses that we've considered this morning for the purpose of opening the eyes of those who have not believed to alarm them You might excuse your unbelief for a variety of what seems to you to be very valid reasons, he is saying. But the real reason you will not believe is because you don't want to believe. And the reason you don't want to believe is because you want to hold on to your sin. Because people instinctively know, even if they have virtually no theology, that if they come to Christ, if they come to the lights They're going to have to part with their cherished sins. And so they do not come. I believe that there's probably people here this morning who are lost. Very, very, very likely. And there are probably people here a step further who know that they're lost. And I go a step further, there are probably people here that know the gospel. And yet they are lost. My friend, you may never hear the gospel again You may never have the Spirit of God pricking your heart again. It may be faints It may not be overpowering. You may be able to silence it easy, but my friend, do not silence that. Be alarmed and cry out to God, don't go away from me. Draw me to the lights. Because if you harden your hearts, The day will come when you can sit through any number of gospel messages and yet never be disturbed, never be convicted, because your heart has become hardened. And you are condemned already. May God help you by his grace to come to the lights. Let's close in prayer. Father, you know the hearts of all people , including, of course, everyone here. You know those, Father, who have a heart for you, who love you, who have come to the lights, who continually come to the lights. And Father, you know those who are yet in the darkness, who will not believe, who will not trust , who refuse to come. I pray, O Lord, that you would convict them and trouble them and disturb them so that they will find no rest until they come to rest in you. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.