Well I would like to invite your attention to Romans chapter twelve. If you would turn there with me in your Bible, we will A subject that is central to the Christian life is doing the will of God. In fact, it is so essential That obedience to the will of God distinguishes a believer from an unbeliever. Christ says, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father. Likewise he says, excuse me, for whoever does the will of my father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. I want to preach a message to you tonight on the topic of discerning the will of God. And I've chosen this topic tonight because of the occasion. But I trust that it will be helpful to all of us, no matter what stage in life you are in right now. We all need to grow in our capacity to rightly discern the will of God for our lives. There are many incomplete or I would even suggest errant views of the will of God. Some people think of the will of God as a great secret, something that makes or something that God rather makes hard for you to discover, almost like God is going around your life with Easter eggs and he's hiding them in different places of your life and it's up to you to seek and discover what he's hidden. Some view the will of God as something very hard and undesirable, something that you just would not naturally want, kind of like a diet. You know you need it, and maybe even other people know you need it, but no one wants to do it, right? It's undesirable. Others see the circumstances of their lives like a crystal ball in which they look at all of these events in their lives and then they kind of read into them or rather read out of them some hidden message from the Lord. There's also what's called a dot spot view of God's will, where God's will is like a very precise dot. And you've got to connect your life to that dot. So let's say the dot is the the college that you're supposed to go to, the precise college or this precise person you're supposed to marry. or the exact car you're supposed to buy, or the exact job you're supposed to choose, or the exact cereal you're supposed to have for breakfast. And it's your job to choose every precise dot that God has aligned. So your life is just kind of connecting one dot to the next. Others take a more deterministic view of the will of God. This view is a very passive view. And it emphasizes the sovereignty of God. It reasons this way. Well, since God is sovereign and He has already ordained the steps of my life then I need to give very little thought to uh the decisions that I make. It's kind of like getting on an airplane. Once you become a Christian and you're So to speak, on the plane, you just sit back and enjoy the ride and wait for the pilot to take you to your destination. Lastly, some see the will of God like missing an exit on a turnpike. Once you pass it, you may not have another chance at it for a very long time. And so you have essentially missed the will of God for your life. The question we need to be asking tonight is this, how do I know and do the will of God? How do I know and do the will of God? Well We're going to approach this subject tonight topically, and our first point tonight, we're going to lay a theological foundation for our understanding of God's will. We're going to frame this subject as it were. And then we're going to consider or consider, excuse me, after we've considered general ideas regarding the will of God, we're going to consider a specific passage that is particularly relevant to this topic. And then finally, we will look at multiple principles that will enable us to practically discern the will of God in our lives. So let's begin with our first point Knowing God's will comes from a knowledge of God Himself, as He is revealed in His Word. God 's revelation of himself in his word is the subject of theology proper, theology proper, the existence of God, the Trinity, the attributes of God, the names of God. The works and the providence of God, the will of God are all part of what God has revealed about himself in his word. And there are two aspects of the will of God that we can identify and that we need to identify for this subject. One aspect of God's will is called God's will of decree. Or you might call it God's sovereign will. This is what God determines to do, and then He Himself does it. For instance, we have in Daniel 4. 35 , it says, All the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing, and he does according to his will. among the hosts of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay his hand or say to him, What have you done? This is speaking of God's sovereign will. What God pleases to do, he does, and no one can stop it. And that happens, and that, excuse me, that takes place under his sovereign control. God's sovereign will is also referred to as his secret will Why this term? Well, because God does not disclose his sovereign will except when prophetically foretelling the future. Deuteronomy 29-29 says, the secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us. The secret things are God's purposes, his will, his counsel that he has not disclosed to anyone. They are hidden. Let me give you an example of this in the Old Testament. Joseph says to his brothers in Genesis 50, as for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good to bring it about that many people should be kept alive as they are today. God, as it were, intended to use the sin and betrayal of Joseph excuse me, of Joseph's brothers to ultimately bring about the good and salvation of many people. But that sovereign plan of God was not disclosed to anyone until God chose to reveal it. So there is an aspect of God's will for your life that is hidden in his determined counsel. And that is why James instructs us to not presume on our future. You are familiar with James 4, 13 through 15, which says, Come now, you who say today or tomorrow, we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit. Yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that. So God has a sovereign plan for our life that you are not fully aware of. This is why Paul writes to the Corinthians saying, I will come to you soon if the Lord wills. When I was 20 years old, I did not know who my wife was going to be. I did not know that I was going to end up being a pastor I didn't know that I was going to serve at Calvary Baptist Church. I didn't even know Calvary Baptist Church existed. But God knew. This was all part of God's plan. But that aspect of his will was a secret. It was not disclosed. However, there is an aspect of God's will that he has revealed. Theologians call this second aspect of God's will his revealed will, or his perceptive will, or his will of command. Or it's also called his moral will. This aspect of God's will reveals what God expects us to do. So God's sovereign will is what He has determined He will do, and it is hidden from us. God's will of command is what He requires from us, and this aspect of His will is revealed and we can choose to obey it or we can choose to disobey it But our obedience or disobedience does not change God's sovereign purposes in our life. It does, however, affect our joy, our usefulness. Our blessing and our eternal reward. So Paul instructs the Ephesians in 5. 17, therefore, do not be foolish, but understand. No. what the will of the Lord is. Paul is saying, don't be ignorant. And so many words, don't be stupid. Know what the will of the Lord is. Clearly, there's a sense in which God expects us to understand his desire for us. John tells us to pray in accordance with the will If we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. Well, how can we pray according to his will if we don't know it? Clearly, there's an aspect of his will that can be known and prayed for. So now that we've established here a framework for the will of God, his sovereign will and his moral will, how then do we discern the will of God in our own lives. Well, there are several passages that we can consider tonight. I was actually somewhat hesitant at preaching on this topic because it's very difficult to address such a mammoth topic when you only have uh a very limited amount of time. There's going to be many passages that we could turn to. I'm sure there's going to be many questions that will be raised in your own mind that we will not have time to answer, but I at least want to give us some traction in moving forward and some clarity on the subject. So let's begin with, or let's advance rather to our second point. I want you to see two prerequisites for discerning the will of God in your own life. And now we are again turning our attention to where I've asked you to open your Bible to, Romans chapter 12 and verses 1 and 2. Let's read these verses together. Paul says, I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. I want you to notice here at the end of verse 2, the concluding phrase, it says that by testing, notice in verse 2, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God. That's what we're concerned with. How do we discern the will of God? Well, in order to discern the will of God, we must Consider two what I'm calling prerequisites. We must be first consecrated by means of transformation. Let me bring this to your attention. Let's start with verse one here. It says, we are going , excuse me, verse one, we are going to to Walk through this passage here just one phrase at a time, but very briefly. Paul says, I appeal to you, therefore And the term therefore is connecting what he is about to say in verses 1 and 2, what he has already said in chapters 1 through 11. Biden the mercies of God, what mercies. Well, in summary, he's talking about the mercies of God revealed in the gospel that he has discussed in chapters 1 through 11. The grace of God revealed in the gospel. That is the justification that God has provided by faith in Christ through the propitiatory death and substitutionary death of Christ. All of these are the mercies of God. Now, what are you to do in view of the gospel? Well, you're to present your bodies, that is, your whole self, a sacrifice. What kind of sacrifice? Well, he describes it with three terms. It is a living, holy, and acceptable sacrifice. Which is your spiritual worship? This is God's will for you God's will for you is that your life be a life of worship. College student, what is God's will for you? It's God's will that your life be a life of worship. Retiree, what is God's will for you? It's that your life be a life of worship. What is worship? Worship demonstrates the supreme value and worth of the thing it worships. What is it to worship God? It is when people see by your life that Jesus Christ Is of inestable worth, that he is of great value. They see that your life is consecrated to him That He is the goal and the joy, the aim of your life. You must be consecrated, you must be a living sacrifice. This is not a one-time act of dedication, but a lifelong consecration to the Lord. Paul says it this way to the Corinthians. He says, For the love of Christ controls us. Because we have concluded this, that one has died for all, therefore all have died, and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and was raised. Motivated by the death of Christ, we consecrate ourselves as a living sacrifice to God. Now how do we live this consecrated life? How do we worship God with our life? We'll look at the next verse. The next verse, the link in the chain here between verse 1 and verse 2 is the question, how? That's what verse two is going to answer. How do we live this way? We live this way by doing two things. Number one, stated negatively. You must not be conformed to the world. What is that? Well, that means you must not allow the values, the goals, the motives, the people of this age to shape your values and the way you live. Stated positively, you must be transformed. The term is metamorpho, which we get from which we get our term metamorphosis We covered this word just last Wednesday in our youth group and I asked the teens, when you hear the term metamorphosis, what do you think of? A butterfly. A butterfly, the transformation that happens in a butterfly. We often associate the term with this. The word occurs four times in the New Testament. Twice it refers to Christ on the Mount of Transfiguration, and twice with reference to Christian sanctification. On the Mount of Transfiguration, Christ's outward appearance was changed so that his clothes became gleaming white the gospel writers say, whiter than anything on earth. And his face shone with the strength of the sun. Christ did not become something that he wasn't. Rather, he disclosed his pre-incarnate glory. And for the first time, Peter, James, and John saw the glory of Christ. Radiating from his face so much so that it changed the very clothes that he wore. For a moment, the divine Son of God revealed his preincarnate glory, veiled in flesh, the Godhead see. The last occurrence of metamorphoe is found in 2 Corinthians 3. 18, a verse that you are very familiar with. I want you to listen carefully. And we all with unveiled face, behold, the glory of the Lord are being transformed. into the same image from one degree of glory to another, for this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit In order for you to live a life of worship, you must be transformed into the likeness of the image of Christ from one degree of glory to another. And there's only one way that that transformation comes about. Look at verse 2. How do you become transformed? Into the image of Christ from one degree of glory to the next, by the renewal of your mind. You must have a renewed mind. You must gaze on the glory of Christ. Where is the glory of Christ revealed? It's revealed in the Word of God. You must, as it were, expose your heart and your mind continually to the glory of Jesus Christ revealed in the pages of Scripture. So that God may change you by His Holy Spirit. Only then will you be able to come to the next Phrase here in verse 2, look down at your Bible again. That by testing you may discern what is the will of God. Paul is saying, you must be consecrated, you must have a mind that has been transformed for this purpose to this end, to this goal, that you may be capable then of rightly evaluating what is the will of God for your life. Do you see the connection here? We are not in a position to evaluate God's will unless we have a renewed mind, unless our mind has been aligned to his desires for us. A life that is consecrated and a mind that is renewed are pre prerequisites for discerning the will of God. When we think about the will of God for our lives, most people think of questions like, what college should I attend, and who should I marry, and what major should I choose? Who should I marry and what cars should I buy and who should I marry? The difficulty is that God has not told us what his sovereign will is. He's not given you a book at age five and said this is exactly what's going to happen from now until the day you die. And the difficulty comes in is when we when we become anxious and fearful and fixated on things that are determined in the mind of God but are not yet revealed to us And in the process of being fixated on those things, we neglect the aspects of God's will that He has made abundantly clear to us. It is God's will that you be transformed into the image of Christ. Remember Deuteronomy twenty-nine twenty-nine, the secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us. And to our children forever, that we may do all the words of the law, instead of fretting about what we do not know yet. Regarding God's sovereign will for our lives, we need to take responsibility for what God has made known. What do we know is God's will for us? What is God's will for you Today. Well, let's take a closer look at this. For our third point, I want to give you seven explicit statements of God's will for you found in the Scriptures. Now There's a sense in which all of God's commands are his will. But in the scriptures there are exceptions Explicit statements where God says, this is my will for you, and I want to give attention to those tonight. Now don't worry, we are working towards Those other considerations like how do I choose what car to buy or how do I know what college to go to? We're getting there. But we need to lay this foundation first. What is God's revealed will for you? Number one, I have seven points quickly. God's will is that you be saved. It is God's will that you be saved. To be saved is to be rescued from sin and death and hell. That's what it means. And that's what God wants for you. God wills so much for you to be saved that He gave His only begotten Son and He died on a cross. He bore your sins and He was raised from the dead. 1 Timothy 2, 3 says, This is good, and it is pleasing in the sight of God, our Savior, who desires all people to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth. 2 Peter 3:9 The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. God's will is for you to be saved. Acts 17, 30, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent. You cannot be in God's will apart from being saved That's like first days. So if you're sitting here tonight, maybe you're here for uh to to support one of the college students or the high school students, maybe you're visiting with us and you're considering what is the will for God of God for me. And you've never come to put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ as your Savior. God's will is for you to be saved, is for you to believe on Him. Second, God's will is for you to be sanctified. To be sanctified means to be set apart. Set apart from sin, but that's not all. Set apart then to God. It is God's will that you be holy. First Thessalonians 4:3, for this is the will of God, your sanctification. That you may abstain from sexual immorality. The specific aspect of sanctification that God puts his finger on. In this verse is sexual purity. It is God's will that you abstain from sexual sin How can a man expect to know God's will for who he would marry when he is willfully indulging in pornography? How can you make decisions in the path of God's will if you are deliberately living outside of what God has explicitly said is his will for you? God 's will is that you be sexually pure. Third, God's will is that you be spirit-filled. Ephesians 5, 15 through 18. Look carefully then how you walk. Not as unwise, but as wise, make the best use of the time, because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. What is God's will? Next verse, listen. And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit. What does it mean to be filled with the Spirit? It means to be controlled, to be governed by the Spirit of God. God's will is that the Word of God dwell in you richly, so that the Spirit of God, working through His Word, governs your mind and your heart. The Christian seeks to bring every thought captive to the obedience of Christ, which means the word of Christ must be abiding in him. When we live under the control of the Holy Spirit, it will be evident. And just follow that passage to its end. You find that wives will submit to their husbands. Verse 22. Husbands will love their wives as Christ loved the church. Verse 25. Children will obey their parents. Masters will do good to their servants. 69. And servants will obey their masters, doing the will of God from the heart. It is God's will that you be spirit-filled and walk in step with his spirit. It is God's will forth that you be thankful. 1 Thessalonians 5, 18, give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. Often when we are waiting on the Lord for direction or an answer to prayer or a provision, we grow discontent in our circumstances, do we not? How many of us, when we're waiting for God to reveal that next turn in our life, do we grow discontent because of our current situation? And yet it is God's will for us, His revealed will for us, in that very moment that we be grateful. Do not swerve outside of God's will in waiting for his sovereign will to occur in your life. Stay within the revealed will of God. He desires you to be thankful as you wait on him. Number five, it is God's will that you persevere in the faith, Hebrews 10. 36, for you have a need of endurance so that when you have done the will of God, you may receive what is promised. In this context of Hebrews, the will of God is for the Christian to continue persevering to continue holding fast to Christ, to continue confessing him and obeying him and assembling with his people, not turning away from the gospel. even if it means rejection from his community and loss from personal good, of personal good Teens, college students, listen to me. It is never God's will for you to go down a path that takes you away from the preaching of the Word of God and assembling with the people of God. Because that is God's revealed will. Those are the lanes that you need to stay in Number six, it is God's will that you obey governmental authority. 1 Peter 2, 15. be subject to the Lord's sake, to every human institution, whether it be to the Emperor as supreme, or to the governor as sent by him, to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good. For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorant the ignorance of foolish people. Here, we discover it is the will of God that we obey governmental authority so that no one will be able to accuse us of being insubordinate. You are to be subject, obedient for the Lord's sake. The only scriptural grounds we have to disobey is if we are commanded to do something that God specifically forbids or prohibited from doing something that God specifically commands. Then we obey rather God rather than man. But outside of those exceptions, we are commanded to obey our government. This is God's will for you in Christ Jesus. And number seven, it is God's will for his people to endure suffering. Throughout redemptive history, God has ordained that his people Suffer at times and he accomplishes his will in their lives through this means. Think of Job. And Joseph and Esther and Naomi and David and the Apostle Paul and ultimately our Savior Suffering is not a detour or a holding pattern. It is part of a carefully calculated plan ordained by a loving, sovereign God. Thus 1 Peter says, therefore, let those who suffer according to the will of God entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. So what is the revealed will of God for you today? It is that you be saved, sanctified, spirit-filled, thankful in all circumstances, persevering in the faith. submissive to authority and endure suffering for the glory of God. So let me ask you at this point in the message Are you doing the will of God? Are you doing his will? How can we expect to give for God to give us more light on our path if we are not walking in the light that He has already provided? But once we are doing what we know God wants us to do, what he has clearly revealed in his word, then We are really in a position to make decisions in areas that are not as clear. And so I want to briefly give you now Seven principles for applying biblical wisdom to decision making. So now we're talking about When you are working through college decisions or you're thinking about where you're going to end up buying your first home or what job offer you're going to choose, how do we Work through those aspects of God's will. They're part of His sovereign will. He already knows the answer. He's He's already ordained our steps, but yet As we relate to those decisions, God expects us to use wisdom, biblical discernment in choosing between what is best. What principles does he give us from his word to apply practically to those kinds of situations? We're going to consider them here. Number one, you must pray. You must pray. It was the pattern of our Lord's life. It was the pattern of David's life To steal away, to get quiet, to get alone, and seek his father's face. You need to pray before any major decision. And I'm not just saying pray so that you can check it off the box or as it were you know, rub the rabbit's foot and say, okay, I've I've said my prayer. No, you you need to come to God seeking his will. And often in the process of that, it requires you to cry, Lord, not my will, but thine be done. And prayer actually serves to help posture your heart to be ready to receive that direction. We find this example throughout the scriptures. I want to highlight 1 Samuel 23 when David was told that the Philistines were going to invade, he says, David inquired of the Lord, Shall I go and attack these Philistines? And the Lord said to David, Go and attack the Philistines. Now, this is an example of one coming to the Lord and praying and petitioning and asking for his guidance, and God gives him a verbal answer. How we wish that would be our experience. But James 1 says With this promise, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him, but let him ask in faith. Study the Word of God and come to Him in prayer. Pray and ask for wisdom, and God will give you that wisdom. You must pray. Number two, study the Word of God. for principles that apply to your decisions. God's word is a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path. What principles are revealed in the Word of God that are related to your decision? I think so often we think that God's word does not apply, that there are not principles in his word that speak to the decision before me, but I think that reveals too much of our ignorance of God's word. And ignores the fact that his word is sufficient for life and for godliness. There are principles in the Word of God that will guide you through every decision of life. If that were not so, his word would not be sufficient, but it is. You need to seek his word. Number three, you need to seek godly counsel. Proverbs 11, 14 says, where there is no guidance, a people falls, but in abundance of counselors there is safety. Your counselors should consist of your parents, your pastors, mature believers who have wisdom and life experience You need to seek out mature believers who also have an understanding of the area of life in which you are going to pursue. If you're looking to go into engineering for instance. You need to seek out a mature believer who also has experience in engineering and talk to them about that and and and discuss some of the decisions before you. Proverbs twelve, fourteen says, The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but a wise man listens to advice. Teenager, a college student, if you are getting are seeking advice from godly men and women and you stand up to all of them and say, you're all wrong, I'm gonna do it this way, you're a fool. Because you're not listening to the counsel, the multitude of counselors that God has given you. Number four, consider the providence of God in your life. We sometimes call this aspect of God's leading open or closed doors. Paul says to the Corinthians. But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost, for a wide door for effectual work has been opened to me God providentially gave Paul an opportunity for the gospel and he recognized it as the Lord's leading. You need to consider what has God equipped you with, what skills and abilities Has He given you? How has He providentially guided you in the past and gifted you in the present? Number five, consider the desires of your heart. Consider the desires of your heart. Let me explain. There is a point at which it is appropriate for a Christian To ask what desire has the Lord cultivated in me? Now notice I'm not putting this principle at the very front end. So often I think we make pragmatic decisions and we approach an issue by just we don't even think about God's will, we just do what we want to do. Or we make the the decision that is the cheapest, or the decision that is just easiest. We're not talking about that. We're talking about seeking God's will, filling our mind with His Word, getting prayerful counsel. And at some point along that evaluating what desires has God put in my heart This is legitimate. Psalm 37, verses 4 through 5 says, Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. That doesn't mean that God is going to give you that that brand new Ferrari. What he's saying is as you delight in God, as you set your heart on him, he is going to put and instill within your heart His own desires for you, so that the thing that you desire is what he wants for you. And what a joy that is. In the process of deciding five years ago where the Lord would have Victoria and I, there were three different churches that we had the opportunity to to interact with. There was a church in Pennsylvania, there was a church in South Carolina, and then here at Calvary. And I was praying about what direction the Lord would have us go. And as I'm seeking his will, as I'm seeking counsel, as I'm praying about it, as I'm searching his word, you know what option was my heart's desire? It was Calvary. I wanted to serve here. And I'll never forget that day when I drove down and I talked with Pastor and the Lord made it clear that he was beginning to open the door here at Calvary. And I thought, wow , this is amazing. But I realize it's God who puts those desires in our heart because they're his will, and then he fulfills them. And it's such a great joy. Guess who the person is that I really, really, really wanted to marry? She's sitting right down there. I prayed and labored over that decision far more than I should have. But God fulfilled the desires of my heart. And He wants to do that with you as you delight in Him. He will use those desires to guide you. They're not infallible. You need to check your heart constantly against his revealed will. But he does create those desires and then fulfills them in accordance with his will. And it's such a delight. Number five, excuse me, number six. Trust in the Lord to guide you. This is so key. Proverbs 3, 5 through 6 says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean to your own understanding in all of your ways. Acknowledge him. And he will make straight your paths. God is sovereign, teens. College student, God is sovereign. And his ability to guide you into the perfect direction and plan that he has for your life is far greater than your ability to mess it up. God is in control. And therefore you need to honor Him. You need to acknowledge Him. That word means to know. You need to know God. At every turn, in every decision, know him and he will direct your path. Trust him to do this. And then number seven and finally, there comes a point at which you need to act in faith. You need to make a decision But you need to do this in faith. Romans 14. 20 says, whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. Hebrews 11 says that without faith it is impossible to please him. Believe God's promise that He will guide you even unto death and through every step along the way. When I say act in faith , I'm not saying, I want to nuance this here, I'm not saying that at every decision in your life you're going to know 100 % foolproof what the right decision is. But you need to go into the decisions even that you're the ones that you're not completely sure of You need to go in with that believing that God is going to guide you. He is going to direct you. You need to approach it in faith. And when we do this, when we apply the when we we understand the revealed will of God And we align our lives so that we are in accordance with his revealed will. And then we take these principles for wise decision making and we apply them to the things that are not revealed, the hidden aspects of God's will, his sovereign plan for us. we can be sure that he is going to give us the wisdom to make the right decisions. And ultimately, we're depending upon him. And the joy of growing older is being able to look back at your life and saying, God has led me all the way. He has done this. And he has been faithful. And I can remember back in my life at certain situations where I wasn't sure what to do. And I prayed and God answered prayer. I could, if I had the time tonight, I could recount story after story of how God has guided me in the past. And it builds confidence that He will guide and He will lead in the future. I hope that these principles and these passages tonight have given you insight. To the will of God for your life. Let's pray and we will be dismissed. Father, thank you that your will is good. And that Father, you have revealed many aspects of it in your word. And yet there are decisions before our college students, our high school students. where your desire for them is not explicitly clear. And I pray that you would give them wisdom in making decisions that are in alignment with what you have revealed. And I pray that you would give them joy and delight as they seek to follow you all of their days. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.