Give your Bibles, please, you could turn with me to Matthew chapter 15, continue our study of the life of Peter. Many of you are familiar with C. S. Lewis's classic, The Screwtape Letters, in this book, which is a collection of fictional letters from a retired demon named Screwtape to his young nephew. who is a demon in training named Wormwood. The book provides fascinating insights into the tactics of the Wicked One. Another author named Walter Martin wrote a sequel to this book. It's not quite as good, but it still has some insight in it, entitled Screwtape Rights Again And he records there a dialogue between these two diabolical beings. Screw tape writes to his amateur nephew, if you can obscure the facts. There's a good chance that he will embrace what Hell considers the perfect synonym for true religion, churchianity. In this marvelous imitation of the enemy's church, everything looks and sounds right and good, but the enemy's spirit is conspicuously absent. You must arrange to make him become a devout Methodist or Anglican or Baptist or Presbyterian or whatever you have, but he must not come to accept He must come to accept the church as a type of religious social club where people congregate, nothing more. In a word, Wormwood, you must help them become more religious. but not more Christian. It's a very disturbing fact to realize that the people who put Jesus on the cross were primarily religious conservatives. The Pharisees claimed that they were looking and longing for the Messiah But when he came into their midst, they murdered him. It's also revealing that the Lord's harshest words were given to the Pharisees. This morning we're going to look at one of those many passages in the Gospels where Jesus confronts the Pharisees. And this is in response to an accusation on their part that takes place not that long after the feeding of the 5,000 people. And Matthew chapter 15, look with me at verses 1 and 2. Then came Jesus, came to Jesus scribes and Pharisees which were of Jerusalem, saying, Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? For they wash not their hands when they eat bread. This was not some spontaneous criticism, but a formal complaint by an official delegation of religious leaders from Jerusalem. Now it's important for you to understand that this has nothing to do with hygiene. The Lord is not teaching us principles and whether or not you should wash your hands. So children, this is not a proof text for you to demonstrate to your parents that you don't need to wash your hands before you eat. This is a reference to ceremonial cleansing, a ceremonial ritual. It was not about staying healthy. It was about washing off any supposed defilement. They came upon a devout Jew when he was out in the marketplace and surrounded by Gentiles. It involved an elaborate ceremony of washing up to your elbows and and using one hand to scrub the other and vice versa, and it lasted many minutes. The rabbis took this very seriously. One ancient writer said that it was better to walk four miles to find water than to eat with unwashing hands. Another rabbi said that to eat with with unwashed hands was as bad as murder. Now it's likely that the religious establishment in Jerusalem and heard about our Lord's incredible miracle of the feeding of the 5,000. That kind of news travels very quickly. And they were troubled by it because people were following him in droves. And so they said, we've got to do something to discredit him. And as they listened carefully to the accounts of what occurred, they realized that neither Jesus nor his disciples, it seems, washed their hands. before they ate that meal. And so they said, well, we have them. He is a rabbi. He should know better than this. We can come and lodge an official complaint and seek to discredit this miracle worker. And so they come to question the Lord. Now the Lord, after the feeding of the five thousand, began to shift the focus of his ministry away from the public in general to mentoring those twelve men, the disciples, especially their leader, Peter. I mentioned at the outset that we are going through a study of the life of Peter, and the reason we're doing this is because it's the best example that we have in Scripture of how the Lord disciples a person. And in this particular time period, the Lord is teaching Peter the difference between what is real and what is false. Last week we looked at That time after the feeding of the 5,000, when the multitude went away, we looked at the characteristics of a true disciple of Christ versus the characteristics of a false disciple of Christ. Now the Lord is going to challenge Peter further and look more broadly at what is false religion versus true religion. He's going to as it were, open his eyes to the entire religious system that Peter has been brought up in. Now I think for Peter, he is trying to make sense of all of this. And so the Lord is going to use this confrontation with the religious authorities to show Peter the difference between the true and false religion. Now I know that religion is kind of one of those words that's um that's kind of uh used in a negative sense today You know, uh and and many times you'll have Christians saying to understand exactly what they're saying, you know, I don't have a religion, I have a relationship with Christ. And I I know exactly what they're saying But I want you to know there's nothing inherently evil about the word religion, okay? In fact, it's in your Bible And so we'll look at that passage a little bit later. So I'm going to be using it not in the pejorative sense of something that's false and fake and phony and wrong, but look at what is true religion. versus what is false religion. And before I get into my message, I want you to understand that the example that we're looking at here is a conservative example of false religion. false religion. There are liberal examples as well. This is not the only characteristics of false religion that we have in Scripture. But it's the one the Lord's dealing with here, and it's the one that was in the context in which Peter lived, and it's a lesson that he needed to learn. And this is something that we need to learn as well, because in case you haven't noticed, we're fairly conservative and traditional around here. And so this kind of hits home with us and should cause us to pause and question and think. So I want to begin by saying that Christian disciples must discern the traits of worthless religion. I use this term worthless religion because that's the meaning of the word in verse 9 where Jesus says, In vain do they worship me, and the word vain means that which is worthless. Now, I want you to know that worthless religion can have some really positive characteristics. It may be well respected. It may surprise you to know that the Pharisees were very well respected by most people in first century Israel. The disciples, at least initially, thought very highly of them. In the time of Christ, they were well respected. They were considered the guardians of Israel's proud religious tradition. They were especially popular in the rural regions like Galilee. They were all for God and country, God and country, a message that resonated with the people. And in verse 12, we see an indication that the disciples did not share the Lord's contempt for them. Skip ahead to verse 12. It says, Then came his disciples and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Pharisees were offended after they heard this saying? They say, Lord, I don't know if you realize this or not, but you really kind of ruffled their feathers. You really were kind of offensive to them. And the implication behind their comments is that we're kind of on the same page with them. And so that's why the Lord is going to really deal with this at this point. I want you to notice that worthless religion may be conservative. The Pharisees were not the liberals of their day. That were the Sadducees. They were the sophisticated, educated elite that lived in Jerusalem. They didn't believe in the supernatural. But the Pharisees were the conservatives. It may be traditional The Pharisees were all about tradition. In fact, twice in this passage, in verse 3 and verse 6, we're going to find this word tradition. And the Lord's going to speak to this. And it also may seem biblical. The Pharisees claimed to believe the Bible, their Old Testament was the Word of God's. That that was the basis of what they believed. But as we're going to see, they really did not live the truth of the Word of God. They selectively used it. and put other things in substitution for God's truth. But I want to quickly move to this that worthless religion has some very serious problems And the Lord's going to pinpoint these here. Notice with me that worthless religion often focuses on what is traditional rather than biblical. Look with me at verse 3. Jesus answers, why do you also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition? For God commanded, saying, Honor thy father and thy mother, and he that curseth father or mother let him die the death, but ye say whosoe shall say to his father or mother It is a gift by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me and honor not his father or his mother, he shall be free. Thus have you made the commandment of God of none effect by your tradition Jesus answers their question with a question. He accuses them of violating the fifth commandment, which says, honor thy father and thy mother. He's referring to a practice that was taking place in the first century where wealthy Jews would pronounce a portion of their money to be Korbond, that is, it was bowed or dedicated to God. And therefore, they would claim, listen, I all of my My money is tied up, it's been dedicated to God, so I can't give it for the maintenance of my mom and dad's. Because it's God's money. And it became a clever way of evading their responsibility And the religious establishment condoned it and defended them because they were the beneficiaries of it. Horrible thing. You see, tradition can be a wonderful blessing. It's always a good thing to consider why it is that Christian people have done something for such a long time in a certain way. I don't like what's novel. I like what's timeless. And I always wonder at people who Want to change everything in their generation and they speak as if every generation that has lived previous to them were ignorant, but they somehow have all the insight and all the truth I want to say to them, just wait till your kids grow up. They'll think differently. But you know, just because something has been done in a certain way Or certain taboos have been established in the Christian subculture in which you live does not mean that it's really true A lot of times we never tend to think that what we've always been taught might be wrong. What should we do as believers? What is our guide to truth? We must always go back to the word We should not say, well, you know, I've always been taught this, or I've always heard this, or I've always practiced this. No, what does God's word say? This is our truth. This must guide our steps. Would you notice with me that worthless religion often focuses on the ritual rather than the spiritual? Look with me at verses 7 and 8. Jesus says. . Ye . hypocrites, well did Isaiah prophesy of you, saying, This people draweth unto me with their mouth and honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. This is the first time in the gospel record that we read of Jesus calling the Pharisees hypocrites. He would do it many times more. Now the word hypocrite originally goes back to ancient Greek drama, where the actors often would portray many different characters. And they would wear a mask. And they would come out as one character and go back and put on a different mask and come out as another character. And the word hypocrite has the idea of putting on that mask. And it came to mean someone who is not. Who they claim to be. They say, I am this person. I am a religious person, perhaps, but they're really not. They say, I am a godly person. But the reality is different. Now how were the Pharisees hypocrites? Well, they worshiped God with their lips. They said many commendable things in public, but their hearts were not in it. They had erected a great amount of rituals and ceremonies. And a hedge about the law that were very impressive that regulated every detail, every aspect of their lives But they were hypocrites. Jesus says that their hearts were far from him. What an indictment. He didn't say you're just a little bit off. You're just a little too stringent. No, he he says the whole system's wrong. Your hearts are far from me. We need to be careful and realize that we can gather to worship week after week. We can sing these hymns that have wonderful words. We can read the scriptures together. We can pray together. We can give out of habit. But we can do all of that without truly worshiping gods. Without having a heart that's really touched. It's so easy to go through the motions. And appear to everyone to be a good Christian. To ask you some questions about even today, this morning. Did you prepare your hearts? Did you look forward to coming and worshiping with the people of God? When we came here today, did your heart enter into the scripture reading? Did you voice within your heart the prayers as I led us in prayer? Did you ask God to speak to you from the Word? Did you praise Him from your heart? Did you think about my God has been so good? What a wonderful foundation He has given to us in His Word as we sang this together. Was your heart engaged? Or were you just on autopilot? Now it's very, very easy for the best of believers To be an autopilot some of the time. To be distracted, be tired, be wore down after a difficult week. Something unexpectedly came into your life. I understand that. What I worry about is people who do that out of habit every single week. Their own autopilot. Their mind is not engaged. They couldn't tell you a thing about the sermon that was preached. Their heart is not engaged. Their heart is not stirred by the singing of these hymns. They don't enter into the prayers. They don't minister to others. They're just there. It's real easy to do that. That's what the Pharisees did. They had a whole system With that. God does not want anything that doesn't come from your heart. He wants heartfelt devotion. Would you notice me that worthless religion often focuses on man rather than God? He says in verse 9, Jesus says, but in vain they do worship me, teaching for doctrines, the commandments of men. Now this happened, I think, probably with good intentions. The Pharisees go all the way back to the Babylonian captivity. They came out of the captivity in a very pagan world. And they wanted to retain the worship of the one true God. They had God's law, they had God's truth, God's revelation given to his people. And well meaning, they said, you know, we need to so people don't get close to violating God's law, we need to put a hedge about the law. We need to Expand it a little bit, give us a little breathing room to keep people in check. And people can start things innocently. I always think of the story of Amy Carmichael who started out as a missionary. Actually, I believe it was in Japan before she would come to India and she was there and there were a group of missionary ladies there And they came and one of the ladies, for whatever reason, decided that she wasn't going to eat peanut butter. It was a luxury item. It was hard to get there It was expensive, so she said, you know what, I'm just I'm just not going to eat peanut butter because I think that's what the Lord would have me do. Well in time, over the years, that had become among that community of people a litmus test for spirituality. And so when a new missionary would come and they would eat peanut butter, everyone would look at them and say, What are you doing? Started out innocently enough. But then it became a matter of right or wrong and something that was regulative for everyone. And it's very easy for our worship to become focused. On man and not on God. Now, why do the Pharisees over the years accumulate so many different regulations and rules? Well, first of all, that's the nature of rules and regulations, right? You ever look at our tax code? How come it keeps growing? Because they keep thinking of new worth. Oh yeah, we've got to put an exception for that. It's just the way it is with regulations and rules. But part of it was because these powerful religious leaders wanted to control the people And part of it was because they believed that by doing all of these things, some of which required a great deal of discipline and were quite impressive, that they could manipulate gods. This is the way man always thinks. If I do this and this and this, then God is going to be in debt to me and he's got to do what I want him to do. This is the way the pagan people were around them. They would offer these sacrifices, even their children, and do all of these things in order to be able to have control of the gods. And these leaders of orthodoxy fell into the same thinking. We can manipulate and control God. We can harness him, as it were, to do what we once. And so much of Christian worship today is nothing more than a combination of popular entertainment and pop psychology. It's made for the consumer. So many sermons are like a motivational speech sprinkled with a few Bible verses. So many preachers cherry-pick the Word of God, looking for some , skipping over a lot of things they don't want and taking something out that they think will be relevant and applicable to people living in 21st century America. But that's not what God wants. That's not real worship. That's not saying, speak, Lord, for your servant hears. That's turning God's word into a buffet and say, I'm going to take some of that, but I'm going to leave the rest of this for somebody else. And would you notice with me that worthless religion often focuses on the external and not the internal? Let me give a disclaimer here. I am not of those who say, you know, it doesn't matter what you look like. It doesn't matter what you do to your body or what your body does. None of that's important at all. Don't be concerned about that at all. It's only what's in your hearts. That's not what Jesus is saying here. Because you know what? What's in your heart is going to affect and change everything else that you do. What he's saying here is that what you eat or what you do The external appearance, that in itself is not enough. There has to be something from the heart. It has to work from the inside out. Not just a shell that you put on. Now notice that the Lord in verse 10 calls the multitude together. And says unto them, Hear and understand. And he's going to give a one verse mini parable. Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man, but that which cometh out of the man, this defileth a man. Now this would have sounded very radical and dangerous to these Jews. They would have been saying, did I hear him right? Because they had been brought up, all of them, from the time they were children, to be taught that there are some foods that we eat and there are other foods that we don't eat. There's things that are kosher and things that are nuts So they would have been thinking, it sounds like Jesus is saying, it doesn't really matter what you eat, but that that can't be right. They were very proud of the fact that they did not eat like the pagan Gentiles And now Jesus says, it's not what you put in your mouth that defiles you, it's what comes out of your mouth, referring to your speech. You see, the Jews had developed a religious system that became fixated on the external and ignored the internal. Why did this happen? Well, there's a number of reasons, but one very obvious reason is because you know what? It's a whole lot easier to change your outward appearance than it is to change your heart. Did you know that? It really is Try really dealing with your heart sometime. Struggling and wrestling with your hearts. That's a big problem. But you know what? A person get with a program and they can put on a tie and a jacket and And come and have a look and know a few pet Christian phrases, and everyone will receive them as a strong Christian believer. But what's in the hearts? What's in the heart? We should remember this. There's a lot of people who are conservative that don't know the Lord. It's very easy to change your behavior to fit into a certain Christian subculture. But the question is, has your heart been changed? That brings me to the second point The main point I want to make this morning, and that is that Christian disciples must recognize the traits of true religion And I want you to notice that Jesus is going to tell his disciples that true religion is radically different from worthless religion Look at verse 12. Then came his disciples and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Pharisees were offended after they heard this saying? But he answered and said, Every plant Which my father hath not planted shall be rooted up. Let them alone. They be blind leaders of the blind, and if the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch. Now, it says here that they came into the house. This was the house where Jesus was staying in Capernaum, and I very strongly suspect it was Peter's home. So they're back at Peter's home. The disciples are there. Mark tells us that they share with him at this time. You know, you kind of offend it. You know how sometimes people are very blunt and maybe a loved one is and and they're not very you you feel like they're not very sensitive to the needs of the feelings of others. And so when you get them alone, you say, you know, you really kind of upset people today. You may not be aware of it, but you really said something you shouldn't have said. So I think the disciples think we're going to help Jesus out. You know, he needs to work on his people skills a little bit. We need to tell him, you really offended these people today. And of course, Jesus was saying exactly what was the truth. And I think that Peter probably took the lead in voicing this concern. And I think the underlying premise of their advice to Jesus was that the Pharisees are pretty much on the same page with us. They're the good guys, Lord. They're the guardians of the truth. But Jesus is going to decimate this idea. He says, every plant which my father hath not planted shall be rooted up. You know what he's saying? He says The Pharisees are like a weed. They're not the people of God. They're not the vine that's bringing forth fruits to the glory of God. They're a weed. that looks something like the fine, but it's not the real thing, and God is going to root them out and destroy them someday. That's what he's saying. He goes on in verse 14 to call them blind leaders of the blinds. They were spiritually blind. They were blind to their own hypocrisy, their own wickedness, and they were leading people astray. He was teaching his disciples, especially Peter, you must be discerning. Of what is true and what is false, not everything that claims to be of God, not everything that claims to be biblical is really the real thing. They people so often focus on a few similarities, but they ignore the essential differences. And so Jesus brings these out. He goes on to say that true religion is not a matter of observing religious rituals. Verse 15, then answered Peter and said unto him, declare unto us this parable. Verse 16, and Jesus said, Are you also yet without understanding? I think Peter may have been a little embarrassed. You know, I've often heard from people, there's no such thing as a dumb question. Well, Jesus didn't think so. He said, Peter, are you kidding me? You haven't progressed far enough to know what I was saying in that parable? You should be further along than you are now. You should have been able to grasp that and understand it. I'm sure this is something that Peter remembered. He probably was a little embarrassed. There he is among his peers. And the Lord calls him out as it will. And so he's going to go through and explain it to him. Do you not yet understand verse 17 that whatsoever entereth in at the mouth goeth into the belly and is cast out into the drought? Again, he's referring to the food. Many of the Jews felt that because of their dietary restrictions, they were, as it were, earning merit with God. And he's saying, that just passes through your body. That's not what makes a person holy. That's not what makes a person a child of God. This would have been very hard for Peter and the disciples to grasp because all their lives they had been taught otherwise. And you know, Peter still struggled with this. In Mark's gospel, it adds a very significant detail. It says that he said this purging all meats or all foods Now we can't prove this, but the vast majority of scholars think that Mark got his eyewitness accounts that he put in his gospel from Peter. Early church fathers tell us that. So I suspect that Peter remembered this incident very well because we tend to remember times when we're embarrassed, don't we? And he remembered that Jesus says that what Jesus was doing there was purging all meats. That is, he was making all food. He was saying, listen, all food is fair gain. And he he he couldn't forget that. And in Acts chapter ten, many years later The Lord gives a vision to Peter of all kinds of food, and he says, Arise and eat. And Peter says, No, no, no, I can't do that, Lord, because that's unclean. And God says to him, What God hath cleansed Call not thou unclean. This was a tough lesson for Peter to grasp. It took repeated instruction. And of course, this is just one sample, one example. It's not that the problem with the Pharisees was just this dietary restrictions. They had built an elaborate system Of human merit based on the Sabbath, based on things like dietary restrictions and other ceremonies like washing your hands. And that became the essence of their faith And this is something that is instructive for us. It's convenient for us to believe that because we read our Bibles and pray and attend church. that we are okay. We can turn even good biblically based spiritual exercises into a false measure of spirituality. We can have a checklist approach. Read my Bible today? Check. Prayed? Check. Went to church this week? Check. I'm good. I'm excellent. I'm right with God. I'm exactly doing what He wants me to do. No one can get on my back about anything. And then I kept this list of taboos. I didn't take any drugs this week. I didn't get drunk this week. I didn't smoke this week. I'm really good. I'm part of the spiritual elite. I mean I know a lot of Christians don't do those things. And don't go to church very often. But you know, you can do all those things and be lost. Do we realize that? What's in your hearts? We went through this a year or so ago. The real measure the Bible gives us For spiritual maturity is Christ-likeness. Are you becoming like Christ? Are you exhibiting the fruit of the Spirit like love, joy, and peace? That's the question. Not your little checklist. Do you have something that's coming from your hearts? And this is what Jesus is going to continue with. Look at verse 18 through 20. But those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart. And they defile the man, for out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnesses, blasphemies. These are the things which defile a man, but to eat with unwashing hands defile not a man. Several times in these verses you'll see the Lord mentioning the hearts. What do we mean by the hearts? We mean the inner man, the mind, the will, the emotions. Talking about the way you think. What does the proverb say? As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he Our thoughts are the most private thing about us. So how would we know what is in anybody's hearts? We can't see their thoughts. We don't know what they're thinking. The closest thing that we have to that, the most revealing thing that we have to that is what? Their words, what they say. What did Jesus say? Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. You want to know what people think about? Consider what they say, not just in public, but in private. Many years ago during the Watergate scandal when the Nixon tapes came out and the American public heard how the President of the United States spoke in private, they were appalled. There was so much profanity, so much paranoia, so much deception Because the man that they saw in public who gave speeches and things was a different man than they heard on those tapes. And it's very easy for us as human beings to have one way of talking around this group of people and another way of talking around this group of people and then another way of talking When I'm just among my closest friends, and I really feel like the filter is off, and I can just express my thoughts as they truly are Jesus here is not so much fixated on what you're saying. The message of Jesus here is not so be careful what you say. Make sure you have a really good filter there. Just think before you talk. That's not what he's saying. He's saying your words are significant because they come from your hearts. And your heart reveals who you really are. Talks here that from the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnesses, blasphemies. So what do your words say about you? Are your word full your words full of complaints? It's because you have a complaining spirit. That's part of your hearts. Are your words threatening, abusive, and violent? It's because you have that kind of heart. Is your speech filled with sexual innuendo? It's because you have a filthy heart. Are your words filled with criticism? biting sarcasm that tears people down and discourages people. It's because you have that kind of a wicked negative heart. Because your words are reflecting what is inside of you and what you truly believe and what you treasure. I've discovered that when people get angry and they blow up at someone , And they say a whole bunch of things that are awful, hurtful They always want to quickly discount what they said and they say, well, you know, I was just angry. I wasn't thinking about what I was saying. You know, I've been really stressed lately But actually, those unguarded words are better reflection of what's in your heart than your carefully crafted words when you're in control. What does your heart, what do your words say about your heart? Now, let me show you that this is exactly the way the Word of God applies this. Turn with me to Hebrews, excuse me, James chapter 1. Verse 26. Told you that religion wasn't a bad word and it's in the Bible, this is the verse I'm talking about. James chapter 1 verse 26, if any man among you seem to be religious And brileth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart. This man's religion is vain Worthless. Just what Jesus was saying about these Pharisees. Their religion was worthless. They seemed to be religious. They put on a grand show. They were well respected, but their hearts were far from God's. Every time I preach on this verse, it's always gotten very quiet in the church. Because these words are stunning. and shocking and uncomfortable for us. James, if you know the book well at all, you know he he he doesn't pull any punches. When he says this man's religion is vain, he's not saying, you know, he's not a spiritual giant. You know what he's saying? He's not a believer. He's not a Christian. I'm very concerned when I hear about people who talk one way at church, but the other six days of the week, they have an entirely different vocabulary. an entirely different tone, an entirely different way of dealing with people. Something's not right. Something is seriously wrong. So the question is, do we have just a religious system of convenience that fits our particular culture, our family, the environment in which we live, and that is comfortable for us, and that we find some value in And so we adopt certain mores, we adopt certain styles of talking and schedules of life But we really don't have a relationship with God. Religion, true spirituality, true spiritual life is a matter of the hearts. God doesn't want your religious observance. He doesn't want your faithful church attendance. He doesn't want your faithful Bible reading or faithful prayer time. He wants your hearts. And if he has your heart, the other things will follow. But apart from your heart, all of that is just rituals, futile exercises. in religious deception. This was the lesson that Peter needed to learn. The difference between The faith that Christ was bringing to the world and the dead ritualistic Judaism in which he was reared. John Wesley was born into a pastor's family. His mother was a godly saint who ran a very structured household When John went away to college to Oxford, it was no question what he would study. It seemed like the family business was religion , was being a pastor. But he was not just someone quietly going through the motions. He was part of something called the holy club. They were religious zealots. They preached in jails. They would go and feed the poor. They would fast for hours and days. They would get up at 4 a. m. and read their Bibles together. And after a few years, John graduated with a master's degree in theology. And he was ordained as an Anglican minister and sent as a missionary. To a colony of Georgia to reach the Native Americans. He came back somewhat disillusioned with his work Not sure what direction he would go in life, and one day he came and he heard a street preacher. Who was not much of a preacher at all. So he just read from a book and he read the testimony of Martin Luther and how he became a believer. And as he heard the testimony of Martin Luther, something he knew well. But as he heard those words, he says that his heart was strangely warmed, and he came to truly believe. And there on Aldersgate Street on May the 24th, 1738, this 35-year-old.