Turn in your Bibles please to Romans chapter twelve. Romans chapter twelve. Some time ago an artist Painted a picture he entitled Blue and Gray. Sometimes artists do a painting that's kind of a practice or study. in a certain technique and that's the kind of picture that this was. The picture was passed around and was given to someone and They wondered what it was, and they had an art critic in the area look at it, and he said that it was worthless, and so the guy put it in his attic and forgot about it sometime later. Another individual looked at it and had an art critic appraise it, and he believed it was a masterpiece. We know this painting today is Whistler's mother. And it is one of the more valuable and recognized works of art from the United States. The difference, of course, had to do with the discernment of the art critic. between recognizing the value of it. This is one of the most important abilities that a human being can have, the ability to discern the value of things. There's a very real sense in which Christians are the only people who can really discern proper values. And this is an essential part of our sanctification. We're looking once more tonight at Romans chapter 12, and uh most of you have memorized perhaps the first two verses. Where Paul writes, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. This evening I want us to focus our attention on the final phrase of verse 2, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. This is a very significant phrase for us to consider. The word prove here is a difficult word to translate into English. It's used some 23 times in the New Testament. It's used in Luke 14, 19 to describe a man who would prove some oxen that he was considering purchasing It would be just like giving a car a test drive before buying it. It was used to describe the way fire reveals whether something is valuable like gold or silver or whether it's worthless like wood, hay, or stubble. according to 1 Corinthians 3. 13. It's used in 1 Timothy 3. 10 of a candidate for the office of deacon. The scripture says that he should first be proved. That is, he should already be showing that he is a servant in the church, and that not that the church should promote someone hoping that they become a servant. Now, in our context that we're considering tonight, Romans chapter 12 It refers to really what we would call spiritual discernment. Discernment is the ability to distinguish between two things. One New Testament scholar describes it this way, the ability to make proper moral decisions in the midst of a vast array of differing and difficult choices. that are consistently presenting themselves to the Christian. It's the ability to discern what is true and what is false what is light and what is darkness, and even what is best from what is good. Spiritual discernment is absolutely essential in our sanctification. If you do not have spiritual discernment, you will never really grow in grace because you will consistently make poor choices. I'm going to preach you this evening on the importance of spiritual discernment. My first point is that we can only become the kind of Christians that God desires us to be by exercising spiritual discernment. And I want to for the next couple minutes just remind you of the logical progression of this passage. Paul begins by calling on Christians to offer their lives As a living sacrifice. And he makes this appeal on the basis of the mercies of God. Notice he says, I beseech you, or I urge you, or I implore you. Therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, And what he's referring to by the mercies of God is the great doctrine of salvation, that he is just expounded in the first eleven chapters of this book. This again is the pivot point of this book. This is the second half of the book The first half was doctrine, this is duty, just like we spoke of that this morning in Ephesians chapter 4. He is saying when we consider the magnitude of our salvation and what God has done by grace in our lives, it should compel us To yield up our lives as a living sacrifice, not like the Old Testament sacrifice that was slain on the altar but a living sacrifice where we live our lives for God in a way that is pleasing to Him. And then he adds this phrase at the end, which is your reasonable service, which many scholars think is referring to a lifestyle of worship and service, and that every decision we make is sacred. Every decision that we make in life is important and significant because our lives belong to God. And then in verse 2, he explains how it's ever possible to do this. How is it that we can become the living sacrifice that God has called us to be? And the answer is. This twofold thing, positive and negative. First of all, be not conform to this world. Literally, stop allowing the world to shape and mold you by its values. And that's the idea of this. That the world is continually trying to shape the way we think. Trying to influence the decisions we make so that we live for the here and now, so that we live for the sensational and the superficial and things that ultimately do not matter rather than living for God's And then the opposite of the negative is the positive here, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. Referring, of course, to the fact that we are to be changed from the inside out, and we do this by renewing our minds in the Word of God. This is where the Spirit of God uses his word to change us the way we think, the way we act, the way we talk, so that we become radically different from the lost people around us. Now, what is it that really makes the difference between a lost person and a saved person? It really has to do with after they have been regenerated and they have the life of God dwelling within them, it has to do with the choices that they make in life. Some of these are daily choices. Some of them are long-term choices. Like, I'm going to go to church every Sunday. Or I'm going to read my Bible every day. Or I'm going to set aside time to pray. Those are choices that people make. And those simple choices That help us to structure our day and our lives, make all the difference in the world of where we are going to be as we continue in the path of life. The direction of a person's life is determined by the choices they make. And that's why it's imperative that we make the right choices. And this is why we desperately need spiritual discernment. I want to show you some other passages to begin with here that speak of the importance of spiritual discernment. First of all, exercising spiritual discernment is what distinguishes a believer's lifestyle from an unbeliever's lifestyle. I want you to turn with me To the book of Ephesians, chapter 5. Ephesians chapter 5. I'm going to begin reading in verse 2. And walk in love as Christ also hath loved us and hath given himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savor. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as becometh saints, neither filthiness nor foolish talking, nor jesting which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks For this ye know that no whormonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no man deceive you with vain words. For because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. Be not ye therefore partakers with them, for ye were sometimes darkness, but now ye are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth, proving, there's our word, what is acceptable unto the Lord. Now then he continues on. I'm not going to read all of this. In verse 15, he says, see then that ye walk circumspectly not as fools, but as wives. Exercising spiritual discernment is how we live in such a way that brings glory to God. Turn with me to the next book over, the book of Philippians, chapter 1. And verse 9, this is the prayer that Paul prays for these believers. And this I pray that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment, that ye may approve things that are excellent, that ye may be sincere and without offense, to the day of Christ being filled with the fruit of righteousness which are by Jesus Christ. unto the glory and praise of God. Notice he says that you may approve things that are excellent. That is the terminology of spiritual discernment. And then in 1 Thessalonians, if you would turn there, please, 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 21. 1 Thessalonians 5. 21 he says, Prove all things. Hold fast that which is good. Abstain from all appearance of evil. He's saying, exercise spiritual discernment. Think about this. Consider your decisions. And what is good, that is what you need to hold fast to and practice in your life. But what is evil, literally you need to let go and let it not have a place in your life And then we see that spiritual discernment is a mark of maturity. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 5. Hebrews chapter 5. I begin reading at verse 11. Verse 12, actually Hebrews 5. 12 For when the time ye ought to be teachers ye have need, that one teach you again which be the first principles of the oracles of God, and overcome such as have need of milk and not of strong meat For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercise to discern both good and evil. You see here a spiritually mature believer has spiritual discernments. This is a major component to your sanctification. This is a mark of maturity. Children don't make wise. choices. If you have a little toddler or even an elementary school age child and you say, you know, you can do whatever you want, you can stay as late as you want, you can eat as much as what you can eat whatever you want. You can do whatever. You know what? They will make themselves miserable because they don't have the maturity to make proper choices It's the same with immature believers. So under this first heading, I want you to see that we can only become strong, vibrant Christians by exercising spiritual discernment. The second point I want to remind you of is that we can only exercise spiritual discernment when our minds are being renewed. The renewal of our minds is not something that takes place uh automatically or something that takes place at one stage in our life. It's not like you know, well I went to Sunday school all my years growing up, so I've got that taken care of. Or I went to a Christian school, or even I went to a Christian college, so my mind has been renewed. Those things may assist greatly in that But this is something that you have to put into practice all the days of your life. This is why so many Christians demonstrate little spiritual discernment. because their minds have not been renewed. Their minds have not been steeped in God's word. They may know a few verses here and there, but they really don't know what God says about many issues and about what He has called them to do, and therefore they make poor choices again. And again, many scholars see in this admonition in Romans 12 an intentional contrast between what Paul says here about the renewing of the mind and what he says about the mind in Romans chapter 1 and verse 28. Remember Romans chapter 1 is that dreadful passage that speaks about God's judgment and giving over to individuals a reprobate mind, he says in Romans 1 28 And even as they did not like to retain God and their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind to do those things which are not convenient. The idea of the word reprobates is a mind that cannot really discern right from wrong. And what I want you to do is make this connection. The word reprobate is exactly the same as the word prove, except for one letter. And it's got one letter at the beginning of the word, which is an alpha, or the equivalent of the letter A. And like in English, it's the equivalent of un Like what's the difference between something that's cool and something that's uncool? It's the little word, little prefix un on the fronts And so just as a person who has the ability to discern right from wrong, that's on one end of the scale. On the other end of the scale, A person who has indulged in all kinds of sin and has sinned against their conscience again and again God gives them up to a reprobate mind so that they can go out and do the most heinous wicked things and they are not troubled at all by it because their conscience, their moral compass no longer works. We are to be the opposite of that. Our moral compass, our sense of right and wrong, is to be sharp and precise. A Christian with a renewed mind not only has a conscience, but has the Spirit of God working in him through the Word of God. to guide him into all truth. This is what we read of in Romans chapter 12. The renewing of the mind comes before this idea of proving things. And what I want you to notice is that the renewing of the mind is commanded of us for the purpose. That ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. This is a purpose clause in the Greek text. In other words, that's the whole purpose of us renewing our minds. This is the whole reason, one of the main reasons that we come to church, that we read our Bibles, that we have Sunday school classes. We're trying to counteract the world's trying to shape and mold our thinking and the bad ideas that we've picked up here and there in our travels and bring our minds back to God's truth. But notice here that God's word is not intended to make you feel superior to other believers. I have to tell you, and I'm going to tell them myself here, and it's not a flattering story. But when I was in seminary, and and I I I I really don't want to tell this story, but I could remember I was a real mess. I would come back from from college, you know, and I was a Greek minor and I took five years of Greek and I had all this Greek. And so I'd come to church with my Greek New Testament. Didn't need an English Bible, Greek New Testament. And I would go into a Sunday school class, and my wife was very patient. She'd be sitting next to me, and I would sit there, and the teacher would say something. I'd say that's not what it means. That's not what it means. And I would sit in the class and the teacher would make some theological point and I said, not true. And I'd have a bulletin next to me, and I'd be writing out references left and right that prove everything that he was saying was absolutely false. And and and you know and and and it was it was a bad thing. Because one of the things that biblical knowledge is supposed to do is not to puff you up, but what to humble you, right? The purpose of renewing our minds and studying languages like Greek and Hebrew and studying theology is not so we can win a theological argument And just really humiliate someone who doesn't know the Word of God. No, the whole purpose of this knowledge is so that we would make right choices. That reveals spiritual discernment. Choices designed to help us grow in grace You see, the Bible is not some esoteric philosophy for academic elites to discuss. Now understand, this is the deepest book of in the world. This is why there have been more books written about the Bible than any other book that's ever been written. Because no one can ever plumb the depths of this book. But God did not give us this book so that we could sit here and just entertain ourselves with speculation. And with philosophical and theological arguments, this is intended to be a very practical book. That would help us to live our life in such a way that glorifies God. These are practical instructions for regular people to put into practice. The whole reason that we are to renew our minds is so that we can make right decisions in life. The third point I want to bring to your attention this evening is this, we can only exercise spiritual discernment by making choices that are the will of God for us. Now what is meant here in Romans chapter 12 and verse 2 And that last phrase, the will of God. This isn't something we encounter frequently in Scripture. And it's important that we understand it. When I was a young person, I often heard preachers speak of God's will like it was some great unfathomable mystery that we were trying to unravel. And the idea that I picked up, it may not have been taught this way. You know, it's interesting you can teach and preach something, but people might Take it in such a way as you had not intended it. So I'm going to give my my youth pastors and others a little leeway on this But often the way it seemed to have been presented to me was that you have to be very careful because if you make one false move, your whole life is going to be ruins. You ever thought about our lives like a series of chain reactions? You know? For instance, let's say that you went to the wrong college, and I don't mean by that like a Christian college. to a secular college just to say in in the way it was presented you went to the wrong college and you met the wrong girl there and someday you're going to have the wrong kids and you're going to go into the wrong career all because you made that fatal choice And your whole life is ruined because you didn't follow the will of God. That is nonsense. But sometimes that's the way people think of it, and they're terrified. That they're going to make a wrong choice and it's just going to derail God's plans for their life and perhaps for generations That's not the way to look at it. There are different aspects of the will of God. I don't have time to really Explore and define and explain all of this. But there are some things in the realm of the will of God that are part of God's sovereign decrees, like when he said, Let there be light. There was no question as to whether or not there was going to be light because God decreed it so. There's going to be lights Or when he gave prophecies like, behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son. This was a prophecy of the coming Messiah. It was going to happen. There was nothing conditional about it. Then there's an aspect sometimes referred to as God's permissive will. What God providentially allows to occur doesn't mean necessarily that he delights in it. But he allows it to occur, it does not happen against his will, because God is in control of all But most often when you read about the will of God in Scripture, as it's found here in this context as well in Romans 12, It's referring to our obedience to God's express commands, His will for our life. And this is what we need to understand. So for instance, in 1 Thessalonians Chapter 4, we see this brought out very clearly. It says, for this is the will of God, even your sanctification That ye should abstain from fornication. So see, no Christian needs to stop and wonder, I wonder if God's will for me is to be immoral. No, the scriptures are crystal clear about this. This is God's will for you, that you abstain from fornication, that you be pure before God. And this is what it's meant here in Romans chapter 12. So what is in view here is God's will in reference to our sanctification or holiness. Now let me explore this topic a little bit. Now in the Old Testament, God gave his people very specific instructions. There are 365 negative commands. That is, thou shalt not. I don't know why no one has ever made one of those daily calendar things, you know, one negative command for every day of the year. Probably wouldn't sell very well. And then there are 245 positive commands. Thou shalt do this. For a grand total of 613 laws that regulated every aspect of the Old Testament Jews' life From what he wore to what he ate to what he did on the Sabbath to how he worshipped God, everything was spelled out in detail. Now, why did God give his people such detailed instructions? The answer is because the people of God at this time were immature. Like children. They had just come out of four centuries of slavery And they had been greatly influenced by this pagan environment. They did not have a Christian upbringing, if you will They were not used to making right choices, and so God gave them very specific instructions, just like a parent would to a little child. This is what you can do, and this is what you cannot do. Because that's what they needed. But when we come to the New Testament, we encounter something entirely different. Because there's two huge differences between the Old Testament Jew that came out of the slavery of Egypt. And the New Testament believer. One is that we have the completed canon of Scripture, the Word of God. They didn't have that. You know, when the children of Israel came out of Egypt, they weren't carrying their Bibles with them. Moses had not written them yet. He hadn't written the first five books yet. They didn't have a Bible. All that they have was what's called oral tradition, what they heard from their parents about Abraham and us being the people of God. They had a view few stories, and that was it They didn't have a Bible. We have a Bible. And you know what else we have? We have the indwelling Spirit of God that resides within us, that gives us guidance and direction, and helps us to make wise choices. So we have an incredible advantage. But when you come to the New Testament, and this is where I might be treading on dangerous ground with some of you, Did you know that we find very few specific regulations in the New Testament? Have you ever noticed that? You read through your New Testament? Maybe you've got a question about something. Some Christians say this is good. Some Christians say it's not good. And you look at your Bible, it doesn't say anything about it. And you think to yourself, well, why didn't God put something in there about that? It would make things so much easier making decisions. The Bible doesn't contain a list of where you can go and where you can't go. It doesn't say what you can do on Sunday and what you can't do on Sunday. It doesn't say what TV shows you can watch and which ones are off limits. It doesn't say what music you can listen to and what music you can't listen to. It doesn't prescribe a Christian uniform or hairstyle. Now, I know for some of you that may sound like heresy, but it's just facts. The Bible doesn't give us in the New Testament Detailed instructions. It doesn't. I've looked. To be honest with you, there's times in my life where I wish there were a few more verses in there that I could use in counseling with people. But they're not. Instead, we find timeless principles like this. Whatever therefore you eat or drink, or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. Or seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Or all things are lawful for me, but all things edify not Or walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called. Or set your affections on things above, not on things on the earth. These are the kind of exhortations that we find in Scripture. And you may say, but they're very general. You can interpret those things in many different ways. They're not like concrete and specific, and this is off limits, but this is okay, and this is really good. That's why we need spiritual discernments. See, Christian discernment is all about taking these principles and applying them to your particular situation. Let me again explain to you using that analogy of the child. When children are very small, you give them very specific, concrete instructions. But as they mature , As they become teenagers, as they prepare to leave the home, you've got to start letting them make some decisions. Because that's the only way they're going to grow up. You can't make every decision for your child for the rest of their life. They have to become a fully functioning adult. This is a mark of maturity, is to be able to look at the situation, to look at the facts, and make the right choice. It's true in the spiritual realm. We have to consider what God's word says. And then make the appropriate choice that we believe God wants us to make. Now we have three words here in our text that are used in opposition to the will of God. That is, these three terms describe the will of God. First of all, God's will for you will always be good It says that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. And the idea of this word here is that of being useful or fitting or valuable. And the idea here is it's good in the sense that it's good for you spiritually. It will help to build you up and become the believer that you need to be. So this is part of the choices that you need to make. And it relates to every area of your life. Well, my prospective spouse help me to grow spiritually or will they be a weight around my ankles that are always pulling me down spiritually Will they enable me to more effectively serve the Lord, or will they hinder me from serving the Lord? These are the kind of decisions that Christian people have to make that will alter the course of their life Will the job that I'm considering that requires me to work every Sunday Is that going to be good for me spiritually, or is that going to be a detriment to me spiritually? Because I can never attend services These are the kind of real choices that Christians have to make. And some people will say, well, you know, I looked through the New Testament, I didn't find a single verse that said, that I could not absolutely ever work on Sunday, so I'm going to do it. But what about the timeless principle? What about the effect it's going to have on you spiritually? Then it says it's going to be acceptable This is the same Greek word that's used in verse 1 to describe our sacrifice before God. It literally means well pleasing. Is this going to please God? This choice that I'm making, would the Lord be pleased with it? Is that concert well pleasing to God? Could I invite the Lord to watch this TV show with me, or would I be mortally embarrassed? Let me give you another illustration of this. What this really comes down to, the renewing of our mind and making decisions, is knowing God. For instance, let's say that you're meeting a very good friend of yours that you know very well, that you've spent a lot of time with. And you have a time to meet at a restaurant, and you sit down, and they're not there yet, they're running late, and the waitress comes and she is uh taking drink orders. And you make the order for your friend rather than wait because you know exactly what they're going to order. Because you know them well. You know their taste. You know what they always do. You've been with them in this scenario many, many times before, and you know What they would want you to do, they wouldn't want you to wait for them to come and then order. They want you to go ahead and order. So you order them and they come, they all thanks for getting us exactly what I was going to order So the idea is, in reference to spiritual things, is that we need to know God so well that we know the choice that He would make for us if He were there. And we only know that by knowing his word and by spending time with him. Now, there are many Christians today who take, I think, a very immature and a very dangerous approach to this matter of Christian ethics. Because they say, listen, if the Word of God does not prohibit me from doing it, then I can do it because I have Christian liberty. It's sort of like a teenager, and mom 's getting ready to leave the house, and there's a group of kids there. And she gives some ground rules of what they can do and what they cannot do, and of what they can watch and what they cannot watch, and the fact that they need to clean up after dinner and they're not to answer the door and they're not to go outside and she gives them like four different instructions of things that they are to do. But the mother didn't say that they couldn't get in the car and drive out of state. And so when they're sitting there talking about things One of them says, hey, mom didn't say anything about the fact that we couldn't get in the car and drive somewhere. She just said we couldn't answer the door. And when the kid says, yeah, but you know that's not what mom would want us to do, yeah, but she didn't say it. And so when I hear many Christians today in this realm of Christian liberty speak, they sound like the kid that say, but She didn't say this specifically, so I'm going to do it. No, the question is, is that the will of God for you? Not can you find a verse? You see, it really reveals where our heart is. Has our minds really been renewed? Do we really view ourselves as a living sacrifice? that our whole lives, all of our time, our talents, everything's been given to God, or do we view it as our life and God's rules, God's will as kind of an intrusion into what I want to do? And then it says that the will of God here will be perfect. And the idea there is complete It will bring to culmination what God is seeking to do. So we need to ask ourselves, is this issue that I'm considering Would bring about God's ultimate purpose in my life, would help me to mature as a believer, would strengthen me to serve God more effectively. Will it make me more conform to the image of his son? Those are the kind of questions we should be asking, not Can you show me a verse in the scripture that says, I can't do this Sometimes people approach the Bible almost like a lawyer, and they're looking for loopholes to do what they really want to do. But the whole point of this passage and of Scripture is that our heart would be in tune with God's, and we would want to do what is right. Spiritual discernment is absolutely imperative for the Christian. Because the quality of our spiritual lives are in large part made up Of the decisions that we make in life. And when we make those decisions not in accordance with the will of God, God's ultimate purpose for us, but by our own wills. we will end up not becoming the kind of believers that God has called us to be So may God help us to have spiritual discernment. Let's close in prayer. Father. I pray that you would help us to be able to discern what you want us to do rather than seek to do what we want to do. I pray that you would help us to make choices that are pleasing to you, that are for our spiritual good. And that will enable us to become the complete mature believers that you have called us to be. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.