Thank you very much. If you have your Bibles, would you turn with me to John chapter 13? During the American Revolution A man once rode by a group of soldiers who were repairing a defensive barrier. He was in his civilian clothing. The leader of the small band of men was shouting instructions, but not offering them a hand, and the men were obviously struggling. And when the writer asked the leader why he wasn't helping, he said, Sir, I am a corporal And the stranger apologized, dismounted from his horse, and helped those exhausted soldiers complete their tasks. When the job was done, he turned to the corporal and said, Corporal, next time you have a job like this. . And not enough men to do it, go to your commander-in-chief . and he will come and help you. That man was George Washington. George Washington knew that leadership does not excuse one from service, but it demands that one serve. The Lord taught this lesson to his disciples on more than one occasion. It's an essential part of discipleship. This morning, as we continue our study of the life of Peter, we come to the night before his crucifixion. The fact is that some of the Lord's most significant training and discipleship with Peter took place. during his the period right before his crucifixion and right afterwards. The disciples have gathered in an upper room to celebrate their last Passover together. And the Lord is going to give his disciples one final lecture. It's traditionally known as the upper room discourse. It begins Really, in chapter 14, with those famous words, let not your hearts be troubled. You believe in God. Believe also in me. But before the Lord delivers this comforting address, he needs to correct the disciples by means of a dramatized parable. Because sometimes actions do speak louder than words. The simple act of washing the disciples' feet has been called the greatest sermon on humble service that was ever delivered. It is really a picture of the incarnation when Jesus put that towel around his waist and began to wash their feet. It sounds very much like the words of Philippians chapter 2, when it says, he made himself of no reputation and took upon him the form of a servant. Although the Lord often taught his disciples the importance of humbling serving others, they were very slow to learn this vital lesson. I've often wondered at how discouraging this must have been to the Lord for three years. He's been modeling this truth and teaching this truth. Remember the time when the Lord dealt with the disciples at in in depth about this when the mother of James and John came and she wanted to secure a high position for them at our Lord's right and left hand in the kingdom. And the Lord said to them, You don't understand. It doesn't work that way in my kingdom. That's how it works in the world. You use your connections, you use your position of status to gain more power, but that's not how it works in my kingdom. It's the greatest who are servants. And he used himself, of course, as an example of that. And although the Lord has really gone out of his way to underscore and teach this lesson Here it is the night before his death, and they are still failing miserably at this. I want you to keep a finger here in John 13 and turn with me to Luke's account of what happened in the upper room. Luke chapter 22. Just one book back, Luke chapter 22 and verse 24. It says, and there was also a strife among them which of them should be accounted the greatest And he said unto them, the kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors. But ye shall not be so. But he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, and he that is chief as he that doth serve. For whether is greater he that sitteth at meat or he that serveth is not he that sitteth at meat, but I am among you as he that serveth. Although we can't be dogmatic about exactly when this conversation occurred in the upper room, There are many scholars that think it's right after he said those words, I am among you as he that serveth. That Jesus wrapped that towel around his waist, got that water basin, and began to wash their feet. Just imagine the awkward silence and the burning sense of shame that the disciples must have felt at that time. The Lord is going to interpret these actions at the conclusion of this occasion and John chapter 13 I'd like to invite you to turn back there if you're not already. John 13, verse 12, it says, so after he had washed their feet and had taken his garments , And was set down again. He said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you? Ye call me Lord, Master, and Lord, and so and ye say, well, for so I am. If I then your Lord and Master have washed your feet Ye also ought to have washed one another's feet, for I have given you an example that ye should do as I have done to you. Christ was modeling Christian servanthood for his followers one more time. He was showing them how a servant of the Lord responds in love to others. And I think this was a lesson that Peter would never forget. I think we hear an echo of this in his first epistle. At the very end in chapter 5, he says, all of you be subject one to another and be clothed with humility. This is a lesson that we vitally need to hear. The world in which we live is constantly telling us, serve self. Use your power, use your gifts, use your talents, use whatever God has given to use them to advance your cause. to feather your nest. And our own flesh is very responsive to that message. It sounds like good advice. But the Lord Jesus Christ has called his disciples to die to self and to serve others. This is what our Lord did, and this is what He has called on us to do. Last week we looked at this parable of the laborers in the vineyard and That's kind of a negative teaching. The Lord was saying this is how you must not serve me. You must not serve me simply with an eye to the rewards or what you're going to get paid. You should not serve me. with a complaining spirit. You should not serve me by comparing yourselves with others. And now in this next interaction that our Lord has with Peter , He's going to show him how we should serve others. And so I want us this morning to look at this passage in John 13 and see that every disciple should possess the traits of a Christ-like servant. And the first thing I want you to see in this passage is that a Christ-like servant must be motivated by love. Look with me at the opening verse of this chapter, John 13 verse 1. It says, now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own, which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. John intends that we read the next event, the washing of the disciples' feet in light of this introductory verse. It was our Lord's great expression of love for his own. This is amazing when we consider that within 24 hours he would die on an old rugged cross. In just a short time he would say in the upper room, Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. And he would show and demonstrate that greater love But I want you to notice two examples in the upper room of the washing here of how he demonstrated his love. One is that the Lord demonstrated love. even to those who disappointed him and didn't deserve it. Because he went and he washed the disciples' feet. I say that he was disappointed. How else could he have reacted when they were still, after three years with the master, arguing about who was the greatest? Undoubtedly, it was the seating arrangement at this Last Supper that spurred this debate. It was all about who would really have the seats of prominence. This was very important in their Jewish social life. And this was their premier meal of the year. Who would get the wonderful seat next to the master and then on his other side? Who would have those honorable seats and then who would have the seat at the very foot of the table. That's what spurred on this debate. And I'm sure that Peter had his own voice in this as the leader of the disciples And one who was not bashful to claim his rights, he probably was arguing that indeed he should be right next to the master. He was the leader of the twelve. And they all made their case for why they should be there. And they had entirely forgotten our Lord's teaching: the first shall be last, and the last shall be first. But you know what? Even though these men had failed the Lord miserably, and here on the eve of his crucifixion, they are talking about who is the greatest. This, by the way, is very instructive for us as in ministry and those who teach and so forth. That serving the Lord requires great patience with people. You would have thought they had got this lesson by now It would have been very natural for our Lord if he was not the Son of God to throw his hands up and say, you know, I give up on you guys. How many times have we talked about this? That greatness is not getting the favored seat at the table. It's about being a servant. How many times have I said that? But what does the Lord do? He washes their feet. Then the other example that we have here of love in the upper room. Is that the Lord washed Judas's feet? Now I have to be very careful because the Bible does not clearly teach us this. It does not say, and Jesus went and washed Judas' feet. But there are a lot of clues that would lead one to believe that. For instance, if the Lord went down the row and washed all twelve of the disciples' feet, except for Judas, you think they might be saying, why did he wash Judas's feet? feet. And then when the Lord announced a short time later, one of you is going to betray me, they would all say, Oh, I know who it is. It's the one whose feet he didn't wash. But that's not what they said. They said, Lord, is it I? When I would suggest to you that indeed he did wash Judas's feet, even though he knew that Judas would betray him That Judas had already conspired to sell him out for thirty pieces of silver. Jesus was perfectly illustrating what he had always taught them. In Matthew chapter 5 and verse 44, we read these amazing words. Love your enemies. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you and pray for them that despitefully use you and persecute you. This is what the scripture teaches us. It teaches us that we must serve others with a spirit of love, out of a heart of love, that we really care for them. And we care for people, not just people who serve us, or people who are related to us, or people who are our close friends. We serve people even who disappoint us. Like the disciples disappointed the Lord by arguing about who was the greatest, and even people who betray us. People like Judas Iscariot. Who sold out the Lord. This is exactly what we are taught In 1 Corinthians chapter 13, you don't need to turn there. Let me read these first three verses, and I want you to listen carefully. Paul writes, though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels. and have not charity or love, I become as a sounding brass or tinkling cymbal, though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge. And though I have all faith so that I could remove mountains and have not love, I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned and have not love, it profiteth me not Nothing. If you really pay attention to those words, they are astounding. Because it's talking about extreme disciplines, demonstrations of devotion and commitments, even giving your life. But if you do those things and it's not motivated by love for God and love for others The Bible says it adds up to a big zero. A person can be a spectacular speaker, but if their words are not animated by love , They do not in any way impress God. You may possess spectacular gifts as of the ability to sing, and how we have many talented individuals in this assembly. We are so blessed. You may have been given by the Lord a wonderful teaching gift, and we have some wonderful Sunday school teachers, and this is simply how thankful I am for them. They every Sunday bring out God's truth to children and to adults and people of all ages. But if you're doing those things And you're doing it for your own glory, and it's not motivated by love for God and love for the people. This passage says that it counts for nothing. A little bit later in this chapter, the Lord's going to come back to this matter of love. Look with me at John chapter 13, verses 34 and 35. He says the new commandments I give unto you that you love one another as I have loved you, that you also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if you have loved one to another. This is to be our distinctive trait as Christians That we love one another as Christ has loved us. And let me just real quickly give an explanation here. He says it's a new commandment. You might think to yourself, Wrongly. Well, you mean the Bible never up until this point taught that we are to love others? No, of course not. You can find that in the Old Testament. What is new about this is what Jesus says, as I have loved you, the measure of our love. And he is going to demonstrate that measure in a very short time when he's going to die on the cross. So we should be servants of the Lord who serve from a heart of love. Love for the Lord and love for others. We are to even love those who disappoint us and those who are our enemies, who have animosity against us. I always think of the story of Richard Warmbrand, this man who was over in Eastern Europe many years ago and was uh held in a prison and where Christians were severely persecuted. And he tells the story of a prison guard there who was known for his brutal treatment of the Christians. He went out of his way to be cruel to them. And he had fallen out of favor with the authorities. And so they decided that what they would do, that what he deserved, was to be thrown into the prison with all of these Christians. And their expectation was that in a short time he would be murdered because he had treated them so horribly, and they now had an opportunity to get their revenge. But that's not the way things turned out. Those Christians who had been brutalized by this man treated him with love, even giving up their meager food rations. It was something like a slice of bread a day. And several of them gave him their bread. And he was overwhelmed by that and became a follower of Jesus Christ. The Lord has called us to a life of love to all people, not just to those who treat us well, not just to those who meet our expectations, not just to those that we like, but to all, whether they disappoint us, whether they are an Show animosity to us. God wants us to be motivated by love. And secondly, would you see that a Christ-like servant must minister in humility? Look with me at John 13. I want to begin reading of verse 3. It says, Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he was come from God and went to God, he riseth from supper. and laid aside his garments and took a towel and girded himself. And after that he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded. Now verse 3 is inserted here to remind us of the person who is about to wash the disciples' feet. You see what it says here? And Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hand and that he was come from God and went to God. John reminds us who Jesus is. He is one who has all authority. He is one who has existed from eternity. It says in John chapter 1 and verse 12: the same was in the beginning with God. And he will soon return to his heavenly home. This is the Son of God, God in flesh, the man who said, All authority is given unto me in heaven and in earth. And John's point in reminding the reader of this is that if the God man could stoop to serve others and to do this demeaning task of washing their feet, then certainly none of us are exempt from such service. And this is precisely how Jesus will interpret his actions and Verses 13 and 14, he says, You call me master and lord, and ye say well, for so I am. If I then your Lord and Master have washed your feet, ye ought also to wash one another's feet. So we see here that we must act in humility no matter what our status may be. We never arise the place where we're so important. That we are exempt from any kind of lowly service. And we see that we must act in humility no matter how demeaning the task I want to take a moment and give you a little background on this practice here. The time of Christ, there were very few paved roads. And of course there were no automobiles. People sometimes traveled by cart or by animal, but most people did not. Most people walked wherever they went, and most people wore sandals. And of course, Israel has a very dry climate. And so there was not much rain. So there was a great deal of dust. And so wherever you walked, And any given day, your feet would be very dusty by the time you arrived at your destination. And so when you went to a major social function like this, like the Passover, you would bathe You would put on your finest attire, and you'd put on your best sandals, and you would walk there, but unfortunately, by the time you arrived, you had dusty feet. It must have been very frustrating. I look great until you get to my feet. And so how did people in the ancient world deal with that? Well, when you arrived, there would be a servant that would be provided. And your feet would be washed, and then you felt presentable like everyone else that was there. Also, of course, when they sat down to a function like this, they did not have tables and chairs the way we do. Their tables would have been very, very low. And they really didn't have chairs, they had cushions. And uh when I went over to Israel, we we had a meal where we were supposed to eat like this. I lasted for about two minutes. It was so uncomfortable. You would lean out from the table, reclining on your left elbow with your feet out away from the table like spokes. So I say all that to say this it would be very easy for him to get to all of their feet because They were like spokes on a wheel all radiating out from the table. And just imagine there it is, there's this base in the center, standing like a silent witness to their failure to serve one another. The Lord gets up after saying, I am among you as he that serveth. He puts on this towel, he gets that basin of water, and he begins from one end going down to the other to wash their feet. How awkward that must have been. How convicting that must have been. In verses 5 and 4 and 5, we have seven details of this event. Says he rises from suffer, he laid aside his outer garment, he picked up the linen towel, he wrapped it around his waist He poured water into a basin. He washed the disciples' feet, and then he dried their feet with the towel that was on his way. So just think about this. He has this girded around him, and he's drying their feet, and undoubtedly that towel would become soiled as he did this. And it's actually a garment that he is wearing. Now, why do we have all this exacting detail? One reason I would say to you is because John remembers all the details because he was an eyewitness of this. He would never forget that night in the upper room. It was etched in his memory. And he remembered every exacting detail of what Jesus did. But I think it's also here to convict us and to have us visualize, as it were, in our own minds what that looked like. When you have all these details, you can very easily, without too much imagination, see that scene in your minds. And I think that's what John wants us to do. He wants us to visualize the Lord of glory washing these dirty feet. And it's presented here with a present tense verb, as if you're seeing it happen in real time. The fact is that a Christ-like servant must be willing to do unpleasant tasks. Are there wonderful, enjoyable things to do in the work of the Lord? Absolutely. I wouldn't want to do anything else than what God has called me to do. And I know there are many other people who serve here who feel the same way, but you know what? There also are unpleasant tasks to do in the service of the Lord. There are diapers to be changed. We have people working in the nursery right now. There are toilets to be cleaned. There are floors. that need to be serviced. There are flower beds that need to be weeded. These are all tasks that do not have great status connected with them. And many of them are unpleasants. But they need to be done And I thank the Lord for the servants of the Lord, and there are many here in this assembly who gather and come in often at odd hours, and they work and they clean and they do necessary tasks like gathering the garbage together. No one ever sees them. But the Lord does. And they don't look for rec uh for uh appreciation from from people. They're not looking for a pat on the back. They do it because that's what God would have them to do. There's other unpleasant tasks that sometimes people get involved in like confronting a brother or sister who have gone astray. You know what? I would much rather wash some feet than do that. It's not a very pleasant task. It's very draining emotionally. And usually, when they're really involved in sin and it's taken a hold in their heart, they're not going to want to relinquish that. And so the more you press them and talk to them and explain the scriptures of God's perspective on it, you know what often will happen? Either they are going to repent and turn and they're going to yield to God's will, or they're going to turn on you and attack you. For being unloving and not being a very good Christian, and how dare you get involved in my private affairs And this is why there's not a great line of people who are looking for that kind of ministry. I don't want to get involved, Pastor. It's none of my business. I very much understand that reluctance, but I also thank the Lord that there are people here who are willing to do unpleasant tasks like coming and meeting with a brother, a sister, and saying what you're doing is wrong. What you're doing is going to destroy your family. Don't you see it? Don't you see what it says in God's words? Christ-like servants must be motivated by love. They must act in humility. And thirdly, a Christ-like servant must serve in purity. We get really to the heart, the nub of the passage here in our Lord's interaction with Peter. And that's of course why we've chosen this, because that's what we're studying. Look with me at verses 6 through 10. Then cometh he to Simon Peter. And Peter saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now, but thou shalt know hereafter. Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. Jesus saith to him, He that is washed, needeth not save to wash his feet, but is clean every wit or every part. And ye are clean, but not all. For he knew who should betray him, therefore he said, said he, ye are not all clean. Apparently the Lord has already washed some of the disciples' feet. There was an awkward silence in the room But Peter, of course, could not remain quiet. He was the one that was going to break that awkward silence. And Peter expresses what I think All the disciples were thinking. I've said to you before, Peter is one of those people who says what everyone thinks, but no one really wants to say. He says literally in verse 6, Lord, do you wash my feet? The emphasis is on Lord. Lord, you're the one. He's not contesting that his feet need to be washed. But Lord, it shouldn't be you. Peter recognizes that the role should really be reversed, but he still doesn't fully grasp what is going on. This is why Jesus says, What I do thou knowest not now, but thou shalt know hereafter. What does he mean by hereafter? He means after his death and resurrection, and particularly after the coming of the Holy Spirit at Pentecost. It's only after that that Peter would really be able to put these things together and say, now I understand what the Lord really meant. He really couldn't grasp the Lord's meaning here. I want you to notice how Peter continues his protest in verse 8. He says, Thou shalt never wash my feet. And what he's saying here very clearly, as the Lord is washing his feet, is we might say, stop it. I'm uncomfortable. I don't feel worthy of this. The roles are all wrong here. This is embarrassing. Stop washing my feet. He uses a double negative to express His passion, he says, You will never ever wash my feet, Lord. And Jesus responds by saying, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. Jesus is turning this physical washing into a discussion about spiritual cleansing He's obviously not saying that having your feet washed saves you, because Judas, as I've mentioned to you earlier, had his feet washed, and the Lord will say in verse 11 that he is not really a part of his people. Now it is true that some interpret the no part here to mean salvation. And there might be a double symbolism here, but I think what he's talking here uh about the part would be better represented by the idea of fellowship. That's how this Greek word part is used in Luke 10. 42 and in 2 Corinthians 6. 15. It also fits better with the context of verse 10. Look with me at verse 10. Jesus said unto him, He that is washed needeth not save to wash his feet, but is clean every wit or every part Ye are clean, but not all, a reference to Judas. Now one of the things that's very helpful in interpreting what's going on here is to realize that there are two different Greek words that are translated wash. in verse 10. When he first speaks about he that is washed, he uses a word that refers to being bathed, to receiving a bath, where your entire body is washed. And as I mentioned to you before, when the Jews went to a very important religious ceremony like the Passover, they would often get a bath. It not only made them look nice, but it was ceremonial of this very significant spiritual event that they're going to. And the ideas that a person who is bathed before going to a festive meal like the Passover And would get his feet dirty and walk through the stuff where he didn't need, when he went to the meal, to get a bath all over again. No, he just needed his feet to be washed. And the second word, the second term that is used here where it says washes feet, is a specific word that refers not to the washing of the whole body, what we might call a bath or a shower. But just to the washing of hands or feet. That's the term that is used here. So when Jesus says you're clean, he is saying that you are saved. You have been born again. You are now a holy one. You are saints. That is your position in Christ. Except, of course, for Judas, which he gives the exception in verse 11. Let me try to put this all together. A Christ-like servant that honors his master should be clean. They should be holy. They should be a vessel meet for the master's use. Of course, before you can really serve the Lord, you must know the Lord. You must be a disciple of Christ. You must have had your sins washed in the blood. But here the Lord is speaking of holy living. Paul uses an analogy that I think is very helpful for this. In the book of 2 Timothy. You don't need to turn there. 2 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 19. He says, Nevertheless, the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal The Lord knoweth them that are his, and let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earth, some to honor, some to dishonor. If a man therefore purge himself from these things He shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified and meet for the master's use, and prepared unto every good work. Now let me help to try to explain this a little bit. I often heard as a young man growing up that the Lord will never use a dirty vessel. And it was a very effective way of encouraging people to live holy lives because if you're not living a holy life and a life of obedience to uh God's word, then God's not going to use you. The only problem is is the Bible is filled with examples of God using unholy vessels. Think of Samson. Was he a paragon of virtue? No, he was not. But God used him. We think of David, the sweet psalmist of Israel, but a man committed some very serious sins. So how are we to understand this? The fact is that God can use a false prophet To give his word. He says he can cause even the rocks to cry out and to praise him. He can speak through a donkey. God is not limited by how he can use people to serve him, but what God delights to do, what he's glorified in. is by using those who exhibit in their heart and their life that they are yielded to God. Now how do we maintain this fellowship with God? Well, we we've looked at this passage before, but in 1 John chapter 1. It speaks of if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I've mentioned to you before, in fact it wasn't that long ago that I brought this up to you, that we should keep short accounts with gods. That we don't wait six months with that feeling of being distant from God because we're living in sin. We keep making sinful choices But we don't really acknowledge it to God in prayer. We don't ask for his grace. We don't turn from it. We don't repent from it. And finally, after six months, we just get really, really miserable and we turn to God. That's foolishness. Not turning to God, but waiting six months to do it. We should keep short accounts with God. This is one of God's means of keeping us from going further into sin. We should examine our hearts. This is something that modern Christians almost never do and almost think of it as a negative. But if you look at our forefathers, And their writings, this is something they always emphasize: examining your heart, considering your motives. Christian pastors used to say at the end of every day, you should review the day. And think about what you have done and the opportunities that you missed to glorify God and the ways that you sinned against God and your thoughts and your words and in your actions. We do precious little of that today. But this is part of being a vessel meat for the master's use. Of examining our hearts and confessing our sin and asking for God's grace to go further in our walk with the Lord's. The Puritans advise to keep short accounts with God. And this is what God wants us to do. There is a horrible tendency in us to become comfortable with certain pet sins in our lives And when we allow them and cultivate them in our lives, even while perhaps being really involved in the service of the Lord and keeping a veneer of being just like a perfect Christian. We slowly become more and more of a hypocrites. Of a hypocrites. We say one thing and we do another. We say we're yielded to God. We say we're servant of the Lord. We say we we care for the body of Christ. We say all these things But if our life was really open to the display of all, they would see this person is a hypocrite How does that happen? How does it happen that a person in ministry who is serving the Lord for years and is very gifted all of a sudden is found out in a scandalous way to be involved in sin? It's because they haven't kept short accounts with God. They haven't been honest with their spiritual failings. They haven't regularly confessed their sin and they've allowed this sin, this pet sin in their life, this idolatry to grow and to become stronger and just to entwine their hearts until it's completely overgrown. And then finally something happens and the light of truth is revealed in their life and everyone sees, wow, how did this happen? It didn't happen overnight Didn't happen overnight. And what disgrace it brings on the cause of Christ. This is what antagonistic unbelieving people love to see. They pounce on it. when some preacher has been caught in a scandal or something like this or some prominent spokesman, aha, see, they're all a bunch of hypocrites. Makes them more comfortable in their sin. It brings reproach upon the name of Christ. How important it is that the servants of the Lord Whatever level that might be for you, have a clean heart, a pure heart. Now none of us are perfect. We all come short of the glory of God. But how desperately we need to be pure, to be that clean vessel, that vessel of honor that the Lord delights to use and to pour out his blessings upon. But how do we maintain this purity? Well look just a couple chapters ahead in John chapter 15. In verse 3, he says, speaking of the vine and the branches, now are ye clean through the word which I've spoken unto you. He's changing his metaphor here, talking really about the purging of the vine, but it still has this root idea of purity. We need the word of God, we need an interaction with the word of God on a regular basis to wash us. The Bible speaks in Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 26 that he might cleanse it with the washing of water by the words. These are the basics of the Christian life, right? I've talked about a prayer of confession, talked about examination, now I'm talking about spending time in the Word Where we allow the Word of God to purge us, to wash us, to cleanse us of sin. We do this with the preaching, with the reading of the word, and I would advise every Christian, and this is why at the beginning of every year, we put out reading plans and This is something that we do very much with our young people. We encourage them. We challenge them to memorize God's word and to study God's word and to have a daily time in God's word. so that they establish patterns in their life that will serve them well throughout their time with the Lord. But how many Christians don't spend any meaningful time in the Word? And they don't have the Word of God wash in them. Now there is a weakness. Don't make it sound like this is an excuse for not doing it. But you know, I have known people who were living wicked lives. And yet they still were reading the Word of God every day. So it's not a guarantee. This is why we need to get the Word of God into our lives in a variety of ways, not just in reading it, but also in hearing the preaching of the word. Most of the time in the New Testament, when it exhorts us about the ministry of the word, it's not talking about reading because most people, a lot of people can read It's talking about putting yourself under the preaching of the Word of God's. The Word of God, often in the preaching of the Word, becomes like a sword that pierces our hearts and reveals the sin that is within. This is why it is so important that you come to church on a regular basis. I know it's easy for you to say you're a pastor. That's what you're supposed to say But this is what the Word of God teaches. Parents used to write in the front of their Bibles, their children's Bibles. This book will keep you from sin, or sin will keep you from this book. It's true. It's good. You ever notice when you're away from God, you tend not to read the Bible so much. You could also say that those who rarely go to church Often ones who fall into sin. And those two things work together. The more they're in sin, the less they want to go to church. The less they want to be reminded of it. Unless they want to be convicted, they'd rather be comfortable with their sin, but you do so at your own peril. God wants us to be loving servants, humble servants, and pure servants. In the late eighteen hundreds, one of the great new trends in the Christian church It was William Booth's salvation army. All kinds of people were being stirred to come and serve with this man who preached the gospel. And there was once a preacher in America by the name of Samuel Bringel. He had a Large pastor. He was the pastor of a large church. He has an effective ministry. But he felt convicted that God wanted him to go and join with William Booth. So he crossed the ocean. He went over to England. He offered up his services and William Booth was very reluctant to take him. He said, you've been your own boss for too long. And so he decided to test this man's mettle to see if he was really serious. And he said, you know, we have all kinds of young recruits coming in here. And I want you, your task on the first day is to go and to shine their shoes And here is this man, educated , famous leader in America, and now he's reduced to shining people's shoes. And at first he was very convicted of it. He became very angry about it. But then he realized, and he thought of this passage, and he remembered that if Jesus could wash the dirty feet , Of his disciples who failed him again and again, why can't I polish the shoes of these humble servants of the Lord? And that should be our attitude. That should be the way we look at serving of the Lord. We should be desirous to follow in the footsteps of our master. And so we must serve others with love, with humility, and with purity. Let's close in prayer. Father, how desperately we need your help. We are like those awkward disciples in the upper room. We are ashamed and how little we serve you and how proud we are and how little we love one another. And so we ask that you would work in us Remind us of this wonderful passage. Help us, Father, to be the humble, loving servants that you've called us to be. Help us to serve you and bring glory to your name. And Father, for those who are here today, who cannot truly serve you because they have never been washed in the blood of the Lamb. They have never been born again. They have never become a child of God. I pray, Lord, that you would convict them and draw them. Help them, Father, to repent and believe the gospel. Lord 's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.