If you have your Bibles, please you could turn with me to Matthew chapter eighteen. Matthew chapter eighteen Many years ago, there was a man who was viciously attacked by a dog, and as a result of that, he contracted rabies. This was at the time period when there was no medication to reverse that dreadful disease. And so the doctor came in and told him, sir, we are so sorry. You have rabies. We've tested it and all that we can do is keep you comfortable. But in not too many days you're going to die. And so you need to put your house in order. You need to make out a will if you don't have one. Contact loved ones. And so forth. And so several hours later the doctor came back and he saw the man writing furiously. And he said to him, Sir, I'm glad to see you're taking my advice and writing out your will. And the man said, I'm not writing out my will. I'm writing a list of people I want to bite before I die. The fact is that revenge can be taken to an absurd level If you're visiting with us this morning, we're studying the life of Peter. But our focus is not really on Peter, it's on the way the Lord is discipling him. Peter is the best-known disciple. And we have the fullest record of our Lord's interactions with him, of the questions and the answers and the rebukes and the confessions. His life is very instructive for us. And this morning we come to a wonderful parable that was all started by a question from Peter. It's been said that if you take out of the Gospels all the questions of Peter and the Lord's answers to those questions, you would lose so much of the richness An instruction that we have in these gospels. In verse 21, we read, Then Peter came to him and said, Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? Till seven times. Jesus said unto him, I say not unto thee until seven times, but until seventy times seven. The Lord has been talking about church discipline in the immediate context. If you'll look with me at verses 15 through 17. This is what the Lord said. Moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone, and if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. But if he will not hear thee, Then take with thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established, and it sh and if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it unto the church. But if he neglect to hear the church, then let him be unto thee as a heathen man. and a publican. And Peter is taking in what the Lord is saying, and he says to himself, yeah, but there's got to be some limit statue of limitations. I mean, how many times would this scenario keep going on? I mean, what if this guy keeps sinning and asking you for forgiveness and you forgive him, and then he sins against you again, and you forgive him and he sins against you again? There's got to be a limit somewhere, right? And this was indeed a question the rabbis of the days debated. We have records from their early writings that say that a good Jew will forgive someone up to three times. That if they sin against you, you're obligated to forgive them. But after three times, when they do it the fourth time, you don't have to forgive them. You can seek revenge, you can hold a grudge, whatever, you don't have to forgive. And so Peter, knowing that his master was very magnanimous. And was much more gracious than his opponents, more than doubles the conventional wisdom, and says, how about seven times? I mean, that's a lot. And I think he really expected the Lord's approval to say, Peter, that was a good answer. Perhaps he expected the Lord to say something like he did at Caesarea Philippi when he said, Flesh and blood have not revealed this unto thee. That's a great answer, Peter. Well, that's not what the Lord says. The Lord says, no, Peter, not seven times. Seven times seventy. Now there's some debate in the Greek text whether it's seven plus seventy or seven times seven, seven times 70 times 7, it could be a plus or a multiplier there. But whether it's 77 times or 490 times, the Lord is not suggesting a limit. He is using an idiomatic expression to say, Peter, it's unlimited. Christians just keep on forgiving Now Peter and all the other disciples probably looked dumbfounded and said, how can that be? And so the Lord tells One of his extended parables, what we know is the parable of the unmerciful servant. Christians, we see here, are to forgive without any statute of limitations. Now I wonder what you think about that. Maybe you feel like Peter originally did. Isn't that a little dangerous? Doesn't that kind of encourage people to walk all over you and to take advantage of you? I never realized until I became a pastor what a huge issue this is At how many people there are who go around all their days filled with animosity, harboring a grudge Controlled by bitterness because of something that somebody did to them or said to them long ago I've seen anonymous surveys that have indicated that 85 to 90 percent of Christians say that they are someone that they will not forgive. And this creates, of course, relational disasters. Children estranged from their parents, wives, from their husbands, Christians, from other followers of Christ. The fact is, this is the worst testimony that a church can present to the world. A group of embittered people who just can't get along. And so this is why the Lord so frequently taught on this topic of forgiveness. He knows that it's a real issue and a real struggle for many Christians. The scriptures teach in this passage and in many others that Christian disciples must forgive others. And that raises the question of why. I believe this passage gives us at least three reasons why we must forgive others. The first reason found in the first part of this parable is because we all owe an enormous debt. to God's. Look at verses 23 and following. Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king which would take account of his servants And when he had begun to reckon one was brought unto him which owed him ten thousand talents. But forasmuch as he had not to pay his Lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife and children and all that he had, and payment to be made. The servant therefore fell down and worshipped him or bowed at his feet, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Then the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion and losed him and forgave him. the debts. In this parable, the king calls his servant in for an accounting. Now, this is not a servant who worked in the grounds or in the kitchen. He would be a royal governor, a man who ruled and was responsible for the management of a vast portion of land, like an entire country, or perhaps even several smaller countries. And as they did their accounting and looked at the books, this man was in debt 10,000 talents. We're not told how it got into such debt, whether it was mismanagement or because of a horrible famine or because he embezzled the money. But the point of the story is not how he got into debt, but the enormous magnitude of his debts. Now, how great was this debt? Now talent was a weight of measure. It could be anywhere from 58 to 83 pounds by our reckoning. And it could be in any kind of metal. It could be gold, it could be silver, it could be copper. So there's a great deal of variables here. We do know that this is an immense amount of money that We have records that show that the Roman government from the entire land of Judea in one year collected 900 talents. All the taxation of that country for a year was 900 talents, and this man owes 10,000 talents. Now when I read older books , They will refer to this as like the debt of a million dollars. When I read books of maybe 20 years ago, they'll refer to it as a debt of like a billion dollars. But I think if we're going to keep this in line with our own spending habits as a nation and with our own national debt of $20 trillion , That probably the best way for us to think about this is a debt of like a trillion dollars So just think about that. There were if a laboring man worked seventeen years and was paid a denarius a day It would take him 17 years to earn one talent. This man owes 10,000 talents. The Lord picked an absolutely astronomical number intentionally. I mean just think about this, to say that you're at a coffee shop, you're talking to your friends and you're there and you look kind of anxious and everything, and they say, What the pro what's the problem? You say, you know, I've maxed out like a dozen credit cards and And, you know, I'm trying to pay the minimum payment on them and and they say, Well, what's like the total amount you're in debt? And you said, Oh, it's like a trillion dollars It's an enormous amount of money. You could never hope to pay that off. Not in a hundred lifetimes. And so the punishment for debt in the day was that people, as they were up until really the 20th century in most places in the world, they were put into debtors' prison. Now in some cases with the small debt it was the hopes that that would get their attention, they would pay off their debts. But On other occasions, it was simply a punishment and a deterrent to others. And that was the case here, this man's family. That was sold and all that he had that was liquidated. There's no way that would come anywhere close to 10,000 talents He has no means to pay. So what does he do, verse 26? He falls down at the feet of this king and he says, Have patience with me and I will pay thee all. Isn't this the Stereotypical answer, I just need more time. I need a little more time. This is what everyone says to a loan shark, right? Just give me a little more time. It's an absolute lie. He's not going to somehow in the next week come up with a trillion dollars. But what is really striking about the story Is that the Lord, the King, verse 27, is moved with compassion and forgives him the debts Now before we move on to that, I want you to understand that the Lord is using this story not to entertain, but to teach. And embedded within this story, we see great truths of the gospel. And one of those truths is that we are all as sinners in enormous debt to God. One of the words and analogies the Bible uses for sin is that of a debt. And the fact of the matter is, we are all in horrible death before a holy and just God. Now, I think we tend not to think this. We want to compare ourselves with others, and we think our debt's not that bad. Our sin isn't that awful. It's not like we're in jail. It's not like we've got a prison record. Perhaps you were raised in a Christian home and and you don't think that you're really a very sinful person But the scriptures would say different. The scriptures say that every selfish action, every unkind word, every wicked thought, everything that's contrary to the character of God is sin. Sin is the transgression of God's law. When you really understand the way Christ interpreted the commandments, the way he interpreted them with the spirit of it. You recognize that we are all horribly indebted individuals. And every day we go deeper into debt. I mean, if you think about it, how many sins do you think you commit in a single day? I think most people might assume that they really don't commit any sins in most days. It's not like they've hit anyone or done something malicious to any individual. But even innocent things are sinful and offensive to a holy God. And so all of our debt is enormous. This is a truth, a very inconvenient truth that the scriptures bring up again and again. People have never liked to hear about it, and they certainly don't like to hear about it today. It doesn't make us feel good to think about how far short we come of the glory of God. But this is the first step. To being right with God and to being coming to Christ and being saved is to recognize how horrible guilty you are before God. It's the first step to salvation. It's the first step also. To becoming a forgiving person. You see, when we recognize how much we have been forgiven, it is only then That we can truly be compassionate and merciful to others because we see ourselves in their shoes The second thing I want you to see is that Christian disciples must forgive because we have all been graciously forgiven of an enormous debt. Verse 27, we have this wonderful turn. Where for reasons only known to the king himself, he forgives the servants. It says he was moved with compassion and loosed him and forgave him the debt, but the same servant went out. And found one of his fellow servants, which owed him a hundred pence, and laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. And his fellow servant fell down at his feet. And they sought him saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. And he would not, but went and cast him into prison till he should pay the debts. And we'll stop with that for now. I want you to notice several things about this forgiveness. Verse 25 tells us this man had nothing to pay He contributed nothing to the payment of his unbelievable debt. He didn't say, listen, put me on a payment plan. You know, I'll pay ten bucks a week until I pay this off. Obviously he would never come close to a trillion dollars. He didn't offer a payment plan. He didn't say let me liquidate my merchandise. He said, he didn't say, let me ask of my relatives and see what I can scrape together. He didn't offer anything. He just begged for mercy and for more times. This again is the picture of the gospel. We contribute nothing to our salvation. It's not of works lest any man should boast. We don't meet God halfway. We don't bring our righteousness and our good deeds and say, Lord, I'm coming a little short. Can you help me out? We come as beggars, as paupers with nothing. We sang this hymn this morning, nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. This is again where we all are, where we all have been, we're beggars in need of God's mercy. This man did not give compelling reasons for the king to forgive him. G. K. Chesterton said that forgiveness means pardoning the unpardonable, or it's not forgiveness at all. You see, this man's forgiveness was not based on whether or not he was worthy to be forgiven or whether he could pay it back. It wasn't rooted in him at all. It was because the king was a compassionate and forgiving king. Text says he was moved with compassion. This is one of the most interesting Greek words in the New Testament. It's only ever used to describe Christ, or it's used in one of Jesus' parables. Like in the Good Samaritan and in this parable here. And it refers to a profound internal change where you are broken up inside. It describes really a visceral response. Like you often see people when they see something that has such an emotional impact that they collapse or they begin to tremble or they begin to sob uncontrollably or they become actually physically ill. This word describes a visceral change, a reaction to a powerful emotion. This king was moved with compassion. He saw in this man at his feet. This man is absolutely helpless. You know what? I am such a wealthy king. I am so abundantly wealthy that I'm just going to forgive this $10,000 debt. Well, $10,000 talents, we would say a trillion dollars. He was moved with compassion. This is the most frequent emotion ascribed to Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ is the perfect reflection of his father. We serve a God who is a compassionate and merciful God. Aren't you glad of that? We were all at one time, if you're a child of God, like that servant at his feet, with nothing to say for ourselves, but in his mercy he forgave us. Now, this point of compassion is going to come out in verse 33 when the king answers to this unmerciful servant and says, Shouldst not thou have had compassion? On thy fellow servant? You see, this is a really important thing. God expects us to be compassionate to others, and the most compassionate thing that we can do to others is forgive them. The scriptures say, blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Do you want to experience the mercy of God, the compassion of our Lord? then you must learn to be a forgiving person. And we see here that this man did not deserve to be forgiven. So often when I have dealt with people and they have related to me often in very emotional ways of how they have been horribly wronged And it may have happened many years ago, often that's the case. And I tell them that they need to forgive this individual. They will say something often like this, but they don't deserve to be forgiven. They haven't tried to make amends. They haven't really even confessed their sin in this matter. They don't deserve to be forgiven. And that's exactly the case of all of us. We didn't deserve to be forgiven. And if we only forgive people who deserve to be forgiven, then we will forgive no one. Because it's not really forgiveness then. Now we have an abrupt turn in the story in verse 28, but that same servant went out and found one of his fellow servants. which owed him a hundred pence and laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. This recent brush with disaster, when he owes this incredible amount of money, reminded him As he's in his mind racing to take account of what he has, he says, that guy over there, he never paid me back for that loan. And so immediately he goes out to collect. Now it says here that he owed a hundred pence Now, this is not an insignificant amount of money. This was what a laboring man would earn in the span of about a third of a year. So, I want you to think about your income. What would a third of your yearly salary be? Imagine that somebody owes you that much money. It amounts to many thousands of dollars. So it is significant. It's not something you say, oh that's nothing, that's just some change. No, it's important, it's significant. But compared to a trillion dollars, a few thousand dollars is a drop in the buckets. And so this man goes and he's determined that he's going to get his money. Now what's interesting Is that we have in verse 29 a repetition of what the same man said earlier He says, have patience with me and I will pay thee all. That's what he was saying just a little while ago to the king. There's an intentional echo here to remind the reader, hey, I've read this before somewhere. That's just like where this guy was a short time ago. And this man, however, does not show compassion. He takes him by the throat. He says, You're going to pay me all. And he throws him into prison and his family. Now I want you to know that everything that he did was absolutely legal. We wouldn't do things like this today, but both the Jews and the Roman court said that you had the right to intimidate someone who owed you money. You couldn't kill them. But you could grab them by the throat. You could begin, as it were, to choke them and scare them and pressure them into paying you back. Because you have the right to get that money back, the law said. This man had a right to be forgiven. And this is where many people get caught. They say, I have the right to seek revenge. I have the right to cut them off. I have the right to make them pay their debt to me It's not just. It's not fair. They can't just get away with it. But I want you to know that's not how the Lord has dealt with you. You should never try to play the game of I want what I deserve. I want what is owed me. That is antithetical to grace and you don't want what you deserve. You see, as long as a person remains stuck on their rights They will never be a very forgiving person. And that brings me to the third point. And that is. If we fail to forgive others, we will experience God 's judgment. This is what the scriptures teach. Look at verses 31 and following. So when his fellow servants saw what was done, they were very sorrow and came and told unto their Lord all that was done Then his Lord, after him, after he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all the debt because thou desirest me. Shouldst not thou also have had compassion? On thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on thee. And his Lord was wroth, angry, we would say, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him. So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not everyone his brother their trespasses. Now in verse 31, there were some other servants, some other royal governors who are privy to what's happening. And they see what this man has done. And how he has taken this man who owes him just a hundred pence and throws him into debtor's prison. And it doesn't seem right to them because they know that this man himself has just been forgiven the equivalent of a trillion dollars and so they take their case to the king and the king can't believe it when he hears it And he caused this man in to give an account. The word told here in verse 31 means they gave him all the details. And the king says unto him, O thou wicked servants. It's very interesting. It calls him wicked The same word, Greek word that's translated wicked here in Matthew 6. 23 is translated evil I wonder if you realize that when you refuse to forgive someone, from God's perspective, you're doing what is wicked and evil. I don't think we have that opinion often. I think we think that what others have done to us that we deem to be unforgivable is wicked and evil. We think that's where the sin is. That's where the wrong is. Every time I've ever dealt with someone about their unforgiving spirit, I often get a very angry response, and it's I'm not the one who has sinned. They're the one who has sinned. Because we see our anger and our bitterness And our animosity as a very reasonable reaction to the way we have been sinned against. But that's not the way Jesus saw things. I mentioned earlier that he teaches often about forgiveness. What you find again and again in Scripture is that those who will not forgive others will not be forgiven. In verse 32 it says that he has forgiven this servant, but now in verse 34 he says that he must pay his enormous debt. So how are we to understand this passage? It's a little troubling to us. Of course, we can't take every detail. Of a parable and make it fit gospel truths. God doesn't forgive us and declare us just and then say, all right, I changed my mind, you messed up, so now you're condemned That's not what this is teaching us. But it wasn't long ago that we did a study of the Lord's Prayer. And I want to invite you to turn with me to Matthew chapter 6. I mentioned to you at that time that this is the only petition that is explained. In Matthew chapter 6. In verse 12, we are taught to pray and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And the Lord knew that that expression would raise a lot of questions with people, so he's going to explain it in verses 14 and 15. For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive you your trespasses. Now I wonder what you make of those words. I think a lot of Christians just kind of pass over them and say, well, it can't be saying what I think it's saying. But we find this principle not just here, but all throughout Scripture. In James 2. 13, it says, judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful. A person who steadfastly refuses to forgive others calls into question whether or not they have truly been born again. This is why the king is so angry. Because I just forgave you a trillion dollars. And you can't forgive this person a few thousand dollars. Those who would take this interpretation would point to the scripture in verse 34 as An allusion to hell speaks of torments, not of pleasant thoughts But there is another way that Christian scholars have understood this And that is that this is a reference to our break-in fellowship. Remember, there are two senses in which we are forgiven. The moment we are justified, the moment we believe, we are declared to be righteous, and we are imputed with the righteousness of Jesus Christ. There is no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. That's a wonderful bedrock truth of the gospel. But in 1 John and in other passages, we read that we are to, on a regular basis, confess our sins. And that He will be faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. In order to maintain close fellowship with the Lord, we should keep, as the Puritan said, a short account. We don't let our sins pile up over weeks and weeks and weeks. No, every day or even the moment we recognize that we have sinned, we confess our sin, we repent of our sins, we ask for God's forgiveness. So that we can have that restored fellowship and walk with the Lord. And so It could very well be that this is what the Lord is speaking of in those passages where he says that they will not be forgiven. You see, you cannot be selective in your confession and repentance. You can't come before the Lord and say, Lord, you know, I'm going to confess these three sins, but those four ones over there. I'm not really sorry for him. I'm really glad that I said what I said to that person. And I will never forgive them, but I do want to be right with you about these three matters. No, no, no. It doesn't work that way. Doesn't work that way. So this is the reason why a lot of Christians, I believe , Don't have close fellowship with the Lords. God seems distant to them They don't walk with joy and with gladness in their Christian lives like they once did. They come to church because they're supposed to come to church and they They want to maintain their status as a good Christian, but they don't really come because they want to. They don't really come with a heart of joy. In fact, sometimes people kind of upset them when they see when they see how happy they are and how joyful they are. Because it's in contrast to the way they feel. They're just kind of miserable. They're not quite sure why why they are there. But one reason is perhaps because they have not really been walking with the Lord in close fellowship with the sense that there's nothing between them and the Savior for like five years. Because five years ago there was a person who wronged them, and ever since then they have harbored a grudge and bitterness and animosity. towards that person and they will not let it go. That's really an untechnical definition of forgiveness. It means just let it go. You're giving up your rights. To hurt someone that has hurt you. They really hurt me. They really treated me unfairly. They really said some things that that they can never erase from my memory. They have defamed my character to other people, and that can never be repaired. They fundamentally changed me and traumatized me in some way. And I will not forgive them. Now the fact is That if you take that approach, you cannot walk in close fellowship with the Lord. This works Through all of our relationships. So I want to read a verse here. You don't have to turn here, but I think of a verse that is always striking to me in 1 Peter chapter 3 And verse 7. And what's striking about this verse is the last phrase of it. In the first six verses of 1 Peter, Peter gives advice to wives. concerning their relationship with their husbands, especially when their husband is unsaved. And then in verse 7 he addresses husbands. He says, likewise ye husbands Dwell with them according to knowledge, giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel, and as being heirs together of the grace of life, that your prayers be not hindered. What does that mean? Let me break that down for you. That means, man, that if you are at odds with your wife, if there's not A real uh spirit of love and forgiveness between the two of you, and there's just this real animosity that you have with your spouse, you can't be right with God. This extends just beyond your spouse as well. You can't be here today with someone in this room that you cannot stand and you avoid them like the plague. And just the mere sight of them just makes your stomach turn and makes you angry. You can't really come here and worship God if that's the case Because the scriptures say, you know, if you hate your brother, you can't really love God. And Jesus clearly teaches here that those who refuse to forgive others will be miserable. It says in verse 34, and his Lord, referring to the king, was wroth and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him. And of course, this man who owes the equivalent of a trillion dollars is never going to pay that debt. Now the word tormentors that is used here is a wonderful word. And it refers, we would say, today, to a torturer. Torturer. Now, kings in the ancient world did not subscribe to the Geneva Convention. A king who would not torture his enemies was considered a weak king and would probably be overthrown. Now this is a little disturbing to us. Because the next verse says, so likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not everyone his brother their trespasses. That's a little disturbing, isn't it? God's going to torture you unless you forgive. I think what it's saying is that God will lovingly allow us to experience the consequences of an unforgiven spirit until we repent. You see, when we really steadfastly refuse to forgive someone, it's not they who suffer so much as it is us. And there are severe consequences to being bitter and angry. Everybody knows this. The medical community. has verified this. It's been linked with high blood pressure, impaired immune function, depression, greater risk of heart attacks, and the list goes on and on. Bad things happen. When you harbor bitterness in your hearts. And there, of course, are emotional consequences such as anger and a negative, pessimistic spirit and a cynical view of life. You know, the most unhappy people I've ever met in my life are people who are bitter. And they will not let it go. And you cannot talk to them for very long before it surfaces. And they tell you, and they relive again of the great atrocities that someone has committed against them. And they may have been horrible things. Now sometimes Christians get caught up on one thing here, and I want to address this as I conclude. What if the person does not admit that they're wrong? What if the person who has sinned so horribly against you does not ask for forgiveness? does not even acknowledge that they did something despicable to you. What are you supposed to do then? Well, this is one reason why in Luke chapter 17, verses 3 and 4, the Lord on another occasion says that if your brother trespass against you, rebuke him, and if he repent, forgive him. There is a sense very much in which it's true that you, listen to me carefully, cannot declare someone to be forgiven until they acknowledge that they have sinned against you. Okay? It's ridiculous. I've used this illustration before, but I I can't think of a better one. It's like say you were at work and you got into an argument with someone and they punched you in the face. You come home bloodied and bleeding, and your wife says, Do you know the Bible says you're supposed to forgive and so forth? So that's what you got to do, honey. So you go to work the next day and you say, you know, uh, I just want to let you know that I forgive you for punching me in the face and they punch you again. And they say, I'm not sorry at all. I can do this all day. See, it doesn't you you can't say I accept your apology when they haven't apologized To put it in those terms. Now, a lot of people, a lot of Christians I have found love to seize on that fact and say, I knew I didn't have to forgive them. So I am right in being bitter and angry and cutting them out of my life and pretending they don't exist. No Many times in life, you will ha find that the people who sin against you in the most heinous ways are the ones who will not ever acknowledge that they have wronged you or they will do so and such A small and general and dismissive way that it's far from satisfying. And you're like, that's it? I lost three nights of sleep. I've been crying my eyes out. I haven't been able to eat. And this is what I get. Yeah, sorry about that. No, no problem. That's it. Rarely will their confession appear to be satisfactory to you. But the scriptures never give a Christian the rights to harbor bitterness in their hearts. And to be filled with hate towards that individual. I could put it this way, reconciliation, which is really what Luke 17, 3 and 4 is talking about. Reconciliation requires two parties to agree to something. You can't have reconciliation unless someone says, yeah, I was wrong about that. Will you forgive me? And then the relationship can be restored. But we are always obligated, excuse me, as Christians, to forgive in our hearts before the Lord. We take the matter before the Lord in prayer and we say, Lord, this person has sinned horribly against me. They will not acknowledge their sin. I brought it to their attention. They still will do nothing about it. Maybe you sought other people to bring into the circle and yet they they still have have not been willing to admit their wrongs. So what do you do? Are you consigned to be miserable the rest of your life? Absolutely not You say, Lord, I leave this at your feet. I leave this matter in your hands. And from my heart before you I forgive them. I release this bitterness, this anger, this animosity. Now that means that you may not have the same exact relationship that you had with them before, but it should still be civil. It should be a desire in your heart for there to be reconciliation. You should pray to that end. That's what it means. So are you a forgiving person? There was once two missionaries that were out in the countryside in a very rural setting. And there was an old woman there waiting by this little rickety bridge. And she was a quite large woman and she wanted to go across, but she could hardly walk. And she was afraid of the bridge. And so these two men, one on one side and one on the other, they picked her up and they carried her across at great efforts. And they got her across and they continued on their journey. And one of the men began to complain and said, man, that was rough. My back is killing me. My arms are tired. My clothes are muddy from carrying her And the other man just smiled and they went on their journey, and after several miles he continued to complain about his back tightening up and how ridiculous it was that she expected them to do this. And he kept going and going. And finally, after some time, the first missionary said to him , Do you know why I'm not complaining? And he said why? He said, because I set her down five miles ago, but you are still carrying her. And the fact is there are a lot of Christian people that are walking around that are still carrying a great weight of anger and animosity because of something that someone did long ago. That's no way to live. This is not the behavior of Christian disciples. Followers of Christ. Forgive, says here, from our hearts Because we have been forgiven. Let's close in prayer. Our Father These are difficult truths for us to put into practice. I pray that you would work in hearts even now. I'm sure there are people here unbeknownst to me. who have been laboring under a great burden because for some time they have refused to forgive I pray, Lord, that you would show them the error of their ways, help them, Lord, to repent and to enjoy The fellowship with you that you provide to your people. I pray that you'd help us to respond as true disciples of Jesus Christ, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.