That's wonderful. Turn with me in your Bibles, please, to Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter 8. So I hope you've gotten used to turn to that chapter. We've been in it for a while. We'll still be in it for a while longer, I suspect. I wonder if you've ever heard of a woman named Ann Hutchinson. She is perhaps the most famous or infamous of colonial women in the 17th century. She came to the Massachusetts Bay Colony with her family in the sixteen thirties. She was bold, articulate, and intelligent. She was married to a respectable leader and was a mother of 15 children. She had a keen interest in theology, and so she began to hold a Bible study for women. where they would review the previous Sunday's sermon. Her Bible study grew rapidly and soon some of the ladies' husbands began to come. She would often criticize the pastor's sermon and give her understanding of the scriptures. In time she began to make some incredible claims. She said that the Spirit of God Spoke directly to her, giving her unique insight. She claimed to have the ability to look at a person and instantly discern if they were a believer or not. And she claimed that a Christian was a person who simply followed the Spirit's leading. But what most troubled the leaders of New England was that she claimed that sanctification did not necessarily follow justification. She called this concept free grace, while others called it antinomianism. She taught that to insist that Christians live a holy life was to add works to the gospel. She believed that a true Christian might not obey God's word, but still be led by the Spirit. And Hutchinson was tried at a famous trial in Massachusetts that ran from 1637 to 1638. She was eventually expelled from the colony. Along with her family, and went to Rhode Island. Tragically, she and her family were brutally murdered by Native Americans in 1643 She is today held up by secular historians as a great feminist leader. Now, why have I shared this distressing story with you? Well, it's because the passage that we're considering this morning refutes the teaching of Ann Hutchinson and provides some very important lessons for us. Let me first of all say that no one has the ability to just look at another human being and categorically determine if they are a child of God or not. God gives assurance to individual believers. We're going to see that in a few weeks, but he does not give us the infallible ability to know the hearts of others. The reality is that many Christians struggle with the assurance of their salvation. This is one of the most common things that pastors deal with. and speaking to others. This is especially true of young people when they come of age and they begin to really consider who they are and what they believe. So how can a person tell whether or not they are a child of God? Well, the Bible answers that question In several different ways. In fact, we have books like James and 1 John that extensively answer this question. We also find many other passages of Scripture addressing this significant issue. This morning we come to a text, and by the way, we're just looking at one verse this morning. That is simple yet profound. It makes a categorical statement. Look with me at verse 14 of Romans 8. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. This verse is like a statement that can be read frontwards or backwards. Those led by the Spirit of God are the sons of God, and all the sons of God are led by the Spirit of God. I want you to see the connection with what precedes it. Look at verses 12 and 13. Paul is summarizing what he's been saying in this chapter. He says, Therefore, brethren, We are debtors not to the flesh to live after the flesh. For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die. But if ye through the Spirit Do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. Now, the key verse, the key word, excuse me, in those two verses is the word live. He says in verse 12, if you that we are debtors not to the flesh, to live after the flesh. In verse 13, he says, if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die. And then the last phrase in verse 13, he says, ye shall live. Now notice the first word in verse 14 is the word for. Paul is explaining here why all Christians truly lived in verse 14. And the reason why we have new life is because we are led by the Spirit of God, and therefore we are the sons of God. This verse is both a comfort and a test. It's comforting to Christians because it reminds us of who we truly are. We are dwelt by the Spirit of God. We are led by the Spirit of God. We are therefore the children of God. But this verse is also a test because only those who are led by the Spirit can say that they are the sons of God. I want to preach to you on the distinguishing marks of the people of God. And I want us to see again that every Christian is essentially different from those who are lost. The Bible teaches from cover to cover , the people of God are not like individuals who have taken on a religious hobby. They are radically different from those who are lost. I want to bring two points out of verse 14 this morning for your consideration. The first one is this: all Christians are led by the Spirit of God. Notice this verse begins, for as many as What does this mean? Well, Paul is saying that everyone who is truly a child of God is led by the Spirit of God. There are no exceptions. This is true for you, regardless of your age, your gender, your education level, your experience as a believer. This is true of every child of God. Now, what does this verse mean when it says that the Holy Spirit leads the people of God? Well, that's the key question in interpreting this verse. Let me first of all start by saying what it does not mean. If you listen to my preaching often, you'll notice I tend to follow the structure. I try to clear out the misconceptions first before I say this is what it means. First of all, this verse is not referring to the Holy Spirit guiding us in making decisions. Perhaps that's the way you've always understood this verse. I hate to inform you, but you're wrong. That's not what it means. Let me give you an example. Suppose you were given two job offers. And you're not sure which one you should take. And so a Christian friend reassures you with this verse and says, well the Bible says For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. And he says to you, you can be confident that the Spirit of God will lead you in making the right choice. Now that may be true, but that's not what this verse is teaching. I've heard many people over the years explain this verse that way. But it's incorrect. Nothing in the context would lead the reader to think that that is what Paul is saying. That's reading into the passage. Number two, another misconception is that some have thought that when Paul speaks of the children of God being led by the Spirit, he must be speaking of the Spirits initial work of drawing sinners to the Savior. Indeed, that is a great work that is brought out in Scripture, but that's not what Paul is talking about here. That would be foreign to the discussion. So, what does Paul mean when he says that all Christians are led by the Spirit of God? Well, fortunately, we do not need to wonder because Paul tends to repeat himself. One of the great laws of Bible study, of biblical interpretation, is that the best commentary on the Bible is the Bible And so when you come to a passage and you're saying to yourself, what does this mean? It's very helpful to look at another passage that uses the same truth or the same language. and see what it says there. And we read a passage to get together this morning in Galatians 5 that uses the same terminology and helps us to understand. Paul says, walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. These are contrary the one to the other, so that you cannot do the things that you would. But if ye be led of the spirits , Ye are not under the law. Notice how Paul uses the same word lead to describe the Spirit's assistance in our sanctification. So, Paul here in Romans 8 is speaking about the believer's sanctification through the Spirit. You see, there is an unbreakable chain between our justification. And our sanctification. Many Christians over the years have gotten this wrong because of their fear of promoting a works-based salvation. Indeed, the Bible teaches that we are not saved by our good deeds. Well, the Bible teaches that if we are saved, we will do good deeds. One of the most famous texts on the grace of God and salvation is Ephesians 2, 8-9, but so often we leave off verse 10. Listen to how this passage reads. For by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. But then it goes on to say, For we are his workmanship. created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 14 says, Follow peace with all men and holiness without which no man shall see the Lord. You see, saving grace always leads to holy living. The same Holy Spirit that regenerates our dead hearts renews our lives. Old things are passed away, all things become new. A little later in this very chapter, Paul is going to talk about God's unstoppable work of grace in the lives of his people. In fact, I want to invite you just to turn the page over to Romans 8. Look at this famous verse, verse 28. It says, and we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. for whom he did foreknow he did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called, and whom he called, them he also justified, and whom he justified, them he also glorified. We read in Philippians chapter 1 and verse 6, being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. You see, the Lord finishes what he starts. And if he has started a work of grace in your heart and he has drawn you to the Savior, and you have received Christ as your Lord and Savior, That work will not die. It will continue on by the grace of God until it is culminated and your glorification in heaven someday. That is what the Bible teaches. So, what exactly does being led by the Spirit mean? Think of it this way: it means that the Holy Spirit leads us in the path of obedience. The Spirit of God, you see, has a definite goal for all of our lives. And that is that we would become more conformed to the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. This idea of the word led, some commentators offer other synonyms like to be controlled or to be governed. However, we must not think of the Spirit of God as driving us as a slave master, because the very next verse, verse 15, says, For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear. But ye have received the spirit of adoption whereby we cry, Abba Father. This terminology here in verse 14 of being led by the Spirit. is passive. In verse 13, we see the active part of our sanctification, and that is that by the Spirit of God we are to mortify or put to death the sin in our lives. But the passive side of that is found in verse 14, and that is that we are to yield to the Spirit's control. We are to follow his leadership in our lives. In Romans chapter 6 and verse 19, Paul puts it this way. For as ye have yielded your members' servants to iniquity unto iniquity, even so now yield your members' servants to righteousness unto holiness. So, what does it look like? What does it look like for a person to be led by the Spirit of God, to be controlled by the Spirit of God in our Christian lives? We don't have to wonder about this because the Bible answers this question in several different places. I want us, first of all, now to turn with me, if you would, to Ephesians chapter 5. Ephesians chapter 5. I'd like to begin at verse 18. This is one of the most significant passages about the Christian life. And all of the verses that follow in this section go back to this verse. Ephesians 5. 18 says, and be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be filled with The spirits. wine This idea of being filled with the Spirit is very similar to walking in the Spirit or being led by the Spirit. How can a person know if they are filled with the Spirit? Well, look at the evidences. Look at verses 19 and 20. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs Singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. This is talking about the fact that there will be a change in your demeanor. You will have not doesn't mean that you're going to be a musical person and be given a great voice. if you're filled with the Spirit. It talks here about making melody in your heart to the Lord. There will be joy in your heart And it will stem from your thankfulness of all that you have in Christ, according to verse twenty You will be overwhelmed with how good God has been to you in saving your soul. There will be a spirit of thanksgiving and joy in your heart. So that's one evidence. That's an internal evidence. Now Paul's going to give an external evidence And that is beginning at verse 21. Notice what it says, submitting yourselves one to another, excuse me, in the fear of God. Now verse 21 is an introductory verse that tells the reader that he is now going to be addressing relationships in human society where there's a hierarchy. Where there is subordination of one person to another. It doesn't mean that those individuals that are subordinate are somehow less valuable to God. It doesn't have to do about their intrinsic worth. It just talks about how God expects things to be governed in human society and the way they are to be governed here And evidence of a person being controlled by the Spirit of God is that they will submit themselves to the authority of someone else. It talks first of all about the husband-wife relationship. I know that is very unpopular to say today, and I could say a whole lot more. I have in other messages. I don't have time to flesh that out now. Then it talks about the parent-child relationship, that children are to obey their parents. And then it talks about the master-slave relationship. uh where the the the servants are to submit themselves to the authority of their masters. These all comprise what would be in the ancient world a household There would be a mother and a father, there would be children, and there would be a servant there. I know that seems strange to us, it's not according to our culture, but Paul is writing to the first century Greco-Roman world, and this is what a typical household would look like. And everyone had their place. And it's talking about when everyone there is a child of God that they are submit to the authority in their lives. Now, let me let me go back and make the point that I'm trying to make And that is if you are filled with the Spirit, if you are being led by the Spirit, you will be enabled by His power to do things that people in the world think are strange and even unnatural. Because it's not natural for us in our fallen flesh to have a heart filled with joy and to give thanks to God. You know what's natural in your flesh? To go around and gripe and complain and say, you know what, I've got a rough deal in life. Things have not worked out well for me. I've been a victim. God has not been good to me. God has not been faithful to me. That's your flesh speaking. That's not the spirit of God. So there's a sense in which because of our fallen nature, to be led by the Spirit is evidenced by us doing things that are actually unnatural to our fallen flesh, and that is we give thanks to God, and then also that we submit to the authority in our lives. Isn't it true that there is something inside of you that does not like to submit to the authority in your life? That does not like to be told what to do There's just something that wells up inside of you. How dare they tell me what to do? How dare they try to control me? Whether that is your boss Or whether that is a police officer or whoever it is, we do not like to submit to any authority. We all want to be our own authority, our own life in everything. That's our fallen flesh. But it takes the Spirit of God to work on our hearts so that we yield even to imperfect authority in our lives, of flawed individuals who are inconsistent. And yet by the Spirit of God we are able to voluntarily yield to their authority. That is the Spirit of God. Now I want us to look at this other passage that we looked at earlier, Galatians 5. We looked at Ephesians 5. Now I want you to look with me at Galatians chapter 5. Which is very parallel to what we're seeing in Romans 8. 14. Now, we've been saying in Romans 8 that the Christian does not live in the realm of the Spirit. In fact, the Spirit of God indwells us and empowers us to live the Christian life. But that doesn't mean that unfortunately we are unable to respond in the flesh. We can indeed respond in the flesh. In fact, if you look with me, Galatians 5 , And verse 13, notice what Paul says, for brethren ye have been called unto liberty, only use not your liberty for an occasion to the flesh. But by love serve one another, for all the laws fulfilled in one word, even in this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. And he's probably referencing strife within churches that he was writing to here in the region of Galatia. And he says the reason why you're responding this way is because you're responding in a fleshly manner, not under the governance of the Spirit of God. So then he is going to give this admonition, which is the equivalent of Ephesians 5. 18. But here in Galatians 5. 16 it says here, walk in the spirit. And ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. That is an amazing categorical statement. The idea of walking in the Spirit is keeping in step. with the Spirit, of following Him throughout the day and yielding to what He would have you to do If you do that, you will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. And then he explains, for the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. These are contrary the one to the other, so that you cannot do the things that you would. But if ye be, look at verse 18, led by the spirit, ye are not under the law That is the law of sin. So if you're led by the Spirit, the same phraseology that we have in our text in Romans 8:14. Now, what does it look like? when the flesh is governing a person's life. Well, we have this ugly list that we read together, and I'm not going to read it again. And verses 19, 20, and 21 talks about sexual sins. It talks about societal sins of strife and anger. It talks about violence And he says, this list is not exhaustive, and such like. And those that do such things should not inherit the kingdom of God. But then verse 22, what does it look like for a person to be controlled or filled or led or walking in the Spirit? These are all interchangeable. What does it look like? The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, or faithfulness. Meekness, temperance, or we would say self-control. Against such there is no law. Now look at this, how he sums this up. They that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. He's saying that this is true of all believers. All believers to some degree and in some way exhibit the fruit of the Spirits. And then notice what he sums up in verse twenty-five. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. What's he saying there? He's saying that your behavior must come to match your identity. in the spirits. That's what sanctification is all about. Us becoming who we are That's what God is doing in our lives. And this should be the desire of all of us. What does the fruit of the Spirit These character traits, what are they really a portrait of? You know what they are? They are a portrait of the inner life of our Savior. If you look at the fruit of the Spirit, and we've done this before in previous sermon series and Wednesday night series, and then you look at and match it up with the life of Christ that we find recorded in the Gospels. You will see that all of these evidences are found there perfectly in the life of our Lord. So the whole work of sanctification is about us becoming more like the Lord Jesus Christ in the inner man. Not that we become little gods. but that we become like him, as John says, for we will see him as he is. This is what God is This is an amazing thing. And so our heart's desire is like the hymn writer. Oh, to be like thee, blessed Redeemer. This is my constant longing and prayer Gladly I'll forfeit all of Earth's pleasures, Jesus, thy perfect likeness to bear. So all Christians are led by the Spirit into obedience and sanctification. But now I must come to my second point, and that is that all Christians are the sons, or we might say, the children of God. I want you to notice that Paul in this passage in Romans 8 is going to alternate. In fact, if you're not in Romans 8, I invite you to turn with me back there, please. But Paul is going to alternate between the children of God and the sons of God. He's using those terms interchangeably. We should not seek to find a distinction there. Notice how much he talks about the children of God or the sons of God in the verses that follow. Look with me at verses 15 through 17. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit itself, verse 16, bears witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. Verse 17, and if children than heirs. Look down with me at the last phrase in verse 19. Talks about the manifestation of the sons of God. And then verse 21, the glorious liberty of the children of God. So Paul is really concerned in this passage that we understand the significance of being the children of God. So, what is that significance? I'm going to share six biblical truths about the significance of the fact that we are the sons or the children of God. Number one. It reveals to us this title, our true identity. It doesn't say that someday we will be the children of God. No, it says that right now, at this moment, we are the children of God. That is who we truly are. Saying here that we are not simply a collection of chemicals, a random accident, as evolution teaches. No, the Bible teaches that you are a child of the king. And the implication is that we are now to live like it. The second thing it reveals is our glorious destiny. Look with me at verses 19 through 21. For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. For the creature was made subject to vanity not willingly but by reason of him who has subjected the same in hope, because the creature itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God. Now we're getting ready to come into this profound passage That talks about all of creation, as it were, groaning and longing for God's work to be brought out and to be completed in the lives of his people. This is our glorious destiny. If you're a child of God, someday you will go home to your father's house. Remember what Jesus said to his troubled disciples. The night before he was crucified, he said, In my father's house are many mansions for many rooms. This chapter is all about the believer's assurance. Sometimes, far too often, you will hear stories. I've certainly met people like this who have a son or daughter, and there's a great rift between them, a great argument ensues. And the parents just cut off the child as if that child never existed. They never acknowledge their existence. They never write to them. They never communicate with them. And they'll go decade after decade without any connection with that child at all. It's like they don't exist anymore. It's a horrible thing. I want you to know that God never does that to his children. He will never turn his back on us. He will never walk away from us. He will never kick us, as it were, out of his house. We are his children forever. This is the root of our assurance. We are the children of God. Thirdly, this title reminds us of our intimate relationship with our Heavenly Father. We don't have a distant relationship with our Father. No, we cry out, Abba, Father, I'm going to say more about this, Lord willing, next week But this is a term of endearment. It speaks of a close, intimate relationship that will demonstrate itself in having access to God and coming to God in prayer with our difficulties. We don't have a father who is austere and distant and wants nothing to do with us. We have a father who wants to hear from us, who wants to have us come into his presence. You ever seen video footage of important people having uh virtual meetings and interviews? on on television or something and their children run in to see them because children think that they have absolute access to their parents because their mom and dad, I can see them at any time. And that's the idea here. We have access to God because He is the Father who loves us with an everlasting love. And fourthly, this title speaks of our great advantage as the sons of God. First John chapter three and verse one Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God's. Now let me address something that may have come to your mind. Why doesn't the scriptural text just be consistent and always speak about the children of God Or sons and daughters of God. Why so often does it just say sons of God? Is it because God prefers men over women? No, it's not. You know why? Because it's helping us to make the connection with our Lord and Savior, who is the Son of God. This is one of the titles of Christ. In fact, if you look in this very chapter at Romans chapter 8 and verse 29, it says, For whom he did for know. He also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son, capital S, referring to the Lord Jesus Christ, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. The entire Gospel of John presents him as the Son of God. This is not suggesting that we will someday become little gods. No, but it's suggesting that we will become like Christ, that we will be like him, our glorious Savior. The Bible also describes as our older brother. This is hard for us to grasp, is it not? It sounds blasphemous to think that we will become in our character. as holy as the Lord Jesus Christ because we see ourselves now and we're so far from that. We're so inconsistent. We're so sinful. We fall and we stumble all the time, if you're really honest with yourself. And yet the Bible says that someday we will be like him. This is our certain destiny. This is the great advantage that we have. We are the sons of God. Hebrews 2. 10 speaks of Christ bringing many sons unto glory. You see, the Christian life Is a reminder to us that we are part of the family of God. Now we as Americans have within us a streak of rugged individualism. And sometimes people think of the Christian life as a very personal thing. It's just me and the Lord's. And that's all that matters. But the Bible, and I've said this to you before, trying to use an analogy, teaches us that Christianity is not a solo sport, it's a team sport. So when we speak of the children of God or the sons of God, it's reminder to us what? That we have brothers and sisters. In fact, God uses the community, the body of believers, to help us grow in our Christian faith and to be sanctified in our Christian faith. It's one of the mechanisms and the structures that God intends to use. I was with a group of pastors yesterday at an Ordination Council. And of course, when we sat down for lunch, one of the things we talked about was the impact of COVID-19 on all of our churches. And the fear that we have is that many people who have gone off and are are are at home watching um their the services online that as this goes on and drags on and on and on they will never come back to unite and worship and serve with the people of God because they will become comfortable staying at home because that's the path of least resistance. That's the comfortable path. And if that happens, that will be a tragedy because God intends that we gather for worship, that we interact, that we minister to our brother and sister in Christ. because we have the strongest bond with them that we possibly can have because we are all the children of God. Number six, this title, The Sons of God or Children of God, should inspire us to live holy lives. In 1 John chapter 3, we read these amazing verses. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him. For we shall see him as he is, and every man or every believer, every person that has this hope in him purifieth himself even as he is pure. This is another one of those categorical statements. Every child of God who has the hope of eternal life also has a desire to be more holy. This is like a birthmark that identifies us as the children of God. You know, some people you see their children, and you may not know that child's name, but you know who they belong to because they look like their mom and dad. This is one of the ways we resemble our Heavenly Father. We have a desire for holiness because our God is holiness holy. Just like a little boy wants to grow up to be like his dad and to be tall and strong. We want to grow up to be like our Heavenly Father, who is holy. That is our heart's desire. Listen to what Paul writes. In 2 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 17 and 18, he says, Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing. And I will receive you, and you will be a fa and I will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and my daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. And then he goes on to say that we are to perfect holiness in the fear of God Again, our identity drives our behavior. Children of God seek to obey their Heavenly Father. We don't do it perfectly or consistently. But it should be noticeable. There should be evidence that our life has changed, that we have left the darkness and come to the light. Listen to how Peter describes this change. He says, But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that you should show forth the praise of him who hath called you out of darkness. into his marvelous light, which in time past were not a people, but now are the people of God, which had not obtained the mercy, but now had obtained the mercy. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lust which war against the soul. 1 Peter chapter 2 verses 9 through 11. And once again, you see this pattern. He tells us who we are, and then he tells us how we are to live. Because we are the children of God, we are those who are led by the Spirit to walk in newness of life. I want to conclude this morning with two points of application. One to believers and the other to unbelievers. The first one is this Christians should yield to the Spirit's leading in our Christian lives. The Bible says, walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. If you were listening carefully to me this morning, you heard me say that to walk in the Spirit literally means to keep in step with the spirits. That is, we are to allow what we find in the Word of God to govern our lives. You know, children often you see them following their parents, walking along the street, and some children are very easily distracted into looking at everything around them and they don't follow very well. But then there are other children who find delight into following their parents and staying close to them. The Bible says that we are to be like the latter. We are to walk in step with the Spirit. And that means that we are to stay in his word and it means that we are to respond to the convicting power of the Spirit of God when he points something out in our lives and say and says, You are wrong about this. You are not keeping in step with me. in this. You are violating God's truth in this. We are to repent and to follow more closely. But then I want to conclude with this application. Not all people are the children of God. This is a very mis common misconception. This is something that you often hear politicians say, we're all the children of God. It sounds great, sounds uniting, makes people feel good, except it's not true. There is a sense In which we are, in this sense, every human being owes his life to God, and everyone has been made in the image of God. Therefore we have an inherent dignity God is our creator. Paul says in Acts chapter 17 and verse 28 when he's addressing those philosophers there at Mars Hill in the city of Athens. He says that we are all his offspring. But the Bible never uses the term children of God to refer to all of humanity. In fact, you remember the discussion that Jesus had with the Pharisees? And the Pharisees were arguing that they were the children of Abraham, and he says to them, Listen, let me tell you who you are. You are of your father, the devil, and the lust of your father you will do. The reality is the Bible makes this clear distinction that is very disturbing to most people. says that every person is spiritually speaking either the children of the devil or the children of God. We 're either slaves to sin or followers of Christ and of the spirits. So let me just say this. The first step to becoming a child of God is to recognize that you're not a child of God. As long as you think that you're okay. That because of your heritage, because of your good deeds, because people think you're an all-around nice guy, that you're going to heaven, and that God will certainly be impressed with your resume. As long as you think that way You cannot be a child of God. But when you come to realize by the work of the Spirit of God that indeed you are lost and you are helpless to save yourself, that you in fact are not a child of God. But that you are a sinner to the core of your being, it is only then that you will seek him So, how does someone become a child of God? The Bible answers that question very clearly. Let me conclude by reading to you John chapter 1, verses 12 and 13. But as many as received him To them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name Which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God 's. How do you become a child of God? By receiving or putting your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And when you do that is the evidence that indeed you have been born of God. That is how you came to Christ Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you that it offers us hope and instruction. And correction. And I pray, Father, that you would help us, everyone here, to examine their hearts and see if indeed they are a child of God. For this Father is the only way that we can enjoy eternal life. I pray, Father, that you would use your word today to draw sinners to the Savior and to encourage and strengthen the hearts of your children. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.