If you would, would you take your Bibles and turn to 1 Thessalonians? 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Remember the layout of the book of 1 Thessalonians, and I was talking with Pastor Rob Lough this afternoon. And he was describing how one of the first books that he taught through was 1 Thessalonians, and just the encouragement that it was to him to see the heart of the Apostle Paul, where he was so So loving, so kind, so pastoral and tender towards the Thessalonian believers, full of excitement and thanksgiving for all that God had done. And that's one of the things that we saw, especially in the first three chapters of this book. We have this backwards look where Paul is just filled with gratitude for what God has done in the lives of the Thessalonians, turning them from pagan idolatry. into worshipers of the true and living God who are looking for the return of Christ with eagerness. And he's so thankful for the the work that God has done and he's reminding them of the example that he and the missionary team. gave them so that they can live in relationship to that. And then these last two chapters, there's a lot of teaching on the imminent return of Christ, that Christ is coming again, and because he is coming again. We are to be growing in faith and hope in love in anticipation of the imminent return of Christ, which is essentially the theme of this book. continue to grow in faith, hope, and love in light of Christ's imminent return. And as we've come towards the end of the book of 1 Thessalonians, There's just been a number of commands that Paul's writing up, wrapping up his letter, and you feel like he's got a lot of things he wants to say, and he's running out of parchment. He's running out of paper and he's got maybe running out of time he has to get this off quickly. And he's he's just writing what he needs to to get these important truths out to the believers, knowing that there is many things he would love to be able to say to them. but he's not able to get them all out in that time. So he writes a lot of very short sentences that have a great deal of truth. He begins by encouraging the believers. He says, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and who are over you, to live in proper respect and obedience to the They're in the church. And then he gives instruction to the body of believers to respond to one another appropriately. They're not to be idle. They're to be encouraging the faint-hearted, to help the weak. and to be patient with one another. And then he says in verse 15 of chapter 5, see that no one repays anyone evil for evil. but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. And then he gives these really short bullet like commands, rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. And now we come to this next section, which is also kind of bullet points. In verse 19, he says, Do not quench the spirit. Do not despise prophecies, but test everything. Hold fast what is good. Abstain from every form of evil. And what we're seeing in these verses here, first of all, is that Christians must be careful not to quench the Holy Spirit. We must be careful not to quench the Holy Spirit. You remember last week as we were finishing up, I mentioned that there tends to be within the church today either one of two extremes with the way we think of the Holy Spirit. Either the Holy Spirit is minimized, and instead of focusing on dependence upon the Holy Spirit, We we have pragmatic marketing approaches. We're we're big on man-centered methodologies to the point where there's little talk about the Holy Spirit and little dependence. on the Holy Spirit. And one of the ways that we evidence that is by prayerlessness. Where there's prayerlessness, there is no dependence upon the Spirit to do the work. Instead, we have our marketing speech strategies, we have our own abilities, we have these programs, and these things will bring the results that we desire. But apart from the work of the Holy Spirit, None of those things will be profitable. We are utterly dependent upon the Holy Spirit. The Bible says, and Jesus says, it's the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. If we want to see people saved, if we want to see lives changed, then it has to be in the power of the Spirit. We must do ministry in dependence upon the Spirit. The other extreme is to focus our attention on the Holy Spirit, especially the sensational, the mystical, or the miraculous, the charismatic gifts of the Spirit. This is where the extreme, the sensational is is prominent, but the work of the Holy Spirit to sanctify is minimized The work of the Holy Spirit to make us holy, to make us like Christ, is almost never talked about. The fact is, we are dependent upon the Holy Spirit not only to give us new life, But we are dependent upon the Holy Spirit to change us, to to transform us, to regenerate us, it is or to sanctify us. It is the Spirit that guides us. and we live in dependence upon him continually. And so Paul, at the end of this letter to the Thessalonians, he says, do not quench The spirit. Do not quench the spirit. I don't know what you think of when you hear a statement like that. Maybe you wonder, what does it mean to quench? the spirit. There's two main broad views of what this refers to. The first is kind of what I call, I personally title it the independent view. And this idea holds that to quench the spirit is an independent or it's an isolated command that's not related to anything else within the text. So we have verse 19, do not quench the spirit. Then verse 20. A different isolated command. Do not despise prophecies. Verse 21, but test everything. These are isolated commands. That idea then would make us look to the rest of Scripture to get an idea of what it means to not quench the Spirit. What is the Apostle Paul speaking about in relation to quenching the Holy Spirit? Those who hold this see these commands as separate statements. of general exhortation. The second view, I think this might be a better way of looking at it, this could be called like the broad view. We're looking at this this as a broad application. Not quenching the Holy Spirit has broad application to many different areas of life. The second view I call the contextual view or the narrow view. Quenching the Holy Spirit is narrowly defined by what is in the very next verse, by what the very next sentence says. Do not quench the Spirit. Do not despise prophecies. And so to quench the Holy Spirit is directly related to this act of despising prophecies. And we'll look at both of those. I think they're actually, these two views are not as far apart as you think they may sound initially. I think they're actually very closely related. And I think as we go through this we'll we'll be able to see that, that these these both have value to them. The word to quench It means to extinguish. If you're quenching your thirst, you're extinguishing your thirst. It's used to extinguish a fire, or metaphorically, to suppress or stifle something. And the idea here of quenching the Holy Spirit obviously then would be putting out the fire of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is desiring to do a work within us. And we are seeking to extinguish the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives. Many times in the Bible, the work of the Holy Spirit is compared to fire. You think of Pentecost. When the Spirit appeared on believers in divided tongues as of fire. Or in Malachi 3, when the convicting and sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit was compared to a refining fire. So the work of the Holy Spirit to transform us, to empower for service is both compared to the idea of fire. So to quench would be to extinguish. To put out the fire of the Holy Spirit, to put out, to extinguish, to quench, to suppress the work of the Holy Spirit. When you think of this command, do not quench the spirit, there's probably another verse that kind of jumps to your mind pretty quickly. And I'm going to guess that you would think of Ephesians 4, 30. Let's see we have it here. Oh, let me jump ahead a little bit. Oh yeah. There we are. Okay 1 Ephesians 4, 29 and 30, let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up, as it fits the occasion. that it may give grace to those who hear. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed unto the day of redemption. And so we have here this idea of grieving the Holy Spirit, and specifically in the context here, grieving the Holy Spirit by means of our communication. Words that are tearing down another person, words that are that are not filled with grace, that are not building up, they are in in that process, we are grieving. the Holy Spirit. And when Paul wrote Ephesians, he didn't just think, I'm going to take this, I'm going to make up this idea of grieving the Holy Spirit. He's making a direct reference to what the prophet Isaiah said in Isaiah chapter 63, verse 10, speaking of the nation of Israel, but they rebelled and grieved his Holy Spirit. Therefore he turned to be their enemy, and himself fought against them. So the nation of Israel, as they rebelled against God , They did not listen to the work of God and did not listen to his word. They grieved the Holy Spirit of God, and as a result, God turned from being their friend to their enemy. What James says, to be a friend of the world is to be an enemy of God. That they chose the world, and God said, I will have to turn to be your enemy. Not that he was permanently and forever their enemy, but as he turned to judgment, he turned to them in the form of an enemy. So when we think of these two things, they seem to be related. I think oftentimes we use these two terms almost interchangeably to quench the spirit or to grieve the Holy Spirit. Technically, to quench the Spirit is what we do to the sanctifying, evangelizing power of the Holy Spirit in our lives. We quench it, we suppress it, we extinguish the sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit. To grieve is how the Holy Spirit feels, you might say, in response to our quenching That's how the Holy Spirit feels in response to our quenching activity. Not that we are able in any way to extinguish the power of the Holy Spirit. But we do have the ability to extinguish his work in us because he works through the our cooperation. We are, we talked about this before, that we're never able to override God's decrees by our sin, but God's sovereign decrees are accomplished even through Our sin. God's sovereign decrees are not overridden by us. But God accomplishes sovereign decrees even when we sin. His His sovereign decrees happen. But His desired will can be extinguished. We talked about this. When we went through the aspects of the will of God, that there are different aspects to the will of God. There is the sovereign will of God, or sometimes called the decreed will of God, that will happen, it will take place. But there is also the desired will of God. that God's will for us to do. It is the will of God for our sanctification, that we abstain from sexual immorality. So that is the desired will of God for us. But it is not his sovereign decreed will of God. So we have to work in coordination with the Holy Spirit. We see this, I think, in Genesis chapter 50, in verse 20, when Joseph is speaking to his brothers after the death of his father, he says, As for you, you meant evil against me. But God meant it for good. So his brothers sinned. But did their sin override the decree of God, the purpose of God? No. God actually used the sinfulness of his brothers to bring Joseph to the place where he wanted him to be so that he could rescue not only the people of Israel, but save many, many lives. Throughout the Middle East. And so you realize that God said that even though they sinned, they had no ability to override his sovereign will and his decree. God meant it for good, to bring it about that many people should be kept alive as they are today. So when we think about quenching the Spirit of God , I believe one of the reasons that we often so know so little of the power of God in our lives is because we quench his work in us. Oh I think the the analogy of a battery, a car battery can be helpful. If you ever had you maybe you went out to the car in the morning and you put the key in and you and you hear the click click click click click click click click and the car won't start. Click click click click click cli Like, oh, the battery must be dead. This happened to me not too long ago. And I what you know what I did? I went and got the battery charger and I started charging the battery. And I used another car for that day. I'm like, I'm just gonna charge this battery, let it get a good charge. And I didn't check the terminals very well. The fact was, the terminals were corroded. The battery was fine. There was plenty of power in the battery. But the charge wasn't getting through to the starter. And so the battery wasn't the problem. It was the corrosion on the terminals. In many ways, I think we lack the power of the Holy Spirit in our lives in a similar sense because our sin acts like corrosion. On the terminals of our lives. And so the power of the Holy Spirit is not reduced in any way. But we don't see His working in our lives because we have, we've extinguished, we've quenched. We have blocked that power working in our lives. How do you quench the Spirit of God? You quench the Holy Spirit by not doing what he tells you to do. When you walk in the Spirit and are filled with the Spirit, You don't want to quench him when he tells you to do something. It's very simple. When he tells you to do something, you do it. So to quench the Holy Spirit is then to disobey, to live in In disobedience to the will of the Holy Spirit. Now we were talking about this just a little bit ago, about the contextual view. So he says, do not quench the spirit, do not despise. Prophecies. So when we look at this in the this more narrow idea, that the idea of quenching the Spirit has to do with the despising of prophecies. This view sees that the Thessalonians, the church in Thessalonica, they're having almost like the exact opposite problem as the church in Corinth. You can think of the church in Corinth. When Paul wrote to the church in Corinth, he writes chapter 12, 13, and 14 of 1 Corinthians. And he's giving them instruction because they have an excessive view on the spectacular charismatic gifts. To the point where they are promoting themselves, they are lifting themselves up, and they are desiring the showy gifts And they're not actually trying to build each other up through the gifts of the Spirit. And so the Apostle Paul reigns them in because these gifts were creating disorder and leading to self-promotion and pride instead of humility and love and sanctification. So that's the Corinthian church. The exact opposite of it might be the Thessalonians, that on the other hand, they'd reacted against the charismatic gifts and were now overly restricting the exercise of them. That's a possibility. That's how some people interpret this. I think there is a reality to that. He commands them not to despise prophecies. But prophecies were what actually Paul says in Corinthians, they were to covet. Prophecy, and to not covet speaking in tongues, and the more spectacular gifts. They were to desire the ability to prophesy. What I think we actually see here is that there's probably an issue with the fact that they had received false prophecies. False teachings. And as a result, they were despising all prophecy. And we'll talk about that in just a moment. So the point here would be Christians must be careful not to quench the Spirit by despising his prophetic work. And in our case, if we were to put this in the 21st century, through his word, the work of the Holy Spirit, through his word, to despise means to treat with contempt. To make light or to disregard. It's the same word that we find in Luke chapter 23, verse 11, where Herod with his soldiers treated Jesus with contempt and they mocked him. So this idea of despising prophecies is to really treat very lowly as insignificant. In Luke 18, Jesus told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and they treated others with contempt. They despise people. They look down on people. That's the same idea here. This is the same word. And perhaps they began to treat with contempt, to look down on prophecies. Because of false prophecies that happened. Turns me to 2 Thessalonians 2. So if you're in 1 Thessalonians 1 5, you're not far from 2 Thessalonians 2. It's actually on the same page for me. In 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, verses 1 and 2, Paul addresses an issue that has happened. And he says, now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him, we ask you, brothers, not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed. Now listen to this part here. Either by a spirit or a spoken word or a letter seeming to be from us to the effect that the day of the Lord has come. Now, we're going to be looking at that in a few weeks when we go through 2 Thessalonians. But the teaching here that Paul is addressing is that apparently somebody has claimed to be speaking on behalf of the Lord, prophetically, either written He's not clear whether there's multiple events that have happened or there is an individual event that has happened. There's a forged letter, supposedly from the Apostle Paul, claiming to be the authority of the Apostle Paul. And he's saying, apparently you have heard something either by spirit, meaning something claiming to be speaking from the Holy Spirit, or a spoken word. They're giving teaching. or a letter seeming to be from us. So there's there's already this young, young church, maybe a year and a half old. There are forged documents. There are false prophets. There are people claiming to speak with authority that are speaking contrary to the Word of God. And you can imagine how that would be very, very difficult for a young church. And remember, at that time, they didn't have the New Testament. They didn't have the completed New Testament. So this is very difficult for them to determine what is true. Did the Apostle Paul change his mind? Did he write something and now discover something new? They're confused. And so he's giving some corrective and instruction. But if self-deceived people were claiming divine revelation about the second coming of Christ and were using their so-called revelation as an excuse, perhaps, for laziness, Or perhaps for gossip, or perhaps mooching off the rest of the church, it wouldn't be hard to understand why you might begin to despise prophecies. If someone came in here and claimed, you know, I received a word from the Lord that tells me that he's coming back in the next month and that we need to quit our jobs. And then tomorrow he shows up your house and says, hey, I'm out of food. Like, wait a second, I'm seeing a connection here. And so it seems very clearly that there were people that were false prophets, and so the temptation might be just to say I'm going to despise all prophetic utterances. Now, when we think of this word prophecy, what is meant by prophecy? This is actually a really challenging word to define. When we hear the word prophecy, if I think we were to go through and just ask you know, casually throughout the congregation, I think we would probably come up with the majority of us think of information given from God about the future. When we think of prophecy, we think of if you have a prophecy conference. It's a conference about the future. It's something that hasn't happened yet. And so information from God about the future. And that is a part of prophecy. But the word that is translated prophecy actually means to speak for another. To speak on behalf of another person, especially that of a deity. If you remember the book of Exodus, remember Moses When he when God said, I want you to go and speak to Pharaoh, and Moses says, Ah, I'm not a really good speaker. I stutter, I stammer, I have never been a good speaker, and God gets angry and he still continues to complain. And finally he says, okay, I'll send Aaron, and he will be your spokesman. So here Exodus chapter 7, and the Lord said to Moses, See, I have made you like God to Pharaoh. And your brother Aaron shall be your prophet. So you're like God, and he's your prophet. You shall speak all that I command you, and your brother Aaron. Shall be your spokesman. He shall be your prophet to tell Pharaoh to let the people of Israel go out of the land. So here we have this idea. God says, I'm going to make Aaron like your prophet. He's going to give the message that I tell you. So the idea of a prophet is one who speaks the message, in this case, of God. He is the spokesperson. He is the messenger for God. Now, often in the Bible, it did involve The future. There are many times we have very specific prophecies, like when we have in Isaiah 53, a prophecy about the crucifixion, the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, or in Isaiah 7, or in or in Daniel 9. These are prophetic utterances about the future. But other times They're simply rebukes or corrections or encouragements that are given by God through the prophet. In the New Testament times, before the completion of the New Testament canon, prophets would sometimes deliver brand new revelation from God Which could have elements of foretelling, of telling the future. In Revelation chapter 1 The whole book of Revelation, it says, Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear and who keep what is written in it. For the time is near. So he's talking about future events, and it's called the book of this prophecy. But at other times, prophets actually were just those who spoke messages, messages for God. In Acts chapter 15, we have two men, Judas and Silas. Who were prophets, the Bible says. And they were sent after the Acts, the Jerusalem Council, they were sent back with the Apostle Paul to share the message as authoritative messengers of God. to the churches. And when we read about them in Acts chapter 15, it says, And Judas and Silas, who were themselves prophets, encouraged and strengthened the brothers with many words. So we don't have them telling the future, but telling the message of God, and they do so encouraging and strengthening the brothers. Actually I think that's verse 32, not verse 27, so you can correct me if I'm wrong about that. Prophecy in the New Testament time was a a gift, a sign gift, a foundational gift. Until the completion of the canon. We read about this in Ephesians chapter 2, where the Bible says that the church is built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. Jesus Christ being the chief cornerstone. Now obviously, when we laid the foundation for this church, they didn't rebuild the foundation. When they did the walls. The foundation was the first part. It was the foundational level. It was the beginning of the church. So the foundation of the church is based upon the prophets and the apostles. And so when we teach We're teaching the Word of God. I'm teaching First Thessalonians right now. I am teaching the prophetic instruction of the Apostle Paul. He was an apostle and a prophet, and he gave instruction that we are teaching today. So I wouldn't call myself a prophet, but I'm teaching prophecy, teaching the word of God that was given to the prophets. Paul later describes the primary nature of prophecy in 1 Corinthians 14. This is rather interesting. He's talking about the difference between tongues and prophecy. He says, on the other hand, the one who prophesies speaks to the people. Now listen to what it's for. For the upbuilding and encouragement and consolation. If we were to think about prophecy as primarily telling the future, That's not how we would describe that element of it. Upbuilding, encouragement, and consolation. But this is what the Apostle Paul says is a primary, the primary function of. prophecy, upbuilding, encouragement, and consolation. The work of prophecy is compared to the convicting work That is done when preaching takes place, when you preach the gospel. Listen to this. But if all prophesy and an unbeliever or outsider enters, he is convicted. So we have a congregation of believers, an outsider comes in, and they hear people prophesying. This outsider is convicted by all. He is called to account by all. The secrets of his heart are disclosed. And so falling on his face, he will worship God and declare that God is really among you. The understanding is that through the preaching of the Word of God, the unsaved person is brought under conviction. That word It's the same word that we read of in John chapter 6, where it says the Holy Spirit will convict the world of sin and of righteousness. and of judgment. It is through the ministry of the Word of God that conviction is brought to the heart of a person. So an unbeliever comes into the church and he hears the gospel priest. He hears about his own sinfulness, and through the preaching of the Word of God, his own sinfulness is revealed. The secrets of his heart are revealed. And he falls down and he repents and he worships God. Prophecy is not the same thing as preaching, but it is very much related to it. In preaching, the prophetic word of God is proclaimed, it is explained, and it's applied. So that it brings conviction and it brings consolation and it brings upbuilding and it encourages the believers to be faithful to the Word of God. So in this case, when you think about this, to quench the spirit by despising prophecies is to look with disdain upon the revelation of God, whether it's written or whether it's spoken. So one way this can be done is to disregard prophetic instruction that specifically confronts sin in your life. It's very fun to listen to preaching when it convicts the sin of someone else. But a lot less fun when it can get your own sin, when your own toes are stepped on it. And you go, oh, I wish they would talk about that person's sin, not my sin. And so one of the ways we can disregard prophetic instructions to say, ah , you know, I don't believe any of this stuff is really that important That's not that big a deal. And we disregard it because it's actually touching on things that are in our own lives. And as a result, we refuse to yield to the Spirit of God. By disobedience, or we might try to minimize it by saying, you know, that's your interpretation. That's what you say it means. I remember one time Reading someone a passage of scripture that dealt with sin in their life and they said, That's your interpretation. I said, I didn't interpret it, I just read it. You must have understood it because I simply read it. But obviously it was touching on their sin. And the first way they wanted to disregard it was to say, that's your interpretation. And I love that because that just revealed in that case that it really was touching on their sin. And it was the appropriate use of that scripture. One person said that verses 19 and 20 give two simple commands. Do not ignore the Spirit's prompting, and do not despise the Scripture's wisdom. The Spirit's prompting always comes in two areas. Stop doing what is wrong, and start doing what is right. It's really that simple. Stop doing what is wrong, start doing what is right. God wants you to do something, or God wants you to stop doing something. And the beautiful thing is when we came to know Christ , Jesus said that the gift of the Holy Spirit was given to believers. And the Holy Spirit dwells in us. And it maybe it's been many years since you came to know Christ, and you almost forget what it was like before you came to know Christ. Or maybe you're a young Christian. But the joy of talking to young Christians is oftentimes they'll say things like, I feel different now about my sin. Something feels funny inside of me. It doesn't feel like it used to. What is that? That's the Holy Spirit of God. Convicting you. Now maybe you've been saved for 40 years and you're like, I don't even remember what it was like before I had the Holy Spirit living inside of me. And praise God if that's the case. But regardless, We are to be careful not to quench the Holy Spirit. When the Word of God is brought to bear upon our lives, we are to listen to it. When the Holy Spirit speaks to us. Through his word, we are to be listening and responding and inviting his work into our lives. When the Holy Spirit prompts you to show love to somebody. You're to do it. And not hold back, not quenching the spirit. Now the next point that he brings out in verse 21 was, and it's related here because he says, but, so don't despise prophecies. But test everything. But test everything. So the fact is, Christians are not to reject out of hand legitimate prophetic ministry, nor are they to blindly accept Everything. Just because someone says, I'm a preacher, or this is what the Word of God says, they're not to accept it blindly. They're to be discerning. We are to discern truth from error, to test. Means that some will be accepted and some will be rejected. That's the whole point of testing. It is to accept some and reject others. No matter how much we like a person that teaches falsely, we must reject false teaching. A failure to discern and test will make us susceptible to every wind of doctrine. And Paul talks about this in Ephesians chapter 4. where the he says that the that the Lord gave apostles and prophets and evangelists and pastors and teachers to equip the saints. For the work of the ministry, for the building up of the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature, the fullness of Christ. so that we may no longer be children tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, and by the crafty deceitfulness of men. The fact is, if you listen to every YouTube preacher and you're not discerning, you will be just blown around because there is all sorts of teaching. In this day and age, As much, maybe more so than any day and age, we need to be discerning. We need to be careful. Not every person who claims to be a messenger of God. And to teach the word of God is. In fact, the majority are not. What's interesting is I think it's significant in this verse that the individual believer is equipped with the Spirit of God. and the knowledge of the Word of God, and therefore is responsible before God to judge or to discern truth from error. It's not the pastor's job alone. It 's every believer, every believer's responsibility to test and discern. Truth from error. It's interesting. This is not instruction is not given to the apostles. It's not given to the pastors. It's in this context of this 1 Thessalonians 5. It's given to the body, to the church. We are to be discerning. In Acts chapter 17, Luke praises the Bereans. Because when the Apostle Paul came and he preached the gospel to them, they didn't just say, okay, you're the apostle. Great, we'll take it. No, they checked to make sure what he was teaching was indeed the Word of God. It says, Now these Jews were more noble than those in Thessalonica. They received the Word of God with all eagerness, examining the scriptures daily. to see if these things were so. When Paul preached, they said, let's go back and check it. Let's make sure he's telling us the truth. And they were more noble because they tested and examined the teaching that they had been given. So how do we test everything? 1 John 4 tells us, beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God. For many false prophets have gone out into the world. This is the first century. Many false prophets have gone out. More so today, 2,000 years later, many false prophets have gone. So how do we test? What do we test? First thing, does it edify? Does it build up? Since prophecy is intended, what do you say in 1 Corinthians 14? For upbuilding, encouragement, and consolation? Well then prophecy should do that. It should edify, it should upbuild, it should encourage, it should bring consolation of believers. And one way we examine this to see is does the prophecy build us up into the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ? Are we brought into conformity to the likeness of Christ? Is it calling out our sin? Is it drawing us to greater holiness? To greater watchfulness? Is it fanning the flame of the Holy Spirit in our inner life? Does it actually edify us? Does it build us up into the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ? Secondly, is it apostolic? That means, does it agree with what the apostles taught? Does it agree with what the already revealed apostolic teaching is? Jude. In Jude chapter 1, if you want to call it that, says that it was the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. The faith that was once for all. It's not going to be changed. It's not going to be abrogated. The New Testament faith is the once-for-all faith delivered to the saints. So does it align with that once-for-all delivered faith? That's why in 2 Thessalonians, if you're there in chapter 2, he tells them this very thing in verse 15. He says, so then brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught by us, either by our spoken word or by our letter. He says, remember this is 2 Thessalonians, so you remember 1 Thessalonians? If I taught you it by letter or I spoke to you this, hold it fast. This is the tradition of truth. And you are responsible to discern truth from error by whether it is in line with the apostolic doctrine. And the last thing is what is their fruit? What is the fruit of these teachers? Examine the character and conduct of the prophet. I was speaking to Uh a gentleman today down in Prince George's County and he said he's speaking of a certain type of church that he would never go to that church that type of church because the the the pastors Have a lot of Armani and fancy clothes and fancy cars and their and he's and I said and the character of their lives kind of like leading him. He's like, and the character of their lives. It's not in line with Scripture. I would never go to a church like that. I said, exactly. So the Bible says to examine the fruit. He said, exactly, examine their fruit, and the fruit isn't right. The fact is, you can tell a lot about The teaching by looking at the teacher, the life of the teacher. Jesus tells us To beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their fruit. Are grapes gathered from thorn bushes, or figs from thistles? One of the ways you can know Joseph Smith or Muhammad or Buddha or Jim Jones is a false prophet is by examining the character of their lives. Usually, either in the financial or the sexual areas of their lives, you will be able to discern their true character very rapidly. The Didic, which is a late first century church manual, says, but not everyone who speaks in a spirit is a prophet, but only if he has the behavior of the Lord. Isn't that interesting? Even in the first century after the completion of the canon, they're saying, discern , does he act like Christ? In 2 Corinthians chapter 11, Paul says of false prophets in his day, for such men are false prophets, deceitful workmen, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. And no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. So to no surprise if his servants also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness, their end will correspond to their deeds. We are to be testing. We are to be carefully examining based upon these truths. And the last thing he says here is, hold fast what is good. Abstain from every form of evil. To hold fast means to cling to, to grasp it firmly. After testing the teaching and the prophetic utterances, if it is morally good and it is true and is in a line with the gospel, it is to be held on to tenaciously. It is something that we cling to with our lives. We value it because it is in line with the truth. Hebrews chapter 3, verse 6, it says, But Christ is faithful over God's house as a son. And we are his house if indeed we hold fast our confidence and our boasting in our hope. So the idea we are to hold fast fast to the truth. We are to cling to it with all our life because it is good and it is truth and this is vitally important. He says in chapter 10 of Hebrews, let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. Cling to it tenaciously. And lastly, abstain from every form of evil. You may have Memorize this, abstain from all appearance of evil, and the idea of thinking that it means anytime it might even look bad, I'm supposed to abstain from it. That's not what Paul is saying here. He's saying abstain from all forms. In all ways that evil appears. So abstain from all ways that evil appears, all forms of evil. Whatever is good, cling to it. Whatever is bad, the word literally to abstain means to hold yourself away from. To have no association with. If it is evil, has no association with it. If it's good, cling to it. Hold fast. Do not let go. But if it is evil, hold yourself away from it. Christians are to have no association with anything that is evil. You shouldn't associate with false teachers. Shouldn't be going to a false church. Because we are more vulnerable to Satan's lies than we think. Well, they have a really great program for ladies. It's really I love the ladies there. If it is a false church and it's taught their false teaching, well, I'm pretty discerning. No. You are to hold yourself away from it. You are not to have association with it. Just think of this. This is what 2 John Uh oh there we are. 2 John 10 verse 10-11. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting, for ever who for whoever greets him takes part in his wicked works. Well, that seems awful harsh. Well, what does it mean? It means you don't have to say, God bless you, Godspeed. To a false teacher. You are not to be in fellowship with a false teacher. Now, it doesn't mean you can't have a relationship with a person for the purpose of evangelizing them, but you are not to be encouraging them in that work. We're not to be partaking in any way, even with blessing, in their lives. Abstain, hold yourself away from all that is evil. So when we come to these verses here, 19 through 22, he says, Do not quench the spirit. Do not despise prophecies. These are our related commands. Do not quench the Spirit of God, but receive the ministry of the prophetic word and be discerning. Test everything. How do we test it? Well, we we examine it. What is the character of the teacher? What is the result? Does it edify us? Is it in line with the apostolic doctrine? And if it is. Hold to the good. And if it's not, stay away from the evil. We are to avoid all and every form of evil. I think one of the things we need to remember in this is that we are to labor to stay sensitive to the Holy Spirit. When we come under the ministry of the Word of God, we are to test everything. But where it is true, we want to stay sensitive to what God. Spirit tells us. Do not quench his work in you. It is possible to quench the working of the Spirit in your life. But we are to be open to the work of the Spirit. and allow him to transform us and to pray. Even when we come into church on Sunday morning, Lord, would you speak to me? Lord, would you convict me? Would you show me areas of my life that are not right with you? Search me Like David prayed in Psalm 139, search me, O God, and know my heart, and try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any wicked way in me and lead me in the way everlasting. God, would you search me? Me. When you come to your word, the word in the morning and you read your Bible, Lord, would you open my eyes to understand your word? Would you change me through your word? Would you convict me? Would you make me more like Christ? Would you help me, like we talked about on Sunday, to hunger and thirst after righteousness? Change my thinking, Lord, so that I may be more like Christ. We need to labor to stay sensitive to the work of the Spirit in our lives each day. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for its power to convict. To change, to transform us. Father, I pray that you would help us to be careful not to quench the Spirit. To not despise the prophecies, but to test everything, and to hold fast to that which is good, and to abstain from every form of evil. Evil. Lord, keep us sensitive to your working in our lives. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen