I thank all of you who are joining with us tonight. I mentioned this morning that I wanted to specifically talk about the crisis, the situation we're facing right now, and the reason why we're not having our typical services tonight. One of the most frightening aspects of the coronavirus is that no one you know has ever faced something like this before. Plagues and diseases we always think of, something that occurs far away or in the distant past. Probably no one in our church family can recall a church canceling its services because of a public health emergency. However, history goes much further back than our own recollections. The fact is that many times in the past, Christians have faced situations like we are facing today, and much worse. I have a book in my library written by a Puritan pastor named Thomas Vincent It's entitled, God's Terrible Voice in the City. Thomas Vincent was a pastor in London when the plague of 1665 hit that city. It apparently came over on a passenger ship's ships from Holland. And it first broke out in May of that year. We know today that it was a bubonic plague. In fact, it was the last time that the bubonic plague really afflicted England. By June of that year, 40 people a week were dying in the city of London. And Vincent was pastoring there in the inner city, in the areas where the plague was very active. But by September of that year, 2,000 people a week were dying. That is not 2,000 people in the world, but 2,000 people in that city. When the plague was finally over, some 18 months later, nearly 100,000 residents had died, about one -fourth of the population. But Vincent continued to minister to the people in these dangerous circumstances. And London at that time was filled with many strong churches and many believers. And the Church of Jesus Christ did not perish, but it used this event to call people to repentance and faith. One of the most important things that we can do as Christians is to properly process events like this in our thinking. How do events like plagues, tsunamis, earthquakes square with the biblical doctrine of the sovereignty of God? The fact is, there are a lot of horrible things that happen in the world. And so one of the great dilemmas is how can we say that God is good And that God is sovereign, that He is in complete control, and yet also square that with the reality that a lot of really bad things happen. The last time I think this debate reached our public conversations was after 9-11. There were a lot of discussions about whether or not God could have prevented the terrorist attacks that took place in 2001. And there were many people, including Christian leaders, that were saying that God was not in control. One such leader said, God did his best, but on 9-11 the devil won. There's a famous book written by a man named Rabbi Harold Kushner, entitled When Bad Things Happen to Good People. It was a bestseller. And he says in this book, God wants the righteous to live happy, peaceful lives, but sometimes even he can't bring that about. It is too difficult even for God to keep cruelty and chaos from claiming their innocent victims. You may recall that in 1982, there were seven people who died from cyanide-laced capsules. A Christian commentator wrote about that incident and said, there was no meaning in those depths. Each was a bizarre, horrible coincidence, nothing more, and therein lies the tragedy. I want to read to you the comments now of a liberal Presbyterian minister. He writes on his blog. Things happen in the world that God neither causes nor is able to prevent. Some things are beyond God's control. There's plenty of biblical support for the belief that God is omnipotent and sovereign. There's plenty of human experience to suggest that this is not the case. For me, I'm finding it easier and easier to abandon belief in God's omnipotence and sovereignty I can't believe that God causes hurricanes, earthquakes, war, and cancer. I cannot believe that a God capable of preventing these things would choose not to. These are not unique statements. In the minds of most Americans, God is not in absolute control. I think most people reason that they must choose between a God who is good or God who is sovereign. And they reason that if God is good and in control, then he would have prevented horrible things from occurring. Therefore, they conclude that God must not have complete control. And the reason why they come to this wrong conclusion, among other things , is because they fail to realize that God has a different definition of good than they do. Fallen man naturally thinks that God is here to serve him, that that is his job. Ironically, man tends to think that God is a humanist, that he does the highest good for the most people. But the Bible never describes or explains God in this way. God does not exist for our pleasure, we exist to please Him. God's desire is that people would come to know him and live for his glory. This is what is truly good. And the only way that most people will ever seek the Lord is when God gets their undivided attention. And this usually only happens through a crisis. We've all been reminded this week that our routines, that the rhythm of life can be interrupted so quickly. And since this is fresh in our minds, I want to address this issue of God's sovereignty in human tragedy. The Bible teaches clearly and convincingly from cover to cover that God is in absolute control of everything that occurs And that man must come to trust in him. If I were to summarize this message tonight, it would be this Don't be afraid, because God is in control. I want us to notice, first of all, that we should realize that God is always In complete control of everything that occurs in the universe. When we speak of the sovereignty of God We are in a sense being redundant because our very understanding of what it means for God to be God is that He is in control. It's like saying that the sovereign is sovereign, or that God is God. The word sovereign has the word reign in it, R-E-I-G-N, which reminds us that he is a king. And in the ancient world, where the Bible when the Bible was written, kings did not have limitations on their powers. They were only limited by other kings that would check their aggression and their expansion. But our God is a King of kings and a Lord of Lords. He reigns over all. Let me break this down into some smaller units. The Bible teaches, number one, that God does what he wants to do. To say this about any human being would be a declaration of extreme selfishness and a very dangerous situation. But God is not like us. He always does what is best for him and for his people. Psalm 115 and verse 3 says, For our God is in the heavens, he hath done whatsoever he hath pleased. Psalm 135 and verse 6 says, Whatever the Lord pleased. That did he in heaven and in earth, in the seas, and all deep places. In Isaiah chapter 46 and verse 10 it says, My counsel shall not stand, and I will do all my pleasure. Secondly, God can do anything He wants to do. Now the key understanding of this is this term want. You may have heard the famous skeptical suggestion that often unbelieving atheists think destroys belief in God. The question, can God make a rock so big that he cannot move it? This logical absurdity seeks to pit God's power against himself. But the Bible teaches that God never acts contrary to his character, and they knows all things. And so he, of course, would not make something that he could not move, because he would know that ahead of times, and God does what brings him glory. This is a logical absurdity. The Bible says in Job 42 and verse 2, I know that thou canst do everything. Jeremiah 32 verse 17. Is there anything too hard for me? Luke chapter 1 and verse 37 With God, nothing shall be impossible. God can do anything that He wants to do. Number three, God cannot be stopped from doing what he wants to do. Job chapter 9 and verse 12 says, Behold, he taketh away. Who can hinder him? Who will say unto him, What doest thou? God is not accountable to anyone. He doesn't answer to anyone. Isaiah 14 verse 27, for the Lord of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul it, and his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back? You see, nothing can hinder God. God is not anxiously wringing his hands tonight saying, I wish I could do something to stop the coronavirus. I think there's some people who picture it that way, but that is not a biblical portrait of our God. The Bible teaches that God rules over trivial events. It tells us that the falling of a sparrow does not occur in the world without God knowing about it. and ordaining that that occur. The Bible says that God is in control of things like the rolling of dice, Proverbs 1633. The Bible says that God is in control of travel plans. And James chapter 4 and verse 15, it says, before we say, I'm going to do this and this and this, we should say, if the Lord will. Why? Because God can intervene in your plans at any time. And God has intervened in a lot of people's travel plans in recent days. God rules over all. Psalm 47 verse 7 says For God is the King of all the earth. Psalm 103 and verse 19, we read a moment ago, for God hath prepared, or God has established His throne in the heavens, and his kingdom ruleth over all. Daniel chapter 4 and verse 17 says, The Most High ruleth in the kingdoms of men. And one of my favorite verses, Daniel chapter 4 and verse 35, it says, And all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. And he doeth according to his will in the army of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? I wonder what your reaction is to these statements of Scripture. Do you believe them to be true? If you believe them to be true, it should bring peace, assurance to your hearts. But I want to focus in now on another aspect of this that is even more relevant for us right now, and that is I want you to know that God rules over tragedies. Every human tragedy is part of God's sovereign plan. In Exodus chapter 4 and verse 11, it says that God is the control of birth defects. God says there when Moses is trying to make excuses, I am the one who makes the ear, who makes the mouth I am the one who makes the deaf. I am the one who makes the hearing. I am in charge of these things. God is in control of all birth defects. He is control of family tragedies. We read in the life story of Job about him losing all of his children in one tragic accident as they were celebrating in one of the children's homes. But notice that Job didn't say the devil did it. Indeed, he was involved in that, but he ascribed it to the work of God. The Bible teaches that God is in control of all natural disasters. And if you have your Bible Realize I haven't had you turned anything yet. I want you to turn with me to the book of Nahum. Nahum chapter 1, please. Nahum chapter 1. Verse 3 A very majestic opening to this book. It says, the Lord is slow to anger and great in power and will not at all equip the wicked. The Lord hath his way in the whirlwind and in the storm and the clouds are the dust of his feet. He rebuketh the sea, and maketh it dry, and drieth up all the rivers. Bashin languisheth in Carmel, and the flower of Lebanon languisheth The mountains quake at him, and the hills melt, and the earth is burned at his presence, yea, the world and all that dwell therein. Who can stand before his indignation? And who can abide in the fierceness of his anger? His fury is poured out like fire, and the rocks are thrown down by him. Then we find in the minor prophet of Amos. In Amos chapter three It speaks of God's sovereignty here. Amos chapter 3 and verse 5. Can a bird fall in a snare upon the earth where no ginn or no trap is for him? Shall one take up a snare from the earth and have nothing, have taken nothing and all shall trumpet be blown in the city And the people not be afraid, shall there be evil in a city, and the Lord hath not done it, not speaking there of moral evil, but of disaster Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret under his servants the prophets. So these passages teach us that God is in control of all natural disasters. The Bible teaches that God is in control of military attacks In 722, the Assyrian Empire came down and took captive the northern tribes of Israel. That was God's judgment. And then in 586, Babylon came and took captive the people of the southern kingdom of Judah. And took them into Babylon for the 70 years captivity. God used pagan peoples to punish a nation with a godly heritage. But God is also in control of plagues and pestilence. I've never really studied this before until this week. The Bible's term for pestilence is a very broad term that refers to all types of deadly judgments like disease. The term is used nearly 50 times in the Old Testament. It's often used in combination, if you looked at all the references, with sword and famine. As proverbial of the judgment of God. God says that he will punish the wicked with pestilence. Jeremiah 27, verse 8. God says that he gave pestilence to the people in the wilderness, Psalm 78 and verse 50. God says that he will smite the wicked with pestilence on three occasions. And Exodus chapter 9 and verse 15, God's warning to Pharaoh, for now I will stretch out my hand that I may smite thee and thy people with pestilence. In Numbers chapter 14 and verse 12, when God warns those who were revolting against Moses, he says, I will smite them with pestilence. And in Jeremiah 21 and verse 6, God says through the prophet, I will smite the inhabitants of the city, and they shall die of a great pestilence. And on at least 11 occasions, the Bible says that God is the one who sends pestilence. Now all of this is the opposite of the way we tend to think about disease or plague or viral pandemics that are going around the world. We never look at it through this lens. We all tend to think of it in strictly scientific terms, and let me be quick to say the Bible is not in conflict with science. And we do know more about the ancient peoples, about the mechanism by which these things kill people and how they spread. There's no question about that. But the Bible is clear that no disease, no virus can exist and go forth to kill apart from God's will. As I've been listening to a lot of things this week, a lot of preachers, a lot of blogs, a lot of articles, many of which are helpful I find very few, if any, that make any reference to this ever being the judgment of God. And yet every single time the Bible speaks of pestilence, which is many times, it's always the judgment of God. Something interesting for us to consider. The Bible teaches that because God's in control of things like that, he can protect his people. The key passage on this is Psalm 91. I invite you to turn with me there. Turn with me, please, to Psalm chapter 91. I'd like to read the first ten verses. A beautiful psalm. He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress, my God, in Him will I trust. Surely He shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler and from the noise of pestilence. He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust. His truth shall be thy shield and buckler. Thou shalt not be afraid, for the terror by night nor for the air that flieth by day, nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness, nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday. A thousand shall fall at thy side and ten thousand at thy right hand, but it shall not come nigh thee, only with thine eyes. Shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked, because thou hast made the Lord, which is my refuge, even the most high, thy habitation. There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling. And I want to suspend my reading there. This passage presents an interpretational challenge for us because it seems to be saying, in fact, promising That only God's enemies will die of things like plagues, but that God's people will be protected and spared. Only problem with that is that's not the way it happens in real life. There are lots of Christian people, I'm sure, around the world that have died of coronavirus and will die of coronavirus. So how do we explain this? Well, Psalm 91, first of all, it seems, is reflecting What God sometimes did for his people. And the most clear example of this is the plagues in Egypt. Remember the plagues in Egypt? They were in the same land, but the plagues came down the Egyptians, but not on the Hebrews They were spared those plagues, even though they were right there in the midst of that. God spared them. But in many other passages of Scripture, we see God's plagues falling on both the wicked and the righteous, and God afflicting his own people with plagues. And clearly, this passage is not saying that for every follower of God, every true believer, that this is a promise That they can be certain will occur. Notice the end of the Psalm, Psalm 91, it says, With long life will I satisfy him and show him my salvation or my deliverance. Now let me ask you Does every believer live a long life? No, they do not. Many wonderful followers of Christ have died in their youth. What this passage is teaching us is that God does have complete control And he does often protect his people. And he always protects them according to his will. But sometimes it is his will that his people Be struck with things like plague and other disasters in their lives, that he might bring about good in their lives and glory for his name. But that raises the question of why would God send coronavirus to plague the world? And so now I'd like to move to the second part of this message, and that is that we should realize that God accomplishes his good purpose. through plagues and pestilence. So let me conclude by mentioning some of the good things that God does and God will do through the crisis that we are facing. Number one, God is getting our attention. God's getting our attention Most people in the world live as if there is no God, as if there is no real right and wrong, no heaven and no hell, nothing beyond what they can Experience with their senses. This is the secular worldview that is so prevalent in Europe and is spreading around the world. And for people who have been indoctrinated and think this way, unless God intervenes in their life, they will ignore him all their days. I always think of C. S. Lewis's quote on this. God whispers to us in our pleasures. He speaks to us in our conscience. But he shouts in our pain. It is his megaphone to rouse a deaf world. And that is what God is doing right now. He is rousing the deaf world with this megaphone of the coronavirus. Secondly, God is judging humanity. I have to tell you, I was A little taken back and shocked when I discovered that every time the Bible refers to pestilence. It speaks of it as something that God has actively sent or done, not something that just happens for whatever reason And this, of course, as I mentioned earlier, is the way we tend to process this and to think about it. The fact is that God has not sent the coronavirus to one corner of the globe, but to every corner of the world. When I finished up this message last night, the coronavirus had gone, according to the site that I go to, to 149 countries. But by the time I got up here to preach, it's gone to 157, eight more countries today In case you're wondering, there's just a few short of 200 countries in the world, and by the end of the week, it will be in every country in the world. I think this is appropriate in a sense because the Bible says that we're all sinners. We're all guilty before God. And so it's not like it's just isolated to some corner that it only affects a certain type of person. It is no respecter persons. And I don't want you to misunderstand me. I'm not saying that those who contract coronavirus or those who die of coronavirus are obviously the worst of sinners. Remember, Jesus Warned against that kind of thinking when he said those famous words, except you repent, you will all likewise perish. I want us now, if we would, to turn to the book of Lamentations, which is kind of like an appendix. To the book of Jeremiah. Turn with me to a beautiful passage that was written in the context of judgment and disaster, Lamentations chapter 3. Jeremiah the prophet, known as the weeping prophets is ministering in Jerusalem as the Babylonians have come and burned the city and taken many people captive. There were many godly people who died, as well as many wicked. I want to begin reading At chapter 3 and verse 1, and I read this first section to let you know that when God sends broad judgment over a large portion of the world, or like in this case, the whole world, a pandemic. It does affect and afflicts the righteous as well. He says in chapter 3 and verse 1, I am the man that have seen affliction. By the rod of this wrath, he hath led me and brought me into darkness, but not into light. Surely against me is he turned He turneth his ank his hand against me all the day. My flesh and my skin hath he made oh, he hath broken my bones. He hath built it against me, encompassed me with gall and travail. He hath set me in dark places as they be dead of old. He hath hedged me about that I cannot get out. He hath made my chain heavy. Also when I cry and shout, he shutteth out my prayer. He hath enclosed my ways with hewn stone. He hath made my paths crooked. He was also unto me as a bear lying in wait, and as a lion in secret places. He hath turned aside my ways and pulled me in pieces. He hath made me desolate. He hath bent his bow and set me as a mark for the arrow. He hath caused the arrows of his quiver to enter into my reins. I was a derision to all my people and their song all the day. He hath filled me with bitterness. He hath made me drunken with wormwood. He hath also broken my teeth with gravel stones. He hath covered me with ashes, and thou hast removed my soul far off from peace. And I forgot prosperity This is poetic language. So much imagery here, speaking of misery and the sense of being under the judgment of God. I do believe that God is judging the world, and there is much for Him to judge the world for. And God is humbling the world. Look with me in verses 19 and 20 of Lamentations. 3. Remembering mine affliction and my misery, the wormwood and the gall, my soul hath them still in remembrance and is humbled. In me. Literally bow down to the dust. What a humbling thing it is to see how helpless we truly are as man advances in technology. He believes that he has outgrown God, that he no longer needs them, that he can harness the forceness of nature to serve himself. We can clone, we can genetically engineer, we can unite the world through the internet, we carry cell phones, which up until a few years ago seemed only possible in the world of science fiction. But we cannot tame the human heart. We cannot control the violence of man. We cannot control a tiny organism that can kill thousands and millions of people who are made in the image of God. How we are humbled. You think about how tiny the coronavirus is. And yet it can kill a human being. Fourthly, God is, I think, revealing the vanity of our lives. Many people have very empty routines. That have no meaning or significance. They get up, they go to work, they come home, they fill their minds with Empty entertainment, and they go to bed, and the next day they do it all over again. But God has taken us out of our routines. Out of our comfortable patterns. Millions are isolated from their jobs and schools. Many cannot enjoy the entertainment like sporting events and movie theaters because they have closed. God is demonstrating how empty our lives truly are. Indeed, all is vanity. We lose our sense of purpose and meaning in all of our distractions and routines. And so sometimes God comes graciously and turns our lives upside down. So that we begin to think about the meaning of our existence. God is also turning people to seek Him. We need to pray that God would turn the hearts of desperate people to seek Him. We had a prayer meeting four or five weeks ago. For the virus in Hunan, China. At that time it seemed like something that was on the other side of the world that was far removed from us. It seemed distant and it didn't seem like a very big menace to us, but now it's in our own community. We need to pray for the church in China. A church that has been growing. There are many different estimates about the size of the church in China and how you would define the church in China. But what I can say is there's far more believers today than there were several decades ago. The church has really grown, and it's our prayer that God would take this significant crisis that began in China and use it to grow the church so that people would seek answers and meaning to life. We think of The virus that's very rampant today in Iran. Pastor Nick has reminded me the last few weeks that the church, there's nowhere in the world where the church of Jesus Christ is growing more rapidly. than in Iran. Even before the coronavirus, there were many Muslims who were dissatisfied with what they saw in their false religion and they were seeking answers. And one of the ways that they're seeking answers is through the internet, where before they were they were walled off from ever doing any um investigation of what other belief systems teach. Now they have it at their fingertips to go and see what is it that Christians teach? What is the gospel? Who was this man Jesus Christ? And of course, as you know, the virus is very rampant in Iran, and we need to pray that God would work there. Perhaps the nation that is being hit the hardest right now is Italy. According to the statistics I looked at before I got up here to speak, 368 people died in Italy today. It is right now the most active spot in the world. What can you say about Italy? It has Of course, historic Roman Catholicism, Vatican City being right there. But yet most much of Italy is Catholic in name only. It's really a secular worldview where people have a sort of Catholic heritage, but in many cases they don't really believe these things. So there's a void in their hearts. Let's pray that God would help them to see there's got to be something more than empty Catholicism and dead secularism. There's nothing that answers the real needs of our hearts. It's growing, of course, in Spain and in France and in Germany. These nations are not far behind Italy. And I suspect that it's going to grow rapidly in our nation as well. We need to pray That as people reflect on their own mortality and come to the startling realization that they will not live forever and that someday they must answer to God that people would seek the Lord's. Probably never before in the history of the world have so many people at one time been frightened. Had their routines interrupted and giving serious thought to what life is really all about. Well then I want to conclude with this, that God is calling his people to trust in him. Christians must not respond to this virus with a spirit of fear, with a spirit of panic. If we believe that God is in control, that God is accomplishing his good purposes Yes, we need to be prudent and wise and careful so that we do not expose ourselves unnecessarily and jeopardize the life of others. That's why we've closed our services. Not because we're we're stricken with fear and with panic, but because we care for those who are vulnerable in our assembly who would come here who could very well catch it and perish. We don't want that to happen But God is calling us to trust in Him. The God who controls when a sparrow dies. The God who knows the number of the hairs on our head, knows the number of our days, and is in control of all of this, and we need to trust in Him just as Christians throughout the centuries, throughout the millennia have. I love this beautiful passage in Lamentations chapter 3. He writes, it's of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. Because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness The Lord is my portion, saith my soul. Therefore will I hope in him. The Lord is good unto them that wait for him, to the soul that seeketh him. It is good that a man should both hope and quietly wait for the salvation of the Lord. And this is what we must do. We must quietly hope and wait for God to deliver us from this crisis. God will accomplish his good purpose in our lives. A contemporary theologian says God is not like a firefighter who gets called to show up at calamities when the damage is already happening. No, he is more like a surgeon who plans the cutting he must do, and he plans it for good purposes. God has brought about the coronavirus in the world for good purposes, for purposes that will redound to his glory. And so we must not be afraid. But we must trust in him. Let's close in prayer. Father, I pray that you would help us to be assured by your word And what has been taught there for us to learn. Help us, Father, not to be those who panic and fear, but those who quietly hope and wait for you. to do your work. And I pray that you would give us opportunities in the days ahead to speak for you to those Father who are seeking answers. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.