So we are continuing in our study of 2 Thessalonians. It's great to be able to look into this book together and to study his word. Want to go over our memory verse? and the theme and then get into our lesson tonight. Try to utilize our time as efficiently as possible. So our memory verses for tonight are 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. Verses 1 through 2. Would you join me in standing while we say these two together? We'll say the verse, then or the reference in the verse, and then we'll repeat it again. 2 Thessalonians 2, 1 through 2. Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him. We ask you, brothers, not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or a letter seeming to be from us. To the effect that the day of the Lord has come. Second Thessalonians two one through two Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him, we ask you, brothers, not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed. either by a spirit or a spoken word or a letter seeming to be from us to the effect that the day of the Lord has come. The theme of our of our uh study of Second Thessalonians is be established in every good work and word as you wait for the return of Christ. And we are definitely going to be talking about the return of Christ and some of those uh aspects that are found in our passage of scripture this evening. But we talked about already that there are three chapters and three crises that are being developed or dealt with in each of the chapters. The first one, there is continuing persecution that the Thessalonian believers are facing Very severe persecution, you can imagine, if you were a a believer who had just come to know Christ and as a result you lost your job. And everywhere you went and you tried to get a job, if they found out that you were a follower of Christ, you would have no job, that you would have no job offer. And if your family would kick you out. And there would be no help from your family because you were a believer. And then there was governmental persecution. You can imagine. How difficult that would be. And the challenges that they would be facing. And the beginning to believe maybe we are in the day of the Lord, because these are such severe persecutions. Then in chapter 2, there's some prophetic correction because there has been teaching in one form or another that is false about the day of the Lord, saying that you are in the day of the Lord. The day of the Lord has already started. These trials that you're facing are an indication that you are in the day of the Lord. And Paul says That is not the case. You are not in the day of the Lord, and here's how you should know that. And then lastly in chapter 3, probably because they felt that either the day of the Lord was upon them or they were living right at the cusp of it. They began to some of the church members began to be lazy and to mooch off other church members. And so there's practical commands in response to the idleness that was happening there. But as we look into chapter 2, the verses that we just went over in verses 1 and 2 of chapter 2 says now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to Him. We ask you, brothers, not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or a letter seeming to be from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come. Let no one deceive you in any way, for that day will not come unless the rebellion comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction Who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called God or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God Do you not remember that when I was still with you, I told you these things? This is as far as we're going to make it tonight. But as we come into this passage of Scripture, we're obviously dealing with end times matters. We're talking about The tribulation. We're talking about the rapture. We're talking about the man of sin, the man of lawlessness, the Antichrist. We're talking about the rebellion or the apostasy. And there are probably more trees that have been killed over these topics than than any other biblical topic probably out there. And I don't know that it's been to the clarification of the issues that are involved. There are many, many books that you can read that take a variety of different opinions about end times events, about eschatology. And one of the key elements is that that we need to hold our opinions With a great deal of humility and graciousness. The reality is that there are good Christian men and women who hold differing opinions. on end times events. And able students of the Word of God disagree on these these areas. So when we do come to these passages of scripture, I believe in the pre-tribulational, premillennial rapture of Christ. I am a premillennialist. I am a pre-tribulationalist. I teach from that perspective, but I also need to hold my opinions with grace and humility. That is the reality because there are very able scholars who disagree. And it seems like there are able scholars on every side of these issues, which makes it even more challenging. So when we do, we also need to study God's word carefully to know what you believe. These things were written so that we would believe, so that we would have understanding. And so we need to come to it prayerfully, humbly. But also confidently because God desires us to understand these things. And when we have a disagreement with brothers and sisters in Christ, we need to celebrate the fact that they love the Lord and they love his word. And these disagreements are not Primary doctrinal issues. We're not talking about the Trinity. We're not talking about salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. These are important matters. But they're not primary matters like those that I just mentioned. So we need to come with humility, with grace, with eagerness, though, because these things were written for our understanding. Paul wrote these things to the Thessalonians. so that they would understand. John wrote the book of Revelation, so that we would know and understand. Jesus spoke in Matthew 24 so that we would know and understand. Daniel had the prophecies given to him so that we would have understanding. So we do need to come with an eagerness and an expectation, but also with a great deal of humility. When Paul writes here in verse 3, we have this command: let no one deceive you in any way. The fact is that this the point here in this passage is one of comfort, but he's commanding them not to be deceived. The reality is that we must be on guard because there are many deceivers. This is the only command in this section until we get to verse 15. All the rest is information, but not a command. And here we are given this command. Let no one deceive you. Be on guard that you don't be deceived. There's really a double negative in this phrase, which has the idea of don't let anyone deceive you by any means whatsoever. Do not be deceived. It's important that you know these things. And the fact is that there are many people in the world who are actively seeking to deceive Christians. Many of them come with Christian vocabulary. They may even come with Christian titles, but are willfully dishonest and seeking to deceive. And we were told that this is going to be the case. We can think of examples like this Kent Hovind, who uh says that we are currently living through the seven-year tribulation, which should come to an end in 2030-ish, he says. Well, this is exactly what Paul is saying. Do we see these things that make us know that we are in the tribulation or not? Something like this is false teaching. It should be disregarded as false teaching. Or we have uh Harold Camping who said that Jesus was coming again May twenty-first, twenty eleven, judgment day. Somehow we made it through. And Over a decade has gone by, this is the this is the billboard that came up later. That was awkward. Because it didn't happen No one knows the day or the hour. I kind of like that response to it. You should have known better because that is not true. We are told not to be deceived. Jesus even said this. We're ahead of ourselves, I'm sorry. In Matthew 24, Jesus answered and said to them, See to it that no one misleads you. For many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and they will mislead many people. And then he says in verse 11, many false prophets will rise up and mislead many people. So we need to be on guard against being misled. Even in 2 Corinthians, Paul says, even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. So it is no surprise if his servants also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness, and that their end will correspond to their deeds. So we shouldn't be surprised that there is a lot of deception. There are people that are actively, intentionally seeking to deceive. There are others who are who are wrong, but are intending, not intending to deceive. But we must be on guard because there are many deceivers and there are also many deceptions. He says, do not be deceived in any way. It reminds us that we need to be wary of a number of devices of deception that Satan uses to lead us away from the truths of Scripture. We don't know what who promoted the false teaching or who was involved in this promotion in this passage of scripture. But it seems like there was a potential of many other deceptions that were involved. Satan doesn't only deceive us about eschatology. He also deceives us about a number of false teachings. So we need to be careful students of the Word of God in a whole host of areas. Today there's false teaching that's impacting the church in regards to child rearing. with the the idea of gentle parenting or impacting the the doctrine of hell with the idea of annihilationism or impacting the the idea of the omniscience of God with open theism. These are areas where Satan comes in and he deceives. Some are major first-level doctrines, some are much lower doctrines, but we are not to be deceived by anyone in any way. And we are to be careful students of the word and to guard against deception of any kind. The reality is there are deceivers on all levels, dealing with all levels of doctrine within the church. So one of the ways we do this is we need to be on guard by studying and obeying the Word of God. Truth is our antidote. What do we use to guard against deception? We know the Word of God. We understand it. We carefully study it. That's why. Paul said in 2 Timothy chapter 3, he was telling Timothy about evil impostors that will grow worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. And then he says, but you, Timothy, from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings. which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. Timothy, there are evil deceivers which are growing worse and worse. Who are deceived and being deceived, deceiving and being deceived. What should you do, Timothy? You remember the scriptures that you were taught from childhood. Study them. Then he says in verse 16, all scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, equipped. For every good work. There are false teachers that are deceiving and being deceived. Know the word. Study the word. Apply the word of God to your life. The reality is that false teaching and ungodliness, false teaching and sin go hand in hand. And Paul speaks to Timothy about this as well in just one chapter earlier in 2 Timothy. He says, do your best to present yourself to God as one approved, a worker who has no need to be ashamed, rightly handling the word of truth. But avoid irreverent babble, for it will lead people into more and more ungodliness, and their talk will spread like gangrene. Among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus, who have swerved from the truth, saying, and here's interesting, interesting reality, it has to do with what we're just talking about here, saying that the resurrection has already happened. They are upsetting the faith of some. So we have Hymenaeus and Philadelphia who are saying the resurrection has happened. Essentially, we are in the day of the Lord. And he's upsetting the they're upsetting the faith of some. He says, Timothy, know the word of truth. Because if you get doctrine wrong, it will lead to more and more ungodliness. So it is very important for us to know the Word of God so that we can defend against false doctrine and ungodliness. So he says, don't be deceived. Essentially he's saying here, don't be deceived. This is not the day of the Lord, or this is not the tribulation. And the first reason he says here is because the rebellion has not happened. The rebellion happens, and then there's a period of time, and then the day of the Lord comes, but that the rebellion, whatever the rebellion is, coincides with or begins the day of the Lord. That this is what precipitates the day of the Lord. So the question is, what is the rebellion? When you read that, you're like, what is the rebellion? I mean 1776, when we rebelled against Britain, is that what it's referring to? What is the rebellion that is being described here? Well, the word rebellion is the Greek word apostasia. I don't usually use a lot of Greek words when we're we're going through these passages of scripture, but we get our English word, I'm sure you could tell it, apostasy from. Apostasia, apostasy. Apostasy is is essentially just a transliteration of this Greek word. But the word simply means a departure. It is a departure. It can refer to a defection. It can refer to a deliberate abandonment of a formally held belief or an opinion. It can also mean a departing away physically. The only other place we have this in the New Testament to kind of give us a reference point. is in Acts twenty one, twenty one. When Paul is returning to Jerusalem, after he's done the missionary journeys And before he is taken to Rome, he comes and he speaks with the apostles and he speaks with James. And James says, they have been told about you. Meaning the gent the Jewish believers there and the the the Judaizers, I'm sorry, have been told about you that you teach all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to Forsake apostasia to depart from Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children. or walk according to our customs. So they're saying, they've been told about you. They know what you're teaching. They've been told that you're saying, ignore Moses, leave Moses, forget the books of Moses. And don't follow those teachings. And so they give some instruction to them. So we see here that this is referring to a doctrinal departure. It is a spiritual departure or religious departure. This word is also found in the Greek translation of the Old Testament, and every time it's found, it refers either to a spiritual departure. Or a re or a political departure, like a rebellion. Someone is rebelling against the government. But what is interesting here is he says, Let no one deceive you in any way, for that day will not come unless The rebellion. There's a definite article. It's not a rebellion. It's the rebellion. The apostasy or the rebellion or the departure happens first. So it's it's something very specific It's something very obvious. It's not just a rebellion or a departure. It's something that should be clearly identifiable. Or Paul wouldn't have said, you know that this can't be the day of the Lord because this hasn't happened yet. It's something that they should be able to go, oh yes, I see that. Therefore, I know that we're not in the day of the Lord. That's the point of his argument. It's something that's identifiable. So what is this rebellion? There are four main views of what the rebellion is. The first view is that the rebellion is intricately connected with the very next thing he says. Notice what he says here. Unless the rebellion comes first and the man of lawlessness is revealed. So this rebel rebellion is connected with The revealing of the man of lawlessness. Just real quickly, the man of lawlessness is the Antichrist. So this rebellion is connected with the revealing of the Antichrist. That's the one view. And this idea is that there's a global rebellion that the Antichrist or the man of lawlessness leads. Second view is that a falling away or the departure from the truth, either by professing Christians, by the church in general, rejecting historic Christian faith, or some people see as the Jews turning away from God. Those who hold this view say that this falling away from the faith may already be taking place. There are people who say this falling away may have already happened when the mainline Protestant denominations you know, turned away from the truth, maybe that's the falling away and we're we're waiting to see the revealing of the man of lawlessness. In my opinion, that would make Paul's words here almost meaningless. You should know that you're not in the tribulation because this hasn't happened. But it could have happened a long time ago and you would have no have no idea. So to me, that idea doesn't seem to be very strong. Another third idea is that it's an act of rebellion against God and the accompanying growth of ungodliness in the world at large, but separate from, distinct from. The revealing of the Antichrist. That's a possible one. And the fourth one is that the physical departure of the church in the rapture that is referring to the rapture event. This is a minority opinion. Those who hold this position would say that the departure being referred to here is not A rebellion, it is not an apostasy, but is actually a physical departure out of the world. They say that this is the case because the context lends itself to this understanding. If you're following through, you could see how this would make sense. If you take a pre-tribulational rapture position, he's saying now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him, which Pretty much all scholars agree is that's referring to the rapture. We ask you, brothers, not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word. or a letter seeming to be from us to the effect that the day of the Lord has come. Let no one deceive you in any way, for that day will not come unless the Departure, the rapture comes first. Oh, that actually contextually could make a lot of sense So that's that's one view. And they would go down to continuing on down in the passage where he talks about the restrainer being removed so that the Antichrist can be revealed. We'll look at that next week. The restrainer obviously is a divine being. We'll talk about that next week. They say when the church is taken out of the way, this restrainer is taken out of the way, namely the Holy Spirit taken out of the way, and therefore the restraining is over. Secondly, they point out that the verb form of this word frequently refers to physical departure. This argument, honestly though, isn't it's a decent argument, but it's not a strong argument because verb forms and noun forms can have very different meanings. And so it's not always a great argument to make. Thirdly, they point out that the the word this from this word is translated from the fourth century on in the Latin and in the English up until the 16th century as simply the idea of departure, whether physical or doctrinal is not clarified. It's just departure. And then the last one, or I missed, I'm sorry, I missed the third one, that in the fourth century there's actually a document known as I think I have this in. Yeah, the assumption of the Virgin. We don't just to clarify, we don't believe in the bodily assumption of the Virgin Mary. This is a historical document from the fourth century that uses this word in the exact same way as a rapture. And this is a description of what is described as Mary and the apostles in Bethlehem being raptured up in a cloud and taken to Jerusalem. And they said the Holy Spirit told them they're going to do this, and the Holy Spirit does this. He takes them in a cloud over to Jerusalem. Again, we're not saying this is a historical event. We're saying this is how the word was used in the fourth century. And then it says here, if you look at the last Sentence. But when the captain came to Bethlehem and did bad typing, did not find there the mother of the Lord nor the apostles, he laid hold upon the Bethlehemites, for the captain did not know of the departure. The apostasia of the apostles and the mother of the Lord to Jerusalem. And so this exact word is used to describe a rapture event, you might say. So it is a possible understanding. If this is true, it's kind of open and closed that this is a pre-tribulational rapture that is being described without any debate, and the debate ends right there. All that being said, most Bible students do not think that the rapture is being referred to here, that the word apostasia, the word that's translated in our English as rebellion. Does not mean rapture, does not mean a physical departure. There are some who hold that position. I am intrigued by it, but I'm not convinced by it yet. I'm still considering it, and I'm like, hmm, interesting. So if it's not the rapture, which one is it? I think personally the first option is the best option. That the rebellion being described here is intricately connected with the revealing of the man of lawlessness, the Antichrist, when he leads an open rebellion against God. Part of the reason I think that is because religious apostasy has always been around. From the very beginning of the church, there have been apostate churches. We find this even in Revelation chapter 3 when the Church of Laodicea. It's a first-century apostate church And it is true that apostasy will increase greatly in the latter days. And there are several verses that that indicate this. But there is just such an indefinite nature of apostasy to say the apostasy So it makes more sense to me to say it's about rebellion. But we do see this reality. For example, in 1 Timothy 4, Paul says, Now the Spirit expressly says that in the latter times some will depart from the faith. By devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and teachings of demons, through the insincerity of liars whose consciences are seared, who forbid marriage and require abstinence from foods that God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth. And so Paul says the Holy Spirit had expressly warned that in the latter days this reality of people departing from the faith into false teaching would take place. Some of those things that you we see described there, forbidding to marry and requiring abstinence from foods, we actually see happening in the fifth and sixth and seventh and eighth and ninth centuries within the church. And so it's not clear that this is referring to the very end times. The fact is, however, that religious apostasy has taken place from early days in Christianity We have the Roman Catholics defecting from the faith, the Orthodox defecting from the pure gospel. We have the mainline Protestant denominations leaving the truth of the gospel due to the influence of modernism. So it seems best to me that this is referring to a rebellion that is led by the man of lawlessness, that is led by the Antichrist, is a rebellion of the creature against the creator. It will be a worldwide rebellion that will be empowered by the activity of Satan with all the power of false signs and wonders, he says there. This is a rebellion that has demonic, deceptive power. Miracles will happen through the Antichrist to deceive people and to lead them astray. And he says that with all wicked deception for those who are perishing, because they refuse to love the truth and so be saved. So Satan is going to empower the Antichrist. He's going to allow him to do miracles. And in that way, he's going to deceive people and lead a worldwide rebellion. So the first thing is don't be deceived. You're not in the tribulation. You're not in the day of the Lord. Because, first of all, the rebellion has not taken place. And it's a definitive thing that should be obvious to all who see it. Secondly, don't be deceived. This can't be the tribulation because the man of lawlessness has not been revealed. And as I said, I believe those two things are intricately connected, the rebellion and the revelation of the man of lawlessness. So who is this man of lawlessness? Everyone wants to know. And tonight, no just kidding, you're not going to find out. Down through the ages, people have tried to identify this individual with current historical characters. It's been Caligula. It's been the Em Emperor Domitian or Nero. I've heard people in recent days say it was Nero, though it doesn't work itself out very well. The reformers identified it with the popes And they said that the popes were the Antichrist. More recently, some thought that Hitler or Stalin Were the Antichrist? If you remember not too long ago, people said Henry Kissinger was the Antichrist. And if you take his n the letters of his name and you numerize them and it becomes 666, and it was Henry Kissinger. And now that he's off the scene, I don't know who the newest guy is. But we do find out he is described here as the man of lawlessness. This identifies him, first of all, as a man. He is an individual. He is not Satan. Although he is satanically empowered, he is not Satan. He is a man. He is a human being. Who is satanically empowered. So that also kind of seems to take away the idea of this is the popes, or it is the papal system. It refers to an individual who is so characterized by lawlessness that this is his designation. This seems to indicate that he will set himself up not only or even primarily against man's laws, but against God 's laws. He is against the authority of God God is his enemy, and he is actively opposed to God. And he he says here That who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called God or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God. So we see here in verse 4 that he opposes or exalts himself against every so-called God. This may mean that I believe it re refers to the fact that he eliminates other religious systems. He has his own religious system. He eliminates other religious systems. Specifically what's being described here is items of worship. Idols. Other things that are being worshipped by men. Perhaps this allows him to say, okay, to the Jews, you can build your temple, I can have this peace treaty, because there's no idols that are there, and I will allow that to take place. And then ultimately he comes in and says I am God, and you will worship me. Daniel 7 speaks of this individual, and he calls him the little horn. As I considered the horns, and behold there came up among them another horn, a little one, before which three of the first horns were plucked up by the roots. And behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of a man, and a mouth speaking great things. So we have him, he's a human being. He is a political leader. He is described as being a part of a ten Kingdom, ten nation confederacy, somehow he comes up and he dethrones three of those kings and takes the place of them. If we continue on in Daniel 7, he says, As for the ten horns, out of this kingdom ten kings shall arise, and another shall arise after them. He shall be different from the former ones. And shall put down three kings. He shall speak words against the Most High, and shall wear out the saints of the Most High, and shall think to change the times and the laws, and they shall be given into his hand Here it is, for a time, times, and a half a time. We saw this last week as we were looking at the idea of a time, times, and a half a time, or three and a half years equaling 42 months. Remember we looked at that? 1,260 days, those those three designations are equal realities. So he is described as the man of lawlessness. He is opposed to God and God's laws, and he speaks arrogant words against the Most High. So that is his nature, his character. He's also called the son of destruction. And this is a Hebraism, which simply means that he is so identified with destruction So associated with destruction that it is as if he is the offspring of destruction. His end is destruction No matter how exalted he may become, the ultimate end of this man of lawlessness, the Antichrist, is destruction. This phrase is used in the New Testament of only one other person. Do you think who it is? I heard it. Someone said Judas? Judas Iscariot. Yes, he's called the same thing, the son of destruction. Because his end is destruction. He's so identified with destruction. In John 17, 12 He says, While I was with them, I kept them in your name, which you have given me. I have guarded them, and not one of them has been lost except the Son of Destruction, that the scripture might be fulfilled. There are people that say, Oh, I think Judas is going to be resurrected and he'll be the new Antichrist. Nonsense. The idea here is that Judas is so identified with destruction that he can be called the Son of Destruction, and the Antichrist is so identified with destruction that he also can be called the Son of Destruction. This description of this destruction is also found in Daniel 9. I think we we saw this last week when we were looking at Daniel 9, 24 through 27, talking about how he will make a strong covenant with many for one week. And for half of the week he shall put an end to sacrifice and offering, and on the wing of abominations shall come one who makes desolate He's going to do such abominations as we'll see in the temple, that he will make the temple desolate until the decreed end is poured out on the desolator, the end of destruction that will be poured out on him because of what he has done. Revelation 19, we're told that he is cast alive. He doesn't pass through death, he is cast alive into the lake of fire, along with the false prophet. Because his end is destruction. So when is the man of lawlessness revealed? He says, you are not in the day of the Lord, because the rebellion will come, and the man of lawlessness will be revealed. Well, when will he be revealed? We are told that the day of the Lord is preceded by the revelation, or in tandem with the revelation of the man of lawlessness. So, in what way is he revealed? If you keep reading in verse 4, describes his blasphemous activities that culminate in the ultimate blasphemy. When he takes his seat in the temple of God. Daniel 9, 27, we just saw here, describes that. That at the midpoint of the final week, that seven-year tribulation, he makes desolate. He puts an end to sacrifice in offerings in the temple, and he makes desolate because he himself sets himself up as God, as he says here. He says, who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called God or object of worship. so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God. It will be clear at that point, abundantly clear who the Antichrist is. There will be no I wonderings. But I don't think that's what he's referring to when he says the man of sin or the man of lawlessness being revealed. I think it actually is something that takes place earlier. Three and a half years earlier, when he makes a strong covenant with the many for one week, when he when he begins with this peace treaty with the nation of Israel. Is that that this The most logical thing for me as I think about it is that this revelation of the man of lawlessness, this the signing of this seven-year treaty with Israel, will be the clearly identifiable event That precipitates the beginning of the day of the Lord. There's this rebellion that is led by the man of lawlessness. It involves a signing of a peace treaty with the nation of Israel, and that is the revealing. He is clearly revealed at the halfway point, but I think that's that's a the idea of what Paul is describing it. The challenge we have is that we're we're listening to a phone conversation. Paul has already given them significant instruction. Personally, he has taught them a great deal. And there's things that we're going to find out even next week where he says, you know, and and then he doesn't tell them the rest of what it is. And we're like, I would like to know that actually. You know what is restraining him, like, no, I don't know what's restraining him. I would like to know what is restraining him But Paul in person had told them what was restraining them. So he's reminding them. So we're listening to a conversation. He's kind of reminding them of things that that have had that have taken place. So we are trying to piece together some of these realities as we listen to this half of the phone conversation, you might say. But the question comes up as well is, what is meant by the temple of God? It's at the midpoint of this seven-year peace treaty that a blasphemous event takes place in the temple of God. Where he sets himself up as God, he declares himself to be God in the temple of God. What is the temple of God then? What is this temple that's being described here? Some, like G. K. Beale, say that the temple refers to the church. You may hold this opinion. The Antichrist would then be seen as taking his seat in the church Leading it into false worship and idolatry. And one of the reasons that G. K. Veal and others take this opinion is because the majority, in fact, all the other times that Paul talks about the temple in the New Testament, he talks about the temple in reference to The body of believers or the physical body of believers, like in 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 16. Do you not know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you? Or in 2 Corinthians chapter 6, what agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will make my dwelling among them and walk among them, and I will be their God. And they shall be my people. And so G. K. Beale and others hold to the belief that the temple that is being referred to is actually the church, and that the Antichrist leads this rebellion. In the church, and he declares himself to be God, and believers follow him. Personally, I don't think that's a very consistent interpretation. I think there's significant flaws with it. Um, first of all, it probably would not be very comforting to the Thessalonian believers to be told, you should have known that you would be following the Antichrist. and worshiping him, that's how you would know that this is the the uh the you're in the middle of the the the day of the Lord. It just wouldn't make a whole lot of sense. But it's This is, if you think about it, it's most consistent with what the words that Paul uses here. Nowhere else does Paul use this phrase which he describes here in 2 Thessalonians, which is the temple of the God. And each of these examples and all the other examples that Paul uses of the word temple, he never says the temple of the God. Indicating a very definitive thing. Also, that a physical temple is being referred to, I think, is the clearest understanding of the words of Jesus in Matthew 24. It says, so when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel, standing in the holy place. That's the word for the holy of holies. Let the reader understand. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. And he says, when you see this event, those who are in Judea. Who would be in the area of the temple, flee to the mountains. Get out, flee to the mountains. And he uses the term for the holy of holies. Also that a physical temple is being referred to, I think, is understood by the prophecy of Daniel 9. 27, which We just read that just a moment ago. And Daniel had been asking and praying about Jerusalem and his people. And he says, This prophecy contains pertains to your people and your holy city, Daniel. And then he gives him this prophecy. Also, I think it's it's how the early church understood it Even after the temple in Jerusalem was destroyed, early church fathers generally understood this as referring to a physical rebuilt temple. An example of that, well I'm gonna skip that for time's sake, is Irenaeus in his book Against Heresies. Irenaeus in his book against Heresies, he says, But when this Antichrist shall have devastated all things in this world, he will reign for three years and six months. And sit in the temple at Jerusalem. And then the Lord will come from heaven in the clouds, in the glory of the Father, sending this man and those who follow him into the lake of fire, but bringing in for the righteous the times of the kingdom, that is the rest. the hallowed seventh day, and restoring to Abraham the promised inheritance, in which the kingdom of the Lord declared that many coming from the east and from the west should sit down with Abraham Isaac and Jacob. Now what's significant about this is that Irenaeus was the spiritual grandson of the Apostle John Polycarp was discipled by John, and Polycarp discipled Irenaeus. This is very early on in the Christian church. But it's after the temple in Jerusalem was destroyed. And so Irenaeus says, this is going to happen. This is what we believe and teach. And so that to me makes the most sense as we're coming through here that we're talking about a physical, literal. Rebuilt temple in the land of Jerusalem in which the Antichrist will establish himself and declare himself to be God. He will put an end to sacrifices And offerings, and he will demand worship. And that begins the great tribulation when great terror happens for the last three and a half years. And the fact is, here in verse 5, Paul kind of punctuates his teaching with a mild rebuke. He says, do you not remember that when I was still with you, I told you these things? He's saying, come on, guys, why are you so quickly shaken? Why are you so afraid? Why have you been moved out of the foundation that what I taught you? Don't you remember what I taught you? What's significant to me about this is that Paul was only in Thessalonica for probably no more than six months. Some people say less than a month, but I think six months is a good time frame. No more than six months. And so a baby church with baby Christians, some saved out of idolatry, and he's teaching them About the Antichrist. He's teaching them about the tribulation. He's teaching them about the rapture. He's teaching them about the rebellion that'll take place. He's teaching them about eschatology. Significant eschatology. Those who say you shouldn't teach eschatology because it's too divisive. I think we are at odds with what the Bible does and how Paul dealt with young Christians. It doesn't mean that we should be ugly about what we believe. We should be humble and diligent to study and to know , but we do know that God has revealed these things for us to understand. And they are good and helpful for us. So my time is out. I just want to give a couple points of application. There's a lot of information we looked at tonight. I just want to give a couple points of application. Firstly, don't be easily shaken by fear or hype about end-time events It is very easily to be to be shaken by hype these days. Know the word of God so you are not shaken by conspiracies. That you are not shaken by fear-mongering and fear-inducing false teaching that is rampant all over the internet. Know the Word of God, study the Word of God, make this a focus of your understanding. Secondly, Test every message. This is what he said in 1 Thessalonians. Test every spirit. Deception is part of the spiritual landscape that we live in. Deception. By the deceiver is part of the world that we live in. Be wary of viral theology. Be wary of new revelation. Look at the fruit of the life of the teacher. Jesus said, you will know them by their fruit. That's why it's so important to not get all your instruction from the internet because you really don't know those people. You really can't examine their lives. You can't tell if their life is consistent with the message that they're teaching. That's why he gives us a body to be a part of. And then lastly, focus on faithfulness, not speculation. Don't ask when will it happen? Rather, how should I live now as I wait for Christ's return? How should I live now as I wait for Christ's return? And in line with this, I want to ask, Jesus is coming again. He is, we saw last week, the precision of the prophecies about his first coming down to the very day Jesus is coming again. The Word of God is a reliable authority. He came the first time just as he said. He's coming the second time just as he said. Are you ready? Have you put your faith and trust in Christ? Have you acknowledged your sin and repented and trusted in Him? If not, You need to do so because he could come at any moment. His word is true, and you ought to be prepared for his imminent return. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for these promises. Thank you for this instruction that we have in this letter. Lord, give us discerning hearts. Help us to understand things that are challenging and confusing. But Lord, I pray that you would stabilize our hearts through them, that we would not be shaken, that we would not be fearful. But that we would be full of faith and that we would live faithful lives for the glory of Christ as we wait for his return. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.