Just by way of reminder, the layout of 2 Thessalonians is pretty simple, three chapters, three main points. We have chapter one, pastoral comfort in the face of persecution. And he's he's really trying to just strengthen them with the the confidence that there is a great reversal coming and to continue faithful in light of that reality. In the second chapter, it's a prophetic correction. in light of false prophecy. But it really still has this very pastoral tone, the message of comfort that comes as he corrects false teaching that has come into the church. And then chapter 3, practical commands in response to idleness. And the theme is to be established in every good work and word as you wait for the return. of Christ. So we need to be established in this as we think of the return of Christ and be prepared for that. So I want to just look at the first two verses and then go into chapter 9 of Daniel. And hopefully that'll make sense as we do this. There really is a pastoral purpose in this chapter. There is a a desire to steer them through a issue of false teaching that's that's impacting their church, but to do so with a with the purpose of comfort. And he begins to change the subject in chapter 2 with the words now concerning. And this idea is that we're going to address something different, slightly different. He had just been talking about the ultimate role reversal. That will take place at the return of Christ, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. And so this has been what he's been talking about. And now he shifts the discussion to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him. Bible students are generally agreed that what Paul is referring to in this first verse when he says the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him is not two different things. It's one thing. The coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him. It's a singular event. The grammar of it demands it. It's a It's two nouns governed by a singular article. So in Greek that that demands that we're talking about a single event The next question, though, is what event, what singular event is being described? And again, the commentators and Bible students are pretty largely in agreement that this is a reference to the rapture. It's the rapture that's mentioned in 1 Thessalonians 4, where Paul tells the Thessalonians, for the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command. with the voice of an archangel and with the sound of the trumpet of God and the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive, who are left will be caught up together. with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. This reality of being caught up to meet the Lord in the air. This is what is being described here when he says that The coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together, being caught up together to meet the Lord in the air. This is what Jesus speaks about in John 14. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you that I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am, there you may be also. So Commentators, Bible students are pretty agreed. This is a singular event, and it's talking about the rapture. They're not always agreed on the timing of the rapture. They they pretty much agree, this is the rapture, this is what is being described here But the disagreement about the timing of the rapture comes into play. And I've mentioned in the past that we teach from a pre-tribulational rapture position, and you don't necessarily have to agree with us. To worship here and to be a part of our church, but that's the position that we teach from, just so that you are aware of that. But he's describing here this reality that as they are facing affliction and persecution, there was a belief that maybe this was an indication. That the day of the Lord had already happened. They were already in the day of the Lord. And you see that in verse 2. He says, not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed either by spirit or spoken word or a letter seeming to be from us to the effect that the day of the Lord has come. And throughout church history, when times of intense persecution has arisen, there have been some Christians who have questioned and have felt perhaps this current persecution is Actually, the day of the Lord. Maybe we are in the tribulation period. Maybe we we somehow misunderstood our eschatology and we are actually living in the day of the Lord. During World War II, there were some who felt the intensity of the conflict and the intensity of the evil that was taking place during World War II was actually an indication that the tribulation was upon them. And they wrote to that effect. So it's not really surprising as the Thessalonians are dealing with intense persecution that they are also beginning to wonder, could this be Actually, the day of the Lord. Could this be that we are living in the tribulation? Could this be what Paul told us would come? And this was exacerbated by an issue that we see here in verse 2, a demonic deception. And he urges them not to be quickly shaken in mind or to be alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word. or a letter. And again, Satan is the father of lies. And he loves to mingle truth with error so that he can deceive people and get them away from the foundation of truth. And this is this is nothing new. It's not a New Testament reality. It's a from the beginning of time. Satan does this. We see this even in the Old Testament, Old Testament prophets claiming to be speaking for the Lord. claiming the name of Yahweh and mingling sometimes outright lies, other times mingling truth with error. We see in in Jeremiah chapter 6. Where these false prophets, he says, From for from the least to the greatest of them, everyone is greedy for unjust gain. And from prophet to priest, everyone deals falsely. They have healed the wound of my people lightly. Saying, peace, peace, when there is no peace. Jeremiah, of course, is dealing with the upcoming Babylonian captivity, and the prophets and the spiritual leaders are saying, No, Jerusalem is the city of God. The temple of God is in Jerusalem. There will be peace. It cannot be overrun. Is it true that Jerusalem is a city of God? Yes. Is it true that the temple was there? Yes. Was it true that they would not be overrun and not taken into captivity? No. And he said this was this was a lie The same thing happened here in the Thessalonian church. He describes that it may have come in a multiple of ways. One, a spirit. Most likely it refers to some demonically inspired false prophecy. We see that in the Old Testament as well, where there's demonically inspired. Some people do it of their own accord for profit, but other people do it demonically inspired. And he actually spoke about this in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verses 20 and 21, when he said, do not despise prophecies, but test everything. Don't just receive. Test everything by the Word of God. Then secondly he talks about a spoken word, and it seems to refer to a teaching or preaching context. That does not purport to be divine revelation. For example, like when when I stand up here, I can teach something that I'm not saying it's divine revelation, but I can teach you false doctrine and lead you astray. If I am not being faithful to the Word of God. Or he says, a letter seeming to be from us. And this refers to a forged letter allegedly coming from the Apostle Paul or from his missionary team And again, very early on in the history of the church, we see examples of this with documents like the Gospel of Thomas. And you hear about that today, which claims to be written by Thomas the Apostle, but was written after his death. And so obviously could not be Thomas the Apostle. These are realities, or the Gospel of Barnabas, which is written hundreds of years after his death. This reality is not new. It goes back to the very beginning of the church. Remember, this is one of the earliest letters that we have in the New Testament. And already they are dealing with forged documents. And he's telling them, you know the truth. And you can discern truth from error. And even as we come to the very end of this book, he says, see how I sign with large letters. This is the way I do in all of my my documents. So this is my my stamp of approval to help you discern what is genuine and what is not. But the content of this demonic deception was to deceive these young Christians into believing that the day of the Lord. has come. Not that the day of the Lord was already over, but that they were living in the day of the Lord. They were in these persecutions, these afflictions that they were facing were the direct reality of them living in the day of the Lord. And this is one of those passages that help us understand that the day of the Lord is not a 24-hour period. It is not a singular day event. It is a period of time. And the reality of this is that the condition of the believers was dangerous. It was disturbing them. Was Paul wrong? Were they destined to wrath after all? Did Paul get it wrong the first time? And it says here they were quickly shaken. The idea is that they've been suddenly moved from their foundation to a new condition. The idea of this word has the idea of to waver or to totter, it's used to describe the waves of the sea. And they're shaken in their minds. Is this an indication that Paul misled us or was mistaken? And this is why the Apostle Paul tells us to be grounded and mature so that we aren't easily deceived. In Ephesians 4, he says one of the purposes of pastors and teachers in the church is to make sure the people are grounded, they are mature, so they can't be easily shaken. So that we may no longer be children tossed to and fro by the waves. and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness in deceitful schemes. And what is he saying? There are people that are fully intending to deceive. When you go on YouTube, you will find a lot of people that their intention is to deceive. They're making money off of deception You go on TikTok or whatever it is, there are people that proclaim to be teachers of the Word of God that their goal is to deceive. And we need to be Careful not to be quickly shaken from the truth by false doctrine. And then the next word he describes is being alarmed. And the word here it means to cry aloud. It's used three times in the New Testament. Each of the times it's used, it's used in reference to the tribulation. It's used referring to the time of the tribulation when you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. And Jesus says, see that you are not alarmed, that you don't cry aloud. When you come to this passage, it's actually one of the indicators that Paul taught them about a pre-tribulational rapture. When you think through the logic of this passage, if they'd been told that the rapture would happen after the tribulation, it's very difficult to understand why they were so disturbed, why they were so alarmed. To me, if they were told that they are they were already told they had to expect to live through the day of the Lord to see the coming of the day of Christ. Then they'd be like, hey, it's here and it's getting closer. Paul told them to be living expectantly, to live in anticipation of it. And so if they're already told that that was the reality, Then you'd expect them to say, hey, this is great. It's getting even closer. We were told to expect this. But if they were told they were going to miss the day of the Lord, and now suddenly they are in the day of the Lord. That would actually make sense as to why they were quickly shaken, why they were alarmed at what was taking place The tribulation was a fearful thing. And now they were not being comforted by the reality that they were not destined for wrath And it caused them panic. So the purpose of Paul in this, as he's writing the second chapter, is pastoral. He's trying to comfort them, he's trying to reassure them and bring them back down to truth. And he says at the end of this chapter in verses 13 and 14, in fact, he says But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the first fruits to be saved through sanctification. And then in verses 16 and 17 he says, Now may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God our Father who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace. Comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word. He said, I want you to be established. I want you to be comforted. I want you to be encouraged. with this reality. And that's the same word that he uses at the end of chapter 4 of 1 Thessalonians, and the same word he uses in chapter 5 in verse 11 when he says, comfort one another with these things. with these truths about the rapture. For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. So as we come into this chapter, we're going to find things about the day of the Lord. We're going to find discussions about the Antichrist. We're going to find some discussions about the abomination of desolations. We're going to find some things that that There's almost an assumption. Because remember, Paul is writing to them and they've already had this conversation. He's already taught them. And he's not re-s not starting from ground zero. He is reminding them of certain truths. And it's good for us to be able to go back and say, where did they learn these things from? What is the foundation of the things that the Apostle Paul had already taught them? When we talked about the day of the Lord in 1 Thessalonians, I said there that the day of the Lord is events where God in wrath breaks through in history. To judge and restore. And I mentioned the tribulation in its entirety can be described as the day of the Lord, as well as the second coming of Christ, as the culmination of that. The day of the Lord can be seen as an event or a series of events. We see it also describing the end, post-millennial event. Where the earth melts in 2 Peter chapter 3. And there's a new heaven and a new earth. So the day of the Lord is more than just one thing, but it is a term used to describe the tribulation. And I want us to go back to Daniel chapter 9. So if you have your Bibles, go back to Daniel chapter 9. We're going to be spending our time, the rest of the time this evening in Daniel chapter 9. And if you have a New American Standard, or if you have NIV or a King James, you're actually going to have a better translation than the ESV in this passage of Scripture. But it will make do with what we have. James Montgomery Boyce described this passage here in Daniel chapter 9 as the backbone prophecy. The backbone prophecy, meaning that all other prophecies connect to this one. That if you want to understand the other prophecies of the New Testament and of the Old Testament, it's essential to know Daniel chapter 9. Verses 24 and following. Now, what's going on in Daniel is Daniel is praying for his people. We read in chapter 9, verse 1. It says in the first year of Darius, the son of Ahazuerus, by descent, Amede, who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans, in the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, perceived in the books. The number of years that according to the word of the Lord to Jeremiah the prophet must pass before the end of the desolations of Jerusalem. namely 70 years. So where was he reading this from? Well he was reading this from Jeremiah chapter 25 verse 11. Which says, this whole land shall become a ruin and a waste, and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon seventy years. Now, what's significant about this is when Daniel read this prophecy, he began to calculate. Daniel had been in captivity from 605 BC. He was one of the first waves of people taken into captivity. And he said, we're almost to that 70-year mark. Let me pray and seek God's face and repent for my people and for myself. Daniel read those words and he realized the time was very near. It's significant to recognize when Daniel read Jeremiah 25, 11, and he saw the word 70 years, he didn't spiritualize the meaning of the years. He didn't say, well, seven is the number of perfection, and then seven times ten is seventy, so it's like the completeness of perfection. No, he took it as a literal 70 years, and he acted upon those words that God had written through the prophet Jeremiah. And if you want to study this more, you can actually look at Leviticus 25, 31, and 2 Chronicles 36, 21, and you'll find the reason why God had said that Israel would be in captivity for 70 years. Also, it's very interesting this prophecy about the seventy years. The beginning and the end of the seventy years of captivity is often debated. When did it begin? When did it end? How does this play to this passage of scripture? There's a very good article and I put a QR code in your notes. Not now. But at another time you can scan that QR code and you can read that article and I think it would be encouragement to you as you see the veracity, the m remarkable precision of the word of God that is Described by Leighton Talbot in that article. But for our study tonight, we find this fantastic passage of scripture where Daniel reads God's prophetic promise, and instead of ignoring it, or saying, I don't know what that means. He humbles himself with fasting, wearing sackcloth, putting ashes upon him, and he repents and he pleads on behalf of Of Israel, for God to have mercy. And he says, For your own sake, O my God, because your city and your people are called by your name. Lord, be merciful. And he begins, first of all, with a confession of his own sins and then the sins of the nation of Israel in verses 4 through 11. He confesses his own sins and the sins of the nation. Secondly, he acknowledges that it's because of the sins of the nation and of his own sins that the just judgment of God has come upon them. This what has happened, this desolation that has happened to the land is actually just. God has done justly. And that's in verses 11 through 14. And then thirdly, he pleads for God's mercy upon them for God's own namesake. And that's from chapter 14, or verse 14 till I believe 23, verse 23. And what comes amazingly in verse 24 is a response. God sends an angel. And not just an angel, God sends Gabriel to come. And give Daniel a specific message. Now Daniel had been praying about the 70 years of Babylonian captivity. But God sent Gabriel with a message about a new prophecy. And this prophecy refers to 70 weeks. If you read in verse 24, he says, seventy weeks are decreed about your people and your holy city. To finish the transgression, to put an end to sin, and to atone for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal both vision and prophecy, and to anoint a most holy place. Now the first thing to know is that the word weeks, that we think of weeks in English as weeks of days, seven days, the word weeks in Hebrew is a much more a much less precise word. It's the same way in Swahili. We use the word Juma to describe a week. It could be a week of days, a week of years, a week of months. It's a just a common, I think it's pretty common in in many cultures. But in this case, in Hebrew, it just simply means sevens. So it's 77s. And as you continue to read the passage, it becomes pretty obvious that it can't be Weeks of days. It just can't be. The time just would not make any sense otherwise. And that it actually is referring to 70 sets. of seven years. So weeks of years. So if you have the NIV, it'll actually translate it 77s. Just to clarify that. And that I think is actually a much more accurate, much more helpful translation. So 70 times 7, if you do your math, it's 490 years. For under ninety years, seventy sevens are decreed about your people in your holy city. So the subject of this prophecy is specific It's specifically about the nation of Israel. Remember, what has Daniel just been praying about? His people and the city of Jerusalem. Lord, there's a desolation that has happened to your people and to your city, the holy city Jerusalem. And so God sends Gabriel with a message that says, I'm going to tell you more about my people and my city and what I'm going to do in the future. And so Gabriel says that this message is about your people, and Daniel, of course, is a Jew, and your holy city. And he'd been praying about Jerusalem, the Holy City. So we know the subject of the prophecy refers to the nation of Israel and the Holy City Jerusalem. And then there's a six-fold purpose that is given in this prophecy. And we're just not going to take time to to go through all of those things, what they mean. We just don't have time this evening to do that. But during this period, this 77s, this 490 years, which Gabriel divides, you notice Gabriel actually divided, if you continue reading, he divides it into three subsections. He just divides it into seven weeks of years, which equals 49 years, then 62 weeks of years, which equals 433 years, and then one week of years, which is seven years. And just a little spoiler alert, this is where you get the tribulation lasting seven years. This is that backbone prophecy That helps us understand that the tribulation is a seven-year period of time. And there's others that will help us understand that, but this is where it first becomes clear. It's this this uh sixfold purpose that he brings out here. He says to finish the transgression To put an end to sin, to atone for iniquity. Now, if I look at those things. . Depending on how we understand them, those are things that were accomplished in the first coming of Christ. That he put an end to sin. Now we say the s sin is still still taking place, but through his death on the cross he defeated sin. He finished the transgression. You can even think about where on the cross he says, it is finished. There is a completion of that work. He atoned for iniquity. And then he says, to bring in everlasting righteousness. And some people see this as referring to the righteousness that Christ brings in by faith. But it seems like it's bigger than that because it's an everlasting righteousness. And then he says to see which includes to seal up the vision and the prophet or the prophecy, depending on how you look at it. And most likely it's referring to prophecy. And this speaks of the culmination or the fulfillment of prophecy, culminating in the second coming of Christ. The prophecy is about the second coming of Christ, including his enthronement. as the ruler over heaven and earth, and then to anoint a most holy place. And that phrase there, the holy place is the The word that's used 39 times in the Old Testament to refer to the temple or to articles in them. I think it's probably best to see the first three as fulfilled in Christ's first coming. And the the second set of three fulfilled in Christ's second coming. So he says, seventy weeks, during the seventy weeks, this period of four hundred and ninety years, these six things Will be completed. So it's very significant. You realize, wow, Daniel's receiving this message from Gabriel. This is a very significant prophecy. But all these things will be ultimately dealt with. Remember the Babylonian captivity. What caused it? Transgression, sin, iniquity. Even their return back into the land didn't solve that problem. That's what Isaiah deals with. Remember over and over again we dealt with that in the latter half of the book of Isaiah. Yeah, what about the sin issue? How does that get dealt with? And he says, comfort ye, comfort my people, says the Lord. And he talks about how a double has been found for their sin in Isaiah 40. The exact double for their sin has been found, meaning Christ took the punishment for their sin That is why we have the servant psalms explaining how the servant of the Lord takes and deals with the sin issue that brought them into captivity. But he says here, seventy weeks are decreed about your people and your holy city, to finish the transgression, to put an end to sin, and to atone for iniquity to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal both vision and prophet, and to anoint a most holy place. Now in verse 25 , He says, know therefore and understand. So this is, Gabriel says, I want you to understand this. I want you to know and to discern and have certain knowledge. That from the going out of the word to restore and build Jerusalem to the coming of an anointed one, a prince, there shall be seven weeks. Then for sixty-two weeks it shall be built again with troubled It was square and mote, but in troubled times. And after the sixty-two weeks, an anointed one shall be cut off and shall have nothing. So we have this beginning, and I'll just be honest, I really don't like how the ESV translate this, and I have my reasons for it, and I I could go into a long discussion on that. If you have NASBY, King James, or NIV, you're gonna have a much better translation of this. But this is what we have to deal with here. It just kind of muddies the waters a little bit in trying to understand what is being said. But we have three, there is a decree that is given that begins this set of 70 weeks or 490 years. And to the end of 62 weeks and seven weeks, the anointed one will be cut off. You see that he describes seven weeks of years and then sixty-two weeks of years. So we have seven plus sixty-two doing math today. 69 weeks of years, which equals 483 years. At the end of that, the anointed one will be cut off. But what begins, what begins this countdown to the anointed one? Being presented, after which he is cut off. Well, he says a decree to restore and build Jerusalem. So historically there are three possible decrees that this could be referring to. Just the first one, the decree of Cyrus to end the Babylonian captivity in 538 BC. So the the problem with it well I'll I'll hit this first. So you see in Isaiah forty-four twenty-eight where God says, It is I who says of Cyrus, He is my shepherd, and he will carry out all my desire. And he says, of Jerusalem she will be built, and of the temple your foundation will be laid. And so the Cyrus decree essentially allowed them to return back to Jerusalem. It didn't authorize the rebuilding of the of Jerusalem technically, but it didn't deny it either. The challenge with it, if we go back to this, is that if you go from 538 B. C. and you take these 483 years, you come to 55 B. C. In which nothing happens historically about the anointed one being cut off. That doesn't seem to work really well. Problem two, Jerusalem didn't get rebuilt Only the temple got rebuilt. And in fact, what happened is when it looked like they were rebuilding Jerusalem, word got sent back to To Babylon, and they were told to stop the rebuilding. So it actually didn't get rebuilt during that time. Nearly a hundred years later, you find Nehemiah Asking from his relative, how are the affairs in Jerusalem? And he's told that Jerusalem is desolate, and its gates are consumed by fire. And that's when he requested permission from Artaxerxes I to rebuild the wall to secure the city. So the first decree doesn't really fit. The second possible decree is the decree by Artaxerxes I. Now there's two decrees by Artaxerxes I. The first one is in 457 BC. It's recorded in Ezra. Chapter 7. You can read that. We don't have time to rec to go into it tonight. If you look at 457 BC, you subtract 483 years, you come to AD 27. Well, we're really in the life of Christ now. I mean, this could feasibly be the time period when the baptism of Christ took place. And those who hold to this position would say this is referring to the baptism of Christ in 27 A. D. Also, they would say 457 minus 49, that first set of seven weeks, would lead to 408 B. C. which fits in with the end time of Nehemiah. And saying that's when Jerusalem was rebuilt, the walls were rebuilt, the city was secure, and that's why they would say this this prophecy seems to be fitting with what we read. In Nehemiah as well as in Ezra, and it works together chronologically. It's a possibility. And I'll say this is one of the possibilities for the starting point. And there are good scholars who hold to this position. There's a second one of Artaxerces the first, which takes place in 444 B. C. It's recorded by Nehemiah in Nehemiah chapter 2, verses 5 through 8. We'll just look at this where he says, and I said to the king, If it pleases the king, and if your servant has found favor in your sight, that you send me to Judah to the city of my father's graves, that I may rebuild it. And Artaxerxes I gives him that permission to do so. So going back to that, if you take 444 BC, subtract 483 years, you come to AD 39, you're like, hmm, I thought Jesus died like 33 A. D. That doesn't seem to work too well. I mean it's close. It's ballpark. You could say, I mean, ballpark's pretty good. I mean when you're looking at predicting the future, if you're in the ballpark, you're pretty good. But the fact is, God knows the end from the beginning. He doesn't do ballparks. He is precise in his word. But this is where this becomes a little bit challenging. We have to put on our thinking caps. Maybe you've already learned of this before, but if you haven't, this may be a new idea The prophetic year that is being described is actually twelve months of thirty days. It has a lot to do with the lunar calendar that the the the people of Israel followed. They actually followed 29 days, 30 days, 29 days, 30 days in their calendar, and they would make up for it at different times. throughout the course of years when they realize they're they're now back a month, they would add a month into their calendar. But there's reasons to believe that when this prophecy is given, and oftentimes in the case of prophecy, they assumed a 360-day year, not a 365 -day year. And We could take a good bit of time to look at this, but I'm just going to tell you the last half of this seven-year period, the final seven-year period, is often described as the Great Tribulation. And in the Bible, there are multiple times where it's described as being a time times. And a half a time. So if a time is one, and times are two, you have one plus two is three, and a half a time is three and a half. You have three and a half Times or three and a half years is this half segment of the last half of the tribulation. It's also paralleled with, and it's compared with In multiple passages. You can look these up. I think I put them in your notes as well, where it's described as 42 months. Those three and a half years are described as 42 months. So if you do your math, 12 plus 12 plus 12 gets you to 36 plus 6 gets you to 42. You have three and a half years. It's also paralleled with 1,260 days. So 42 months of 30 days equals 1,260 60 days. So you see that in this prophecy, these are 30-day months. Pretty specifically, you can actually go through and do the study and the calculation on your own time if you would like to. But what is interesting is if you follow that out, you have 360-day years and you have 483 years. Or 483 of these 360-day years, you get 173,000 880 days. And if you follow that, you can we know when this prophecy or this command was given. by Artaxerxes I is in the month of Nisan in the twentieth year of his reign, which is very easily um verified but historically. You can follow from that and you will come to March 30th A. D. 33. And most scholars today believe that Christ died April 4th, Friday, April 4th, A. D. 33. So what would be March 30th? The triumphal entry. When Christ came in on a donkey, fulfilling Zechariah 9's prophecy, presenting himself to Jerusalem. And in Luke 19, 41, Jesus weeps over Jerusalem and he says, Would that you, even you, had known on this your day, the things that would make for peace. If you had only recognized these prophecies and seen who I am. But instead, we're told in Daniel chapter nine. That the anointed one would be cut off with nothing. The Messiah would be cut off with nothing. The word anointed one is just another word. It is the transliteration of that is Messiah. And he would have nothing. Although the people of Israel told the Messiah would come after 483 years. He would also be cut off and would have nothing. It's very similar to what we read in Isaiah 53, verse 8, where he is cut off out of the land of the living. It's very similar to what we read in John chapter 1, where he came to his own, but his own people did not receive him. He was cut off. And left with nothing. I lean towards this final decree. I think that the start-best starting point is this final one. Good people have disagreements on this. I I obviously I'm not going to be dogmatic, but that's the one that I I lean towards. But what is significant though, as we continue to study this, is that there is a gap. There's a gap in time from when The Messiah presents himself to when he's cut off. There's also then a gap in time, because if we continue to read, in verse 25, it says. Know therefore and understand that from the going out of the word to restore and build Jerusalem to the coming of an anointed one, a prince, there shall be seven weeks, then for sixty-two weeks it shall be built again with square and moat. We could talk about that. The idea of moat there is of a defensive position, like the wall being built in Jerusalem, but in troubled times. And that just describes, in simple words, the reality of Jerusalem. Throughout the remainder of the centuries leading up to the time of Christ. And after the 62 weeks in verse 26, an anointed one shall be cut off and shall have nothing. And the people of the prince who is to come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary. Its end shall come with a flood, and to the end there shall be war. Desolations are decreed. So we have the people of the prince who is to come. So a different prince who is to come He has a people. So if we know we've studied Daniel's prophecies, there are four empires that Daniel prophesies. He prophesies about the Babylonian Empire, he prophesies about the Medo-Persian Empire, the Greek Empire, and the Roman Empire. And We know that it is the Roman Empire that destroys the temple and destroys Jerusalem, the greatest Holocaust that has happened to the nation of Israel until the most recent Holocaust during World War II. This new person introduced in this prophecy in verse 26 is called the Prince who is to come. We're going to look at him a lot in the remainder of 2 Thessalonians, because he is also known as The Antichrist, the man of sin, the lawless one, the son of perdition, the son of destruction, the little horn. There's all these different titles that the Bible uses for this person. But there is a gap that is described because the people of the prince are the ones who are going to destroy the temple. And from the time the Messiah is cut off till Jerusalem and the temple is destroyed is how many years? 37 years. 37 years. So it doesn't the the chronology stops. We go through the first 69 weeks and then something happens. And we don't come to the 70th week. For a while, there's a gap here that's described within the text, that's described within history, and we're not told when this final week will take place. The final week of seven years begins, however, with this prince making a strong covenant with the many. Strong covenant with the many. He says here, and he shall make a strong covenant with many for one week. This is the last. Week of years, the seven years, the tribulation period. And for half of the week he shall put an end to the sacrifice, or in the middle of the week he shall put an end to the sacrifice and offering. On the wing of abomination shall come one who makes desolate until the decreed end is poured out on the desolator. And just for time's sake, I'm just gonna James Boyce says with this interpretation saying the fulfillment of this uniquely Jewish prophecy is suspended while the gospel is preached to the Gentiles and the full number of the church is brought in. A church encompassing people from all walks of life, all races, and all nations. Then after the members of the church are fully gathered, the prophecy will begin to unfold once more with a final week of acute suffering and persecution for the Jewish nation. In this view, the last week of Daniel would coincide with a seven-year period of great tribulation mentioned elsewhere. This final week of tribulation is punctuated halfway in between. There's this peace treaty that is made with the many. Probably a reference to Israel, because Israel is the subject of this prophecy, but it could also be with Israel and the many nations that surround it. It could also be used as a way to rebuild the temple, because in order for the sacrifices to be cut off, there have to be what? Sacrifices? In order for there to be sacrifices, there has to be a temple? And currently there is no temple and there are no sacrifices. So this has to happen yet and it has not happened. The regathering of the nation of Israel under the land has been a precursor that many people see Clearly, as an indication that God is moving again, and there are numerous prophecies that have been and are being fulfilled even to that end. But one thing that is necessary is the temple to be rebuilt. And very likely in coordination with this covenant that this man, this prince, makes with that nation. Michael Barrett says that the 70th week commences when that prince, the Antichrist, enters into a covenant with the nation, ultimately leading to the infamous abomination of desolations. And of course, that's what Jesus. describes in Matthew twenty-four. He says, Therefore when you see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of through Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place, let the reader I think it's very interesting that either Jesus or Matthew says, let the reader understand, not the listener, but the reader. This message is to go out to the future. This is not for this time, but into the future for those who read this. Let the reader understand. So going back to our passage in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, this is the abomination of desolations described when the Antichrist, he says in verse 4, opposes and exalts himself against every so-called God. or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God. This is the reason why I went back into Daniel chapter 9, so that we could see the historic backbone prophecy. That is being fleshed out in the Olive discourse, that's being fleshed out in 1 and 2 Thessalonians, that's being fleshed out in the book of Revelation, that's being fleshed out in other parts of Daniel as well. We can spend a great deal more time in these verses in Daniel. We just don't have time this evening. But I wanted to give you a brief framework of this backbone prophecy. So that you would have a better understanding of why we say things like who this man of sin is, or why do we say there's a seven-year tribulation period, or why do we speak of the abomination of desolations as being the midpoint. of this seven-year tribulation. But most of all, I want our time in this passage to be exactly what Paul designed 2nd chapter of 2 Thessalonians to be. A comfort and an encouragement. First, by seeing that God is sovereignly directing human history to accomplish his will. God is on the throne. Kings and nations and empires and emperors come and go. But God is on the throne The fulfillment of the intricate details about the first coming of Christ that we see in Daniel 9 and Isaiah 53 and Psalm 22. Just all throughout Zechariah 9 and Malachi 5, all these intricate prophecies that are fulfilled in great detail, the first coming of Christ, tell us that God rules. In the affairs of men. And his timetable is not going to be thwarted by anyone When God said, Seventy weeks are determined for your people, Daniel, and at the end of the 69 weeks, the Messiah will be cut off with nothing. It came to pass exactly as he said. Second, let this be a comfort to you, who are believers, because just as Paul taught in the first epistle If you're a Christian, you are a child of light, a child of the day. And as Paul said, God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. Who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with Him. Therefore, encourage one another and build one another up just as you are doing. This is to be an encouragement. The title of my message this evening is very simply, Don't be alarmed. This is not the tribulation. And we are not destined for wrath, but to obtain salvation through the fear of the Lord or through our Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, thank you for these words. Thank you for these truths. Thank you that you are sovereign, that you rule, and there is nothing that can thwart your word. So, Lord, we do pray that you would speed to pass all the remaining truths that you have revealed to us. We pray, come, Lord Jesus, come quickly. Lord, we long for the fullness of the Gentiles to come in. We long for people from every tribe and tongue and nation. To be redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. And we long for all Israel to be saved. And so, Father, we pray that you would accomplish this as you have saved us. Fed in Jesus name Amen