Arthur Rank was an English executive who decided to do all of his worrying on one day a week. He was a man who liked to use his time efficiently, and he believed he was wasting his time, so no matter what the crisis was, what the difficulty was He would write it down on a slip of paper and put it in a box that he only looked at and thought about on Wednesdays. And he found that it was a very effective way of dealing with the many difficulties that he faced in his business. Because generally when he finally came to Wednesday and emptied the box, many of his emergencies and worries had already been taken care of. And he didn't have to worry about them anymore. There are many ingenious ways that people have devised to deal with the age-old problem of worry. Some people use various thinking strategies. Others turn to exercise. Well, others use some form of diversion as a way to relieve the mind. These coping mechanisms may help to some degree, but they are not what Paul recommends in the epistle that we're studying together this morning. Paul prescribes prayer. as the antidotes to worry. If I were to condensed our text this morning into one statement, it would be, don't worry, pray. Look with me at verses six and seven. These are very familiar verses to us. Be careful for nothing. But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request Be made known unto God. And the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Now the Greek word that is translated careful in verse 6 is a word that refers to anxiety or worry. It was a word that originally meant to pull apart. It was used in the ancient world to describe a brutal form of torture in which a person's arms would be tied. and connected to a horse and their legs would be tied together and connected to another horse and a person would crack the whip And that person would be pulled apart, or at least pulled in a very torturous way. It was a horrible form of torture that inflicted incredible pain on the victim. And so it served as an appropriate word for the suffering of anxiety. Unfortunately, anxiety is not only a problem that took place in the ancient world, is a problem that is alive and well today. The various manifestations of anxiety make up the number one mental health issue in America. It's amazing that we live in the most prosperous nation in the history of the world. In other words, no one needs to worry that they're going to starve to death in this country. In every one of our major cities, we have food banks, we have soup kitchens, we have programs, we have individuals that are more than willing to help. No one needs to worry about starving to death. are not having their basic needs met. We have medical care and no hospital will turn away people who come in there who desperately need medical care. They will receive the medical attention that they need. It's a law. And we also live in a nation that has the most powerful military force the world has ever known. We don't have to go to bed at night worried that some foreign power will come in and take over our lands. There is no close second to our military. And yet, with all of these incredible advantages, There has never been a society that is so stricken with worry and fear. From upset stomachs to sleepless nights, we have ample evidence that Americans are an anxious people. And this is because anxiety is not primarily caused by our circumstances, but it's caused by the way we interpret our circumstances. Our text this morning calls on us to be careful for nothing. It's important that you understand that God is not here forbidding us planning or preparing for the future. Of course, to be wise stewards. We must plan, we must prepare. It does not promote a laid-back attitude that is oblivious to the problems of life. The fact is the Bible never calls us to live in a fantasy world. However, these verses do prohibit the harassing care that distracts us from doing what is God's will for our lives. Christians must not live in the bondage of the what-if scenarios of life that are generated by our fallen imagination The fact is, our hearts are so fallen, and we are such naturally a fearful people, that no matter what your circumstance in life is, there are many things that you can think of to worry about. God has called us as Christians to live by the power of His Holy Spirit. And if we are yielded to that enabling power, it will produce within us a harvest of love, joy, and peace. Our text this morning presents before us the promise of peace, that we can have the peace of God in our hearts. Paul writes this, not so much telling them to never consider worrying, but tell them to stop worrying because that assembly there at Philippi was worrying. Perhaps they were worrying about increased persecution against them. They were an oppressed minority in a very pagan environment. Perhaps they were worried that the Roman powers were going to go and eradicate this new religion of Christianity because they were not loyal to the emperor. They indeed had some things that most people would consider a matter of great concern, but Paul calls on them here to stop worrying. And he presents to them the only anecdote that he gives is this andote of prayer. Now what are you worried about this morning? I'm sure that if you were to candidly take out a sheet of paper and start to make a list, you could generate quite a list of things in the back of your mind that in a given week you worry about. Perhaps you're worried that you're going to lose your job. Maybe you're anxious about a biopsa report that you will receive later this week. Perhaps you are worried about evidences that your marriage is in decline. These are real problems. These are serious problems. God's word is not suggesting that Christians don't have problems. We do have serious things that we have to deal with. But it also provides for us. Advice on how to deal with these problems. What we're looking at this morning is really the key passage in all of the epistles. that deals with this matter of handling anxiety. What we have here is God's word for worried Christians. And God calls on us to stop worrying, and it gives us the means by which we can find the peace of God ruling and reigning in our hearts. I have two points I want you to consider with me this morning. First of all, we can stop being anxious by taking our worries to the Lord in prayer. This is what verse 6 tells us to do. Be careful for nothing. There's the command. But And everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. First of all, he says, stop being anxious. Be careful for nothing. And notice the spear. What's the scope of this? We are not to worry about anything he says. It's as if he wants to have an airtight case and he doesn't want his readers to say, yeah, but I have these things I need to worry about. Maybe there's some things I shouldn't worry about, but certainly there's a whole bunch of things that I do need to worry about that I really should give much time and energy to. No, Paul says You should not worry in this fretful way about anything. I wonder what you think about this command. There was a great Baptist preacher about a century ago named Alexander McLaren, and he preached a message on this text, and it was entitled, How to Obey an Impossible Injunction. And I think he was on to something. I think that many of you, when you hear this verse, when you hear me repeat these words, you say, yeah, right. That's impossible. Worry about nothing. Stop worrying. I can't do that. The fact of the matter is telling a warrior to stop worrying is like telling a fish to stay out of water. It's not going to happen. Unless you provide another channel for that nervous energy. And that's exactly what Paul does here. I want you to notice the symmetry of this verse. In the first line, he says, don't worry about anything. That's the negative part. And then in the positive part, he says that we are to pray about everything. So you could put it this way. The way to be anxious about nothing is to be prayerful about everything. That's what Paul is saying in this verse Now perhaps you would say, well, I've tried prayer and it doesn't work with me. Well the question is, have you followed exactly what Paul says here about prayer. I want you to notice that Paul uses three different terms for prayer that are important in every respect. First of all, he uses this general term for prayer. And I think here that Paul is calling on believers to worship God when they are tempted to worry. When we focus our mind on the greatness and goodness of God, our problems often shrink in comparison. One of the great answers to our worry is worship. When you sit down and you shut out the world and you focus your mind on God and who you are addressing. the eternal God, the creator of the universe, a God who is omnipotent and all-powerful, who has always been, who knows all about your situation. When you really focus your mind on those things and you worship Him, it will drive out those distracting cares. This is where we must begin dealing with our anxiety. We have to focus on God instead of our problems. We must make God our vision. And then and only then will we see our problems in their proper light. Then he uses another term for prayer, this term supplication. The idea is that we must come before God as a supplicant, expressing our needs. That is, we must humble ourselves and demonstrate that we are dependent on Him. One of the reasons why God gives us these problems in our lives is so that we will be humbled and come before Him and express our needs. We are so often so proud. This is a problem That manifests itself. Some of the best people in the world that I know are people that would die before they would ever ask for help. It's true. They're more than willing to help other people, but they will never ever ask for any help at all. Any counseling, anything like that. They because they don't want anyone to think That they in some way are deficient and can't meet their needs. They want to be independent and self-sufficient. And our national mindset really promotes that. This independent, rugged spirit. I don't need anybody. I can make it on my own. Well, you do need God. And one of the reasons why he brings distressing, anxious situations into our lives is so that we bow the knee and say, Lord. I don't have the answers to this. I can't do this. I don't know what to do in this situation. We come and we bring our needs before him in a spirit of humility. This is so important. We need to come and pour out our hearts before Him And would you notice with me that he is calling on us here to pray not general nebulous prayers, but the idea is, he says also that we are to bring our request. down at the end of verse 6, and that is a reference to specific petitions. You know, little kids sometimes pray these really general prayers. God bless everybody in the whole world. That really covers everything, doesn't it? That's not the way you should pray when you have a burden on your heart and you're really worried about something. You need to lay out your case before the Lord. You need to get into the specifics. You need to pour out your heart. Hold nothing back. Explain to him your needs. And then would you notice with me the attitude by which we should pray? He says here that all of this, all of this praying and supplication and making our requests known is to be done in the spirit of thanksgiving. In the providence of God, I didn't work this out, but in the providence of God, we have this in our text, the Sunday after Thanksgiving. Giving thanks is a very important spiritual obligation. It is A very good test of where we are spiritually. Because what happens when you're anxious about something and you're worried about something and you're fretting about something and you're staying up late at night and you're not eating right and you're just consumed. You can't focus on anything else. You can't focus on your family. You can't focus on your job because your mind is so fixated on this one problem that you feel that you must solve And let's say that you do go to God in prayer. You know what your prayer is likely to be like? It's literally, it might be very much full of complaints. It might be full of anger. It might be full of God. How could you do this? How could you bring me to this place? But if we do that, we will not find the relief that is promised in this passage. It's only when we pray with thanksgiving that we can pray properly. It's only when we really think about all that God has blessed us with that we really are prepared to bring our petitions before Him. You see, counting your blessings is a great anecdote to the poison of anxiety. So often when we become fixated on one problem in our life, it's like a dark cloud that darkens the sun, and our entire world is dark. And we forget about all the things that we have to be thankful for. We forget about all the blessings that God has poured forth on us day after day throughout our entire life. And we just lose sight of all of that. That's why it's so important that we count our blessings, that we give thanks to God, that we come in a spirit that is positive. Not in a spirit that is negative. And when we count our blessings, it often reminds us of how God has rescued us. from dire situations in the past. This is a very important spiritual exercise that you need to learn. Have you ever had a situation in the past that you were really worried about and you were you were just convinced this is going to be the end of everything? Your life was going to be ruined. There was going to be no joy, no hope, no peace for the rest of your days. But somehow it didn't work out that way. And God brought you through. And God showed himself to be faithful and he delivered you. And you got past that, and your life went on, and you had many joys and good days ahead. All right, when you're facing a similar situation, you need to remember that. I always think of David when he went to King Saul. Talk about going up against Goliath. Remember, King Saul wanted to give him his armor, but it didn't fit. It wasn't right for David. And David says to the king, so listen, no thank you. God delivered me from the bear and the lion when I was a shepherd boy, and he is going to deliver me from this giant. You see, David knew that the same God that gave him strength to face overwhelming enemies in the past would do it also in the future. And so when we come with a spirit of thanksgiving, we we begin to think and focus on, all right, what do I have to be thankful for? What good things has God done for me in the past? And that I'm enjoying right now. When we do that, it reminds us how God has rescued us from our anxious situations Now there's one thing I think I need to explain in verse 6 before we move on. Last phrase says, let your requests be made known unto God. Now, if you're really reading your Bible carefully, you might say, well, why would I need to make my requests known to God? Doesn't He already know what my needs are? And the answer to that question is absolutely yes, he does. In fact, when Jesus taught in the Sermon on the Mounts And he gave an extended section of that sermon to dealing with anxiety, and he has three times where he says, take no thoughts And he uses the same word that Paul uses here. In that very address, he says, for your heavenly Father knoweth that you have need of these things. And one of the reasons that the Lord gives for us not to worry is your Heavenly Father knows about your needs. Don't worry about what you're going to eat or what you're going to wear. He knows your needs, he'll take care of you. But here Paul says, let your request be made known unto God. So what exactly is Paul saying here if he's not saying that God doesn't know unless you tell him? What he is saying here is that we must commit our problems to the Lord 's. That's what we do when we pray. That's what we do when we make our requests known to Him. We are taking our problems to the Lord. And a significant cross-reference for this is those wonderful words in 1 Peter 5 and verse 7. Do you know this verse? Casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. And when Peter used those words of casting your care, he was echoing the teaching of the book of Psalms. because it uses that same imagery of casting or throwing your cares at him. Psalm 37 and verse 5 says, commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. Psalm 55, verse 22, says, Cast thy burden Upon the Lord, he shall sustain thee. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. This is what Paul is saying here. He is echoing what is taught elsewhere in Scripture, that we are to cast our cares upon the Lord. We are to take our burdens and we are to lay them at his feet. This is a very important thing. The idea of when you cast something is what? It's that you've let go of it. You've let go of that issue, of that perplexing problem, and you've given it and you've left it with the Lord. This is so important. This is why we so often don't find the relief that this passage promises. Because we go to the Lord in prayer. In fact, I have known people that when they prayed about their anxieties, their problems, it kind of made things worse. Because they were so focused on their problems. And their prayer was not about the greatness and the power and the grace of God and his ability to deliver, but was on how many problems they have. So you've got to pray in the right way. You have to have the right frame of mind, the spirit of thanksgiving, but you must leave it at the Lord's feet. This is why a lot of you this morning when we read these verses together, you say, oh yeah, I know these verses don't work for me You know why it doesn't work for you? Because you go and you bring your and you tell the Lord all about your problems and what you're so worried about, and as soon as you say amen, you pick up that burden and you take it back with you. No, you've got to leave it at his feet. But that raises the question, why don't we leave our anxieties with the Lord? You know why we don't? Because we don't trust him. We don't trust him. That's why we don't leave the matter with the Lord. We figure, well, you know, that might be good for some really religious people or people who are really spiritual so forth, but I'm a practical person and I've got to work out my own problems. So I'll go to the Lord in prayer, but really I'm the one that's got to fix this. I'm the one who has to figure out what to do. But what the Lord wants us to do is to take our hands off of it, leave it at his feet, and say with the Lord, what he said in the garden, not my will but thine be done. You see, so often we don't really want to give our problems to the Lord. We want to hold on to them. We want to try to figure them out. Because in our arrogance and our pride and our selfishness, we think That we can find the answer. And perhaps we can deal with it better than the Lord can. But this is what we need to do. This is what this passage calls on us to do. Cast our care upon the Lord. Now perhaps you're listening to me and maybe you agree and you say, but that is so hard to do. So hard to do because it's really an important thing. It's a really sensitive issue. It's a really weighty matter. And if things turn out wrong, I mean I want to have untold grief and hardship and pain in my life. It's not an easy thing to do. You're right It's not an easy thing to do. The Bible often calls on us to do things that are very hard. And I want you to notice this is why Paul is going to give an incentive for us to do this in the very next Verse, verse 7. And if you do this, and the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and your minds through Christ Jesus. This brings us to our second main point. We can stop being anxious by taking our words to the Lord in prayer, and secondly, we can stop being anxious by trusting in God's promise of peace. This is a wonderful incentive. What an inviting thing this is to a person who has a troubled heart. We are offered here nothing less than what? The peace of God. That's a wonderful thing. I never really thought about it. I think accurately until this week. This is the only time this expression is used in the New Testament, the peace of God. And what does it mean? You know what it means? It means that you can have the peace that God possesses. Did you know that God is the most peaceful being in the universe? Have you ever thought about that? Did you know that God does not worry about anything? You think about it, it would absolutely make no sense for him to worry. He's an eternal being. He's the beginning from the end. Beginning of time to the end of time. He stands outside of time. Alright? He knows how everything's going to work out. So why would any circumstance cause him to worry? Secondly, he's the almighty God of the universe He's omnipotent, all powerful. So there's no threat to him. There's nothing that he can't do. There's no place that he can't go because he's everywhere. He's omnipresent. And he knows everything. He's omniscient. So a being with those characteristics and traits would have absolutely no reason to ever worry. God is not up in heaven wringing his hands. He is completely at peace. And this is the peace. That is mentioned here is something that we as his children can enjoy. This is an astounding thing This is very similar to what Jesus said to his disciples in the upper room the night before his crucifixion. In John chapter 14 and verse 27 he says, Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. Jesus did not have great riches, material riches to give to his followers. There was not a squabble over his estate when he died. He had literally just the clothes on his back But he did have this legacy that he left with his followers, and is the legacy of peace. What a wonderful thing. Even though Jesus lived what we might view as a very stressful life filled with conflict and turmoil and threats , We see a man at peace. We see a man who was able to walk through the midst of people as they were preparing to stone him or throw him off of a cliff. He was able to remain peaceful among his adversaries who slandered him and said malicious things about him. Even though he was living in the shadow of the cross and he knew that his hour was coming, he was able to live with this magnificent peace. And how the disciple saw, one example of that after another. You remember the time when they were in that boat and they were crossing the Sea of Galilee, and the Lord, after a busy day of ministry, was asleep in the back of the boat and a great storm came up and yet he was asleep. And the disciples were really kind of annoyed at this and they said, Master, carest thou not that we perish And Jesus got up and he said, Peace be still. And the water, that turbulent, churning water of the Sea of Galilee, became as glass. And it mirrored the peace that was in his soul. And he said to them, why are you so fearful? Why is it that you do not believe? That was the peace that Christ passed on to his followers the night before his death. This is the peace that Paul promises here. It's the peace of God. It should be a mark of the disciples of Christ. It is one of the fruit of the Spirit The fruit of the Spirit, he says in Galatians 5. 22, is love, joy, and peace. And notice how this peace is further described in verse 7. It's described as that peace that passeth all understanding. Now there is some debate among scholars about the precise meaning of this phrase. Some scholars think that it's saying that the peace of God is far superior to the peace that could come from human reasoning and understanding. In other words, it's calling on us to stop planning and scheming and trying to figure out a way out of our mess and just leave the matter with God's. That is true. That is biblical advice. But I don't think that's what Paul is saying here. I think that Paul is saying that when you really experience the peace of God in the midst of an anxious circumstance , It will absolutely amaze you because it will surpass your understanding. You won't be able to comprehend it. I feel certain right now that I could find many people here who give a testimony that you've experienced that in your life. That you have faced a crisis, maybe a matter of life and death Maybe something involving a loved one where their life was on the line, their future was hanging in the balance, and somehow you went to God and you poured out your heart to him in prayer. And you cast your burden at the Lord's feet, and you left it there, and you walked away, and God gave you a supernatural peace that defies explanation. I've experienced that. I'm sure there are many folks here that have experienced that as well Notice how our text continues here. It says, in this peace that passeth all understanding shall keep Your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Here the peace of God is personified as a guard that marches around the perimeter of our hearts like a soldier on high alert. When Paul penned these words, remember he was in Rome, he was in prison, and he was chained to a guard. And he was writing to a people who were part of a Roman colony in Philippi, and they saw Roman soldiers every day on their streets. So this would be an imagery that resonated with them. This was something that was commonplace with them to see Roman soldiers guarding an area, marching around that perimeter, looking around And guarding carefully something that was precious and valuable. And what a wonderful thing it is to experience peace within our hearts. This was a very appropriate illustration for them to consider. Paul is saying that the peace of God will guard those stressing thoughts from coming in. And contaminating your heart, it will be kept out because you have left the matter with the Lord. You know what the Scripture says is very, very important, but sometimes what the Scripture does not say is also important. Would you notice what verse 7 does not promise? It does not say that if you take your burdens to the Lord in prayer, he will work in such a way that the problems will be gone. That the issue will be rectified exactly the way you want it. That thing that you're worried about God will answer your prayer and that person is not going to die. The situation, you will not lose your job. Your biopsy will come back that it's a benign tumor. God doesn't say that that's what happens when you take your problems to the Lord in prayer. That's not part of the promise. Now God could do that. That might be his will, but I want you to know that your peace is not based on the fact that you're going to get the outcome from the situation that you are looking for. So often I think that's the way we understand this verse. Perhaps the way we understand prayer, that if we take our burdens to the Lord, God is going to work things out so that what we're afraid will happen will never happen. We'll be protected from it. But that's not what it says. God does sometimes remove the cause of our care. But often what he chooses to do is to give his people peace in the middle of the storm. Perhaps you would say this just does not work for me. I've never really experienced peace in the storms of life. Well, there's only two possible explanations. The first one is, and I think this is very, very often the case. And that is that you have not really entrusted the Lord with your worry. You haven't really laid that at his feet. You complained about it, you've talked to him about it, you've cried about it, but you have not saying, Lord, I leave this matter with you. I can't do anything about it. You know the things we worry about, by the way, the most and the things that you can't change. Have you ever noticed that? Things that you can't do a thing about. You can't change other people. A lot of times we have health issues that you can do nothing about. Situations that are beyond your ability to manipulate in any way, shape, or form. You just can't do anything about it. And often those are the things we worry the most about. What does God want us to do? He wants us to leave the matter with him. To trust him. Listen to these wonderful words from Isaiah 26, verses 3 and 4, some of my favorite verses. It says, Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee. Trust ye in the Lord forever, for the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength. When it says in that verse, perfect peace in the Hebrew, it's peace, peace. Which is talking about as an intensification, perfect peace, complete peace. How can your mind be at perfect peace when it stayed on God? What does that mean? It means that we trust in him. That's why twice we see in this verse him calling on us to trust in him. Trust in the Lord forever, for the Lord Jehovah's everlasting strength. And you know what in the Hebrew the word everlasting strength is? It's the rock of ages. If you look it up, God is a rock of ages. He will not be moved. He will not fail his people. You can run to him like a fortress in times of great trial and adversity and of fear and of worry, and he is a rock for his people You need to trust in him. It really does come down to a matter of trust. Do you trust the Lord with your problem? Can you leave the matter with him? Or do you think that you're wise enough and smart enough and powerful enough to solve your own problems? But there is another reason that this promise may not seem to work for you. And I think that explanation is found in the very last phrase in verse 7. And that is this phrase through Christ Jesus or in Christ Jesus. This is one of Paul's favorite expressions in his writings. Hundreds of times in his epistles you will read about being in Christ or with Christ or through Christ. And he's referring to the believer's union with Christ. And my point is this: if you are not in Christ, if you're not truly a child of God, if he is not your Savior and your Lord, then none of this advice will work for you. Contrary to what many people think, the Bible is not giving general advice for the heart for the whole world. You know the marriage advice the Bible gives? It doesn't work for lost people. It's all rooted in Scripture. It's all rooted in our relationship with God. God did not give us this book so that we could have a better life on earth. He gave us this book so that we could know Him and live with Him forever. And so this matter of taking your bird of the Lord, you can't really take your bird of the Lord if you don't know the Lord. You can't really trust in the Lord and leave the matter with Him because how can you trust somebody that you don't really know? You see, none of this works unless you are a believer. If you are in Christ, you must be at peace with God. Before you can joy the peace of God. How could a person possibly be at rest If you know that the wrath of God is abiding on you. That's what John 3. 36 teaches. Everyone loves the earlier verse in that chapter, for God so loved the world. What a wonderful verse that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. We like that. In the same chapter, it speaks of the wrath of God abiding on those who do not believe in Christ. I can't think of anything in the world to be more concerned about than that. How could you be at peace? How could you be at rest? How could you not be anxious if you're only a few breaths from experiencing the wrath of God for eternity? It was Augustine who said that man is restless until he comes to rest in God's. That was his own experience. We cannot have the peace of God until we know God and we know that our sins have been forgiven and we're dealt with at the cross. That is the basis for the believer's peace of mind. There was a wonderful hymn written about a century ago. By Francis Havergal. That's taken partially from the verse that I quoted for you a moment ago from Isaiah 26. Like a river glorious. Is God's perfect peace over all victorious in its bright increase? Perfect yet it floweth fuller every day. Perfect yet it groweth deeper all the way. Stayed upon Jehovah. Hearts are fully blessed, finding, as he promised, perfect peace and rest. This is the wonderful blessing that God offers His children, that when we face what seems to be an insurmountable problem or difficulty that really vexes our soul, and we will that we can bow before his throne and focus on his greatness and come as a supplicant, as a one in great need, recognizing our inability to solve this problem. And we can leave the matter with the Lord, trusting in Him that our Father will take care of it, and we can walk away and experience the peace of God in our hearts. This is the wonderful thing that our text calls us to this morning. I trust that you have experienced the peace of God Because you are at peace with God. Let's have every head bowed and every eye closed. Our Father in heaven, you know. That this is an issue that so many of your children struggle with We are anxious, fretful, fearful people. We're like sheep. And Father, so often it robs us of our joy. Makes us lash out at those that we love and seek to minister to And it's a poor testimony to the world of the sufficiency of Christ. And so I pray that you would take these words, the simple words. From this text and use them, Father, in our lives. Help us, Father, to bring our problems to you in prayer And to truly worship you and truly humble ourselves and leave our burdens with you Help us, Father, to come to trust you more and rest in you more. And Father, for those who are here who are not your children. Who do not have the assurance that their sins have been forgiven. I pray, Lord, that they would not have a false peace. A phony rest, but that they, Father, will come to rest in the rock of Aegis. They will come to trust in Christ alone. And find indeed that peace that passeth all understanding. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.