Turn your Bibles please to Hebrews chapter twelve. Hebrews chapter twelve, if you were with us. In recent weeks, you know this chapter begins with the analogy or metaphor of a distance race, what you might think of as a marathon. Athletes who compete in distance running know that there's several keys to doing well. The first one is preparation, preparation, preparation. You have to train And put many hours and some people get coaches and special equipment and so forth. This is Exemplified in our text in verse 1, where it says, Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which does so easily beset us. This is talking about preparing to run. You strip down of any excess baggage. You don't run with a backpack on. But then there is something else. There is something called having the runner's focus Distance runners often speak of the critical zone as the most dangerous part of the race. That's when a marathon is between 60 and 90 percent completed. They start out with great enthusiasm and confidence that they will finish. But somewhere after the halfway mark , They start to really feel the pain, the agony, and yet the finish line is still far away And so it's between the 60 and 90 percent mark that people drop out, where they lose hearts. And so how does a runner combat the natural tendency to shut it down and say, I can't do this, it's too much? Well, I did what everyone does today when you have a question. I Googled it. And the first entry that came up was a running coach in Philadelphia area. named John Goldthrop. Listen to what he says. If you're really struggling, don't ever think of looking away. I think more often than not, if you latch on to someone that is a runner in front of you, they will help you through the critical zone. And you'll come out ready to sprint for the finish. This is precisely the advice that the author of Hebrews gives for running the Christian life. But the person we fix our gaze on is not some runner ahead of us. It is Jesus Christ who has already finished the race. Two weeks ago, after spending most of 2023 in Chapter 11, we started Chapter 12. This wonderful chapter begins by referring to the Old Testament saints as like people in a stadium. It says that we're surrounded with a great cloud of witnesses. Now there's only 16 people mentioned in chapter 11, so the author is obviously referring to all of the Old Testament saints, not just those 16 people, because that would hardly be a gray cloud of witnesses. And I mentioned to you, it's not so much that we are to imagine that they are cheering us on, because the Bible doesn't speak of people in heaven giving us their attention on earth. They have greater things to contemplate. But the idea is that the example and the words that others have shared with us who are now with the Lord. Should spur us on and motivate us to endure the hardship, to get through, if you will, the critical zone of the race and not quit and give up. So we have the preparation for the race. And notice at the end of verse 1. We have what I said is the key idea of this passage that begins Hebrews 12. It says, let us run with patience. Or the idea there is with endurance. The race that is set before us. And this word that's translated patience here is also found in verse 2 where it says, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, a reference. To Jesus. And then verse 3, for consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners. So you see, this entire passage is about endurance or stamina. In the race of life. So this morning we're going to look at really what is the heart of this passage, which calls on us to look to Jesus. We see here that the Christian life is compared to a marathon, a grueling distance race. We often think of the Christian life as something that's easy, that doesn't require much attention or much effort on our part. And many people come to Christ thinking that if they get saved, that all the problems they're experiencing in life will go away, and it will be a smooth, easy journey. But that's not what the Bible teaches. And that's certainly not what this imagery conveys. It is difficult. It is grueling And the writer of Hebrews is using this analogy because the first century Jewish believers who first heard these words read to them in a little house church. We're thinking about at least some of them going back to their old ways of Judaism. They were thinking of getting out of the race because it was just too costly. There was a new emperor by the name of Nero. And he made no bones about it that he hated Christians. He wanted them dead or out of his empire. And so these bliggered believers had some very difficult choices to make The author of Hebrews writes to them, telling them to cling to Christ because he's far better than anything Judaism of the world has to offer. And here he is giving them some of his most important, if not the most important, key to enduring in the Christian race, and that is by looking. to Jesus. The only way that a believer can finish the race of the Christian life is by looking to Jesus. But what exactly does this mean? I want to mention two things that are found in our text this morning And the first key is this, we must keep our focus on Jesus. When it says looking unto Jesus It uses the term Jesus, which emphasizes his humanity. Yes, he is the Son of God, but he's also 100% human. He's one of us. And here he is going to call on us to follow his example and to keep our focus on him. This great phrase, looking unto Jesus, which has been used in countless sermons and countless songs, has so much truth packed in it. What does it mean to look to Jesus? It first of all means that we must avoid the distractions of the world. The word look here is not the normal Greek word that you would find for look. It's a word that literally means to look away. Doesn't mean that we look away from Jesus, but it means we look away from everything else so that we focus only on Jesus. It means that we must put aside all distractions We must give him our undivided attention. Again, remember this analogy of the runner. The runner is to focus his attention on the finish line. When a soccer player is kicking a goal, they look at the goal. When a basketball player is shooting at the hoop They focus their eyes on the hoop. You've heard of a no-look pass, but you've never heard of a no-look shot. Because if you're not looking at the goal, you're very, very, very likely to miss it. The same is true of the Christian life. So many of our problems and our maladies in the Christian life are because we don't focus on Christ. We get our attention taken by other things, sort of like a runner who's looking at people on the sidelines rather than looking at the finish line. We might be entranced by the treasures and the pleasures that the world offers Or it could be opposite. It could be the struggles and the problems that we have in life that that keeps us from looking to Christ. I want to invite you to look at an example that we find in Scripture. Turn with me, if you would please. Keep a finger here in Hebrews 12, but look with me, please, at Matthew chapter 14. Matthew chapter fourteen and verse I want to begin reading at 24. But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves, for the wind was contrary. And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them walking on the sea. And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit. And they cried out for fear. But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer, it is I, be not afraid. And Peter answered him and said, Lord, If it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water. And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water to go to Jesus. But when he saw the wind, boisterous, he was afraid, beginning to sink. He cried, saying, Lord, save me! And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand and caught him and said unto him, O thou of little faith, Wherefore didst thou doubt? When Peter took his eyes off of Jesus and looked at the waves and heard the howling wind, he became afraid and he began to sink. And it's the same with us when we keep our take our eyes off of Jesus and we look at the problems in our life and the unresolved issues. And the perpetual problems that we deal with, we begin to sink spiritually. We begin to doubt. We begin to fail. Because we have taken our eyes off of Jesus. Now I invite you to turn back with me to Hebrews, please. And I will look at a passage that we looked at perhaps a month or two ago. In Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 27, speaking here of Moses, it says that by faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. Moses was able to endure the suffering and the difficulty that he experienced in life by seeing him who is invisible. Doesn't mean that the Moses saw the Lord physically, because no one can see God and live. But Moses kept his focus on the Lord. And so the treasures of God's presence. were more real to him than the treasures in Egypt, and the warnings of God were more significant to him than the threats of Pharaoh. So to look to Jesus means that we must look away from the things that so often draw our attention away from Him and keep our focus on Him. But secondly, it means that we must trust him, rely on him, depend on him, because often in Scripture, the word to look or to see is used as a picture of faith. Do you remember the story in Numbers 21 of the fiery serpents? The people complained about Moses ' leadership, and God punished them by sending serpents, and probably they were called fiery serpents. either because they were brightly colored or because when they bit you, it felt like fire. And the people cried out to Moses. And Moses prayed to the Lord, and the Lord said that he was to make a bronze replica of the serpent. And when people looked at it, they would be healed. This is the way Numbers 21, 8 puts it. And the Lord said unto Moses , Make thee a fiery serpent. and set it upon a pole, and it shall come to pass that every one that is bitten when he looks upon it shall live And Jesus explained this event this way. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Did you notice that Jesus replaced the word look with the word believe? Because looking is a picture of believing. Now I said all that to make this point. The Christian life. is a continual looking or trusting in Christ alone We must constantly be looking to him. So this morning, if your faith, you would admit, is weak. The problem is because you've gotten your focus off of the Lord and you've put it on other things. They may be legitimate things like problems and issues and struggles and questions that you have in your life. But the answer to solving those is not by giving those problems more of your attention, but by looking to Jesus. So all of the Christian life is made up of looking to Christ. But why should we look to Jesus? The answer is found in the next part of verse 2. Because he is the author and finisher of our faith. The word author. Can be translated in several different ways. It can mean source, founder, pioneer, or even champion. It refers to someone who is like a trailblazer who has gone before. We all know what it is to learn by looking at what somebody else has done, right? Many of you learn skills from watching your mother or your father that That you just know so well and habitually can do easily because you watch them do things. And how many people here have Googled a YouTube video on how to fix something even this week and you watch them step by step as they did something and you say, oh, that's how you do it. You could have just gotten some written instructions, but we learn so much better when we have a model in front of us and we see someone do it. This is the idea that we find often of Jesus in the book of Hebrews. He is described as the captain of our salvation. He is the forerunner for us according to Hebrews 6. 12. And now he is the author of our salvation. And in the context of this metaphor, it probably means he's like the runner who is way out ahead of the pack. And is crossing the finish line. And so what we are to fix our gaze on is Jesus who has completed the race. But Jesus here is also described not only as the author, but the finisher of our faith. And the idea of that word finisher is the perfecter or the completer of our faith What does that mean? It means that he is the ultimate example of our faith. Did you know? This may be surprising to you. Did you know that Jesus lived by faith? You can find many examples of that. There's a reference in Hebrews 10 to this, and is Hebrews chapter 2 to this. I won't take the time to look at it. Jesus lived by faith. And he is the ultimate example. We've looked at 16 different individuals in Hebrews chapter 11 who lived by faith, giants and heroes in Hebrew history, and yet all of them had flaws. That we can read about in the biblical record. At times they responded in unbelief rather than faith, and in disobedience rather than obedience, but not true of Jesus. The author of Hebrews waits to this climactic point in his book to say, now let me tell you about the ultimate example of faith. That is Jesus. He never disobeyed his father. He always did what was right. He always trusted. He always Was obedient even unto the death of the cross. And therefore, he is the perfect sacrifice for our sin because he is the sinless Son of God. And therefore, he is able to be the perfect sacrifice and substitute for us who are so sinful and so prone to wander. But there's also an idea here that not only has he completed the race and done so perfectly, but he is going to perfect the faith in us. Reminds us of that verse in Philippians chapter 1, he that hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. He is going to complete what he has started in your life. The point here is he's not going to let you fail in this race. He's calling for you to look to him. Look at me. And you will finish this race. You will complete this race. He is the perfecter of our faith. So if you're here this morning and you would say honestly, my faith is really weak. I'm really struggling with a lot of things. I'm not the Christian that I once was. I know I'm doing things that are not pleasing to the Lord right now. And I find my mind and my heart filled with doubt. You know what the solution to this, what the remedy for your problem is? It is to look to Jesus. You have not been looking to Jesus as you ought. And that's what you need to do. And this brings us to our second point. We must follow Jesus' example of endurance. The author of Hebrews is now going to point to Jesus' example of suffering as an example for us to follow. Notice what he says in the second half of verse 2. who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Now we're going to take these three phrases out of order. I want to say that for the joy that was set before him for last. And I want to move on to this phrase: he endured the cross. He persevered even though he faced the cross. Remember, this is one of the key words of the book of Hebrews, perseverance or endurance. This is the only time you find the word cross in the book of Hebrews. And throughout the New Testament, the word cross is often used. as a metaphor for the entirety of his passion, of his death and suffering on behalf of his people. Now, what do you think of when you immediately think of the cross? You probably think of the physical suffering that Jesus endured. And indeed he did endure great physical suffering. This form of death was intended to make death not come quickly but slowly. It was a form of torture. It was so barbaric that refined Romans would not talk about it in public. So what was included when it says he endured the cross? Well he endured the hatred of religious leaders and the rejection by his own people, he came unto his own, and his own received him not. He endured the betrayal by one of his followers. He endured being slapped in the face and being spit in the face. He endured having his beard ripped out. He endured being beaten with 39 stripes that tore open his back. He endured spikes being driven into his wrists and ankles. He endured horrible thirst at the cross as he was exposed to the hot sun. But none of these things were the worst thing that he endured. No, the most painful thing that he endured was being abandoned by his father as he bore the sin of the world. We must forget that crucifixion did not just kill a person. It was intended to degrade or shame a person. In a shame-based culture, this was the greatest punishment that a person could imagine. This is why Jesus was crucified naked outside of the city gate in front of many, many people. This explains why everyone mocked him at the cross. That was what you were supposed to do as a good citizen. Because these were public enemies, number one. If you were crucified, you were a really bad person. And so people sort of thought of it as their duty to hurl some insult at them because they were public enemy number one. It says here in our text that Jesus despised the shame. I've always been puzzled by that because it seems to mean that Jesus like was angered at the shame that he had to endure, or that he was resisting the shame and that doesn't seem to fit No, it means that Jesus disregarded the shame and mocking that he received. He scorned it as nothing. He didn't allow the disapproval of the world to keep him from obeying his father. And this would have been so powerful of an argument to these early Jewish believers who were constantly being ridiculed for their faith. And being embarrassed by the things that people in their community said about them and the way they were mocked. And he's saying Jesus didn't allow the mocking and the shame that he endured to keep him from following his fathers. will. Now let me ask you, how is it that Jesus endured the cross? How did he take all of that physical and psychological and spiritual torture? How did he do that? Perhaps your immediate answer would be, well, he's God. He can do anything. That is true, but I think you're missing the point. Remember, it says looking unto Jesus, the focus here is on his humanity, his example. Jesus was not some kind of divine robots. Who experienced all this suffering, but it didn't touch him at all, didn't affect him at all. He was 100% human. He had feelings. He experienced pain just like you and I. So how did he endure it? The answer is found in this phrase, who for the joy that was set before him? Who for the joy that was set before him? There's some debate among scholars whether this means that he had a chance, as it were, that he left the joys of heaven to come to earth in the incarnation. But the context makes it unlikely. This verse is saying that Jesus endured the cross by focusing his mind on what on the joy that would be accomplished through his death on the cross. Do you understand what I'm saying? He didn't look at the pain of the here and the now, but he looked at what it was going to accomplish and the joy that would result from that. So what are some suggestions of the joy? Well, how about the joy of pleasing his father? He said in John chapter 8, I always do those things that please my father. And the thing that most pleased his father is when he died on that old rugged cross. Or perhaps it was the joy of redeeming sinners from the bondage of sin through his vicarious death on the cross, through his death on the cross. It says in Hebrews he brought many sons to glory. Or perhaps he thought of the joy of rising from the dead and conquering death. None of these are wrong answers, but the context would seem to point to something else. Look with me at the last phrase in verse 2, and it sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Now, if you've been with us through our study, you know that Psalm 110 is the key text for the book of Hebrews. There are 13 different references to this chapter in the book of Hebrew. It's the text of this man's sermon. And this particular verse is mentioned some four times Where it says that he is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. And the right hand, as described in Scripture, is a place of joy. At that right hand, the psalmist says, there are pleasures forevermore. So what are we to take from this? The point is that Jesus kept his goal on the finish line, and the finish line was the culmination of his great work. He kept thinking about what would be accomplished through his pain and suffering. That's how he was able to endure. What does him being seated at the right hand indicate to us? It reveals that the Father has accepted Christ's sacrificial offering for our sin. To have this beloved son reign with him indicates that the Father is well pleased with his supreme sacrifice. And Jesus' seated posture, something that the author of Hebrews puts a great stock in. Because in the tabernacle, remember, the priests never sat down because they were constantly offering sacrifices, because the people were always sinning. And because those sacrifices never provided any kind of permanent atonement for their sin. So there were no chairs in the tabernacle furniture because they were always up on their feet working. But when Jesus finished his offering, his supreme sacrifice, he sat down because his work was finished. And therefore, there is nothing that we can add to it. Salvation is not Jesus doing his part and you doing your part. No, he does it all And so when you doubt your standing before God, Christian friend, and you think about how you have failed the Lord yet again. You need to remember that your great high priest is seated at the right hand of his Father. And that he has made a full atonement for your sin, and that the Father is satisfied with his sacrifice We sang a hymn this morning. Upward I look and see him there who made an end of all my sins. This is what the Christian must continually do. We must continually remind ourselves that our acceptance with God is not based on our performance, but the fact that our Savior died for us. Now I mentioned to you a moment ago that in Jesus' mind, the finish line, if you were, was being seated at the right hand of his father when his work was done And did you know, as astounding as it may be to you, that is our finish line as well Consider the words of Revelation 3, 21. To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even as I also overcame and am sat down with my Father in his throne. And 2 Timothy 212 says, If we suffer, we shall also reign with him. This doesn't mean that we become little gods, but it means that we will be with our Lord forever in a place of absolute joy. That's what you need to fix your mind on when you encounter one difficulty, one struggle, one time of painful suffering after another. You need to look beyond to what God is doing. And focus on the joy that awaits you. This will give you the strength to endure today. And so if we're going to follow Christ's example, we must look beyond our suffering to the joy that awaits us. Now verse 3 is in many ways parallel, summing up what he's just said and then making application. He says, for consider him That endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds. The word considered here means to Consider through comparison. Comparison with what? He's saying this. Compare your suffering and your struggles. And your difficulties with what Jesus had to endure. This is why he says, notice in the next verse, verse 4, ye have not yet resisted to the blood, striving against sin. He said to this little church, none of you yet have died for your faith. None of you have had your blood shed because you say I'm a follower of Christ See, there's no one that can say, you know, my problems and my suffering is a whole lot worse than what Jesus ever endured. No one can ever make that argument. The power of this is that if he endured, so can you. Because Jesus is not only the object of our faith, he is the example of our faith And why has he said all this? Look at the end of verse 3. Lest you be wearied and faint in your mind. This is the picture, again, of a runner who is absolutely exhausted Their hands that once were high and pumping are now down at their sides. Their posture is poor. Their pace is completely off what it once was They have lost their focus. And this is the picture that he's covering here. Of this runner who's about to quit. This runner is fatigued and discouraged, and he says to them, Look to Jesus! That's the answer. Look at him who's already finished the race. He's not only the object of your faith, but the supreme example of living by faith. He looked at the prize. He looked at the finish line, and so must all of us The entirety of the Christian life. Have you ever thought about this? The entirety of the Christian life is looking to Jesus. When you were saved, the Bible describes it as your eyes being open and you seeing Jesus for who he truly is. Isaiah 45 and verse 22 says, Look unto me and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth. This was Spurgeon's great salvation verse. But secondly, the entirety of our experience after we're saved is a continual looking to Jesus. It's not that we look to Jesus and we say, I don't have to look to him anymore because I'm a Christian. No. The only way we can persevere in this race is by continuing to look at him. And then the culmination of our salvation. Is described by Jesus in John 17, 24 as beholding his glory. We will see the king and his beauty someday. We shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. 1 John 3. 3. John Owen, the greatest of the Puritan theologians, said. A constant view of the glory of Christ will revive our souls and cause our spiritual lives to flourish and thrive. The reason why the spiritual life of our souls decay and withers is because we fill our minds full of other things. But when the mind is filled with thoughts of Christ and his glory, these things will be expelled. This is how our spiritual life is revived. So I want you to know that whatever your spiritual problem is today, whether it's the fact that you're unsaved, whether it's the fact that you're discouraged, Whether it's the fact that you're very, very weak, the answer that I would give to you is the same in every case. You must look to Jesus You must look to him in faith. You must see him for who he is. You must look at the joy that is set before you of spending eternity with him, and you must find your strength in him. I read in a book this week and said that 10% of the people in any church , in every church, are on spiritual life support. That is, to flesh out the analogy, it's like they're on a ventilator and they've got an IV hooked up to them and all these monitors, they're just barely alive. And it's not that always it's the same people. Like four years from now, you might be that person. Because of situations and sin and difficulties in your life, you're now on life supports. And the answer for you today, if you would say, I feel like I'm on spiritual life support, I feel like I'm on a ventilator. I mean, I'm really, really weak. I'm not the Christian I used to be. You know what the answer is? You must look to Jesus because by looking to him, your heart will revive. And you will be strengthened. And you must keep looking to him. And if you're here this morning and you are lost in your sins , The only hope you have is to look into him and be ye saved all the ends of the earth. May God help you to put your faith and trust in Christ alone. Let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you that it has exactly what we need to hear. I pray that you would help us, your people, to turn our eyes. Upon Jesus. Lords in Jesus' name we pray. Amen