Give your Bibles this evening. Would you per please turn with me to the third chapter of the book of Genesis? History tends to record first occurrences. The Wright brothers are credited with being the first human beings in flight. Sir Edmund Hillary was the first man to climb Mount Everest, and Neil Armstrong was the first man to set foot on the moon. This evening I'd like us to consider another first occurrence, but this one is far more significant. I'm speaking of a text that has been traditionally known as the Proto-Evangelum. This term means the first good news This word has been used to describe Genesis 3:15 since at least the year 160 A. D. by a church father named Justin. He rightly saw that this text was the first announcement of the gospel. But he was not the first person to see this as a reference to the Messiah. We know that at least 250 years before the coming of Christ, Jewish rabbis identified this text as messianic. Now let me add that many modern critical scholars, that is, scholars who don't believe in the inspiration of Scripture, who reject the fundamentals of the faith fail to see any mention of Christ or the gospel in this passage. They view it as a mythological passage that was given to explain why people tend to have a fear of snakes. But this passage is not found in Scripture to explain why people have a dread of snakes, but why They need a great Savior. Martin Luther said this text embraces and comprehends within itself everything noble and glorious that is to be found anywhere in Scripture. Charles Spurgeon said, this is the first gospel sermon that was ever delivered upon the surface of the earth. Some theologians see Genesis 3. 15 as the verse that establishes the essential storyline of Scripture. I have a children's book based on this verse entitled, How the Snake Crusher Brings Us Back to the Garden. Another writer says, here an embryo is the whole gospel. Now I say all that so that you understand that this is a very significant verse. So look with me, please, at Genesis 3. 15. It says, and I will put enmity between thee and the woman. And between thy seed and her seed, it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Tonight, as we prepare to receive the Lord's table, I'd like us to consider how the Messiah would come to save sinners. And there are four brief points that I want to bring out of this verse. The first comes not so much from the verse itself as from the context of the verse. And that is that the Messiah Would come as a messenger of grace. Genesis chapter 3 is one of the most significant chapters in the Bible. It records the fall of man, it explains why we live in a world of dysfunction. This chapter explains why we are all sinners and why we will all die. Romans 5. 12 says, Wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. The good news of the gospel first came to mankind in the darkness of the fall. The sin of Adam and Eve was incredibly wicked for several reasons. Let me mention some of these considerations. First of all , Because Adam and Eve had recently been placed in the garden of paradise by God Himself. They could not explain their fall because of their bad environments. Or their wicked neighbors. They were the only human beings alive, and they were literally in paradise. And yet they fell into sin. Now how long was it from creation to the fall? We don't know. Scripture doesn't say. Was it days, weeks, months, years? Perhaps the Jewish rabbis were close to the truth when they suggested that it happened on the same day that God completed creation. My point is their sin was horrible because they sinned against God, who had provided everything for them perfectly. Secondly, it was horrible because God gave them only one prohibition, only one commandment, only one thing they could not do. We read this in Genesis chapter 2, verses 16 and 17. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not eat of it, for in the day thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die. They had only one rule, and they disobeyed it. Thirdly, their guilt was great because they believed Satan over God The God who had created them and provided everything for him. They didn't listen to him. They didn't believe him, but they believed the serpent. Over the word of God. It says in Genesis 3, the opening verses, Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made, and he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden. And the woman said unto the servant , We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden, but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall eat of it, neither shall ye touch it lest ye die. And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die, for God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as God's knowing good and evil And here we see the deceiver casting aspersions upon God who has created them, and they believe a lie rather than believe The truth. But the fourth thing, and perhaps the most significant thing about their fall, is that their guilt was great because they fell and yet they did not possess originally a sin nature. Now, it it's hard for us to even kind of define this and understand this because no one here has ever not had a sin nature, or and you've never known anybody. who did not possess a sinful nature. We know that from the fall of Adam and Eve, this has passed on from one generation to the next Without a break. And so their guilt was great because they did not have that internal sinful nature. They had the ability To do what is right and to resist. They were not fallen creatures bent on doing evil like you and I, and yet they still chose to do what was wrong. And what did the Lord do to these fallen creatures that had so offended his sense of righteousness and justice? And it violated the one prohibition that he gave to them. Look with me at this chapter at verses eight to nine. And they heard the voice of the Lord walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden. And the Lord God called unto Adam and said unto him, Where art thou? This is a wonderful thing. It was God who sought these sinners, not the sinners who were seeking God. They were hiding from God, just as fallen man naturally does. He wants nothing to do with God. But God calls out to them. He initiates this reconciliation, though they are the ones that have offended him. And this is where we see God's amazing grace. Despite their blame shifting and lame excuses, the Lord did not kill them as they deserved. Remember, that was the prescribed penalty for their crime. Instead, he told them of a coming Savior Who would bear their iniquities? It is in the dark context of judgment and the fall that we see the light of the gospel. Before God even pronounced judgment upon Adam and Eve, he announced the good news of one that would bear their iniquity. The Messiah would indeed be a messenger of grace. Because grace and truth would come by Jesus Christ. Secondly, the Messiah will come. In the context of conflict. Look with me at Genesis 3:15. This opening phrase. And I will put enmity between the and the woman and between thy seed and her seed. The whole atmosphere of this verse is flavored with this term enmity, which speaks of hostility and animosity. This verse describes the great struggle of human history between good and evil. You find the same kind of panoramic view of human history in Psalm 2, which describes the unending antagonism of the world against the Lord and his anointed son. Although the woman has listened to the servant in the garden , She will now, because of the grace of God, see him in a different light. In fact, the devil would become her antagonist. That is what is expressed here. But it goes much further than that. Because the next phrase says, and between thy seed, that is the serpent's seed, and her seed. Now let me add that in Genesis 3 the serpent is not specifically identified. It doesn't say who this creature is. We already have a sense that it's more than just an animal because we have this animal that is cunning and that can talk. And in the Revelation 12, 9, and then chapter 20 and verse 2, he is identified there as the devil or Satan. Now this enmity would not just remain between Eve and Satan, but also extend to their descendants. We have this interesting description here of thy seed, which is a reference to Satan's seed. Now there is some debate among Bible scholars as to what that means. There are really only two possibilities. One is that is a reference to demons, and it's saying that Satan and his followers would prosecute an unending warfare against Christ and the truth. And that is certainly possible. We see uh demonic activity very uh very frequently in the gospel record. But I don't think that is what is in reference here. I think the reference here of thy seed is not a reference to uh fallen angels because remember they were not really children of Satan, they were fallen angels, not something that he created. But I think that this is a reference to those who are lost in darkness and are in the bondage of iniquity. You remember what Jesus said to the Pharisees in John 8:44? He said that shocking statement to them: you are of your father the devil. And the lust of your father you will do. Just imagine these are religious leaders, and he says, You're of your father the devil. There's not really anything more insulting that could have been said to them than that. We find the same idea very carefully spelled out. If you turn with me towards the very back of your Bibles and 1 John chapter 3, I want you to see this First John chapter three and verse eight. This I I hesitate in some sense to turn to this passage because it has an interpretational problem that has tripped up many people, and I don't want to get embroiled in that. But it says in verse 8 of 1 John chapter 3, he that committed sin is of the devil. Now that doesn't mean that every single one of you is of the devil. I know you've all committed sin. It's talking about someone who habitually commits sin who's in the bondage of iniquity. For the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifest that he might destroy the works of the devil. And then look at this. Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin. For his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin because he is born of God. And this the children of God are manifest and the children of the devil, whosoever doth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. For this is the message that you heard from the beginning that we should love one another, not as Cain who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother, and wherefore slew he him, because his own works were evil and his brothers righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates you. So this verse and Genesis 3. 15 is telling us that all of humanity throughout the history of the world, from this time until today, has been divided into two camps. People are either the descendants of Satan spiritually or the descendants of God. They're one or the other. And this is exactly what we see in the chapters that follow this. We read of godly people in the godly line, like Abel and Seth and Enoch. But we also read of wicked men like Cain and Lamech. You see, from now on, humanity would be divided. And when Jesus came to earth, the conflict between the forces of good and evil became even more apparent. Jesus' advent was like a direct assault on Satan's domain. This is why he encountered such animosity even from the religious leaders. It says he came unto his own, and his own received him not. Throughout his ministry, he was hounded by the religious leaders intent on killing him. This is an amazing thing. The only perfect man who ever lived On this earth was hated by most people, and he was put to death unjustly When the soldiers and religious leaders came to arrest him in the garden, Jesus said, This is your hour and the power of darkness. So Jesus the Messiah was born into a world of conflict. And his presence did not remove the devil's opposition. In fact, it magnified it. But God would use even the hatred of the devil to accomplish his great plan of redemption. So the Messiah would come as a messenger of grace. He would also come in the context of conflict. And thirdly, the Messiah would come by the birth of a woman. In Genesis 3. 15, we read of her seed, that is Eve's seed, or her descendants or offspring. The Lord could have sent the Messiah to earth directly from heaven, but that was not his plan. No, the Messiah was to be born of a woman. Now some preachers have seen in this phrase herseed a reference to the virgin birth of Christ. But this is very unlikely that this passage is alluding to that doctrine because the term just refers to offspring or descendants. Now, it's very important that we identify what is meant by this term seed or offspring or descendant here. There seems to be three aspects to this prophecy. First of all There was an immediate fulfillment. If you look at the very next chapter, Genesis chapter 4 and verse 1, you see this, and Adam knew Eve, his wife And she conceived and bare Cain and said, I have gotten a man from the Lord. And most scholars think that what she was expressing is: this is the deliverer that God has promised to me, the one who will defeat Satan, who has deceived me. And that would make sense, you know, if someone promised you that one of your offspring would be the deliverer, and shortly after that you gave birth. That might be what you would think. But of course, Cain was far from the promised deliverer. If you look a little bit later in this chapter at Genesis 4, verse 25. It says, and Adam knew his wife again, and she bare a son, and called his name Seth, for God says, She hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel, whom Cain slew. She thinks, maybe this is the promised deliverer. But she was a few thousand years off. So there was an immediate fulfillment. God did give her children, but that was not really the promise. Then there's a collective fulfillment in reference to the In reference to the patriarchs and the godly line that would come from them. If you look with me at Genesis 15 and verse 5, the Abrahamic covenants Says and he brought him forth abroad and said, Look now toward heaven and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them. And he said unto him, So shall thy seed be. And in chapters twenty-two, Genesis twenty-two, verse seventeen. We find the same sort of reference. In blessing thee, I will bless thee, and in multiplying, I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven and as the sand which is upon the seashore, and thy seed shall possess the gates of thy enemies. So there is a sense in which those who are followers of the Lord Would be set in contrast to those who are the followers of Satan. But of course, there is an ultimate fulfillment of this promise that would be realized in the Messiah. There was a prophecy of this in 2 Samuel chapter 7 in the Davidic Covenants. There, God spoke of a descendant of David that would come, who would rule In a way that David could never fulfill. He says, and you don't need to turn here, but in 2 Samuel 7. 12 it says, and when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers. I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish this kingdom. And he shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. Now, Solomon would establish a throne, but it wouldn't last forever. The ultimate fulfillment would be the Davidic descendant, the Lord Jesus Christ. And we have clear confirmation in the New Testament that this is what was in mind all the way back in Genesis 3. 15. If you turn with me now to Galatians chapter 3. Galatians Chapter Three Verse sixteen And this is going to go back specifically to the Abrahamic covenant who used the same language. Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith not to seeds, plural, as of many, but as of one, and to thy seed, which is Christ. And here Paul stresses the fact that the ultimate fulfillment of that ancient promise Would be fulfilled in Christ, that he would be the seed, the descendant of the woman who would do battle with Satan and his followers. Now if you look just at the very next chapter in Galatians, Galatians 4. 4, you see how this would come about. Galatians 4 4 says, But when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption. of sons. So the incarnation of Jesus Christ was an essential part of God's great plan of redemption. The second person of the Trinity, the eternal Son of God, became one of us. that he might save us from the bondage of sin. Let me turn you to another passage that brings out this importance of the incarnation and the defeat of Satan. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 2. Hebrews chapter 2 verse 14. Hebrews 2, 14, it says, For as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself took part of the same that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is the devil, and deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. For barely he took not on him the nature of angels, but he took on him the seed of Abraham Wherefore, in all things that behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. This is the glorious plan of redemption. That from fallen woman, from descendants of Eve, Christ would come. But he would not be tainted with sin. But he would come and he would deliver those who were in bondage to Satan because of a fall that took place many thousands of years earlier. Fourthly, we find in this great text that the Messiah will come and suffer and die. Turn back with me, please, to Genesis 3. 15 if you're not already there. Genesis 3. 15. I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed. It shall bruise thy head. And thou shalt bruise his heel. I want you to look first of all at the last phrase of this verse. And thou shalt bruise his heel. The vow in this verse Is a reference to the serpent or Satan, because he is addressing Satan here after the fall. Thou shalt bruise his heel. Remember, the Lord is addressing him. So Satan would bruise the heel of Eve's descendant, which of course is the Messiah. Notice that the word bruise is used twice in this verse, and it's the same term. In both cases , speaks here of it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. It's the same Hebrew word, and it's a very rare word. It's only found two other times in the Old Testament, and they are both poetic passages that do not give us any help in discovering the precise meaning of this term. There's some question about what root it comes from, but it could be translated to crush or to trample or to bruise or to strike at. Now, often preachers will mention that a blow to the head is fatal, but a bruise to the heel is a minor wound, and that of course is true, and there is some reference here to the facts. that that Satan's blow that he would receive at the cross would be the end of him, the beginning of the end. But let's not think that somehow the bruising of the heel is referring to some minor injury on the part of our Lord. Is being used symbolically for all of the suffering that He took for us It includes the mocking blows that he received from the soldiers and the crown of thorns that pierced his scalp, the fact that he was beaten with thirty-nine stripes. and that spikes were nailed through his wrist and ankles, and he was hung on an old rugged cross to pay the penalty that Adam and Eve had earned so long ago for their and for their fallen race that had followed them. The only way that Adam's helpless race could be free from the tyranny of Satan was through the violent death of the Son of God. And it is his gracious death that we celebrate tonight at this table. But our text does not end in defeat. But in victory. Within this verse is a promise of triumph for all who know the Lord, because it says earlier, it That is the seed of the woman, referring to the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ, shall bruise thy head. The word translated, it is translated in most versions, ancient and modern, as he, a reference to a person, the descendant of this fallen woman who was deceived by Satan. Would bruise or crush the head of Satan. In the death of Christ, the snake would be unknowingly crushed and defeated. The devil worked earnestly to crucify Eve's promised seed, not realizing that Jesus' death would deal a final blow to his aspirations. Yes, the death, the devil is still alive and active, but his doom is certain and sure. The cross was the beginning of the end. Often when military historians were examine a war They will talk about the fact that though the war did not end at a particular battle, after that it was clear as to who was going to be victorious, and it was just a matter of time. And it's like that at the cross. Yes, Satan is still here. He is still wreaking havoc in the world, but his demise has already been established. This is what the Bible expressly teaches. I want you to turn with me, please, to John chapter 12. John chapter twelve Verses 31 and following. The Lord on the eve of his crucifixion says, now is the judgment of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out, and if I be lifted up from the earth will draw all men unto me. This he signified what death he should die. But the most significant reference to this truth is found in Colossians chapter 2. Turn with me there, please. Colossians chapter 2. Look with me, please, at verse thirteen. Paul writes, and you being dead in your sins. And the uncircumcision of your flesh hath he quickened together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses. blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross. having spoiled principalities and powers, he made a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it. And the reference to principalities and powers is a reference to the devil and his demonic forces, and saying that at the cross they were defeated. That is the message of Scripture. For this purpose, the Son of God was manifest that he might destroy the works of the devil. 1 John 3. 8. Tonight, as we gather at this table, let us remember what was accomplished at the cross. Not only were our sins forgiven, But our great foe, Satan, was defeated. And because his head was crushed under the foot of our Savior, we can walk in victory because our great Savior Has won the battle. That is the confidence that we have as the children of God. Let's close in prayer. Father, I pray that you would help us. To live our Christian lives not in defeat, not in fear of Satan. I pray that you would help us to live as those who are on the winning side. And acknowledging and living in the reality that our foe has been defeated and that his doom is certain. I pray that you'd help us to live lives of victory. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.