Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to Hebrews chapter four? Hebrews chapter four. The most significant theologian in the first five centuries of the church was Augustine of Hippo. This man from North Africa was born to a Christian mother and a pagan father. As a young man, he exhibited a keen intellect and a great interest in philosophy. However, his personal life was a disaster. It was filled with immorality and pride and instability. But in the summer of the year 386, he was saved by reading Romans 13. 14. Put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. Augustine would go on to write some of the most significant theological books of all time. Some of his theology was off, but he did understand that God saves sinners. by grace. His most famous work is probably his confessions. This book he tells Of his conversion, of his inner life in one long prayer. And probably the most memorable line in that significant work Is this thou hast formed us for thyself, and our hearts are restless till they find rest in thee. Rest is one of the most beautiful words in the English language. How attractive is the idea of rest, especially in a world like ours, which is so fast-paced and where so many people struggle with anxiety? The Bible teaches that God delights to give his people rest. And this morning we are going to consider a passage that speaks more clearly about entering God's rest than any other. This is the first eleven verses of Hebrews chapter 4. This is the conclusion of the longest warning section in the book of Hebrews. These warning passages do not teach that a true believer can lose his or her salvation. The Bible says that believers are kept. By the omnipotent power of God, and that nothing can take them out of our Father's hands. However, these warning passages remind us that a person who claims to be a Christian may indeed abandon their faith because they never really possessed eternal life. And the Bible tells us that within the household of faith, within the visible church, those who gather For worship, those who claim to follow Christ, that often, if all if not always, there are some who are unbelievers. There is tares among the wheat. And so the Bible includes books like Hebrews, and the book of Hebrews includes warning passages that don't sit right with us. They don't fit our light and frothy view of the Christian life that is so prevalent and popular at this time and in our nation. The second warning passage begins with the last phrase in verse 6 of chapter 3. It says, Whose house we are If we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of hope firm until the end. And then the author of Hebrews is going to explain and imply a five-verse portion. From Psalm 95. He quotes these verses verbatim in Hebrews 3, 7 through 11. And then he begins to exhort or preach from this text. His message is beware of hardening your hearts and responding in unbelief like the Exodus generation. Now in chapter 4, the author is going to focus not so much on the unbelief that kept that generation. From entering Canaan, but he's going to focus on what he means by rest. That's what he's going to this to really focus on in the first 11 verses of chapter 4. This section is not as intense as the previous section. It's more hopeful and positive. But there is still something very serious and significant about it. I want you to know I want to show you. This may seem redundant to you, but I want you to see how often in this section, the end of chapter three, the beginning of chapter four, the author speaks of entering into Rest. Look with me at chapter three and verse eleven. So I swear in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest. Now look with me at chapter 3 and verse 18. And to whom swear he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believe not. Look now look with me at chapter 4 and verse 1. Let us therefore fear lest a promise being left us of entering into his rest and if you should seem to come short of it. Now look with me at chapter 4 and verse 3. You'll find it twice there. For we which have believed do enter into rest. As he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, they shall enter into my rest. Now look with me at verse five, and in this place again. if they shall enter into my rest. Now look with me down at verse 10, for he that has entered into his rest, he also has ceased from his own works as God did from his. And then finally verse 11. Let us labor therefore to enter into that rest. So in this brief portion of Scripture, eight times the author speaks of entering into God's rest. So what does that mean? And what does that look like? There's a common misconception. That is prevalent in Christianized nations like ours and throughout Western Europe : that everyone who dies enters into rest. Will say he's gone to his rest. We have perhaps the most common epitaph on a tombstone is rest in peace. And this comes from an ancient Christian prayer that the departed would enter God's rest. But in time, we have come to believe that everyone who dies enters into God's rest. So often I attend funerals Where the preacher either directly or indirectly gives the impression that when everyone dies, they go to their eternal rewards. That has become standard even in some churches that claim to preach the gospel. But the Bible does not teach that. And if all that we had was verse one of chapter four, we could disprove that common Misconception. Look at verse 4. Chapter 4, verse 1. Let us therefore fear, lest a promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of it. Now, if you are paying attention at all, the natural question you should ask yourself is this How could a person be certain that they are going to enter God's rest? God's word, of course, answers that question in many places and in different using different language, but there is no place in the Bible that speaks of entering God's rest more clearly. And the passage that we're going to consider together this morning. So I would have preached you on be sure to enter God's rest. And I want to begin with this question. How can you be sure that you enter God's rest? First of all, you should maintain a healthy fear of failing to enter God's rest. Look at verse 1. Let us therefore fear lest a promise being left us of entering into his rest any of you should seem to come short of it. Let me remind you that the chapter and verse divisions in your Bible are not inspired and were not in the original text. And so this verse that I just read to you flows right out of what comes before it. And so to really catch the impact of this verse, we have to consider the context. So let me begin reading at chapter 3 and verse 12, the section of exhortation, right into this chapter. Look with me at 3. 12. Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief and departing from the living God. But exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin For we are made partakers of Christ if we hold the beginning of our confidence steadfast unto the end, while it is said, Today if you will hear his voice, harden not your hearts as in the provocation. For some when they heard did provoke, howbeit not all that came out of Egypt by Moses. But with whom was he grieved forty years? Was it not with them that had sinned, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness, and to whom swear he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believe not? So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief. Let us therefore fear, lest a promise being left us of entering into his rest any of you should seem to come Short of it. He's using this historic example of the children of Israel in the wilderness to make a very strong point with them. It's this, if these redeemed people who were delivered out of Egypt by the miraculous power of God could not enter the promised land. Then you need to be very careful that you don't fail to enter God's rest because of your unbelief. In Hebrews 3:12, the beginning of this section, the writer calls on them to take heed. And we when we went through that verse, we said it means see to it. But here he calls on them to fear. Now I wonder what you think of that exhortation. Perhaps you would object and say, what about all those verses that tell us not to fear? Indeed, fear not is the most common command given in Scripture. Perhaps you even thought of that verse that says, God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind, 2 Timothy. Timothy one seven or first John four eighteen, there is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out fear. So how do we reconcile these scriptures? Well, first of all, we must realize that the Bible never contradicts itself. It's the best explanation of any scripture is other scriptures. The Bible, as you probably know, repeatedly calls on us to fear the Lord There are numerous passages like this in the Old Testament. Perhaps the most famous is Proverbs 9:10. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the holy is understanding. But the fear of the Lord is not just an Old Testament concept. It's found in the New Testament as well. Let me read just a few verses without comment. There are many more than this. It says in the summary statement in Acts 9. 31, then had the churches rasped throughout Judea and Galilee and Samaria. And were edified, walking in the fear of the Lord, and in the comfort of the Holy Ghost were multiplied It says in 2 Corinthians 7 1, Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness. in the fear of God. And Philippians chapter 2, verses 12 through 13, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 17, pass the time of your sojourning here in fear. And Hebrews chapter twelve, verses twenty-eight and twenty-nine, let us have grace whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear, for our God is a consuming fire. So the Bible is clear from cover to cover that we are to fear the Lord But what does that mean? Let me first of all say there are two types of the fear of the Lord. There is the fear of a slave. This is the viewpoint that veer that views God with terror and results in hiding from God. This is based on an ignorance of God. It's based on a mistrust of God. This is how the lost man naturally responds to Responds to God. He hides from God like Adam and Eve did in the garden. But that's not the fear that we're called to adopt in Scripture. But then there's the fear of a son. This views God with all an adoration that results And seeking the Lord. This is based on a relationship of trust that results in obedience. Perhaps the best example of this is like a little child. Who respects his dad and loves his dad, but also fears his dad when he has sinned and done wrong. There's this mixture of love and reverence. And this is what a healthy fear of the Lord looks like. The fear of God is essential to our spiritual health. Our English word holy comes from the same root as whole, W H O L E. A person who is whole is healthy. There's an undeniable link between the fear of God and holy living. A verse I read a moment ago, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness. in the fear of God. So what does a healthy fear of God look like? Well, let's think about it with three components like a three-legged stool. First of all, it includes a reverent respect for God. We have a reverence for him. That he is the almighty creator of the universe, and we are weak and finite and ignorant creatures. Secondly, it includes a fear of damaging this relationship because we love him and we want to know him more fully. We don't want to hinder that relationship in any respect. But thirdly, it includes a healthy fear of the consequences that will come to us. If we disobey the Lord. And the author of Hebrews will talk about this in chapter 12, about the chastening of the Lord, like the chastening of a father. It's not pleasant. If you're truly a son of God, God will chasten you for your sin to bring you back to him. Now, what is the connection between the fear of God and our text this morning? Well, if we fear God, we will fear his warnings. And the warning in this verse is that we should fear coming short of entering into heaven. But then that raises this question. Of how can we reconcile this command that we fear coming short with what the scripture speaks about the believer's blessed assurance? This is another one of those things where we have to find a biblical balance. We have to look at everything the Scripture says about a particular issue. So often we don't want to find a balance. We like to just pick one portion of truth that we really like. But the counterbalancing tooth, we say, that's kind of disturbing and distressing to me. I think I'm just going to pretend it doesn't exist. But the Bible is the most balanced book that's ever been written. So many of our spiritual problems are due to the fact that we don't have a balanced view of certain issues. We gravitate towards extremes and we grasp this extreme and we forget the other things that the scripture says about that issue. The Bible clearly teaches that a true believer, a true believer, will never be lost because we are kept by the gracious power of God. In many of our evangelical churches, eternal security has been preached in an unbalanced way. But the Bible teaches a counterbalancing truth, the perseverance of the saints. And it's necessary for us to keep both of these in mind. And that is one of the characteristics of a true and living faith is that that true and living faith will persevere, it will endure, it will keep trusting in Christ no matter what. And if it doesn't, if it walks away, if it abandons the faith, then it never was a true living faith. So what does this practically mean? Let me mention five things Number one, it does not mean that we live every day in the terror that we just might go to hell. The Lord wants us to have the full assurance that we are his children and that nothing can separate us from his love. This fear that is called on here in chapter 4 and verse 1 is not a fear that paralyzes, but a fear that motivates. Secondly, it does not mean that we should work a little harder and try to earn our way to heaven. The Bible says that we never earn our way to heaven. In fact, your good behavior as a Christian does not earn God's love or favor. He's not going to love you more because you started having your devotions or because you've stopped being involved and indulging in some sin. You should do that. But it doesn't mean that now he's going to love you more. Because his love is rooted in his love for his son. And if you are in Christ, then his love remains unchanging. Salvation is all of grace. So when you hear me preaching through the book of Hebrews, which you will for probably at least two more years. I want you to keep this in mind. I am never ever saying you need to work a little harder to earn your salvation or work a little harder. To gain God's favor and love. That is not at all what this book or any other biblical book teaches But it does mean, this verse does mean that we should humbly listen to these warnings. Notice that the godly man that wrote this book of Hebrews includes himself in this admonition. He says, let us fear. This man who wrote scripture, who was filled with the Spirit of God, who was obviously a godly, mature man. He even includes himself in this warning. He doesn't say that you guys need to be careful. I don't have to be careful, but you need to be careful. No, he includes himself. I think a key to understanding what we're called to do here is to be humble and vigilant. There's a similar warning that Paul gives to the Gentile believers in Romans 11. He says, be not high-minded, but fear. Don't think that what God has done to the Jewish people means that in some way you're superior and you don't need to be concerned. No, you need to fear as well. You see, pride leads to presumption, but humility leads to obedience, especially to the Word of God. Number four, this call on us to fear means that we should fear developing a callous heart towards deliberate sin in our lives. We must never think this sin doesn't really matter because after all, I'm definitely going to heaven And number five, this admonition means that we must continue to walk by faith and to trust in God. We have a class going on in here for Sunday school, and I'm so happy that we do this going through the classic allegory pilgrim's progress. In Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, he describes a fellow traveler named Ignorance that came to the gate of the celestial city. He knocked and asked to come in the city. And he told the gatekeepers that he ate and drank in the presence of the king and had taught in his name. But he had no certificate that would give him entrance into the celestial city. So the king sent two angels to bind him hand and foot, and they took him away. And Bunyan concludes his great masterpiece with this comment. Then I saw that there was a way to hell even from the gates of heaven. And we don't like that. If we were writing a Christian allegory today, we would omit that section. It doesn't fit with our theology perfectly. It doesn't fit with our sentiments that a person Could appear to be God. They could appear to have gifts and talents and to be among the people of God all their life, and yet they could come short. They could seem to be like a fellow traveler on their way to the celestial city, but in fact they were an imposter. We don't like to think that way. It's too disturbing. But it's what we find in Scripture, and it's what we find in the book of Hebrews. So how can you be sure to enter God's rest? First of all, you should maintain a healthy fear of failing to enter God's rest. Secondly, you should recognize that hearing the gospel with the people of God is not enough to enter God's rest. Look with me at verse 2. For unto us was the gospel preached as well as unto them. But the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith and them that heard it. Now the first word in this verse is the word four. Here the author is explaining why he had exhorted them not to come short of entering heaven. And the reason he says this is because the Exodus generation came short of entering Canaan. And now he's going to show them that there are some parallels between that generation. And these first century followers of Christ. He says, first of all, for unto us was the gospel preached. And he's speaking there about These Jewish believers, probably meeting in a house church, probably in Rome. We can't know for certain. And he says that they had heard the gospel preached to them. And includes himself in this, you'll notice once more. Now I want you to turn back with me to chapter 2, please, of Hebrews. This is what we encountered in the first warning passage in this book, Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 1. Therefore, we ought to give the more earnest heed of the things which w we have heard, lest at any time we should let them slip. For if the words spoken by angels would steadfast in every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation? Which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him. God also bearing them witness both with signs and wonders and with diverse miracles and gifts of the Holy Ghost according to his own will. Now the key passage is verse three here. He's saying that these Old Testament believers, in a sense, heard the gospel that was delivered by angels, referring to the law. He says, but we heard it not from the Lord, that is not from the Lord Jesus Christ directly, but was confirmed unto us by them that heard him. That's a reference to the apostles. Remember I said in verse 3, this is the reason why we don't think the Apostle Paul was the author, because Paul was always quick in his writings to say, I am an apostle. I did see Jesus. I did hear his voice on that day on the road to Damascus. But this man says, I was among those who heard it not from the Lord, but from the apostles So these people he's writing to probably couple or three decades earlier had apostles come to them. And preach the gospel and tell them all about Christ and tell them all about his death and his resurrection. And they followed in faith. They heard the gospel preached. They had great privileges, and their apostolic authority was attested to By the miracles it says in verse 4, there of what they performed. So these early believers that he's writing to had this privilege. Of hearing from people who heard from Christ Himself. But they should not assume that because they heard the good news, they were in fact trusting in the gospel. What was the good news in this Old Testament parallel? I invite you to keep a finger here in Hebrews 4 and turn back with me to Exodus chapter 6. There are actually many passages I could turn to. I'm referring simply to the covenant that God had made with his people, that he would bring them into a land of rest. Exodus chapter six, verse one The Lord said unto Moses, Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharaoh. For with a strong hand he shall let them go, and with a strong hand shall he drive them out of his land. And God spake unto Moses and said unto him, I am the Lord. And I appeared unto Abraham and unto Isaac and unto Jacob by the name of God Almighty, but by my name Jehovah was I not known to them. And I have also established my covenant with them and given them the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, wherein they were strangers, and I have also heard the groanings of the children of Israel whom the Egyptians keep in bondage, and I have remembered my covenant. Wherefore, saith unto the children of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. And I will ridge you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with a stretched-out arm and with great judgments. and I will take you to me for a people, and I will be to you a God, and ye shall know that I am the Lord your God, which bringeth you out from under the burdens of the of Egypt, and I will bring you into the land people. concerning which I did swear to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, and I will give it you for an heritage. I am the Lord's. God made this covenantal promise to Abraham, and part of that promise was that God would bring them into this land of rest. And God did bring them into that land of rest, but it was their children and not this generation. Now turn with me, if you would, to Numbers chapter 14. We've been looking at this chapter a lot in our study of Hebrews because it's what's being referred to here. Numbers chapter 14, I'd like to begin reading at verse 7. And they spake unto the company of the children of Israel, saying, the land which we pass through to search it, it is an exceeding good land. If the Lord delights in us, then he will bring us into this land and give it to us, a land which floweth with milk and honey. Only rebel not ye against the Lord, neither fear ye the people of the land, for they are bred for us. Their defense is departed from them, and the Lord will be with us and fear them. I like the way he says they are bred for us. This is an idiom. Our idiom that would match would be it's going to be a piece of cake. We can take these walled cities. We can take these giants, say Joshua and Caleb. And they tried to inspire the people. They gave them the good news about the good land But as you all know, the people responded in unbelief. They didn't listen to the voice of these two men of faith They listened to ten spies who said, Oh, the city is walled up and they're giants and we're like grasshoppers before them, and we'll be completely demolished and crushed and killed and wiped out as a people if we try to enter the lands. They didn't believe the promise of God. They didn't respond in faith to the good news. And so they did not enter into God 's rest. Now turn back with me, please, to Hebrews 4. When it says that not being mixed with faith in them that heard it, it's saying not only did they not respond in faith, but it's saying that they did not share the same faith. that Joshua and Caleb possessed, that is referring to them as those who heard it, those who listened and obeyed the promises of God. The people as a whole rejected their message to move forward and take the land. In fact, they were so angry with them, they wanted to execute them because trusting in God seemed to them to be dangerous and foolish. So what relevance does this ancient Old Testament example and this writing from 2,000 years ago have for us in the 21st century? I want to pause here and make some application. Number one, you must never base your assurance of salvation on the fact that you have heard hundreds of gospel messages preached by godly men. I'm afraid that many people think this way. The Exodus generation heard Moses, the man of God. In fact When they were at Sinai, they heard the voice of God. Over the years, I've had hundreds of people tell me, I believe. That God spoke to them in an audible voice. I don't think what they heard was like what the people ha heard at Sinai. They say it sounded like thunder. And they pleaded with Moses, tell God not to talk to us anymore. I often think of that when I hear people saying, I just wish God would speak to me. If he did, you would say, That's enough. I can't take it. These people heard the voice of God. They saw his miracles. They saw him divide the water. They saw the manna coming from the sky. They saw how he brought water out of the rock. And they heard from this man of God, Moses, who wasn't perfect. But he's one of the greatest leaders in the history of the world, one of the a man who knew God. In fact, at times his face glowed with the glory of God because he had been in his presence on the mountain. They could never say, you know, if only we had better leadership, we would have made it. That excuse was not valid. And so you must never think that because you've been around godly people, and because you've heard the good news And because you can repeat John 3:16 or the basic points of the gospel, that you are therefore a believer. I can't tell you how many times I've talked to people whose lives were absolutely entrenched in sin. They were a slave to sin in absolute bondage. And I would start to share the gospel with me and they would start to f Finish the verses for me. Because they knew these words. They had heard this in their childhood. But they never really believed. They never really trusted and committed to the gospel. So you must never think That you are going to heaven because you have heard some really good sermons in your life Let me remind you that Judas heard the only sinless preacher who ever lived, the Lord Jesus Christ, and yet he never entered into God's rest. Number two, you must never base your assurance of salvation on the fact that you're among the people of God. Those Jews in the wilderness wondering saw the mighty works of God and enjoyed miraculous provisions from his hand every day, and yet they ultimately responded in unbelief, and they did not enter into God's rest. It's important, as you've heard me recently preach, for the people of God to gather on the Lord's Day. It strengthens us. Our fellowship does something that live stream can never replicate. We need that face-to-face interaction with our brothers and sisters. We need to blend our voices and singing praises to God together. We need to remind ourselves that I'm part of a family. But you must never think that because you're there with the people of God, that therefore automatically you are one of them. Just because you attend church and have lots of Christian friends does not mean that you will someday enter heaven. I want to appeal to our young people for just a moment. Many of you come from good Christian homes. Your moms and dads know the Lord. And they bring you here, some of them more than once a week. Perhaps you come to youth group. And you may have made a profession of faith when you were a child, and perhaps you really were born again there. I'm not trying to sow doubt or unbelief in your hearts. But it's also possible that you are just being compliant and trying to please your parents. And as you grow older and you come of age , You have to ask yourself, do I have a faith of my own? Am I just parroting certain pat answers that mom and dad give? Or that I heard in Sunday school class, or do these truths, are these truths that I'm banking my whole life on? I believe these to be so. They are my beliefs. And I will never stray from them. Do you truly know the Lord? Or are you just trying to fit in with your Christian family and friends? So how could you be sure that you will enter God's rest? Number one, maintain a healthy fear of failing to enter God's rest. Number two, you should realize that hearing the gospel with the people of God is not enough Now both of these answers, first two that I've given, are negative. But now I want to move to some positive answers. How can I be certain that I will enter God's rest? That brings me to number three. You must realize that only those who believe enter God's rest. Look with me at the first phrase in chapter three. For we which have believed do enter into rest. Notice that this verse once again begins with four. Indicating that in some way it's connected with what comes before it. The first two verses speak of how people come short of entering into God's rest. And this causes the attentive reader to say, Well, you've talked about how people fail to enter God's rest, but how do they actually enter into God's rest? And so now the author of Hebrews provides the answer, for we which have believed do enter into rest. Those who enter the promised land enter by faith, and those who enter God's rest also enter by faith. So here after the stern warning, we have the author's gracious affirmation that he believes that his beliefs that his hearers will enter. This is often, by the way, what we find in these warnings. Like he will say in chapter six, after a very stern warning that's on the horizon, but I am persuaded better things of you. Now several important questions arise from this opening phrase. First of all, what is this rest? The foundational idea of this whole passage is that entering into that rest of Canaan, that rest that God had promised those Old Testament people, is analogous or a type. Of us entering into the rest of heaven. But it raises the question : is this a place like Canaan? And the answer is yes, the author of Hebrews is going to describe heaven as a city with foundations, as a country, as the city of the living God, as a kingdom which cannot be moved, and as a continuing city. Heaven is not some religious fantasy. It's not a state of mind. It is a real place. But it's also more than a place. This rest designates a spiritual state. And that raises a second question. When does a believer enter into this rest? There is very much a sense in which you enter into the rest of God the moment you believe. There is often a great sense of relief. That the confessing, repenting believer finds, I am now at rest. Peace is one of the lasting legacies that Christ left to his followers. In the upper room, the night before he died, he said. Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. The moment you believe you are reconciled to God's, that animosity, that hostility is gone But the primary emphasis of this text is on a future rest. You see, we are still on our pilgrimage to our heavenly home. This is another one of those already not yet aspects of the Christian life. There's a sense in which we're already saved. that we possess eternal life, but there's also a sense that we have yet to really enjoy what eternal life is all about But perhaps the most important question that arises from this statement is what kind of faith is required to enter God's rest. Faith is a word that's still thrown around in our culture today. People say things like, you just got to believe, man. And it's become nothing more than like a mantra or a positive kind of mindset that people are to adopt. But what is biblical faith? This is an appropriate time to ask this question because verse 3 of chapter 4 is actually the first time in Hebrews that we encounter a form of the Greek word for faith. So I want to look ahead at what, in a very quick and concise way, at what this book teaches about faith. Turn with me, please, to Hebrews chapter 6. Verses eleven and twelve The author exhorts, and we desire that every one of you do show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end, that ye be not slothful, but followers of them who through faith and patience Inherit the promise. So notice the connection with faith here is patience, and that word there is endurance or perseverance. What is the one of the characteristics of a true faith? And that is it endures. It keeps going. It doesn't stop. You ever seen this in the life of believers? They go through one trial and one difficulty after another. They may lose their spouse. They may lose a child. They may lose their health, they lose all of these things, but they keep clinging to Christ. They may struggle with doubts and with despair, but they never let go because they are empowered by the Spirit of God. A true faith is a tenacious faith. It's a beautiful thing. It will not be broken. It may be cast down. It may become weak, but it will never die because it is founded in God. A temporary faith is not a real faith at all. Secondly, saving faith results in a new way of life. Turn with me ahead to Hebrews chapter 10. This is one of the key passages in the book. where the theme is so clearly brought out. Hebrews 10 verse 38, please. Now the just shall live by faith. But if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him. But we are not of them who draw back unto perdition. But of them that believed the saving of the soul. He says, we true believers, we don't draw back, we don't abandon Christ, we don't renounce our faith. No, we continue to believe to the saving of the soul. And notice this is how we live. The just shall live by faith. It is a way of life. Now look with me at the very next verse, chapter 11 and verse 1. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for. The evidence of things not seen. This is not so much a definition of faith as it is a description of faith. And here we see that faith is always future -focused. It's not based on what I can see, on what I can prove. I've often talked to Agnostics and atheists over the year, and they would say, you know, if God could prove his existence or could could prove that he is real or he's prove that he is really the God of the Bible, then I would believe. And I said, then it wouldn't be believing, would it? It wouldn't be faith. Faith is not based on sight, but on the promises of God It's future focus. That Exodus generation did not really believe that God would give them victory over those walled cities of Canaan. They saw the giants They saw the walled cities. They saw all the power that the world possessed. They said, there's no way we can do that. Because they didn't believe the promises of God's. And we see in this famous chapter of Hebrews 11 that faith is the only way to please God. But without faith, it is impossible to please Him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, that is, that he exists, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Now there's passages that I've looked at in Hebrews that mention faith have not mentioned the content of the gospel. In other words, what is it that we must believe? We must believe the gospel. That we are sinners, that Jesus is the Son of God, that He died on the old wugged cross in our place, and that He rose again the third day. These are the things that we must believe, the things that are clearly taught in God's scriptures. But what are the characteristics of a true faith? What does that really look like? Well, first of all, it's helpful to think of it I I I think in three parts. First of all, there there must be There must be something that we have come to know. No one can be saved who doesn't know the gospel. You have to know certain things. You have to know the content of the things that I just mentioned. You have to understand the essential truths of the gospel, that we are great sinners, but that Christ is a great Savior. And that he has died for us. And that by placing our faith in him, we can be saved. So we must know certain things. We must hear the gospel. This is why we send out missionaries and gospel preachers. Because how will they believe unless they hear the good news? But secondly, there has to be an agreement. There has to be an assent. You have to say, Yes, I believe these things that I've heard are true. You have to nod your head to that and say, yes, I believe that there was a man named Jesus Christ who was the Son of God. Who died for my sins and rose again the third day and is now at the right hand of his Father on high. But it must go beyond just mental assent, like nodding your head, like I suppose that there was once a civil war. I suppose that there was a man named Abraham Lincoln. It's not just ascent. You must have that ascent, but it's got to go beyond that. This is what James is getting at when he says the demons also believe and tremble. The demons know the gospel, they know that Jesus is the Son of God, but they're not going to heaven No, that final aspect of saving faith is there must be a commitment, a trust, a reliance In Christ alone, where you say, this is my only hope. This is what I'm relying upon. This is the basis, the foundation. by which I have the hope of someday being in God's eternal rest. And so often people might have an intellectual of sense, like that person in the bondage of sin who would finish the verses for me and nod their head. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I've heard all that before. They know the truth, but they have not embraced the truth for themselves. Saving faith is the only way to please God. So let me ask you, has Christ changed your life? Are you trusting in Christ's death and resurrection as your only hope? If you do, you will enter into God's rest. Now I want to hasten to finish up my final point, and that is that you should understand that the opportunity to enter God's rest remains open today. This is what he says in Hebrews chapter 4. The last half of verse 3 into verse 5 Now, if you're paying close attention, you may have noticed that I did not comment on one phrase in verse 1, a promise being left us. The reason I didn't explain this phrase is because it's addressed in the verses that we're considering now. What is the promise? It is the promise that God 's people will enter into God's rest. The author of Hebrews is going to prove from the Old Testament that God's rest is still available today. And this is what we have in the verses That follow, look with me at the last part of that. It says, if they shall enter into my rest, although the works were finished from the foundation of the world, for he spake in a certain place of the seventh day. On this wise, and God did rest the seventh day from all his works, and in this place again, if they shall enter into my rest The fact that the Exodus generation failed to enter God's rest does not mean that his rest is not available today. How does the author of Hebrews prove this? Well, he makes a connection between Psalm 95 and verse 11 and Genesis chapter 2 and verse 2. This is what he says in verses four and five, for he spake in a certain place of the seventh day on this wise, and God did rest the seventh day from all his works. and in this place again if they shall enter into my rest. There he is connecting it again to Psalm 95 and verse 11. The idea is that God began his rest on the first Sabbath day and continues that rest to this day. In other words, the opportunity to enter God's rest was not closed when the exother generation failed to enter Canaan because of their unbelief. How do we know that? Because David writing centuries after the wilderness generation failed to enter, and Psalm 95 says that this rest was still available in his time. He says, today, if you will hear his voice. And the author of Hebrews, writing a thousand years later, says to his audience, Today if you will hear his voice, And not respond in unto belief, but in faith you can enter into God's rest. And now I am speaking 2,000 years after this writer of Hebrews, and I'm here to say. That today, if you will hear his voice, you can enter into God 's rest. And this is confirmed in the first part of verse 3 where it says, for we which do believe do enter into rest. There's two lies that Satan likes to tell sinners. The first one is, don't worry about your sin God is a God of love and mercy and compassion. He hasn't stopped you. He hasn't brought great difficulty into your life. It obviously doesn't really matter to him. So just keep on pursuing your sin and he'll forgive you at the end. You'll be alright. But then the other lie that he tells people is this. You've messed up so much, you've sinned so horribly, you've done so many shameful things, there's no point in coming to him. Because the door is closed. You can't get in. And so some people refuse to come because they think it's hopeless. And let me say something, tie up some loose ends from a message I preached two weeks ago. Remember when I talked about the fact that that that Exodus generation, when they refused to go in an unbelief After God told them and swore in his wrath that they would never go in. He took an oath by himself, because there's no one greater than God. That they weren't going to go in. They said, All right, all right, we'll go in. They said, Don't go in. Moses said, Don't go in. They went in and they were defeated. And then I read to you three other passages in Hebrews that says that when a person apostasizes, there's no going back. And a number of you came with questions to me after that, and understandably because it's a very disturbing thing. And this is the thing I want to say. You and I cannot definitively tell when someone is apostasized. Because someone says they're now an atheist doesn't mean, oh, they're an apostasy. They can never come back to the Lord's. They may be saying that for shock value. They may be very confused in their life. They may have read some strange internet blog and and they've come to this conclusion, but two weeks later they're going to say something different. Don't say, oh, that person's definitely an apostasy. This is exactly what it talks about in the Bible, and there's no hope for them If you're a parent and your child claims not to believe the gospel anymore, you should continue to pray for them, that they would come to believe the gospel, because it's very likely that they have not finally apostatized. That warning was for people not to calculate I can live in sin and I can I can enjoy the pleasures of sin for a number of years, and at the end of my life I can kind of cheat God and repent of my sins and go to heaven and have the best of both worlds. No, your heart will be hardened and you will never do that. But if you're here and you don't know the Lord And you believe the door is open. It's open. The invitation is still open. I I think it's wonderful that in the book The scriptures in the last book of the Bible, Revelation, the last chapter, some of the very last verses are an invitation for the reader to believe And so you should not believe the lie of Satan that the door is closed and that you cannot come if indeed the Spirit of God God has tugged at your heart and prodded you to come in faith. How do you really believe the gospel? It's by believing in Christ alone. The Bible teaches that if the Spirit of God is convicting you of sin and convincing you that these things are true, you should respond in faith immediately, lest your heart become hardened and callous to the gospel. 2 Corinthians 6. 2 says, Behold, now is the acceptable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. We're going to sing a hymn in just a moment, but I want you to listen to these words. Come every soul by sin oppressed. There's mercy with the Lord. And he will surely give you rest by trusting in his word. Only trust him. Only trust him. Only trust him now. He will save you. He will save you. He will save you now. Won't you come and put your faith in Christ alone and enter God 's promised rest? Let's pray, Father. Help us to consider what we've heard today seriously, carefully. Give us ears to hear and eyes to see. And for those who are in this assembly this morning, who are not your children, who are lost in their sins, who do not have a true and lasting faith, I pray that today would be their day of salvation For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen