If you have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to the book of Titus? Titus chapter two. One of the greatest preachers of the first half of the 20th century was a British man named Dr. G. Campbell Morgan. He had very influential ministry in the United States and in Great Britain. He had four sons, and they all became preachers. Someone once visited their home, and as they were all seated there in the drawing room, he asked them, Who is the greatest preacher in the family? And everyone pointed at the mother. Every mother is a teacher. And every mother has a profound impact on her children. Mothers give children their first impressions of the world and more importantly of God. Their task can hardly be overemphasized. We've all heard the expression, the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world. And the Bible indeed elevates the role of mothers. Most of the information that we have in the Bible about mothers comes by way of example. For instance, today throughout America, as Mother's Day sermons are preached, most of the texts will be about an historic mother like Eve or Sarah or Mary or Hannah. And that's because there's very little direct, specific instruction in the Bible given to mothers. And so that makes the instruction that is found in Scripture all the more precious when we think of Old Testament passages concerning motherhood, we instantly think of the virtuous woman in Proverbs 31. And in the New Testament, we have some brief instruction for women found in Ephesians and Colossians and 1 Peter. But these passages deal more with a woman's role as a wife than as a mother. But in Titus chapter 2, there is a concise admonition that is given to the younger women. In verses four and five. And although the word mother is not used, it is clearly addressing women who are in their childbearing years and addressing them in their role. as mothers. Look with me at Titus chapter 2, verses 4 and 5. That they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children, to be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed. Before we really begin to take apart these verses, I want to provide some background for the book of Titus. This is one of three books in the New Testament that are known as the pastoral epistles. We have 1st and 2nd Timothy and Titus. These books were written by Paul to young men in the ministry. And one of those young men was a man named Titus. Look with me at the opening verses of this book. Titus chapter 1, verse 1. It begins, Paul, a servant of God. and an apostle of Jesus Christ according to the faith of God's elect and the acknowledging of the truth which is after godliness. In hope of eternal life, which God that cannot lie promised before the world began, but hath in due times manifested his word through preaching which is committed unto me according to the commandment of God our Savior, to Titus, my own son, after the common faith. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior. Titus was one of Paul's Greek converts, and he was ministering as a pastor on the island of Crete. He found ministering to these people to be very demanding. He had to contend with a strange cultural blend of false teaching. If you'll look with me , At verse 10 of chapter 1, it says, For there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, especially they of the circumcision. Whose mouths must be stopped, who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not for filthy lucre sake One of themselves, even a prophet of their own, said, The Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, slow bellies. This witness is true, wherefore rebuke them sharply that they may be sound in the faith. not giving heed to Jewish fables and the commandments of men that turn from the truth. Unto the pure all things are pure, but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure. But even their mind and conscience is defiled. They profess that they know God, but in their works they deny him, being abominable and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobates There was a blend of Jewish legalism, he speaks of the circumcision here, but there was also a blend of pagan antinomianism that is The idea that the law does not impact me, I can live however I want. Those two things do not seem to be compatible, but in some strange way they were present there on the island of Crete. And Paul writes to young Titus to encourage him, because it's clear that he is facing some great difficulty. This is essentially a missionary work. And missionaries who go to pagan cultures often face a very daunting task. Especially in regards to the family. And so Paul is going to touch on this. Now I want you to notice the keynote of Paul's instruction to Titus in chapter 1 and verse 16. He speaks of good work. Good works. In chapter 2 and verse 6, he speaks of a pattern of good works. In chapter 2, In verse 14, he calls on them to be a peculiar people, zealous of good works. In chapter 3 and verse 1, they are to be ready to every good work. He speaks about in chapter 3 and verse 8 to be careful to maintain good works. And again, the same thing is found in verse 14. So the book of Titus is all about the practical outworking of the gospel. in the lies of of God's people, which he calls good works. Of course, good works has almost taken on a negative connotation or minds because we often think of a moralism or people thinking that they can work their way to heaven. That is not what Titus is about. But the fact is when we have been saved by the grace of God, it should produce fruit in our lives. The fruit of good works. And that is what Paul is exhorting young Titus to preach to his people. Now in chapter 2, Paul is going to give specific instructions for different groups of people in the congregation. Notice this. In verse 3, the aged women, in verses 4 and 5, the younger women, in verse 6, young men, and in verse 9, the servants. And in every case Paul's concern is their testimony in the community that they would live in such a way that would properly represent the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now our focus today, of course, on Mother's Day is on the younger women that are mentioned here in verses 4 and 5. And what we have here in a very concise statement in these two verses are the essential truths for Christian mothers. Or we could say what every Christian mother needs to know. And so I want us to look at this. I want you to notice, first of all, that Christian mothers should actively seek to be mentored by mature Christian women. Look at how this folds into the admonition to the older women in verse 3. It says, the aged women likewise that they be in behavior as becometh holiness. not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things, that they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children. I want you to notice that the advice that Paul gives for the younger women is embedded in the instructions to the older women in the church. It's kind of an indirect instruction that he's giving. And what we see here that it's God's plan in the church that the older, mature women in the faith would mentor the younger women and the high calling of motherhood. Now I want us to consider briefly some implications of this model. Number one , This mentoring relationship implies that motherhood is a very difficult task. It's very rewarding, but it's also very challenging. It brings to light many questions and issues that a woman has never considered before. And therefore it's very helpful to have a woman who has already navigated these waters to give you advice, encouragement, and affirmation. Secondly, this instruction requires mothers to be humble enough to ask for help. Parenting makes a person feel very vulnerable I don't know of any parent who honestly walks around saying, I am like a great parent. You know, you may have a mug on your office that says the world's greatest dad. But I don't think there's anyone in the right mind, any man who thinks that he truly is the world's greatest dad, that he's really got this mastered. And I don't think there's any woman who really feels that the whole motherhood thing is a piece of cake and she's got it completely under control. One thing I discovered early on in my ministry is that there were two areas that people were very sensitive about. One was their use and handling of money, and the other was their children. You can talk to people about anything, but you have to use extreme caution. If you're going to talk about their money or their children. And yet Parents instinctively know that they need help. So what is a mother to do? Well, she should look for mature, godly women in the church. Who can give her careful practical instruction? This is God's plan It's often not fulfilled and carried out, but it's something that he admonishes here in Titus chapter 2. Now, what sort of woman should she look for? We'll look at verse 3 The aged woman likewise should be in behavior as becometh holiness. That is, she should be a godly woman. She should have a reputation in the church and among the people of God for her godliness. And then it goes on to say, not false accusers. That is not a gossip. That's what's in view there. And then it says not given uh to much one, that she's not addicted to any substance, and in fact that she is a teacher of good things. This These are the characteristics that you should look for in a mentor. Number three, the third observation I want to make is that it's very interesting that Paul does not simply say, listen, go and ask your moms about how to be a good mother. Isn't that where most women get their advice for mothering from, right? This is natural. And let me just say it's not wrong or evil or wicked, but that's not what Paul says here. Now, why is it that Paul doesn't say that? Because he is ministering in a pagan context. These are first generation Christians. And so their mothers would likely be unbelievers. And so he is saying you should not be getting your advice, your instruction from them. Instead, you should be turning to mature godly women of the church. Now, obviously if your mother is a mature godly woman, that's all the better. That's great. But some people don't have that advantage. And by the way, I want you to notice the implication in that is that there should be a big difference between the way a Christian mother parents her children. And the way an unsaved mother parents her children. There should be a drastic difference, a different worldview, different goals, different methodologies. And so if our parenting is just like our unsafe neighbors, our unsafe friends, and everybody else in the world, then something is desperately wrong. Mothers need to be distinct in their parenting, and they need to be very careful where they get their advice. Secondly, a Christian mother should learn how to practically love her husband and children. This is what she is to learn from these older, mature believers. Look. The first thing that is mentioned here, to love their husbands, to love their children. The term here in the King James Version to be sober is referring to the wise or prudent instruction. that the younger women are to receive from the older women in the church. Now I want to make some observations about The loving of husbands and loving of children. The first thing I want you to notice is that the loving of the husbands comes first in this list. This is not an accident or coincidence. This is very clearly set forth in the text. And it's a little more clear in the structure of the Greek text itself. Many mothers, even Christian mothers, can very quickly and easily fall into the mistaken trap of putting their relationship with their children before their relationship with their husband. This is a great temptation for women. For men The great temptation is to put their careers before their wife. And for women, their great temptation is to put their children before their husband. God made men and women different. Did you know that? It's not just a societal construct We are wired differently. And you can see these priorities. If you get a group of four or five women together and they're just talking, interacting, having a good time. The conversation is very likely going to turn to their children. And they're going to be showing pictures And they're going to be talking about their kids, and they're going to be all wanting to be caught up. So what is so-and-so doing? And how old are they? And what are they interested in? And that's going to be what they're talking about. That's the way God made women. You get a group of four or five men together, what are they going to be talking about? They're going to be talking probably, what do you do for a living? And how are things going, your job, and who runs that company anyway? They're going to be talking about their careers, their profession. Because this is part of the way God made men and women difference. And the temptation for both of them, for the man, it is to become a workaholic and to put his career and his advancement and his status in that company in front of his wife And for the wife, her temptation is to love and care for her children so much that she forgets about her husband and neglects him. And so the order here is that she is to love her husband. You need to remember That your spouse is the one that you have made a lifelong covenant with before God. Someone put it this way once. Your children are temporary house guests, but your husband is a permanent residence. Okay? Now with our long lives, I've seen statistics that have showed that if if you're like an average American family and and and you have children, they live at home and then hopefully eventually they'll grow and get married and establish homes of their own and and you guys you live long lives, chances are you will spend more years, just the two of you. Than when you're living in home with children. So if your children become the whole purpose of your life, and that's it , And your relationship with your husband is not that important when the children eventually leave the nest. Sometimes people are left with, who 's this strange man living in my home? Because they have not been cultivating that relationship. But that is the priority relationship in the family. That's how it all got started. And so he needs to be the one that is number one, and your children need to know that. My love for my husband is number one. I love you kids dearly, but you come second. Now, the second observation that we find because of this mentoring relationship is that loving your husband and children is not as easy as you might first imagine. I mean, you might look at this and say, why would any woman need to learn something as basic as the care of her family? I mean, isn't that natural? That's instinctive. I mean, that's what every generation in the history of the world has done. How hard could it be? Well, my answer to that objection would be this: relationships are challenging and complicated. When two sinners get married and begin to produce little sinners , There will be a lot of important issues they have to deal with. And then I think we have to remember the context that of the passage that is given here. These families were being saved out of the world, out of paganism. And so many of the basics of home life and how a family should function, they had never seen modeled before them. Things that most people here would take for granted. Well, of course that's the way you do that. Sometimes people who have come from broken homes And have never really had a functioning family that they've known in their lives. Even things that seem obvious and basic, they need to learn and they need to be taught. And so even today as the family begins and continues to disintegrate in our culture, basic It seems self-evident instruction is necessary. The culture on the island of Crete we read in chapter one was one of laziness, immorality, and self-indulgence. And so pastors like Titus had to begin with the very basics of the Christian family. And in many cases, so do pastors today. The third observation I want to make from this command is that loving your children must not become self-indulgent. Self-indulgence. This is a societal thing that is taking place in the world today, and it permeates Christians and the church as well. Undoubtedly, everyone here that's been alive for any length of time, you know that the way people parent today is different than the way people parented 50 years ago, right? You have any sense of that? Have you ever observed that? Now is it true that perhaps sometimes in the past families were a little too unloving? And not very much affection was displayed there, not very much affirmation was given, and uh that that tended to be the norm. In some cases, yes, and the Bible is not necessarily commoning that. Remember, it's talking here about loving your children. But the love here is not a self-indulgent love. Your children are a tremendous gift from God, but they are not your personal possession. They have not been given to you to fulfill your dreams or elevate your status among your peers. Your children are here as a gift from God for a time for you to impact and disciple and develop for Christ. And so your job as a mother is to teach them to become dependent on God, not dependent on you. So that when they face trouble, they have learned to turn to God. Not every little difficulty they face, they turn to mom in a panic, saying, I have no idea what to do. This is part of what it is to teach our children to love God. The third thing I want to bring out of this passage is that a Christian mother should seek to grow in her spiritual maturity. The items listed here tend to be in pairs. And in verse 5, the first two items are indeed a pair. It says discreet and then chaste. Let me talk about these two terms for a moment. The term translated discreet is closely related to the word sober that you find often In the book of Titus, it's one of the key words. Let me show this to you. Look with me at chapter one and verse eight. Here's one of the qualifications of a pastor. He should be a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober, just holy, temperate. So he is to be sober. In chapter 2 and verse 2, we read of of the aged men that they are to be Sober, it says, and in chap in verse 4. The aged women are to be sober. And we find it here in chapter 2 and verse 6. And in chapter 2 and verse 11, this famous verse It goes on to say verse 12, teaching us that denying ungodliness, unworldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present worlds. So what does this mean? This term discreet or sober Well, it's obviously the opposite of being drunk. And of course, Scripture does condemn drunkenness, but this term is always used figuratively in the New Testament. Paul here is calling on these younger women, these mothers, to be clear-headed and self-controlled. Some translate this as prudence. The idea is that they must exercise good judgment I mean, one of the important things about being a parent is every day you have to make judgment calls. How am I going to deal with this? How am I going to respond with this issue in my child? How much time am I going to give to this? How can I balance my responsibilities to my children and to my husband and to the Lord and to my community? How can I do all these things? A young mother has to make so many judgment calls in a day. And so they need instruction. They need the grace of God. To make the right decisions And we see this also found earlier in the pastoral epistles, this very term in 1 Timothy 2 and verse 9. Where it says, in like manner also, that women adorn themselves in modest apparel with shamefacedness and sobriety. not with braided hair or gold or pearls of costly array, but which becometh women professing godliness which with good works Now, some have interpreted these verses to teach that women should never wear jewelry or style their hair in any way, but I do not think that is what Paul is teaching here. He is clearly teaching, however, that women should not be obsessed with the latest fashions. They should be more focused not on their outward appearance, but on their inward godliness. And this is something that is brought out repeatedly in the New Testament in 1 Peter chapter 3. In verse 2 it says, While they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear, whose adorning, let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting the hair and wearing of gold. or of putting on of apparel, but let it be the hidden man of the heart, and and that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price. Ladies, our focus, your focus needs to be on the inner man, on your heart, becoming a woman of godliness. And then Paul speaks here in Titus chapter 2 and verse 5 of being chaste. That's a word that we don't use much anymore. It simply means pure. Paul here is referring to sexual purity. I've already mentioned that the island of Crete was notorious for its immorality, and so he is addressing this specifically with these young women. Now the whole concept of sexual purity is under assault in our culture. The moral revolutionaries have convinced a large segment. of our society that all this talk of sexual purity in our Western culture has actually been an attempt for men to repress women. And so now for several generations, the ideal woman is portrayed in our entertainment media as seductive, immoral, and independence. She is free from all restraints and having the time of her life. That is the picture that you find in movies, in TV shows, and in popular music. Again, again, and again. A woman who's really got it together, who is really powerful and influential, is very attractive and very seductive. That is the message of the world. But this is all delusion. A lie from the Father of lies. God 's word has not changed with the times. God's promises that those who practice an immoral lifestyle will not inherit the kingdom of God. It is a woman who fears the Lord who will be praised. Christian mothers should be known for their modesty, purity, and unwavering commitment to their husbands. Fourthly, a Christian mother should recognize that her greatest sphere of influence is in the home. Continuing in verse 5, we read this that she is to be keepers at home and good and obedient to her own husband. This item Keepers at Home speaks of her sphere of influence. We find A similar sentiment in First Timothy chapter 5, where Paul instructs the younger widows to marry, to bear children, and to guide the house. I'm always amused. By the Greek wording that's behind the phrase guide, the house, it literally says that the wife is the house despot. A despot, in case you do not know, is a tyrant. Man, you might think that you are the king of your castle, but just try to rearrange something in that castle. God has given women a nesting instinct. That's God given. And it's a great blessing to humanity. If you don't believe me, visit a bachelor's home sometime. It's a wonderful blessing. Now let me address a question more seriously that comes to your mind when you speak of us keepers at home. I don't think this verse is saying that a woman may never under any circumstance work outside the home. In Proverbs 31, we read of the virtuous woman handling real estate transactions. We read of the first convert in Philippi, Lydia, being a seller of purple. That is, she was a businesswoman, and that seems a very successful businesswoman There are situations when it may be necessary and beneficial for a woman to work outside the home. I'm not going to get onto all the possible scenarios and situations that you could bring up. But I just want are women to understand that a Christian woman should never for a moment think that staying home and taking care of her children is somehow less significant. Than having a powerful career. It is not a waste of your time and talents. It is the highest calling that a woman can achieve. God has given to mothers the great task of nurturing the next generation. And it doesn't just impact your children. It's like the ripples of a pond. It affects their children and their children and their children. It really is a very significant calling to be a wife and mother, and the fact is that no job, no career can possibly have a more lasting impact than that of a godly mother Now I want to mention this next term that seems very general to us. It says she is to be good. Some connect this with other terms thinking that she is to be like a good wife. or whatever, but the idea here probably is that of kind. It's important for a mother to be kind And unfortunately, it is possible for a mother not to be kind and to make everyone in the home miserable. You've all heard the expression, happy wife, happy life. Or how about if mama ain't happy, ain't nobody happy? Now, why does everyone know these sayings? Because unfortunately, they are sometimes true. And there are six verses in the book of Proverbs. That describe this kind of woman. She's described as rottenness to her husband's bones. She is described as annoying as a dripping faucet. On two occasions, the husband is exhorted to go and live on the rooftop than with this kind of woman. And in another verse, he is told to dwell in the wilderness. Ladies, don't be that kind of woman. No woman sets out to be that woman. But frustrations, disappointments, stress Bitterness can all develop inside of you so that you become that kind of nagging wife that makes everyone miserable in the household. That is not God's calling for you. Instead, you are to be like the Proverbs 31 woman, whom it says, She opens her mouth with wisdom, and in her tongue is the law of kindness. But next we come to the most politically incorrect statement in this passage, verse 5, it says, obedient to their own husbands. Now the Greek word that's translated obedient is not the normal word in the New Testament translated obedient. This word is normally translated as to submit. It literally means to arrange underneath. This is one of five passages in the New Testament. It speaks of a wife's submission to her husband. In fact, in every New Testament passage that addresses a woman's role as a married woman, this term always appears. So it's obviously very significant. Now this admonition sounds so insensitive and dangerous That many people have tried to explain it away. I mean, this is really, really out of step with our culture, right? I was thinking about this. You know, if we had a marquee sign, like some churches do, and we were to put that this verse, our text this morning, on that sign, there's a chance that it might be vandalized. It might be egged. It might someone might run it over with an SUV or something. Because the old whole idea of being obedient to your husband sounds Old-fashioned and repressive, and a recipe for abuse. That's the way many people would view it, but that is not what is meant by the apostle. So how do people often try to explain this away? Some Bible teachers would simply say that Paul is only reflecting the culture of the time, this is uh the role of women at the time, and so we should just discard it. But if you take that rule of interpretation, then any verse in the Bible you can say, oh, well, that's just the way they did things back then. Then everything's open to debate, and the Bible has no authority. Secondly, others would say that both the husband and wife should submit to each other, effectively canceling out this command. This is based on a misunderstanding of Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 21. This is very popular. It's an egalitarian approach that's found in many Christian books today. But it will not withstand any biblical scrutiny. Now let me quickly add, the Bible does not teach that women are inferior to men. There are some religions that do. Christianity does not. It says that men and women are both made in the image of God. The Bible does not condone or allow the mistreatment or abuse of women. Husbands are commanded To love and nurture their wives, not to beat and oppress them. So those who would find warrant for that in Scripture are reading something in the Scripture. However The Bible does teach that the husband has been given the responsibility of leadership in the home, and that the wife is obligated to follow her husband unless He instructs her to do something that is clearly violated in the Word of God. This has been the historic position of the church because it is clearly spelled out in Scripture. Now that is not easy to do. And when I teach that to young women and I do that in premarital counseling, and they say, well, that's That's unreal. That's that's that's asking an awful lot. And I said, yes. So before you agree to that, you better think about marrying the marrying with this man here. Are you do you really want to follow him? Because that's what you're agreeing to do when you take those vows. So why would a woman sacrificially love her husband and her children and yield to his leadership. That's asking an awful lot of a person. Well notice the reason it's given here. in the text, that the word of God be not blasphemed. I want you to notice what it does not say. It doesn't say so that you might have a happy and prosperous home. I do think that when you do things God's way, things work out better than if you did things your own way. But I want you to know that the family, though it is a wonderful gift from God, is not an end in itself. Do you understand that? There is a lot of family idolatry that goes on that is actually not a reflection of Scripture, but it's a reflection of our societal values. of putting the children as the most important thing in the world. Having a happily and functioning family is not the ultimate goal of a mother or a father. You may have always thought that was the case. That is not what the scripture teaches. Having a family is intended to bring glory to God. and to advance the gospel. That's what's brought out in this text here. That's why God wants you to make those sacrifices and bring up your children to nurture an admonition of the Lord. It's not just because it's best for them and it's good for them and it'll help them in many respects. It's because this is a reflection, this is a testimony in the world in which we live, in which the family unit is falling apart. And let me just say, as this becomes more and more unusual to see what's called sometimes the nuclear family of a husband and a wife and children, and they're together and they're under one roof, and they worship together and they serve together and they love each other. Those things that maybe you would think, well, that's just normal. That's commonplace. Well, it's getting to the place where it's not commonplace. And it was like that on the island of Crete. And so when the family unit is functioning as God has called it to, it becomes a powerful witness to the gospel. So that the neighbors and the people in that community say, you know, that's a beautiful family. You see how they're always together? Do you see how they enjoy each other's company? Do you see how the husband truly loves his wife and the wife loves her husband? Do you see the way the children obey their parents? What a beautiful commendation of the gospel. You see, the goal of Christian parenting is not man-centered, it's God-centered. The term blaspheme here we associate with religious things, but the idea here is simply to speak against The idea is that the world is looking for an excuse to reject the gospel and say, ah, the family over there, they say they're Christians. They go to church every Sunday and everything, but I hear the yelling that takes place. I can hear it through those walls. They they may think They may think and act like they're pious and they're better than everyone else, but you know what? Their family is not any better than my family. And now they have an excuse to turn a deaf ear to the preaching of the gospel. Moms, you have a tremendous opportunity to be a witness for Christ through your family. Let your light So shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. In the nineteenth century, there was a very famous agnostic man who was combating Christianity. His name was Robert Ingersoll. He was a notorious skeptic and intellectual when he went around challenging preachers and theological professors to debates. About the existence of God and and things of that nature. And he did everything he could to undermine Christian faith. One day there were two young men of college age who went to hear him lecture. And he gave very impressive arguments. And he was much more intelligent and informed than his religious opponents. And he got the better of him. And as these two young men were leaving the lecture hall and going home, one said to the other, Well, I guess he knocked out the props from Christianity, didn't he? And the other young man said, No, he did not. Because until Mr. Ingersoll can explain my mother's life, until he can explain her faith in God, I will stand by my mother's God. Moms, you have a tremendous opportunity to bring glory to God through the impact that you have on your children. May God give you grace to do so. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you that it's always true. That you are a God who cannot lie. I pray that you would use these words to correct our thoughts, adjust our thinking. and inspire and encourage our mothers to live lives that will count for eternity. I pray that our homes would be powerful testimonies to your grace and the difference that Christ makes in a life. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.