Give your Bibles, please would you turn with me to Genesis chapter 43? Genesis 43 If you're visiting with us, we have been studying the life of Joseph. Isaac Newton 's first law of motion states that everything continues in a state of rest. unless it is compelled to change by forces impressed upon it. This is true not only of objects, but also of individuals. The fact is, people don't like to change. This is especially true in things of concerning our hearts. But God's plan for all of his children is that we would be changing. We call this process sanctification. From the moment of salvation, Christians are being transformed by the grace of God into the image of Christ. And so sometimes God's grace comes into our lives like an intruder, bringing much-needed change, breaking up our idols and smashing them at our feet. An old proverb says that some people will change when they see the light. Others change only when they feel the heat. Joseph's family changed only when they felt the heat of affliction and the hunger of famine. This morning, as we continue our study of the life of Joseph, we are going to be focusing not so much on Joseph as his family. God's purpose was not just to exalt Joseph and to bring him to a place where he would be able to save the lives Of his brothers and bring them to Egypt where a nation would be developed But we also see how God worked in the life of Joseph individually and in the lives of his brothers and his father. The section of Joseph's life story is structured around three trips that were made to Egypt. We see in these three trips, three steps of reconciliation within this troubled family. In the first trip, Joseph's 10 guilty brothers come to Egypt seeking to buy grain to save their family from the regional famine. Joseph recognizes them instantly, but they don't know him. Joseph speaks harshly to them to see if they had changed at all. He interrogates them relentlessly, calling them spies. And then he has them in prison for three days. He seems to even frame them by putting money into their sacks. Finally, he takes Simeon and puts him in prison. until they return. He wants to see if they will abandon their brother in Egypt like they did himself some twenty-two years earlier. It's important to realize that Joseph was not seeking revenge, but was looking for evidence of real spiritual transformation. He wanted to see if God was bringing them to repentance. They insisted that they were true men. And Joseph was seeking to verify that claim. In this first interview, Joseph saw a few encouraging signs. It was clear that the brothers had a sense of guilt that had been awakened during this trip to Egypt. They said, We are guilty concerning Our brother. They had a tangible sense that they were under the judgment of God because when they discovered the money in their sacks, they said, What is this that God has done to us? These expressions of guilt and remorse were signs of life, clear evidence that God was still at work in their lives. And now in the second journey to Egypt, as recorded here in Genesis 43, we see increasing evidence that God is changing not only Joseph's brothers, but also his stubborn father Jacob. You see, this is much more than history. It is a timeless pattern of God's gracious restoration of his people. God still brings his wayward children back to himself by a variety of means. And the signs of that transformation Have not changed. I'm going to speak to you this morning from this chapter on the evidences of spiritual transformation. Three signs That God is at work in our lives. Would you notice with me, first of all, that there is evidence that God is changing us when we are willing to give up our most cherished possessions? Look with me at the first two verses of this chapter. And the famine was sore in the land, and it came to pass. When they had eaten up the corn which they had brought out of Egypt, their father said unto them, Go again, buy us a little food. God is once more here using the famine to get their attention. The grain sacks that had come back from Egypt were now slack and essentially empty. Everyone who would do the could do the math could discern that in order to avert disaster, they had to go back to Egypt to get additional supplies, and they had to do that really soon. It was really a matter of life and death. And so Jacob says, go and buy us a little food. He makes it sound like it was a matter of going a few miles down the street and buying some food, but it was not nearly so easy. The journey to Egypt was dangerous and difficult. It was a 250 mile trek. And the last time they were in Egypt, they were interrogated, imprisoned, and it seemed as if they were framed. My point is that no one really wanted to return to Egypt. That's why they put this off to the last possible moment. That's what we tend to do with decisions that we really don't want to make. Jacob didn't want to bring it up earlier because he knew that the brothers would say that he must send Benjamin with them. And that was unthinkable to him. The brothers really didn't want to go because they must have felt like criminals returning to the scene of the crime, even though they didn't steal the money that they found in their grain sacks. It would certainly appear like they were guilty. And who would believe their story that when they opened up their grain sacks, there was this money on top? No one would think that that was feasible. And so they went back with great fear and trepidation. But on the other hand, they had to go back to Egypt. It was the place where their brother Simeon was being held, and he would remain in prison until they returned. And it was the only place where they could find food to keep them alive. Every day while they were living back in Canaan, they must have thought about his confinement. and their obligation to return and release him. It brought back all the horrible guilt and memories of the way they had abandoned Joseph. Now, Jacob and his sons were facing a painful dilemma. This uncomfortable situation was the merciful work of God in their lives. If they wanted to live. They had to go back to Egypt. Sometimes God puts us in situations where we really have no wiggle room. He puts so many confinements and restraints on us that in a sense we only have one option, and that is to do what he wants us to do. That's what we see here. Turn with me at verse 3 now as we continue in chapter 43 We see here that Judah, the fourthborn son, again asserts leadership within the family because the other older sons had disqualified themselves and lost the respect of the others. It says, and Judas spake unto him, saying, The man did solemnly protest unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face Except your brother be with you. If thou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down and buy thee food. But if thou wilt not send, then we will not go down. For the man said unto us, Ye shall not see my face except your brother be with you. And Israel said, Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me as to tell the man whether ye had a brother? Judah becomes the adult in the room. He says, if you send Benjamin, we will go down to Egypt and buy grain. But if you don't send him, we will not go. Jacob's response in verse 6 is to be angered by this. He again assumes a stance of self-pity. He essentially complains about their honesty before Joseph, and that's because Jacob had always turned to deception whenever he got into a tight spot. The brothers argue back that Joseph asked them specifically about the family, and they could not have predicted his demand for Benjamin to be brought down to Egypt. Judah assumes the mantle of leadership once more. Look with me at verse 8. And Judah said unto Israel, his father, send the lad with me. And we will arise and go, that we may live and not die, both we and thou, and also our little ones. I will be surety for him. Of my hand shalt thou require him If I bring him not unto thee and set him before thee, then let me bear the blame forever. For except we had lingered, surely now we had returned this second time. Judah here assumes the responsibility for Benjamin's well-being and then shows some frustration. with his fearful father. He says essentially, you know, if we would not spend so much time talking about this, we could have already have gone and come back. Now that was hyperbole. But it reveals the frustration that he and his brothers felt with their father. Jacob is left no alternative. And so look with me now at verse 11. And their father Israel said unto them, If it must be so now, do this take of the best fruits in the land in your vessels, and carry down the man a present, a little balm, and a little honey, spices and myrrh. nuts and almonds, and take double money in your hand, and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry it in your hand, peradventure it was an oversight. Take also your brother and arise And go unto the man. And God Almighty give you mercy before the man, that he may send away your brother and Benjamin. If I be bereaved of my children, I am bereaved. Jacob instructs his boys to take a gift of resources that were not destroyed in the droughts You may recall that this is what Jacob did when he was trying to appease his brother Esau in an earlier chapter in the book of Genesis. This is how Jacob invariably dealt with people. He was always seeking a way of manipulation. Most Bible scholars point out that some of these items were brought down to Egypt by the merchants that carried Joseph to Egypt. This is a subtle way the writer is reminding the reader of the irony of these gifts given to Joseph. Jacob reluctantly puts his cherished son Benjamin into the hands of God. He uses the name God Almighty in his prayer in verse 14. This of course is the Hebrew name El Shaddai, which speaks of God's power and blessing and keeping his promises to his people. God would indeed answer this desperate prayer. They would find mercy from this powerful ruler in Egypt. Jacob had a long lifelong tendency to find his security and joy in people. He was very close to his mother, Rebecca, who taught him to deceive and manipulate people. As a young man, he fell in love with Rachel, and he nearly worshipped her. And when she died, he transferred his affections to her son Joseph. And when Joseph was taken away to Egypt, he became very attached to Joseph's younger brother, Benjamin. This was the last remaining reminder of his beloved wife, Rachel. But now the Lord is asking Jacob to hand over this last remaining idol. This was very difficult for Jacob to do, but the Lord has put him in a position where he virtually has no other option. And the Lord still does this with his people today. He takes away our idols. What do I mean by an idol? I don't think there's anybody here that has a graven image set up in your house that you bow down to and bring food sacrifices to on a daily basis. I doubt very seriously if that is the case. An idol is a good thing that has become the ultimate thing in your life. It's where you find your sense of meaning, your sense of security, your joy. It is the treasure of your hearts. And the Lord Alone wants to hold that position in your life. The Lord takes away our idols not because he wants to rob us of joy. But because he loves us, and he knows that anything that we erect in his place, any idol that we set up in our hearts, will gravely disappoint us and will be cast down. and will bring grief and despondency into our lives because they can never fulfill us the way God can. The fact is that our idols are a delusion. They are never good for us. They never bring us true joy and satisfaction. Jacob didn't lose in giving up Benjamin. Oh, he was gone to Egypt for a few weeks. And I suspect that every day Jacob was wringing his hands and worrying about his treasured son. But the blessings that he was about to receive were more than he could have imagined He was going in a short time to go back to Egypt and live with Joseph, the son that he assumed he had lost. He will meet the king of Egypt, the most powerful man in the world. He will experience the blessings of seeing his family reunited through these steps of obedience. You can tell when God is at work in someone's life when they are willing to give up their most cherished possessions, their idols, and relinquish them to God. Secondly, there is evidence that God is changing us when we are honest and responsible in our dealings. The long trip to Egypt is described in just one verse, verse 15. And the men took that present. And they took double money in their hand, and Benjamin rose up and went down to Egypt and stood before Joseph. I think that Joseph had been waiting for them to return. As the weeks turn to months, he must have worried if they would ever come back. Perhaps they would abandon Simeon. as they did him many years earlier. Maybe his father Jacob would rather starve than allow his beloved son Benjamin to journey to Egypt. But at last they came, and I suspect that Joseph was overjoyed. Look at verse 16. And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the ruler of his house, Bring these men home. And slay and make ready, for these men shall dine with me at noon. And the man did as Joseph bade, and the man brought the men into Joseph's house. He orders his servants to prepare a lavish feast, which reminds many Bible preachers of the great feast that we see in the story of the prodigal son. But these brothers do not interpret this as a wonderful blessing. They are gripped with fear and suspicion. This powerful Egyptian leader who interrogated them in their last visit has now invited them to his own home. That doesn't sound very routine. That's not the normal procedure with powerful officials. Look with me at verse 18. And the men were afraid because they were brought into Joseph's house, and they said, Because of the money that was returned in our sacks at the time are we brought in, that he may seek occasion against us and fall upon us and take us for bondmen and our asses. They say We know what this is. This is a trap. He is going to entrap us, and we are going to be slaves forever in Egypt. Here they are afraid that what happened to their brother Joseph, in a sense, will happen to them. They will have the dismal prospect of being slaves. in Egypt. And so they go and they question the steward, this very powerful servant of Joseph. Look with me at verse 19. And they came near to the steward of Joseph's house, and they communed with him at the door of the house, and said, Oh sir We came indeed down at the first time to buy food, and it came to pass when we came to the end that we when we opened the sacks, and behold, every man's money was in the mouth of a sack, or money in full weight. And we have brought it again in our hand. And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food. We can tell who put our money in our sacks. These verses reveal that God was doing a work of repentance in their heart. They are honest about the money that they put into their grain sacks. They could have lied about that. Remember, they did sell their brother into slavery and took that money That obviously has some importance to them. They are not seeking to hide what could have been perceived as outright thievery. They are also responsible in bringing back the money, and they are eager to make any restitution. And this is all the more remarkable because they came from a family that had a legacy of deception. Their father Jacob deceived his father Isaac. Their grandmother was a deceiver, and their mother was a deceiver. Remember when they brought Joseph's torn coat of many colors to their father and said, I don't know if you can identify this or not, but we found this. It looks like an animal tore this up. That was all deception. That was the way they got out of the difficult circumstance in the past. They manipulated, they lied, they deceived, but now they are telling the truth. They tell the truth even though it could cost them dearly. One of the true signs of repentance Is when you confess your sin even when no one else knows about it. This is how a person who fears the Lord will respond. There are many things that occur in our lives that we can get away with. That we have the sense that no one knows, that no one will find out. But God knows. And for a person who is walking in a right relationship with God, that is a profound truth. that motivates us and drives us to confession and repentance. When God is really at work in a person's heart and they have truly repented, They will do whatever it takes to be right with God. So often when we come to a place of repentance , And God begins to work on our hearts. We want to negotiate with God. And we say, God, I will do this. But I really don't want to give this up. I will confess to this, but I certainly don't want to confess to this. Satan will magnify the severe consequences that will come if we tell the truth. You will lose your reputation, you might lose your job, you could lose your marriage. You can't tell the truth. You can't confess this. You must bottle this up. You must keep the secret and take it to the grave. But that is a lie from the wicked one. These brothers had been keeping a secret for all of these years, and they had paid a dear price for their silence and their guilt. When you have truly repented of your sin, you have this desire, whatever it takes That's what I'm going to do because I want to be right with God. I want to have a true, honest relationship with Him and with others. Look at the gracious way the steward of Joseph responds to these troubled men. Look with me at verses 23 and following. And he said, Peace be to you. Fear not. Your God and the God of your father hath given you treasure in your sacks. I had your money, and he brought Simeon out unto them. And the man brought the men into Joseph's house. And gave them water, and they washed their feet, and he gave their asses provender. And when they made ready the present again, Joseph came at noon, for they heard that they should eat bread there. The servant says to these anxious men, Shalom, peace. And then fear not. This is so remarkable when you think about the setting. Here you have a pagan Egyptian. Ministering God's truth to his own people. He says, he speaks to them of your God, that is the God that you purport to worship. The God of your fathers, Abraham's God, the God who has made a covenant with you, his people, he hath given you treasures in your sacks. Now, how do we account for this remarkable response? Perhaps Joseph told him exactly what to say. But I wonder, would Joseph know that his brothers would bring this matter up to him? I think it's more likely That Joseph has told his close servant all about his God, all about the nature of his God and how his God is in control of even the details of our lives and how this his God is gracious and a God who keeps his covenants and his promises with his people. I suspect that he told him about the one true God who is sovereign over all. Perhaps he has mentored this man to such a degree. that this servant knows exactly how his master would answer that question. Because Joseph Was always looking beyond the secondary causes of events in his life to the primary cause, God Himself. This is a remarkable thing that I've seen in my own life and the lives of others. Sometimes the things that we worry about the most As being sinister and they're going to bring disaster in our lives or actually a blessing that God is giving to us. But so often we're so fearful and so anxious. That we assumed the worst. That money in their sacks was not Joseph entrapping them so that he could sell them into slavery. He was giving them this to be a blessing to them and to his father. One of the signs that we have truly changed. Is that we exchange our tendency to cover our sin with confessing our sin. We move from deception to disclosure. Thirdly, would you notice with me there is evidence that God is changing us when we resist the sins that have enslaved us in the past? Look with me now at verse 26. And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which was in their hand into the house and bowed themselves to him to the earth. And he asked them of their welfare, and he said, Is your father well, the old man of whom ye spake? Is he yet alive? And they answered, Thy servant our father is in good health, he is yet alive. And they bowed down their heads and made obeisance. This verse marks the fulfillment of a dream that Joseph received when he was 17 years old. All of his brothers are bowing down to him. We have here the customary greeting, which included questions concerning the well-being of one's family But Joseph was being more than polite. He truly was concerned about his father's well-being and state. Look with me at verse 28. Well, we've already read that verse. Then we have one of the most touching scenes in the life of Joseph when he sees his brother Benjamin. for the first time in twenty-three years. Verse 29, and he lifted up his eyes and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son. and said, Is this your younger brother of whom you spake unto me? And he said, God, be gracious unto thee. my son. And Joseph made haste, for his bows enjured upon his brother, and he sought where to weep, and he entered into his chamber and wept there. Notice how Benjamin is described as his mother's son. Joseph's other brothers were half-brothers, but this was his only full brother. Perhaps he reminds Joseph of his beautiful mother that he had lost long ago. When Joseph left home, Benjamin was just a young boy, but now he has grown into a man. And when Joseph sees his brother, He spontaneously pronounces this blessing. God, be gracious to thee, my son. This must have caused Joseph's brothers to scratch their head. Why does he have this effusive religious benediction for this young man? This is part of what would come to be known as the ironic blessing. I suspect that Joseph was like a surrogate father to Benjamin before he was taken to Egypt. He thought of him more as a son than as a brother. And as he says these words, his eyes well up with tears, and he quickly excuses himself because he is not ready to reveal his identity. And then we come to the concluding verses of this chapter. Look with me at verse 31, please. And he washed his face. And went out and refrained himself and said, Set on bread. And they set on him by himself for the For them by themselves, and for the Egyptians which did eat with him by themselves, because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews, for this is an abomination unto the Egyptians. And he sat before him the firstborn according to the birthright, and the youngest according to his youth, and the men marveled one at another. And he took and sent messes unto them from before him, but Benjamin's mess was five times so much as any of theirs, and they drank and were merry with him. Now, there are several significant things taking place in this final unit of thought in this chapter. First of all, Joseph is providing a lavish feast for his brothers. This is a wonderful picture of grace. Although they have sinned horribly against him, he is treating them much better than they deserve. He is reflecting the gracious way that God deals with sinners. Secondly, we see that Joseph is enjoying guarded fellowship with his brothers. In the ancient world, inviting people to enjoy a meal at your house was not about the food. It was about fellowship. To invite someone to eat was symbolic of acceptance and communion. Although Joseph and his brothers are eating in the same room, they are not eating at the same table. That's why I call this guarded fellowship. Joseph ate by himself at one table. Perhaps his wife and sons and some other Egyptian officials were there. But his brothers sat at their own table. And this is explained this way, because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination. The Egyptians consider themselves to be superior to all other ethnicities, and so they are segregated at this feast. But this separation also reflects that Joseph loves his brothers, but is not yet ready to enjoy full fellowship with them. But thirdly, the seating arrangement is a subtle reminder that Joseph knows his brothers and is about to reveal himself to them. He put them around the table in order from oldest to youngest. This causes the brothers to wonder and scratch their heads. How does he know our ages and the order in which we are? How does this man have that kind of discernment? But the most important event that takes place here is that Joseph is once more testing his brothers. I mentioned at the beginning of this heading that one of the evidences that we are truly being transformed by God's grace. is when we are victorious over our pet sins, sins that have enslaved us throughout our lives And a sin that these brothers truly struggled with was envy. That's how this whole story of Joseph begins. You remember how they hated him because he was favored by his father? His father doted on him, his father gave him the special gift. And of course, when Joseph revealed these God-given dreams to his brothers, that was like throwing fuel on the fire, and it resulted in them nearly killing him and s selling him into slavery in Egypt. And their minds, he was gone. They had disposed of him. This young man who was the subject of all their envy and hatred. And so this is an amazing test of their envy that we have. Now Joseph tests them by showing favor to his younger brother in two ways. First of all, we've looked at one of them. He pronounces a blessing upon Benjamin. He says, God be gracious to thee, my son. He doesn't pronounce this benediction upon all of his brothers only upon Benjamin. But the favoritism that would be really difficult for them to miss was what we find in the final verse of this chapter Where it says that he gave Benjamin five times as much food as his other brothers. Now, we should not think it our minds in a strictly literalistic sense that, you know, they all had plates with all this meat and potatoes and food that they wanted to eat, and then, you know, Benjamin's plate was just like heaped with five times as much. This is an idiomatic expression that means he was given access to more choices of food and of a higher quality of food. And of course, he could have as much as he wanted. But it would be very clear, it would be like the waiter bringing a cart of various foods and asking Benjamin, what would you like? But they all got the same thing. His other brothers didn't have those choices, and theirs was not the premium cuts of meat that Benjamin was going to be My point is it was unavoidable, it was unmistakable that Benjamin was given much more favor and greater privilege Than any of the rest of them. That would have been difficult to deal with. This was how an honored guest was treated. But we have no mention of a negative response in this passage. It doesn't say that the brothers were filled with rage It doesn't say that they were plotting to bring violence upon their younger brother. No, instead, we read that they enjoyed their meals. They drank and were merry with him. They enjoyed the lavish portions of food that they were given. No one went away hungry. No one, as it were, got the short end of the stick because this was a lavish banquet. held by the second most powerful man in the land. And I think that Joseph was very pleased with their response. Because it indicated that God had transformed their hearts. You see, it is possible by the grace of God. For believing people to gain victory over our besetting sins. And it is clear evidence that God has changed us Now, I want to make some concluding applications this morning. The first thing I want to say is this: beware of clinging to your idols. Beware of clinging to your idols. John Calvin said that the human heart is an idol factory. We manufacture idols all the time. We set something up in our lives and we say, this is what gives me meaning and significance Enjoy, and if I don't have this, my life will be ruins. A Christian must never think that way. We must never negotiate with God and say, Lord, I will serve you, I will worship you, I will come to church on a regular basis, but do not touch this aspect of my life. You can't make that bargain with God. He doesn't bargain with people. What must we do when we identify the idols in our lives? We must surrender them to God. That is what is best for you That is God's will for your life. The only reason that we cling to our idols is because we have believed a lie. We believe that I cannot surrender this because this is where my joy resides. This is where my sense of comfort and security is founded. And it's all a delusion and a lie. Do you think that Jacob would have been clinging to Benjamin if he knew what God had in store for him in the future? If he could have somehow imagined that he was going to go and live in Egypt with his son Joseph, who was the second highest in the land and his family would be reunited? Jacob was so convinced that the future was bleak and dark, but God's future for him was much greater than he could have imagined. The best years of his life were his final 17 years in Egypt. I read a humorous story a few weeks ago about an elderly woman who became convicted that she should not sing something if it was not true. And so whenever the church would sing the hymn, I surrender all, she would sing, I surrender some. We must applaud her for her honesty, but folks, we need to surrender all to the Lord. Secondly, beware of envying others. Joseph had the right to give special honor to Benjamin. And the Lord has the right to pour out special honor on other individuals. The fact is that none of these brothers deserved that lavish banquet that Joseph gave to them. None of us deserve the blessings that God gives to us. What we need to do is what Joseph's brothers did in this passage. They enjoyed what God had provided for them. And they were merry. They were happy. This was wonderful. They hadn't had a meal perhaps like this in their entire lives. Because they have learned to stop looking around at what everyone else has. We need to focus on the gracious blessings that God has given to us, to you as an individual, and stop looking around to see what God has given to everyone else. This is a huge problem that so many Christians deal with. Why can't my marriage be like other people's marriage? Why can't my children be like other people's children in the church? Why don't I have a job like other people have which provides all of their wonderful abundance of goodness Why can't I have the physical health that some people have? Why do I have a disability and they become blind to all the blessings they do have from God? And their envy is just another name for hatred of others. It's not so much that they want to have what other people have. They just don't want other people to have what they don't have. And they would take it away as if they could. That's what Joseph's brothers felt towards him when they tore off that coat and they threw him into that pit and sold him to traveling merchants. It was nothing but hatred. But now they seem to have learned the lesson. And we must learn that as well. Stop looking and comparing yourselves with others. God is gracious to all of his people, and you need to revel in the amazing blessings and benefits that he has given to you that you do not deserve. But finally, I want us to see in Joseph's treatment of Benjamin a faint reflection of Christ's treatment of his people. Joseph blessed his brother, saying, God be gracious to thee, my son. And Christ our Savior has blessed us graciously by tasting death for us on the cross, so that we can bring many sons to glory. Joseph had great compassion for his brother, weeping when he saw him, and Jesus is described preeminently as a man full of compassion. He knows us. And he weeps for us. And Hebrews 2. 11 says that he is not ashamed to call us brothers. Joseph blessed his brother Benjamin with a lavish feast. This was a picture of fellowship and communion. And Jesus will someday eat with us at the ultimate feast. The scripture says, Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God. But these are only for people who know Him, people who have come to trust in Christ alone. One of the great invitations of the Bible is found in the last book of the Bible. Revelation chapter 3 and verse 20, Jesus says, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come to him and will sup with him. And he with me speaks of a meal here, of communion, of fellowship, of intimacy. This is what Christ offers to sinners If they will open that door, if they will come to believe and trust and look to Jesus alone. May God help us to do that. May God help you if you're here this morning. And you have not opened that door. You have not put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I counsel you, I urge you to seek him. and enjoy the riches of his grace. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for your word We thank you that it is filled with Christ, that it reminds us again of our great God and of his grace towards undeserving sinners like us. And we thank you, Father, for the beauty of the gospel. I pray that you would help us never to get over it. And Father, for anyone who might be here today Who is yet seeking to earn favor through their good deeds, I pray that you'd show them the foolishness of this. Help them, Father, to come by faith alone, in Christ alone. And recognize that it's all a work of your grace. I pray, Lord, that you would work in our midst today, that sinners would come to you in faith. Faith. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.