If you have your Bibles with me, would you turn to 1 Peter chapter 4 as we continue our study of this wonderful epistle? One of the pagan ideas that quickly infiltrated Christianity was asceticism. Asceticism is the idea that God is pleased when a person deprives their body of basic necessities or punishes their body. And for many centuries there were Christians who mistakenly thought that these acts of self-punishment were pleasing to God. And so they would Live on top of little perches, on top of poles. Some of them did crazy things like that. Some of them lived in caves. And uh they ate a very meager diet because They believed that God was pleased when they were physically miserable. Martin Luther Who of course before he came to see the light of the gospel was an Augustinian monk, and he tried to advance his sanctification. by uh punishing himself. He would sleep on a stone floor. He would eat a a very coarse diet. He would wear clothing that was rough and scratchy, and he would even beat his back with a whip. But he found that he did not achieve holiness. To his horror he discovered That he became very proud of his suffering and his discipline. And he came to realize that that, of course, was sin in and of itself. And so the key to holiness is is not punishing yourself. Now one of the key texts that ascetics would use to Prove their point was the last phrase in verse 1 of chapter 4. Did you notice that when we read? Have you ever read this and scratched your head and said, What does that mean? It says, He that has suffered in the flesh have ceased from sin. Well, it doesn't mean that we are to beat ourselves. We'll come to this in a moment exactly what that means. We come to a new paragraph here. You'll notice that it begins with the words, for as much then, or some versions render the since then Peter is hearkening back to chapter 3 and verse 18 where he sets forth Christ as an example for believers. And he says, since Jesus suffered as he did for even doing the right thing, there are some applications that we can make from this. And so that is what uh Peter is doing in this opening paragraph. He's making application from the suffering of Christ. He calls on his reader, and the key phrase here in our text this morning Is this that we are to arm ourselves likewise with the same mind? That is, we are to prepare for suffering the way Jesus prepared himself for suffering. Now that idea might seem strange to you because you may have assumed that the suffering that Jesus faced was not really a struggle for him at all, because he was, after all, God in flesh. I think we tend to revert to that kind of thinking. And And so the idea that it would have been somehow psychologically or emotionally difficult to know that at the end of your life There was going to be this great suffering. We don't think that that was very much of a burden, but if you carefully read the Gospels, you will come to a different conclusion. The Bible reveals that this was indeed a heavy burden and it demanded a proper mindset. I'm going to invite you to keep a finger here in 1 Peter chapter 4. And would you turn back with me? We're just going to look at one chapter, Luke chapter 9. Luke chapter 9. We're going to look at just a few verses in this chapter. Look with me at Luke chapter 9, and I'm going to begin reading at verse 22. Actually, I'm going to start at verse 20. And he said unto them, By whom say ye that I am? Peter answering said, The Christ of God. And he straightly charged them and commanded them to tell no man that thing. Verse 22, saying, The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected of the elders and chief priests. and scribes and be slain and raised the third day. Now look with me at verse 44 of this same chapter. The Lord is going to emphasize, this is the first time he mentioned his coming death, and now he's going to mention it again in verse 44. He says, let These sayings sink down into your ears, for the Son of Man shall be delivered into the hands of men. And now look with me at verse 51. It says, and it came to pass, when the time was come that he should be received up, he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. That is a very interesting phrase that you may have never thought of before, but this is how Luke is marking the fact that Jesus was preparing himself, steadying himself to go to Jerusalem one final time because he knew as he began this journey that there he would be crucified. And it says here that he set his face, he set himself to go to the cross. Jesus was mentally preparing himself for what would transpire there. He was like a soldier who is preparing himself mentally to go forth and engage the enemy. And on the night before Jesus' crucifixion in the upper room, He says at the end of that chapter there, he says to his disciples, arise, let us go hence. He is again going out like a general marshaling his troops, preparing to meet the foe. And of course, in the Garden of Gethsemane, he would be arrested, and then the trials would begin. And then we see in retrospect in Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 2 these words it says, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. And this verse sheds light in the mental preparation of our Lord for the cross, that one of the ways he dealt with that incredible difficulty that was coming was that he thought about the good that would come from his death on the cross, and that is, of course, the redemption of sinners like us. This verse was the way Jesus prepared his mind for the sorrow of Gethsemane, the suffering at his trials, and the separation from his father at the cross And so I would say this, if Jesus needed to buttress his mind to face suffering and difficulty How much more do we need to have the proper mindset so that we are prepared to face the suffering that will come in our life, the suffering that is part of God's plan for us? I want to speak to you this morning on this truth that Christians should face their suffering with the mindset of Christ. And we're going to be looking at just the first two verses of 1 Peter chapter 4. And the first point that I want to make is this. You should face your suffering like Christ with the mindset of a warrior. In verse one, we have a call to arm ourselves like a warrior with the same mind. Now we often, we perhaps rarely think of Jesus as a warrior, but the scripture indicates that in some ways he was. At the very beginning of his ministry, we see him battling Satan at his temptation in the wilderness. And in that struggle, he used what? The sword of the Spirit. The word of God to defeat his foe. And we read of him in that great battle in the Garden of Gethsemane. When all the powers of darkness were unleashed upon him like a soldier battling for his father, we see him, of course, throughout his earthly ministry, casting out demons, invading the devil's territory. Jesus was the ultimate warrior for truth. He is described in Hebrews 2. 10 as the captain of our salvation. And he has called us to follow him into battle. So what can we learn from this analogy? Well, one thing that we should learn is that we should expect to suffer. That's part of the deal that a soldier faces when they go into combat. They're going to suffer. And in verse 1, I think we find three reasons for this. First of all, you should expect to suffer since Jesus suffered This is the implication. It says, for as much then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. Since Jesus suffered, he is saying you should expect to suffer. Martin Luther had a brilliant assistant who became his right-hand man known as Melanchthon. And he said, God had one son without sin, but he will have none without suffering. Now, much of the suffering that we face in life is simply because we live in a fallen world where we are subject and prone to disease and decay and difficulty and the uh the wicked uh reactions of others towards us. That's a great deal of our suffering and some of our suffering, if we're honest, is self-inflicted. We suffer because of poor choices that we have made. But some of the suffering that we face is because we deliberately choose to do what's right and follow the Lord. And that is particularly what Peter has in mind in our passage here this morning. And it's important for us to understand that. Now, this is a situation, to be honest, that we rarely experience in the time and place in which we live. But of course, in many parts of the world, even today, Christians are suffering for following the Lord Jesus Christ. And Peter's point is this, if Jesus, the Son of God, our Savior, faced horrible suffering in doing his Father's will , Should we expect to be spared from suffering? The answer obviously is no. But the amazing thing is that often We are very, very upset when we face any suffering in our lives. People cry out, why God, why have you brought this into my life? And I'm not at all minimizing the suffering that people face and the way it can so uh infiltrate every aspect of your life and how painful it can be. But I think that we need to understand that if we think for got about God's will for his beloved son That he would suffer and die on an old rugged cross. We should not be so shocked that we, as his followers, must also face some suffering. In fact, Peter is going to address this later in this chapter. Look with me at verse 12 of 1 Peter chapter 4. He said, Beloved. Think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you as though some strange thing happened unto you. But rejoice inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy. You see, this is part of what it means to be united with Christ, to be associated with Christ, is that as he has suffered, so we must also take our share of suffering. But there's something else that's alluded to in this first verse, and that is that we should expect to suffer because we are in a battle. The main verb in this passage this morning is translated, arm yourselves. It is a word that's only used here in the New Testament. It was term used of a warrior going to battle who would pack and put on his various weapons And he would get himself together for a day of warfare, a day when he may very well die. And what kind of fortitude would that take? You know, warfare is always horrible. But when you allow your mind to go back and think about what it was to be a soldier 2,000 years ago when all combat was basically hand-to-hand combat When you're facing your enemy and he's in orange reach of you and you can see his face and at any moment someone might stab you and kill you, or some arrow might strike you. I mean, this was a horrible thing to prepare your mind for. But that's what it was to be a warrior in the ancient world. And so you would have you would put on your weapons carefully. You would make sure that everything was exactly the way it should be because this was a matter of life and death. And Peter says that's the way we should live our Christian lives. Peter has already used this imagery of warfare earlier in this book. In 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 11, he says, Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims. Abstain from fleshly lust which war against the soul. And the New Testament is filled with military metaphors. Paul calls us in Ephesians 6. 11 to put on the whole armor of God. In 1 Timothy 1. 18 Paul writes to Timothy and says, war a good warfare. He says, fight the good fight of faith. In 2 Corinthians 10, 4 we read, for the weapons of our warfare are not carnal. but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. This is something that we're studying on Wednesday night. In fact, some of these same passages we have been looking at in that study on spiritual warfare. And one of the questions that I ask of you is, do you recognize that you are a soldier of the cross? I think that this is something that we rarely think about in our day and age. One of my favorite quotes that I shared with the folks on Wednesday night comes from A. W. Tozer, one of my favorite devotional writers. He says, men think of the world not as a battleground, but as a playground. We are here not to fight, we are here to frolic. We are not in a foreign land, we are at home. And we're not getting ready to live, we are already living. And the best we can do is to rid ourselves of our inhibitions and our frustrations and live this life to the full. This we believe, he says, is a fair summary of the religious philosophy of modern man. That this world is a playground instead of a battleground has now been accepted and practiced by the vast majority of evangelical Christians. They might hedge around the question if they were bluntly asked to declare their position but their conduct gives them a way. They are facing both ways, enjoying Christ and the world too. And gleefully telling everyone that accepting Jesus does not require them to give up their fun, and that Christianity is just the jolliest thing imaginable. He wrote that in the 1950s. I wonder what he would say today. The reality is folks we're living behind enemy lines. And soldiers, when they're engaged in combat, face a great deal of difficulties. They don't have the best food to eat. They don't have wonderful living conditions. They face exhausting marches and the ever-present danger of the enemy. But that's what it is to be a soldier. And that's the kind of mindset that we should have as Christian people. We have a hymn in our hymn book that I hope to sing later in our service. It says, it's entitled, Am I a Soldier of the Cross? In one verse in that hymn says, Must I be carried to the skies on flowery beds of ease, while others fought to win the prize and sailed through bloody seas? Sure, I must fight if I would reign. Increase my courage, Lord. I'll bear the toil, endure the pain, supported by the word. The Christian life involves suffering. You know, being in the ministry. is a great blessing, but it is also a heavy burden. This is why many pastors unfortunately get burned out and leave the ministry for various reasons. There is special suffering that comes when you're on the front line. Sometimes people ask me if I ever think of quitting. And I answer always is only on Mondays. Only on Mondays. Whenever I question whether or not it's worth it or not. The passage the Lord has used in my heart and life more than any other It's found in the pastoral epistles. It's in 2 Timothy 2 and verse 3, where Paul is writing to Timothy. And he says, thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. And the idea of hardness there is, take your share of suffering. That's true not only of pastors. There is a certain portion of suffering that is allotted to all of us. And as soldiers of Christ, we are to take our share. We are not to become bitter and angry at God, but we are to accept it and receive it from the hand of the Lord. You should also expect to suffer because this is the cost of following Christ. Now I come to this phrase that strikes us as odd. For he that have suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. This is an interpretational difficulty. What does that mean? Well, it doesn't mean that the more you suffer, the more holy you become. There are some people who suffer greatly And yet they do not seem to benefit from it. They become hardened and bitter and angry at God. So it's not saying that suffering automatically brings spiritual benefit So let me give you the three main interpretations of this. Some scholars suggest that the he in this phrase is actually a reference to Christ. They would say that he's been talking about the example of Christ and what he is saying that as Jesus suffered in his body, he ceased or he had victory over sin. While this sentiment is true, it is a natural way of understanding this phrase, and so very few scholars understand this phrase in that way. Others suggest that this means that when we die to the flesh, we are dead to the power of sin in our lives, and they would go to Romans chapter 6 and verse 7 which says, for he that is dead is freed from sin But Peter uses the term flesh in a different way than the Apostle Paul does, and that doesn't seem to be the point that he's making here at all. What Peter seems to be saying is that when believers are willing to suffer for following Christ, They are demonstrating that sin is no longer in control in their life. They are demonstrating in that sense that they have ceased from sin, not that they are sinless and perfect. But they're showing that they have truly committed to following Christ. This is one of the evidences that a person has truly repented of their sin. They are willing to face hardship. that comes with following Christ. Again, I think we have to put ourselves back into the first century context When Peter wrote these words, following Christ was a costly proposition. You ever put yourself into that situation? It's almost hard for us to think along those lines. But following Christ meant That people would be angry at you, that people would think less of you, they would think you were crazy, your family might disown you, your would be angry, they would be disappointed, they would feel that in some way you have failed them. It might mean that you would lose your job, your employment. It might mean that you would have to leave home and go into exile. It would mean a big change. It was costly. And so when people in the first century contemplated following the Lord and declaring that they were a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, that was no small declaration. It's not something they did lightly. And when a person was willing to suffer for following Christ and says, no matter what it costs, this is what I am going to do. It was a clear indication that they had truly repented. They had truly changed their mind about their sinful way of life, and they were now following a new path. They were following Christ. Let me ask you this morning, has it ever cost you anything for following the Lord Jesus Christ? Has it ever cost you anything? Has it cost you the disdain of someone else? Someone thinking you're crazy because you're so careful about what you do and what you say and you're not going to lie or cheat to get ahead in your company Has it ever cost you ridicule, a job promotion? Has it cost you anything to follow the Lord? The fact is that throughout the history of the church, for most believers, it has been a costly thing. Sometimes we have to choose between suffering or sin. Either we're going to suffer and follow Christ. Or we're going to sin and please ourselves. That was the choice that Moses made This is brought out, of course, in Hebrews chapter 11. It says, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Have you ever thought about that choice? He was brought up in the palace. He was in line to become a great Pharaoh, and he gave all the luxury and the riches and the power and the prestige of Egypt up. to identify with the people of God who were slaves. It involved him spending 40 years in the desert. But he consciously made that choice because he had made a break with his sinful lifestyle and had chosen to follow the Lord. And the fact of the matter is, this was the same kind of choice in a different vein that our Savior made Again, I would say that we often would think that there was no difficulty, no struggle at all involved in our Lord choosing to suffer. But the scriptures tell us otherwise. Remember his agony in the Garden of Gethsemane. When he prayed, he cried out with tears three times that this cup might pass from him. But then he added, not my will, but thine be done. If we are to follow our Savior. We are to follow that choice that he made to please his father and to do his will Even though that involved facing the most degrading form of death imaginable. And that was not what he was shrieking from at all. It was that he would bear the sin of the world and that he would be abandoned by his father in the darkness of Calvary. That was the ingredients of the cup that he could not think of taking. This is why Jesus said on numerous occasions, if any man will come after me, Let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. You see, we live in a society, in an age To be honest with you, where being a Christian is soft. It's not hard. It's woven into the fabric of our culture. Yes, there's some cultural wars going on and and Christianity is under assault, but still there's an awful lot of people in this country who identify as Christians. And in most places, you're not going to get anything more brutal than the roll of the eyes or smile when you tell them that you're a follower of Jesus Christ. But God, Christ has called us to follow his example And his example of suffering to the nth degree that he did should be something that emboldens us and strengthens our mindset to follow. him. You know, one of the things that enabled the followers of Alexander the Great to follow him to the ends of the earth And they loved their leader so much they were willing to give their lives for him is because he identified with them He endured the same suffering conditions that they endured. And when they went to battle, he was not way in the back. He was there in the front, and he was engaged in hand-to-hand combat himself. He put his own life on the line. And therefore they said, if he can do it, we can do it. And the words of Peter here are, if our Savior was willing to hazard everything to follow the will of his father, so can we. We can adopt the mindset. Of a warrior. But now I want us to turn to verse 2. And secondly, I want you to see that you should face your suffering like Christ. with a commitment to please your father. Look at verse 2. That he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lust of men, but to the will of God. This verse begins with a purpose clause. The reason why we are to arm ourselves with the warrior's mindset is so that we will be prepared to suffer for Christ, so that we might live for his glory. Let me just pause here for a second and mention that in verse two we are reminded That there are really just two ways to live. Do you see that contrast there? It says he can live to the lust of men Or he can live to the will of God. These are the two options. Now they come in many different varieties, but ultimately they narrow down to these two. You may have heard it put in a popular way, this dichotomy before. There's only two choices on the shelf, pleasing God or pleasing self. That's really what this verse is saying. So first of all, he admonishes us that we must refuse to live like a lost person. that he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lust of men. It's interesting, this phrase, the rest of his time. Peter is primarily writing to Gentile believers who came out of a lifestyle of idolatry. That's very evident throughout this book. He mentions that in chapter 1, verses 18 and 19. You can see that for yourself. And most of these individuals would have come to Christ when they were adults. And so he's saying, you've already lived a portion of your life to the lust of men, to your own desires. To please yourself. You shouldn't live that way anymore You see, there's very much a sense in which every Christian life story is divided into two halves. We're reminded here by this phrase the rest of this time that life is short. Life is short. It goes by very, very fast. I know for our young people here this morning, it may not seem that way. You may not think that way. It seems like it's going rather slowly, and you feel like you have almost an eternity in front of you. But I want you to know that it will go by very, very fast. And so this is a reminder to us that as Christians, we are to make every day count for Christ. We don't know when our time on earth will be over. We don't know when we might pass away or when the Lord will return. And so we are to make every day count. Only one life will soon be past. Only what's done for Christ will last. And so we must not live like a lost person with a sense That this is my time to use however I see fit, and I can just while away the hours in selfish indulgence. No. We are to be living in light of eternity. And our time here is precious. Now Krishna's life story can be viewed like two volumes of a biography. The first volume of your life chronicles your life before you were converted, before you were saved. And the second volume chronicles your life after you came to Christ. This is the way the New Testament presents it, that our old life and our new life are to be radically different. There's a profound change that has taken place in our life. And we need to always remember that change, the consistent teaching of the Bible is that the lifestyle recorded in these two volumes is radically different. The Bible puts it this way, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things pass are become new. So what does that look like? What is characteristic about the life of a lost person? Well I want you to notice It's all summarized in a very compact way in verse 2 with this phrase , in the lust of men. It's talking here about the desires that compel a human being. And probably the best cross-reference for this And we'll come back here as I want you to turn with me further back in your New Testament to the book of 1 John chapter 2, please. 1 John chapter 2 A very familiar passage. Look with me at verse 15 1 John 2, verse 15, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. And the reader says, well, what do you mean by the world, John? Verse 16, for all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the pride of life is not of the Father. But as of the world. These are the three components of a godless lifestyle. And it's always been that way Lost people have always lived by these motives, by these desires. They are what compel the decisions that they make. It's always been that way, and of course it's still true today. What is meant by the lust of the flesh, it's talking here about sensual indulgence, living to satisfy your appetites. And I think this is the aspect of worldliness that was foremost in Peter's mind when he wrote our text that we're considering this morning Because in verse 3, which we're not really looking at this morning, he's going to go and spell out what he means by that lost lifestyle. He says, for the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles when we walked in lasciviousness, lust, excess of wine, revelings, banquetings, and abominable idolatry. And we'll look at these in greater detail, Lord willing, next week. But what those words simply mean is that their lifestyle was characterized. by sexual immorality and drunkenness. We would say today they lived a party lifestyle. The first century in the Greco-Roman world was very, very wicked. If you can believe this, it was worse than our culture today. And that was the way most people lived. And Peter is saying, that's the way you used to live, but that must not be the way you live now. Because everything has changed when you came to Christ. The lust of the flesh is sensual indulgence. And then we have the lust of the eyes. This is the idea of putting a great emphasis on superficial view or appearance of things. The world puts a great value on the way things look. Isn't that the case? We live in a in a culture today that is increasingly becoming dominated by celebrities. You can't look up the news on the internet or anywhere without having all of this information about the latest happenings in the lives of celebrities being put upon you. And the message of the world is that if you want to be valued, if you want to be important, you have to have a certain look. You have to have a certain fashion. You have to be someone who's considered beautiful. And this, of course, captivates even the minds of Christian people. So many of the problems that a young people face with their their body image and their identity of themselves are because they want so much to be what the world says you must be in order to be significant and important But the Bible tells us that this is all smoke and mirrors. That passage here in 1 John goes on to say the world passes away. and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. All of that fashion, that glitz, that style, it's all going to go away. It won't last. It doesn't matter. This is the lust of the eyes. And then thirdly, he speaks of the pride of life. This is a reference to what we would call narcissism, which is becoming increasingly accepted in our culture, the idea that it's all about you. It's all right to just live for yourself and Go around wanting people to look at you and look at your house and look at your car and look at what I've achieved. Selfish viewpoints This always harkens to materialism and living as if there is no God. If all that there is If there is no God, there is no right, there is no wrong, there is no heaven, there is no hell, if all that there is is stuff, and all that I am is a cosmic accident. then the the the consequent lifestyle that should come from that wrong thinking is that I live to satisfy my appetites and to get as much stuff and toys that I can to enjoy before I die. But that is all a delusion. It's a lie of Satan. That's not the reality. There is a God that we must answer to. We do have a creator. There is a heaven and a hell. And so this is no way for Christian people to live. And these desires have always driven the lifestyle of ungodly people to one degree or another. And they may look impressive and glitzy But it's not nearly as good as living a godly life. Not even on this earth. Well, there's a second half to this verse here in 1 Peter chapter 4. He says that we are not to live to the lust of men, but to the will of God. And that is that part of what it means to suffer for Christ and having the proper mindset is that we must be committed to obeying the will of God. Got a question for you this morning. Do you think of the Christian life as a lifestyle of obedience? Many Christians do not today. Because the whole talk of obedience kind of sounds very restrictive and old-fashioned. It sounds kind of legalistic, like we're obeying a list of commands or rules. And we have often been told and preached against living the Christian life that way, which is true. We don't live the Christian life Like a machine that's following a bunch of rules, we have to have a relationship with our God and creator. However, the Bible does present the Christian life as a life of obedience. Jesus said, If you love me, keep my commandments He says, you're my friends if you do whatsoever I command you This is what it means to be a follower of Christ. And because being a Christian today is not at all costly, at least in our country We have kind of morphed it and distorted it into an easy-going life of self-indulgence that, by the way, also leads to a wonderful home in heaven. And do not misunderstand me. I'm not suggesting that in any way, shape, or form we earn our way to heaven or by obeying the Lord we are saved. That is not at all what the scripture teaches, but the scripture teaches very clearly, again and again, that a Christian will be committed to obeying the will of God. And did you know this is the way Jesus lived? Even the Son of God? This is what the Bible teaches. He says My meat or my food is to do the will of him that sent me, John 4. 34. He said, I came down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him that sent me, John 6. 38. He said, I always do those things that please him, that is his father, John 8, 29. And his whole lifetime on earth is described in the book of Hebrews with a quotation from the Psalms with these words, I delight to do thy will, O my God, yea, thy law is within my heart. Jesus Christ's life was a lifestyle of obedience, a lifestyle of doing the will of his Father. But the real test of his commitment to please his father came at the end of his life, and we see it, of course, in his suffering in the Garden of Gethsemane, when he says that his soul was exceedingly sorrowful even unto death. And as I mentioned earlier, it was not his brutal death on the cross that caused this reaction. It was the bearing of our sin. and the wrath of God for our sin that made this task seem impossible. The thought that his father would turn away his face and abandon his beloved son and the darkness of Golgotha was unthinkable But Jesus said in his agonizing prayers, not my will, but thine be done. And when we come to that fork in the road where we can either choose to disobey God's will for our lives. and take the easy road of self-indulgence that does not involve suffering, or we can take the road that is difficult that will bring consequences and difficulties. and hardship and yes even suffering, we should cry out in the words of our Savior, not my will, but thine be done. And by God's grace we can do the same even when our Father's will involves the most horrific suffering that we can imagine. This is what God has called us to do. This is the mindset that we must have when we face suffering. We must be able to pray, Lord, in my suffering today, I want to honor you. In my pain, I want to please you. In my disappointments I want to demonstrate that you are my treasure. This is God's will for us, that we would walk In line with His will, that we would walk in obedience and that we would choose to do the difficult things when God has called us to do so. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for your word. We pray that you would help us to be willing to suffer rather than sin. To do your will and not our own. I pray that we would follow our Savior's example in this, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.