If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to that very familiar text that we read together a moment ago, Proverbs chapter 3? We'll be looking this morning at verses 5 and 6. An interesting map is on display in the British Museum in London. It's an old mariner 's chart that dates from 1525. And it portrays in a very inaccurate fashion, the North American coastline. The cartographer made some interesting notations on areas of the map that had really not been explored. He wrote things like, here be giants. Here be fiery scorpions and here be dragons. The fact is, there is nothing more frightening in all the world than the unknown. Isn't that true? If you know something and you know all about it, it tends not to be so fearful and intimidating, but the unknown is a very frightening prospect. And of course, we are right now on the threshold of a new year. And I think for many people , Along with resolutions that they might make, it also conjures up fears and doubts as to what the new year holds. I get a sense of this perhaps more than most people because people share with me their fears and their doubts and their concerns and their worries. But even taken together, they represent, I know, just the tip of the iceberg of what people are thinking and feeling Perhaps this morning you're considering, will I lose my job this year? Or will I find a job this year? Will I be able to keep my struggling marriage together? Or perhaps you're a young person wondering, will I be able to make it in college? Or perhaps you're thinking, will one of my parents pass away this year? Or will I be diagnosed with cancer? These and a thousand other questions plague the minds of people as they face a new year. And many of you are carrying into this new year unresolved issues and perplexing problems that weigh heavily upon you. Perhaps there are things that you had hoped that you could resolve and settle and take care of by the end of the year, but it didn't happen. And it comes with you into the new year. So what advice does God's Word have for us? This morning I want to look at what is undoubtedly the most famous Two verses in the book of Proverbs. I know that many of you have memorized these verses. Some of you undoubtedly have them hanging. and uh frames in your house or on a magnet on your refrigerator. And rightfully so, these are great words to hide in our hearts They are truly encouraging and inspiring. Proverbs 3, 5 and 6, trust in the Lord with all thine heart. And lean not unto thine own understanding, and all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Now, before we delve into these verses, I want to remind you of the context in which they are found. The first nine chapters of Proverbs are the instructions of a father to his adolescent sons. If you look at the beginning of many of these chapters, like chapter 3, which we're in, it says, My son. And if you look at chapter 4, it says, hear ye children, in verse chapter 5, verse 1, my son in chapter 2 and so forth. These are lectures, instructions, words of advice. given by a father to his sons. And they happen to be given by A very wise man, a man by the name of Solomon, and I like to think that at the end of his life he is writing down these instructions because he learned many of life's lessons the hard way. Now what exactly is he saying? How could we summarize his instruction in one word? If we had to do that, it would be the word wisdom That's what the book of Proverbs is all about. Wisdom, the word originally meaning, as I've told you many times before, skill. In this case, skill in living life. Where does that begin? Well, the verse that brings this out, of course, in the first chapter in verse 7 is the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. But fools despise wisdom and instruction. He repeats that again in chapter 9 and verse 10 as he comes to the end of the section of fatherly instruction. And that, of course, is what we all desperately need. Whether we are a young man or a middle-aged woman, we need Wisdom. We need skill and living life and making those choices and ordering our lives and responding to difficult people. We need wisdom. And wisdom, of course, is found in God's word. But how is it that we translate these truths Into appropriate responses and decisions in our lives. I think the answer is found in our text. These verses are famous for a reason because they really summarize and encapsulate God 's truth, especially, God's wisdom for living is found in the book of Proverbs. Now Let me very quickly, and this is not hard to see, I want you to notice what is what is found in these two verses. You have three parallel commands. Notice what they are. There's first of all positive command, trust in the Lord. And then there is a negative prohibition, and lean not unto your own understanding. And then you have a summary command. In all thy ways acknowledge him. And finally you have this precious promise. and he shall direct thy paths. That's what you have in these two famous verses. So how is it that we can enjoy the promise here? And he shall direct thy paths. Isn't that a wonderful thing? Isn't that what you want? I'm going to explore a little bit later what that means, but before we get there, how is it that we can have the Lord's guidance, God's presence? His blessing on our lives. The answer is found in these three commands. And so I want us to look at these familiar verses to see how we can face the new year with confidence. First of all, If we're going to face the new year with confidence, we must trust in the Lord. This is what the familiar phrase says here. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. This, of course, is what the Christian life is all about. We are told four times in Scripture, the just shall live by faith We are saved by faith, and we continue throughout our Christian lives to live by faith or by trusting in God. Now, this term is most often used in the context of a crisis or of danger. And that, of course, is when our faith is really put to the test. When we face a difficulty in life, you know, sometimes in life we think we're doing really well spiritually. And then a crisis comes into our lives and we fall apart. And we respond in unbelief. And if we reflect back on that situation carefully, we'll say, you know what, I really wasn't doing very well spiritually. I was just on cruise control. I wasn't making progress. I wasn't really growing in grace. But I didn't realize it until God sent a test my way and it revealed that I was woefully unprepared. For what I was to face. So what does trusting God really look like? Well, this Hebrew word is very interesting. It literally means to throw yourself face down on the ground. That sounds very strange to us because we don't do that in our culture. But in the ancient world, when they brought you before a king And this man literally had your life in his hands. That was the appropriate response. You fell down with your face to the ground. And showed absolute submission to his sovereign will. And that's exactly what God is calling on us to do. We must yield and submit. And lay ourselves out before the Lord and recognize that our life, our future, our all is in his hands. Now it's interesting to me that the scriptures clearly revealed that this is actually the path of blessings. Years ago, I did a study of this Hebrew word, ashray. which is the word that begins the book of Psalms, blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. And I've mentioned to you several times from this pulpit that the word speaks of someone who's in a envio enviable states. They seem to have everything going for them Not that their life has no problems, but it's obvious that God is sustaining them and blessing them and guiding them. And people look at that and say, wow, I wish I had that in my life. They envy them. That's the blessed man. And as I did that study, I decided I wanted to know what were the traits of the blessed man. And so I put the references, and there's something like 54, at least in the book of Psalms, and there's others otherwise in scripture, and I put them into categories. And then I looked at those categories. And what I discovered is that the number one trait of the blessed man is this, that he trusts in God. Let me read some of these to you. Psalm 2 verse 12, Blessed are all they who put their trust in him. O taste and see, the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him, Psalm 34, verse 8. Blessed is the man that maketh the Lord his trust, Psalm 40, verse 4. Blessed is the man that trusteth in thee, Psalm 84 verse 12. Whoso trusteth in the Lord, happy, and that's the word blessed, is he, Proverbs 16, 20. So the scriptures tell us again and again and again that the path to blessing is on the road of trust. We must trust in God. We must rely and depend on Him. I wonder what burden you have with you today, what worry, what care that is vexing your soul. It's an amazing thing, and I do not say this to denounce anyone here because the Lord knows I've done it myself, but we say that we trust in God for our eternal salvation. We rest our soul in Him, knowing that we have no other hope other than in Christ and what He has done for us on the cross But so often we will bear a struggle or trial or difficulty that in comparison with our eternity is very trivial. But we have trouble giving that to the Lord. and trusting him to deal with it. We still feel like we've got to do some things. We've got to figure it out. We've got to develop a strategy to deal with this perplexing problem. And we don't want to just give it to the Lord and lay it at his feet. We want to hold on to it. Perhaps you're here this morning and you would say Well, Pastor, I've tried to trust the Lord with different issues in my life, and it really hasn't worked out the way this passage seems to promise. Why is that? Well, did you notice carefully what it said? Trust in the Lord, notice this, with all thine heart. That is usually where the problem is. We kind of sort of trust the Lord. We might pray about it. We kind of reluctantly yield it to him for a little while, but we still want to wrest control from him. We still want to figure this out and deal with it in our own way, and we don't really trust God with with our difficulties and with our lives. I think of that very familiar and ubiquitous bumper sticker that you sometimes see. God is my co-pilot. Have you ever seen that? I'm sure the person who came up with that was probably a Christian with a wonderful intention and so forth, but it really isn't true. It really doesn't reflect what the scriptures require of us. God is not interested in every once in a while helping you steer your car. I think the implication is to many people, you know, is I can drive most of the time, but every once in a while I hit an icy patch and I need the Lord to take over. He's my co-pilot. That's not what the scriptures tell us about our relationship with the Lord. He wants full control. And by the way, I've seen the other bumper sticker that maybe you've seen. If God is your cop co-pilot, you need to switch seats. You seen that one before? But I, you know, I want to go something further than that. God doesn't want you to be the co-pilot either. He wants you to get in the back seat. Okay? He wants to do all the driving. He doesn't need your help. He wants you to yield everything to him. This is where we go wrong. We don't trust God with all of our hearts. If I were to ask you, are you trusting God? Probably just about everyone would say yes. But it's a partial trust. We haven't really just yielded it and put it at his feet. And that's what God has called us to do. Now why is it? Why is it that we find it so difficult to trust in the Lord. Let's be honest about this. Sometimes we can put on our Christian face and come to church and pretend that everything's great. and wonderful and we're all just trusting in God and walking in victory and obedience and everything else when that's far from the truth. Why is it that we have so much trouble trusting in God? Why is it, as even as I've been describing this, you're thinking about a burden that you have, and you have great difficulty yielding that to God. Why is that? The answer is usually this. It's because we don't know God very well. You see, we have difficulty trusting people we don't know. Did you know that? If someone were to walk in here today and you're out in the lobby after the service, And they came up to you and they say, hey, listen, could you loan me the keys to your car? My car's broken down and I'm going to need it for a few days. And you never saw this person before in your life. You don't know their name. You know where they came from. You don't know if they have a criminal record. You don't know anything about them. Are you going to give them the keys to your vehicle? Probably not unless you're really crazy. Because you don't know that person. You can't trust in someone if you don't really know them. But if a person came up to you from this assembly and you've known them for 20 years and your kids have been over to their home multiple times and you've prayed with them and you've walked with them and you've worshiped with them and you know them very, very well. They've been to your house, you've been to their house There's no secrets between the two of you. And they say, hey, listen, my car broke down. Can I borrow your vehicle? You don't hesitate, if you can, to reach into your pocket and give them those keys because you know them and you trust them You see, there's this connection. I find that there are many, many Christians that are, and I know no other way of putting it than this, they are suspicious about God. Oh, they're so reluctant to trust in him and to really yield to him because they have believed one of Satan's greatest lies. Do you know what that is? It is that if I really yield myself to God, if I really turn everything over to Him, He's going to make my life miserable. I'm not going to have any fun, any enjoyment in my life if I really yield to him. And that has kept many people from really enjoying the blessings of God. It's a big fat lie. As the song says, there is no peace, no joy, no thrill like walking in his will. It's the best way to live. It's the only way to have this wonderful promise that God will guide you and direct you in your path of life. So if we are going to face this new year with confidence, we must trust in the Lord. And secondly We must mistrust ourselves. Notice the second thing, the negative aspect of this. And lean not unto thine own understanding. You see, there's another major reason why we find it difficult to trust in the Lord. One is because we don't know him, but another reason is simply because we like to be in control. To one degree or another, we are all control freaks. We want to be in control. We want to determine how our life is going to go and how it's going to work out. But in case you haven't realized or not, you can't do that. Now we find here in this parallel statement A wonderful synonym for trust, and it's this word lean. And lean not into your own understanding. When you lean on something, you recline on it, you rest your weight upon it. Okay, it's a matter of trust. I remember a man many years ago who did not enjoy flying, but his job required him to fly often, would say that when he got on his plane, he never quite put all of his weight down. Of course, that's impossible to do, but it illustrates the point as he wasn't real comfortable there. He wasn't really resting, and it wasn't an enjoyable flight for him. And I think for many Christians that's the way it is in their Christian life. They don't really put their weight down. They don't really lean on the Lord. What is the great rival for that, for our trust? Well, the Bible mentions several. One of the things the Bible says is one of our rivals, believe it or not , is riches Tells us not to trust in riches. Speaks in 1 Timothy 6 of this, that those who put their trust in riches Will regret it. They will experience many sorrows because money will let you down. There's many people here That have given testimony to me that there was a time in your life when you thought you were set. You had all kinds of stocks and bonds. You had money in the bank. You had real estate. You had all kinds of things going on. It looked like you were set for the rest of your life. And it all collapsed. And that's not just the experience of a few people. Many have found it ironic that on our American currency it says, in God we trust, because for many it could mean, in this God we trust. We trust in our money. This is a huge rival. Could you go to bed and have peace in your heart with just a little bit in your bank account? Are you trusting in God, or do you say, no, I gotta I've got to have my nest egg and I've gotta have this fund and I've got to have this contingency fund over here, and if I've got all my all everything's lined up there, then I can relax and rest. and and and just kind of be at peace, then your trust is not in God, it's in money. And I would submit to you that this is one of the number one rivals for our trust in 21st century America. We trust in the Almighty Dollar. There's another area of trust the Bible warns about. It says in Psalms that we are not to trust in princes. Now we don't have any princes around here, but a prince was a political figure. Okay. A prince was a one who would make decisions and decrees, and it had an influence on your life. And so one of the things that often especially young people will think about is this if we can just get the right people in office then all of our problems will go away There won't be any more crime, there won't be any more racism, there won't be any inequality. Everything will be solved if we just get competent people in office. I don't want you to misunderstand me We should try to get the very best that we can. But if you live long enough, you will know that that will never solve our problems. Every politician who has ever lived has in some way or shape let down those who put their trust in him. Because they're flesh and blood like you and I. And they're sinful and they're fallen and they're weak and they're limited, and so often they go in thinking they're going to turn the world upside down and the world turns them because they're too small and too weak. You can't put your trust in politicians or in money. But the number one rival, I think, for our trust is ourselves. The Bible warns against trusting in ourselves. Look with me at verse 7, the word that verse that follows this famous text. It says, be not wise in thine own eyes. Isn't that what we often do? When it says, lean not unto your own understanding, it's using understanding there as a synonym for wisdom, for insight, for discernment. We look at our situation, we look at our life, and we say, all right, this is what I need to do, this is decisions I need to go, and this will give me my desired result. And of course, this is the consistent message of the world. The world says what? It says you must believe in yourself It says you must listen to your heart. It says you can't rely on anyone else but yourself because they're going to let you down. It says you've got to do what is right for you. It says you've got to think of yourself, you've got to put yourself first. That's the message of the world. It always has been. It hasn't been as blatant as it is today in our culture. But if you really go and you analyze the advice of the world, that's always been its message. Trust in yourself and nobody else. And I hate to say it, but there are many, many Christians who have followed that creed I know Christians all the time who have given advice to other Christians and will say things to them like this. You just need to listen to your heart. You need to do what is right for you. You need to consider how you just simply need to have risk versus rewards. Alright? What is going to give you maximum pleasure and minimum pain? That's all you need to do. Can I submit to you that's exactly the way lost people make their decisions? Can I give you some good reasons why you should not be trusting in yourself, in your hearts? Number one, the Bible teaches that your heart is incurably wicked. Jeremiah 17, 9, the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? There is no one here that knows how wicked your heart truly is. It's worse than you think it is. You may say, Pastor, I'm a Christian. I know, but you still have a fallen nature. Your mind is still somewhat darkened and clouded. You ever thought about this? That none of us sees things entirely Clearly. Everything is distorted. I've used this analogy before. It's the best one I come up with. But it's like every one of us is wearing glasses with lens that kind of distort what we see. And we think we're seeing things absolutely the way they are. We think we're seeing reality. You're not seeing reality. You're seeing a distorted view because your own mind, your own ability to interpret things, it's distorting things. And so if you listen to your hearts, you are going to be making very poor decisions. There's another reason you shouldn't listen to yourself or trust in yourself, and that is because the desires of your heart are deceptive. It says this in Jeremiah 179. It also speaks in the New Testament about the seekful lusts. You see, our heart says that if you just do this, it will benefit you in these ways. Don't worry about the details. Don't worry about going against some of those things that God says. Look at the payoff you're going to get. And people are so easily deceived. People in relationships, they they fall in love with someone who's not a believer. And they say to themselves, this will work out. This is really what I want. This person will change. It's not as bad as what everyone says. And God's certainly not going to hold this against me. He can give me Forgiveness, if indeed it is a sinful thing to do, and they go ahead and they do it. And their own heart has deceived them into thinking things are going to work out great And they don't. They've been deceived by their own desires. For example, your heart will always recommend the path of self-preservation. Did you know that? It will always give you that advice. It will be things like, don't get hurt, don't risk loss, don't endure any pain or discomfort. Put yourself first. That is what your heart will always say to you. But listen to what Jesus said. If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it. There's another reason you shouldn't trust in yourself, and that is because your wisdom is incredibly limited. Did you know that? You might be the smartest person in this room. You might have a PhD. You may have a great deal of specialized knowledge you may have wet read widely and you might have lived for a long time and so you have a lot of life experience but I want you to know that your wisdom, your insight, your discernment is still incredibly small. Do you realize that? You know, we are all proud to some degree of how smart we are. Have you ever noticed that? You know, a lot of people say, you know, I'm not very good looking, I'm not very athletic, I'm not very artistic, I'm not very musical. Nobody goes around saying, I'm not very smart. You don't hear people say that We all like to think that, you know, and if people haven't done well academically, say, well, I might not have book smarts, but I've got street smarts. Everyone wants to think that they're really smart and they're really smarter than the guy sitting next to them. But you know what? In measure and contrast with God, we are all ignoramuses. We know nothing. Do you realize that? You know, some of you have specialized fields, perhaps in science and so forth, and you try to explain to me what you do for a living, and I don't even know what you're talking about. Because you're speaking a different language. You know, there are vast areas of knowledge. that encompass entire libraries of books and you don't even know anything about it. Ancient civilizations specialized areas of technology and science or perhaps in the medical field. You know nothing about it, but you walk around like you know everything. And maybe you've been alive for 80 or 90 years and you've seen a thing or two, but you know what? You're just one life. And you've lived most of your life in one place and in one culture. Think of the billions of people on the planets in different contexts and in different culture. Really, our sample of life and of human wisdom and knowledge is so minuscule. So it's folly for us to trust in our wisdom and to think, I've got this figured out. I know what's going on You see, the mark of a truly wise person, the Bible teaches, is that they recognize their ignorance. The smarter you are, the more you learn, the more you realize there's so much you don't know. And so the wise thing for you to do is not to lean to your own understanding. But to turn to God, who is the omniscient creator of the universe, who knows everything, you need to rest in him and trust in him. If we're going to face the future with confidence, we must trust in the Lord, and we must mistrust our own hearts. And finally, if we're going to face the future with confidence, we must really know the Lord. Look at that first phrase in verse 6. In all thy ways Acknowledge him. Now when we think of acknowledging someone, we think of recognizing them with a nod, perhaps, or in a former day with a tip of the hat. We're acknowledging your presence. Nice to see you. That's not what this is telling us to do. We don't acknowledge that God exists and tip our hats to him, as it were. Literally, in the Hebrew, it says, in all thy ways know him. It's the very common Hebrew verb for to know. Well what does that mean? It means that in every circumstance of our lives, we must be aware of his presence and seek to do his will. In a bygone time, people would speak about practicing the presence of gods. Of course, we all know that God is always here. There's no place where he is not. But how often are we unaware of that? We don't really think about that. We don't think that he's there at the office with us. We don't think he's there at home with us. We don't think he's there on that trip that we take out of the country. We don't have any thought in our mind that God is there and he sees all and he knows all. He hears everything we say. He sees everything that we do. We tend not to be aware of his presence. And one of the real disciplines of the Christian life is living our lives with the conscious presence of God. of recognizing that he is here, that he is here with us. That's what it means to know him. I mentioned to you a moment ago that one of the reasons why we don't trust the Lord is because we don't know him well enough. The corollary is also true the more that we know him. the more we will be able to trust them. Because to know God is to love God, and to love God is to trust God and obey God. And this applies to all the areas of our life, even things that aren't specifically spelled out in Scripture. How do we know what God wants us to do about things the Bible never addresses? Well, if you know somebody really well, you know what they would want you to do, right? One of the things the pastor has to do all the time is Meet with people and help them prepare for funerals. Did that just last week. And sometimes, very often, people will say things about the funeral service like I know mom would want us to have this kind of flowers. She didn't tell us to do that, but I know that was her favorite. Or they'll say, I know that Dad would want us to sing this hymn at his funeral because that was his favorite. Now he didn't give us instructions to that regard, but I know that's what he would want because I know Dad. You see, when we really know God, when we really walk with Him, we're going to know what He wants us to do. Even in areas that are somewhat perplexing. I want you to notice once more that we have a parallel, comprehensive statement here. Do you remember what it said? In verse 5, the first phrase, trust in the Lord what? With all thine heart. Now look at verse 6. In all thy ways. Those are intended to reflect one another. In all thy ways. You see, one of the great temptations we have as Christians is we want to compartmentalize our lives. And if I could compare it to a house, I would put it this way: we have a guest room. Some of you have guest rooms. It's a wonderful ministry you can have with missionaries and others. It's a good thing if you can do it. But we have a guest room, and in our minds it's as if we allow God to stay there. God, you can come into my home. We want you as a part of our family, but we want you to stay in the guest room. But you know what? God doesn't want to stay in your guest room. He wants the run of the house. He wants to be in every room. every living space, every closet, every hallway, every storage area. He wants control of everything in the house. It is not enough for you to say, all right, I will do this much for the Lord. I will give him this area of my life, but these areas over here are off limits. I want to be in control of those. Those are mine. My family, that's mine. My money, that's mine. My business, that's mine. He wants everything. You wanted the fulfillment of this promise? He will direct your paths. You want that? Just like we said earlier, you have to lay down at his feet, put everything there. You need to open up everything in the house stand. Nothing's off limits. So we have this wonderful comprehensive requirement here And then we have this promise, and he shall direct thy pass. I almost hesitate to say what this is really conveying because it gives the wrong impression. Perhaps you've been reading that phrase and memorized that and you've known it all your life. It means more than just that he will provide guidance for the future. It means more than that. In the original language, the idea is that he will make a straight and smooth road for you. You know, when you bring someone to this country from a third-world country, like Tanzania, where Pastor Aaron is Or like Papua New Guinea, where I was as a little boy, and you bring them here, one of the things that they marvel at the most is our road system. You get them out on an interstate highway, and they can hardly believe that there are roads like this in the world because there's nothing like that in their country, not even close. They didn't think anything like this existed. But they come and they're smooth and they're straight and they're ramped just perfectly and they're like this is incredible. People actually travel like this because you should see the roads in their country Now the reason why I say I almost hesitate to bring out this meaning is because you might think this text is indicating that if you follow the Lord and you're really obedient to him and you trust in him, you won't have any problems in life. And that's not at all what the scriptures teach. It says, many are the afflictions of the righteous. I am not in any way, shape, or form preaching or teaching the health and wealth gospel, which I think is an abomination. We do not follow the Lord for mercenary reasons. But have you ever noticed That some people's lives are incredibly complicated. You see, sin really complicates a person's life And to use a parallel analogy, they're not on, there's a lot of people that they're not on a highway. They're on a little dirt road that's washed out and it has twists and turns all over the place and that's their life. It's a horrible journey And it's because they've been trusting in their own understanding. They've been making every decision along the way. They have been in the driver's seats, and it hasn't gone very well. God will not remove our problems. Doesn't mean that Christian people won't have potholes in the road of life. But it doesn't mean that God will be with us. And He will show us the way to go. And He will take us to our desired haven. This all begins with knowing the Lord. There are some of you here this morning who do not know the Lord well at all, because you do not know him as your Lord and Savior. Jesus said the night before his death, this is eternal life. They might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. You cannot know God unless you know Christ. He must be your Savior and Lord. Jesus said, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. Don't you want to have that guidance, that direction, that light in your life that is found in Christ alone? And you cannot begin to obey this text. And trust in the Lord and not lean to your own understanding and in all your ways know him. You can't even begin to do that if you don't know Christ as your Savior. Some of you, some of you here, I have prayed for specifically that you would come to Christ. I prayed for several here that you would come to Christ before the end of the new year, and some of you did. Some of you right before the end of the new year, but some of you have gone into 2015 and you still don't know the Lord. My friend, you cannot face the future with confidence. You cannot understand what it means to trust God in God and yield it all to Him because you have not trusted Him with your heart. You have not trusted in Him as your Savior and your Lord. And that's the first step on the journey. Do you know the Lord? Because the more you know the Lord, the more you will be able to trust in Him. One of my favorite preachers of the past, who's written about a hundred volumes, was the great British expositor G. Campbell Morgan. He preached a sermon from this text about a hundred years ago. And in that sermon, he relates a touching scene from his own life. At that time in England, it was customary for most middle-class parents to send their children away to boarding school. Hard for us to imagine that for most of the year you wouldn't see your children, but that's the way it was done. And when he was a young man and it was time for him to go away to boarding school His godly father, who was a preacher of the gospel, came to him and he said, son, I want to give you a verse for school and a verse for life. And he said to him, Our text, trust in the Lord with all thy heart And lean not unto thy own understandings, and all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. And G. Campbell Morgan gives testimony, preaching that sermon some 33 years after that event, he says, I have proven the promise to be true. God has directed my path. And I want you to know that I have not trusted in God as I should. I have not always walked in his ways as I ought. But I can give testimony that he has directed my path. It's a wonderful thing to look back over your life and see that God was leading all the way, that he was clearing obstacles. He was guiding and directing you through the twists and turns of life to exactly where you needed to be. And sometimes you didn't understand what was going on at the time, but sometimes. Not always, but sometimes you're able to look back and say, I know why God did that. I know why He closed that door. I know why He brought that into my life. Because from this perspective now I can see. He has directed me all the way. I began this message by speaking of this ancient map in London that spired with these quaint And fearful expressions such as, here be giants, and here be fiery scorpions and here be dragons. Eventually, the map came into the hands. Of a British explorer named Sir John Franklin. And he took that map and he wrote over these expressions , here is God. Here is God. My friends, we don't know what 2015 holds, but we know that God is with us. And we know that he controls the future. And so we as his children should trust in him and rest in him and lean not to our own understanding. But in all our ways we should know him, and he will direct our paths. Let's close in prayer. Our Father, how desperately we need your guidance. How prone we are to wonder, to go our own way, to trust in our own wisdom, to be deceived by our own fallen hearts How quick we are, Father, to want to be in control. I pray that you would change us. I pray that you would help us to know you more this year, to know you better, to seek you more earnestly. Pray that we would be students of your word. And warriors upon our knees. I pray that you would help us to turn a deaf ear to the call of the world. But help us, Father, to follow our master more fully. Help us to trust in you more and to find that indeed there is no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. Father, we think of those under the sound of my voice this morning who are lost in their sins, who are still trusting in their own righteousness. I pray that you'd show them the foolishness of this today. Help them, Father, to seek you earnestly while you may be found. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.