If you turn your Bibles to Galatians chapter 5, we're looking at Galatians chapter 5, verse 22. Just one word out of the list of the fruit of the Spirit, which says, But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy. Peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness. In Greenmont Cemetery in Baltimore Not very far from Johns Hopkins Hospital are buried several notable people. People like John Wilkes Booth, the assassin of President Lincoln Also, Johns Hopkins, who the philanthropist who uh has the name of the research hospital and the college named after him. But among those that are buried there is a grave of a well-known Christian hero, a man named J. Gresham Machin. Machin was a Baltimore native. He was a graduate of Johns Hopkins. He was a professor at Princeton Seminary, and founder of Westminster Theological Seminary. He is famous for defending the Christian faith against attacks by liberal theologians who are actually not preaching the gospel, but a different gospel. They were outside of Christianity. And he wrote a book describing that called Christianity and Liberalism. Just the very title tells you, liberalism is not Christianity. Liberal theology is opposed to, it is different than. Christianity. And this book defends in an accessible way the historic Christian faith against liberal detractors. On his gravestone there in Greenmont Cemetery are the words written in Greek, faithful unto death. Faithful unto death. What a beautiful testimony for any believer to be able to have written on his gravestone, faithful unto death. Jesus urged the church of Smyrna in Revelation 2 to strive to this, to be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life. Jesus said that the commendation that we should desire when we stand before him is to hear, Well done, you good and faithful servant. Faithfulness is vitally important. It is not a minor reality. If you memorized the fruit of the Spirit from the King James Version of the Bible, you would recognize the list of the fruit of the Spirit as love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith. Not faithfulness, but faith. And this difference that we see here in our ESV, where it says faithfulness, and the King James where it says faith, really centers around the proper way to interpret The Greek word here. We all agree it is this word, but what is the proper way it should be translated in regards to its context There are three main ways that this one Greek word are translated in our New Testament scriptures. The first and most common, most frequent way this word is translated in our Greek or in our in our English New Testament is the idea of believing or trusting in something. Often in the New Testament, it refers to having faith in Christ. We have been studying the Gospel of John, which is the Gospel of belief, the Gospel of faith. And John is showing us that we must renounce all self-confidence and put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ alone. And this is the way it is often translated, most often translated in our New Testaments. Secondly, it could refer to doctrine or the core teachings of the Christian Faith, as we would say it. For example, in Jude verse 3, it says, Beloved, although I was very eager to write to you about our common salvation, I found it necessary to write appealing to you to contend for the faith. He wasn't saying to contend for believing. He's saying contending for the doctrine, the teaching, the truth. that we hold as part of the center of our Christian tradition. So that's a possible way that it could be translated. But thirdly, it could refer to faithfulness or dependability or trustworthiness. It refers to a person who is faithful to his word and his promises and his responsibilities. And it's this Way that it was used in Titus chapter two. Paul tells servants not to pilfer from their masters, to steal, to take a cut from their master's finances or property, but he says, showing all good faith. Now, he's not telling servants, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and you shall be saved. He's not even saying have proper doctrine. He's saying, don't pilfer, be faithful. Don't steal. Be faithful. Work hard and be faithful for your servants. And that, I believe, is the way that it is intended to be understood here. Faithfulness. In this way, all true faithfulness to mankind is rooted in a knowledge of the faithfulness of God. And then we respond with a faithfulness to Him. It's in response to that the Holy Spirit produces in us a faithful behavior towards God and towards man. True religion. Makes one faithful. The Holy Spirit produces in all believers a growing conformity to the faithfulness that is found in our God and in our Savior Jesus Christ. The root, you might say, of the fruit of the Spirit in our lives, the root of the fruit of the Spirit is the faithfulness of God Himself. The Holy Spirit is at work in our lives to produce In us, what is found in God and in our Savior. One of the most assuring and most frequent attributes attributed to God in the Bible is the faithfulness of God. Pastor preached about it this morning, or prayed about it this morning, speaking of the steadfast love and faithfulness of God. It is found throughout the pages of the scriptures. We sing about it in wonderful hymns like, Great is Thy Faithfulness. We would have sung that this morning, but we sang it on Wednesday night. So I decided not to do it two services in a row. The song says, Great is thy faithfulness, O God my Father, there is no shadow of turning with thee. Thou changest not, thy compassions they fail not. As thou hast been, thou forever wilt be. God is faithful. The Bible tells us repeatedly of God's faithfulness. In Deuteronomy chapter 32. In verse 4 it says, the rock. Speaking of God, I love that phrase, the rock. His work is perfect, for all his ways are justice, a God of faithfulness. And without iniquity, just and upright is he. He is the rock. When you think of a rock, something that is steady, that is sure. that is unchanging. This is the reality of God. He is the rock. He is unchanging. And here it speaks of his faithfulness to his righteous character. As he has always been, he will forever be. He is the righteous and just God. Psalm 36 verse 5 says, Your steadfast love, O Lord, extends to the heavens. Your faithfulness to the clouds. Again, you notice those two words that Pastor prayed about in his prayer. He was quoting scripture, and he said, steadfast love and faithfulness. Steadfast love and faithfulness. And he says, your steadfast love extends to the heavens, your faithfulness to the clouds, meaning God is faithful beyond our comprehension. We like to think of ourselves as faithful. People will tell us that they are faithful to us, but the reality is there is not a man or woman on the face of this earth that is truly faithful. God alone is faithful, and his faithfulness is beyond our comprehension. In 1 John 1. 9, it says, if we confess our sins, he is faithful. and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. He is faithful to respond to us In Christ. Because we are in Christ Jesus, those of us who have put our faith in Christ, he is faithful to respond to us in Christ Jesus and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. 1 Corinthians 10, 13, it tells us that no temptation has taken you that is not common to man. God is Faithful. And he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability. But with the temptation, he will also provide the way of escape that you may be able to endure it. He is faithful to protect us against overwhelming temptation and faithful to provide grace sufficient for any temptation and any trial that comes into our life. God Is faithful. We think of trials. God is faithful even when the trials are great. The Book of Lamentations is a book written by Jeremiah the Prophet, and Jeremiah is known as the Weeping Prophet. Not because he was a crybaby, but because he observed great trials. He endured great trials. He watched as Nebuchadnezzar and his armies came and invaded Jerusalem. broke down the walls, killed the warriors, raped the women, took captives, destroyed the temple, raised the houses. and left a small remnant divided and contentious back in the land. And he walks through the streets of the raised city that he loved. And what does he do? He writes a poem describing the depths of his emotion, and that poem is called Lamentations. It is a lament. And it is a poem, and it's written in Hebrew poetry. And in the very middle of that, kind of the core that we are drawn to as we read this poem, he says. But this I call to mind, and therefore I have hope. The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning Great is your faithfulness. Notice again, steadfast love and faithfulness. These two realities go hand in hand about our God. He is faithful. No matter how great the trial you may be experiencing, no matter how great the heartache that you are enduring right now, I want to urge you to run to our God because He is faithful. He is a faithful God. He is the rock. He is the unchanging God. But because Jesus Christ is God in the flesh, he is the perfection of faithfulness in human form. It's interesting when John writes the Gospel of John, the very first chapter, John chapter 1 verse 14, he speaks of Jesus Christ and he says that he is full of grace and truth. What is he doing there? It's actually the same Old Testament phrase, steadfast love and faithfulness in Greek form. Now translated into English. He is Full of steadfast love and faithfulness, full of grace and truth. He is the embodiment of God's steadfast love and faithfulness to us. In fact, when Christ returns to judge the earth in Revelation 19, we are told that he returns riding on a white horse, and he is called faithful and true. Faithful and true. It reminds me of the song My Redeemer by Stephen Curtis Chapman, where he says My Redeemer is faithful and true. Everything he has said, he will do. Every morning his mercies are new. My Redeemer. is faithful and true. You see how he's weaving together these truths that are of scripture of our Savior. He is faithful and he is true. Jesus Christ is the living example of the faithfulness of God. And we see this in two primary ways. First, we see that he is faithful to the Father. He is faithful to the Father. Remember in John 4, we studied John 4 not too long ago about the woman at the well. And the disciples went into Sikar and they're getting food, and Jesus stays at the well. He's tired from his journey. And the sinful woman comes out from Samaria and he shares the gospel with her. The disciples come back and they see Jesus. And they're like, what is he doing talking with her? And they're annoyed at her. And they're trying to urge Jesus, come on, take some food, eat. And Jesus says to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me, and to accomplish his work. What is he saying there? He's saying, more important to me than bread, more important to me than fish, more important to me than any food you have is to do, to be faithful to the will of my Father. It is my daily bread. I want nothing more than to accomplish what my Father has sent me to do. Pastor explained it when we went through that, that this was Jesus' single-mindedness. and his focus to do the will of the Father and to fulfill all that God had sent him to do. In John 17, verse 4, the night before he was betrayed. Jesus prays to the Father. He says, I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. He doesn't say use the word faithfulness, but what is the reality of accomplishing the work that he was sent to do? He was faithful. He was faithful to accomplish what the Father had given him to do. He was faithful to the Father's will even to the point of death and the death on a cross. That's why, even as he hung on the cross, bearing the wrath of God, he could say. It is finished. I have been faithful to do all that I was sent to do. And then he says, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. He was faithful to fulfill the commands of his father. But praise God, not only is he faithful to the Father, he is perfectly faithful to his church, to us. Jesus is faithful to his word to us. In Revelation 3. 14, Jesus calls himself the faithful and true witness. Have you ever maybe if you're a parent and you have children and you've had a ch maybe something happened and you know someone broke that base or someone threw that ball here and you call in the children and saying, Who did it? And you get two or three different stories. You're like, I don't know who's telling the truth, or if any of them are telling the truth, but something is not right here because they can't all be true. Or maybe you're an employer. And you call in your employees and you get different stories about what happened. You're like, nobody is telling me the truth. Who is the faithful and true witness? Jesus describes himself as the faithful and true witness because his testimony is absolutely true and trustworthy. What he says about God is absolutely true. What he says about heaven and hell, and he speaks a great deal about hell in the Gospels. Is absolutely true. What he says about himself and what he says about you and I and our sin nature is absolutely true. He is the faithful and true witness. He is entirely trustworthy. And when he says, I am the way, the truth, and the life, no man comes to the Father but by me. He is speaking truth. Because he is the faithful and true witness. He is also faithfully interceding For us. And it is an essential part of our sanctification. Because of the faithful interceding work of Christ, we are assured That we will persevere in our Christian life. In 1 Corinthians 10, 13, he says, No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is faithful. Praise God that in our Christian life we face nothing, that God has not provided enough grace for us to endure, that He is faithful to measure out the temptations and the trials in line with where we are in our Christian walk and not give us more than we can endure. We have a faithful high priest. In Hebrews 2. 17, our Savior is described as our merciful and faithful high priest. It is always interceding for us. He is always praying for us that our faith will not fail. It is for this reason that Peter can say. We are kept or we are guarded by God's power through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. And remember, Peter is the one who's writing this. And it's Peter who the night before Christ was crucified, he said, Lord, I will go with you to death. And the Lord says, I prayed for you that your faith fail not. And Peter stumbled and he fell, but his face did not fail. And the Lord restored him. It is that same God, that same Savior who prays for us. And that's why Peter can say confidently that we are kept, we are guarded by the power of God through faith to salvation. That's why also we read in 1 Thessalonians 5. 23, speaking of our sanctification, saying, He who calls you is faithful. He will surely do it. Aren't you glad, Christian, that you aren't kept by the power of Aaron or the power of yourself, but you are kept by the power of God Faithful is he who calls you. He surely will do it. And we have a great Savior who is interceding for us. Forever and continuously. He never sleeps. He never tires. And he is perfectly accepted before the Father. And that's why he can say, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. It's as we look at our God who is faithful. He is the rock, and our Savior who is perfectly faithful. That the Holy Spirit produces in us a faithfulness, a growing faithfulness, because we see him who is faithful, and he conforms us to the image of his son from one degree of glory to the next. It is the work of the Spirit in our lives. The Holy Spirit desires to reveal to us the demands of faithfulness. Because God is faithful, there is no fellowship with a God apart from faithfulness. We can think of this in the parable of the talents that Jesus told. The master there who represents God tells the servants, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little. I will set you over much. This morning, when we read our scripture reading from Psalm 15, David asked the gripping question. O Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? Those aren't two separate things. They're the same thing. It's Hebrew parallelism. Who gets to live with you, God? What type of person can live with the Almighty God, the Holy God? And the answer that comes is really a description of faithfulness in its various facets. David answers that question when he says. He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart, who does not slander with his tongue and does no evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproach against his friend in whose eyes a vile person is despised, but who honors those who fear the Lord, who swears to his own hurt and does not change, who does not put out his money at interest, and does not take a bribe against the innocent He who does these things shall never be moved. Now, I don't know about you, but when I read that passage of Scripture, there's a lot of condemnation that I feel there. I don't feel that that describes me. I feel a lot. I know my heart tells me you have not been faithful in all these areas. The sad fact is that if we are honest with ourselves, there is not a single one of us that has faithfully discharged all of our duties to God There's not a single man, woman, boy, or girl who has done that. In fact, Solomon says in Proverbs 20 and verse 6, Many a man proclaims his own steadfast love. But a faithful man, who can find? A lot of us say, I'm faithful. I'm dependable. And maybe we are more dependable than others. But we are not faithful like God is faithful. We are not dependable like God is dependable. We are not trustworthy like God is trustworthy. And be honest with yourself. Have you been faithful in paying your taxes? Like, oh, it's this is tax season. Had to mention that, huh? Have you been faithful to your employer? Do you work just as faithfully when your boss is around as when he is absent? Have you been faithful to your spouse in word and in thought and in action? Have you been faithful to speak well of your spouse? Have you been faithful to speak truthfully at all times? Have you been faithful to your God? Have you been faithful in your words? If we are honest, we know the answer to these questions is that all too often we have not been faithful. But the one who judges us is the faithful and true witness. We must come to God then in repentance for our unfaithfulness and put our trust in the one who alone is faithful and true, who alone fulfilled all of God's commands for us and died faithfully living out. the commandments for us, so that we might be accepted before Him who is faithful. We cannot stand before God in our own unfaithfulness. Only when we are clothed in the faithfulness of Jesus Christ by faith. John Payton was a missionary to the New Hebrides Islands in the South Pacific. Uh the island that he went to was full of cannibals. In fact, the person who went there just before him was killed and eaten just before he came. When he arrived by God's grace, he was spared and his life was preserved through great trials and tremendous hardship. But over time God blessed, and many of the islanders came to faith in Christ through the ministry of John Payton. And when they did, he felt it was necessary to translate the Bible into their language so that they could have the Word of God for themselves. But he struggled translating the word faith. He couldn't find a word that was appropriate to describe what faith was in their language. And he was struggling with this over the course of weeks and months. And one day he was working in his home, studying and trying to translate, and one of the native men came running up the hill towards his house and came into the house. exhausted after running up the hill and he sat down in the chair and just collapsed in the chair. And he described himself saying, it is good to be able to put all my weight in this chair. And John Payton said, that's the word that I need for faith. Faith is to say, I cannot. I am putting all my weight in the God who can. the Savior who did for me. It is to rest, to trust, to depend upon. Christ is the one who did everything for us, and we must come and repent of our sins and put our trust, our weight in Him who has done all for us. That's why Jesus says, Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Have you put your faith in Christ? Have you rested in him with all of your weight on him? He is faithful. He is dependable. You can trust in him. When we come to Christ in repentance and faith, we are then given the indwelling Holy Spirit. Who by his power begins to produce in us the fruit of the Spirit. And one of those aspects is faithfulness. And it is a divine work. It is a work of the Holy Spirit in our lives. We must work. We are responsible to cooperate with the Holy Spirit, but we are absolutely dependent upon the Holy Spirit, walking in dependence upon him and communion with him day by day and moment by moment. It's been said, you can't be faithful by trying, but you can't be faithful without trying. Meaning it's not by your power alone, but in dependence upon the work of the Spirit. Like a farmer works and labors in dependence upon God to produce the harvest. We must do similarly, working and striving towards faithfulness in dependence upon our God and His Spirit to work that in us. So as we consider faithfulness, I want to look at just three things very briefly this morning that the Holy Spirit desires to work within us in regards to faithfulness. The first is he desires to produce in us a radical honesty. The connection between faithfulness and honesty is revealed in the name of our Lord that we've already seen this morning. He is faithful and true. Speaking of Truth. Telling the truth. Being honest in all things. In Psalm 2, or Psalm 12, verses 1 and 2, we read of this connection when David cries out to God saying, Save, O Lord, for the godly one is gone. For the faithful have vanished from among the children of man. Every one utters lies to his neighbor, with flattering lips and a double heart they speak. Do you see that? The faithful one is gone. And instead of faithfulness, you have liars and flatterers and slanderers. Faithfulness, a radical honesty. Psalm 15 that we read this morning speaks about the one who dwells on God's holy hill as the person who speaks truth in his heart. Who does not slander with his tongue? What does it mean to speak truth in your heart? The Bible tells us that out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. Here we are told that both slander and flattery reveal our heart. Slander is something that we would never say to someone's face. And flattery is something we would never say behind their back. And it reveals a wicked and selfish heart. That God hates. God despises the gossip, the slander. God despises the one Who flatters his neighbor, because it is out of a selfishness that he does so. The Bible commands us in Ephesians 4 to let no corrupt talk come out of your mouths. but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear. Are we building people up with our words in truth? Or are we tearing them down behind their back, speaking false praise to them so we get something from them? The Bible says all of that is despicable to our God. How often do husbands and wives slander one another with half-truths? That reveal only the guilt of the other person. If you've done any marriage counseling at all, you know most often there's three sides to every story. His side, her side, and the truth. And usually, there tends to be this attitude of, I am going to tell you all these things that'll make you think the worst of my spouse. And then when you start asking questions, you're like, well, they didn't actually balance that because I said that because of this. And you're like, oh, that changes everything. What is that? As not telling the truth from the heart. It's not being faithful. It's not pleasing to God. It's sin. And God hates it. You say, well, I only told the truth. Yeah, you didn't tell all the truth though And God hates that. God demands radical honesty in our lives. He demands radical honesty in our business dealings as well. So I Proverbs 11. 1 says, A false balance is an abomination to the Lord, but a just weight is his delight. Speaking of those scales in the marketplace, we use those all the time in Tanzania. You want to buy I want to buy two kilos of rice and they put the two kilo weight on one side and they pour rice into this side until it balances out. But what happens to that two kilo thing is actually a kilo and a half. How do you know? You've seen that Norman Rockwell uh painting. Actually it's not Norman Rockwell. Actually, it looks like Norman Rockwell But it's actually a different artist. It was on the Saturday Evening Post. You have the the butcher who has the the meat on the scale and the old lady there and he's pushing down on the scale from this side and she's pushing up from this side. And we kind of chuckle at that. We're like, oh yeah, that's that's funny. But what is that? Deceitfulness. Both of them are trying to steal from the other person. She looks like a sweet old lady. She's a thief. She's not being faithful to God. The reality is, we often say, well, this is what you've got to do to get things done today in this business environment. If I were to tell them honestly all the all about my product, they probably wouldn't buy it. Do we give our employer an honest day's work? Do we give our employees honest compensation for their labors? Are we scrupulously honest in our business dealings? Or do we say, you know what, that's just the cost of business these days? If I were to be honest, then I would never be able to make a living. Who are you trusting? God or yourself? We are called to radical honesty. Secondly, not only are we called to radical honesty, but we are called by the Spirit to profound dependability. Profound dependability. If we go back to David's answer in Psalm 15, we find one of the most profound descriptions of faithfulness that's found, I believe, anywhere in Scripture. David says that the person who is welcome in God's presence is one who swears to his own hurt and does not change. What is David talking about there? It refers to someone who agrees to do something and then later realizes that it's going to cost more than he thought, or take more time than he realized. It's going to be more costly. And so often we're saying, well, you know what? I didn't realize it was going to cost so much. I'm just going to back out of this deal. God says, blessed is that person who swears to his own hurt. And he still fulfills his word. He's dependable. So often we have the attitude, I will keep my word if it is convenient. This is something that we are required to teach our children and to model for our child our children. Maybe if you have children and you have a teenager and they say, You know what, I'm going to be a part of this youth activity. And then some friends invite them out to Hershey Park. You say, go ahead, it's okay. This is a neat opportunity for you to be able to go to Hershey Park. Well no, you gave your word. You've sworn to your own hurt. Now do it. Be faithful. Be dependable. Are you, as a parent, modeling that same reality? in your life. Before we jump on the teenagers, what pattern are we demonstrating to our children? Are we someone who can be counted on keeping his word? Are we faithful to discharge our duties? In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus preached against deceitfully swearing oaths. He said, Let what you say simply be yes or no. Interestingly, in 2 Corinthians 1. 18, he says this. As surely as God is faithful, our word to you has not been yes and no. What is Paul saying there? God is faithful, and I am representing the faithfulness of God, but when I say yes, I mean yes, and when I say no, I mean no. My word is dependable. Why? Because God is faithful. And I am his servant. And I will be faithful. I remember my dad telling me a story when he worked for Winchester Homes, which was owned by Warehouser Corporation. And about a man who sold a mountain, a whole mountain to Warehouser. And he made a verbal agreement with Warehouser Corporation that he would sell for a certain price. And the following day, a man came in and verbally offered him double the price that he had verbally agreed to Warehouser to sell it for. What did he do? He said, I gave my word. Nothing was in writing. There had been no contract written up. He said, I gave my word yesterday to sell it for this price. And the guy said, come on. He said, no, I gave my word. And he was faithful to his word. What he didn't realize, and he didn't know till years later, was that that guy who came in with the second offer. was testing him. He was sent by Warehauser to see if he was a faithful man. And there was no second offer. But Warehauser offered him a job as an executive and said, he's a faithful man. What would you have done? Nothing's in writing. I mean, it's just words, and words are just air. Would you have been faithful? That's radical dependability. Perhaps we can go a little deeper here. How many Christians make a vow to be faithful to their spouse, for better or worse, for poverty or in wealth, in sickness or in health? Yeah, when difficult days come and he snores more than you thought. And he's more annoying than you remember. He's not as romantic as you thought he was. Or she's not as adventurous as you thought she would be, and not as interesting as you remembered. You start looking for someone a little better at the gym or at work. And faithfulness goes out the drain. Are you faithful to keep your vows? We serve a God who is radically faithful, and he demands radical faithfulness. Lastly, this morning, the Spirit desires to produce in us not only radical honesty and profound dependability, but unswerving loyalty. Psalm 15 again tells us the one who dwells with the Lord is one who does no evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproach against his friend. This refers to an unswerving loyalty. That God demonstrates to us by forgiving us and accepting us in Christ Jesus One amazing example of unswerving loyalty in the Bible is found in the life of David in 1 Samuel 26, when David's father-in-law, the king, is coming to kill him. And out of jealousy for David's success, he has come with three thousand soldiers. And David saw where these soldiers were camped at night, and he and another soldier go down into the camp, and God has caused a great sleep to fall on the men. And he stands there beside Saul with Saul's spear in the ground. And the soldier next to him says, Come on, I will strike him to the ground and he will not rise up. God has delivered your enemies into your hands. He even uses Christian language. Look, you're the anointed of God, and God has delivered your enemies into your hand. And he does not do it. He says, No, I will not raise my hand against the Lord's anointed. And they take the spear and the water jug, and they run off. And he calls out to Saul. Actually calls out to his bodyguard and says, you have failed. You deserve to die. Because I could have killed your master today. And he says, Here is the spear, O king. Let one of the young men come and take it. The Lord rewards every man for his righteousness and his faithfulness. For the Lord gave you into my hand today, and I would not put out my hand against the Lord's anointed. What was he saying? I am loyal. I am loyal. To you, King. Even though you're coming out here to seek my life, I am loyal to you. Are we loyal to those who God has placed in authority over us? Do we recognize their authority is derived from God? And obedience and respect to that authority is ultimately given to God? I doubt anybody in authority over you is trying to kill you. Would you be equally loyal to those that God has placed over you? Perhaps most often loyalty refers to our relationship to our friends. Solomon says that a faithful Friend loves at all times. He also says, faithful are the wounds of a friend, but profuse are the kisses of an enemy. A true friend isn't just there in good times. He doesn't just tell you the things you like to hear. He's there to tell you the things you don't want to hear, but you need to hear. Are you that kind of friend that tells you the truth or tells your friend the truth even when it might be hard to receive? How do you respond to a friend who's likewise loyal to you? Faithful are the wounds of a friend. We ought to be thankful for that and praise them for it. The Holy Spirit is working to produce in us these realities. He wants us to be loyal. He wants us to be profoundly dependable. He wants us to be radically honest because our God is faithful. Because our Savior is the faithful and true witness. Our Savior is the one who says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father. But by me. I want to ask you this morning. Have you come to the Father through Jesus Christ There is no other way. Your works are not good enough. Your religious actions are not good enough. There is no other way to the Father. The faithful and true witness says. . I am the way. . I am the truth. And I am the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. I want to urge you this morning. to repent of your sins and put your trust in Jesus Christ alone for salvation. And then Christian, are you Following the example of our God and Savior. Are we faithful? Are we dependable? Are we honest? Are we loyal? Do others see that in us? And are they drawn to Christ because of it? Or are we just like the world? If the Lord's convicted you this morning, don't be discouraged by that. He's convicted me. Even as I was preaching, the Lord brought things to mind. But repent and ask God for grace to walk faithfully before Him. Let's pray. Our Lord, we thank you. And Lord, I confess in my own heart, you have convicted me. You have shown me areas where I have not been faithful. And I repent of that, and I ask your help, your strength to walk faithfully. Lord, I pray as a body of believers here this morning, That you, through your Spirit, would conform us to the image of our Savior Jesus Christ, that we would be faithful as he is faithful. I thank you, Lord, for our Savior Jesus Christ. And I pray for those this morning who do not know Christ. They've never come to him and put their faith, rested all their weight in him. And Lord, I pray that today they would do so. They would not wait for another day Lord, our days are in your hand. And at any moment our lives can be snuffed out. I pray, Father, that you would help them this day to repent and trust in Christ. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.