Turn your Bibles please to Hebrews chapter eleven. Hebrews eleven. The first great church council was held in Nicaea, which is in modern-day Turkey, in the year 325 As Christian leaders gathered to affirm the biblical position concerning the person of Jesus Christ, they denounced the false doctrine of Arianism, which taught that Jesus was just a created being and not fully God. There were 318 delegates who were present at this historic meeting. These men were all spiritual leaders in different geographic regions of the church at that time, in North Africa, in Europe, and in Asia Minor. What is remarkable about these 318 men is that all of them but twelve had been tortured for their faith. The room was filled with men who were lame, blind, and disfigured in some visible way. Because the early church experienced severe persecution. Whenever I read of Christians being persecuted, I must confess I'm a little embarrassed. Because we as 21st century Christian Americans don't really know what it is to suffer for Christ. We live in a country with a unique Christian heritage. We enjoy the benefits of religious freedom. No one came here this morning fearful that they might be arrested or beaten for attending this place of worship. The worst persecution that we face is perhaps some ridicule at work. Or perhaps some ostracism from unsaved family members. The fact is, we have great difficulty Understanding what it's like to face the prospect of severe persecution for following Christ Let me remind you that this was the situation of the people who received this letter. About 20 years earlier, these Jewish people heard that the gospel came, heard the gospel. They came to believe that Jesus was indeed the promised Messiah, and they put their faith and trust in him. They left Judaism, even though that brought about great hardship for them. They were cast out of their families, their entire social circle, abandoned them In chapter 10, we read that they endured a great fight of afflictions. They faced mocking and ridicule. Their leaders were imprisoned. It was a difficult start. To the founding of his church. But they weathered the storm and formed their own Christian community. But now a new emperor has come to the throne. And he's been very clear that he hates Christians. It is evident that severe persecution is just around the corner, even worse than what they faced some twenty years earlier. And as a result, some of these believers thought of returning to Judaism because it was a recognized legal religion by Rome, and thus they would avoid great suffering and upheaval in their lives. And so the writer of Hebrews urges them not to renounce Christ, not to go back to their old way of life. Because Jesus is better than anything Judaism or the world has to offer. In Hebrews chapter 11, the unknown writer of this book demonstrates to these frightened believers that the just have always lived by faith. It has always been this way. He starts with Abel and makes his way through the Old Testament to demonstrate this. He encourages them with examples of courage and heroism. Beginning in verse 32, the author of this epistle realizes that he has to hasten his pace and make his statements more concise because he's coming to the end of his epistle. And so he begins to wrap things up. We read this passage earlier. He starts on a very triumphant note. He says, And what shall I more say for the time when fail me to tell of Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jephthah and of David also, and of Samuel and of the prophets, who through faith Subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouth of lions, quenched the violence, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, Turned to flight the armies of the aliens. Women received their dead raised to life again. These words are inspiring. The picture here is that faith can triumph over any adversity. We like this truth. In fact, if we were writing this famous chapter, I think we might conclude the chapter right here on this note of victory. But that's not what the unknown author of this book does. He goes on to describe other heroes of the faith who did not triumph in the same way. But they did triumph over the suffering that they faced. The author has included these other heroes of the faith and these other descriptive phrases because he doesn't want his writers to think for a moment that what he is promising them is that if they stand for Christ and they don't buckle to the pressure to go back into Judaism, that everything's going to turn out great from their perspective, and none of them are going to suffer, and none of them are going to be imprisoned and none of them will die. He doesn't want them to think that is what God is guaranteeing. And so he reminds them that throughout the pages of Scripture and throughout the history of the church We find Christians, good Christian people, who have experienced devastating loss and horrendous suffering. Our text this morning gives us the other side of the coin Picks up there in verse 35, and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance. that they might obtain a better resurrection. And others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment. They were stoned. They were sawn asunder. They were tempted. They were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented. Of whom the world was not worthy, they wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and caves of the earth. You see, God never promises that if you follow Him, you will avoid hardship and suffering. In fact, Jesus promised the exact opposite. He said, In the world you will have tribulation. But then he followed up, but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world. People with a living faith often face great difficulties in life. They die of cancer. They are involved in deadly car accidents. Christians lose their spouses and weep over dying children. Believers' marriages fall apart, and some Christians experience great injury and harm at the hands of other people A living faith does not exempt us from suffering, but it does provide for us endurance And peace that the world can never know. This passage of Scripture is all about persecution. But because we experience so little suffering for our faith, I'm going to apply this passage more generally to suffering because the same principles apply. So let me ask you, what suffering are you experiencing in life right now? Are you responding to that suffering by faith? This morning we see in this text that people with a living faith Triumph over suffering. I want us to see three truths about the suffering that Christians experience The first one is this. People with a living faith experience suffering in vastly different ways and degrees. I'm making this observation from the amazing contrast that's found in verse 35. Right in the middle of this verse, there is a great chasm of human experience. In verses 33 through 35a, we read these terse phrases that speak of triumph, of doing great things by faith of God giving deliverance and victory and power and strength. But then we come to this phrase and others. Someone might argue that the key word in our text today is and others. We find it again in verse 36 and others. What an incredible contrast. This contrast is found earlier in this chapter as well. The very first example of living by faith was a man named Abel. A man who offered a sacrifice for God as God prescribed. And what happened to him for doing that? He was murdered by his brother. But in the very next verse in Hebrews 11, 4, we read of a man named Enoch who never dies. Who is taken directly to heaven? The first two examples that we are given in this chapter have very, very different ends of their lives. So it's not surprising that this chapter concludes by reminding the readers that God has very different plans for our lives. The writer of Hebrews doesn't want his readers to think for a moment that God is promising them that if they follow him, their suffering will go away. He reminds them that by faith some people have ruled kingdoms for God, but others have been brutally destroyed by the kingdoms of men. By faith, some believers have been spared from being burned to death. Remember Daniel's three friends. But many other faithful believers over the centuries have been burned at the stake. In the 1500s, 288 Protestant preachers were burned to death in England under the reign of bloody Mary. Some women have received their children back from the dead. We read about that in the first phrase in verse 35. But many Christian parents have earnestly prayed that God would spare their child, and yet their child has died. Some people seem to have a great deal of suffering in life, while others seem to be almost entirely Have you noticed that? Some people spend much of their lives in hospitals, and others never need to go. Have you ever noticed that what God does in the life of someone else doesn't necessarily happen to you? This is a real problem that people struggle with. Some people come to church hoping that their marriage will be fixed because that's what happened to a Christian friend that they know. But six months after coming back to church, nothing has changed and their troubles continue. Or perhaps they are convinced that if they get saved and come to church, their rebellious children will straighten up. But it doesn't work out that way. A woman comes in and sits in the pew behind a beautiful family with children of all ages, and she is painfully reminded That she cannot have children. An elderly man comes into a church service. He has recently buried his adult son who died of cancer. And he hears a report from the pastor praising God for a man who has just had a scan and he's been cleared of cancer. And he wonders why the Lord did not do that for his son. Situation is too painful, and so he quietly makes his way out of the church. This scenario plays itself out every Sunday. In churches across this country. How do I know this happens? Because people have often talked to me about it. Coming to church for many people is a struggle because they invariably compare their circumstances with the circumstances Of other brothers and sisters, and they are troubled because they seem to have the blessing of God. They seem to have so many good things going for them, and yet it doesn't seem to be working out. In their life. In the school of Christ, we do not all take the same test. Each one is specially prepared for the individual. Why is that? The answer is because God knows us well. And he knows exactly what we need. Sometimes He's determined that we can best bring him glory by being delivered from our suffering. And sometimes he believes that we can best bring him glory by enduring the suffering of life. The point is, he knows what is best for us. Doctors often advise. that we are not to take medicine that is prescribed to someone else. This analogy holds true when we see the circumstances other people face. We want to take their medicine. But God has prescribed something else for us. The great Scottish preacher of over a century ago, Alexander White, said, your life and its trials would not suit the necessities of my character. And you would lose your soul beyond redemption if you exchanged your places with me. You do not put a pearl on a potter's wheel. Nor do you cast clay in a refiner's fire. There is a providential disposing of things around every one of us Us and it is exactly suited to the flaws, faults, and corruptions of our individual characters. Therefore, it is a great danger to measure our experience by anyone else And to call anyone else's experience the Christian standard. People with a living faith endure suffering in vastly different ways. And degrees. And part of what it means to live by faith is that we come to accept that and trust in what God is doing. Second point I want to bring out of our text is that people with a living faith can by God's grace endure the most intense forms of suffering. What we're going to do now is just survey some of the suffering that's recorded here in verses 35 and following. Descriptions would have resonated with the first people who heard the scripture read out loud because they were either experiencing these things or about to experience them. The persecution mentioned here can be divided into three categories. First, we see that a living faith enables Christians to face a painful death. The Greek word that is translated as torched in verse 35 is found only here in the Bible. It's the origin of our English word timpani. Which is used to describe the kettle drums that are used in the orchestra. The word describes a victim being stretched out on a large round frame. And then beaten like a drum until they died. This is most likely a reference to the Jewish martyrs who died during the Maccabean period in that time between the two testaments. There was a 90-year-old scribe named Eleazar who died in this brutal matter. The Jewish readers would have known this story well. Look down at verse 37, we read that they were stoned. Israel is a land filled with stones And so it's not surprising that this became the favorite method of execution. Many saints of old died in this manner. Zachariah the priest denounced the idolatry of King Joash, and he was stoned to death. Jewish tradition says that the prophet Jeremiah was stoned to death. And of course, Stephen, we read in Acts chapter 7, was stoned to death. This was a brutal way to die. And the people I've mentioned who died this way were faithful, godly men and women who lived By faith. In verse 37, we read of some were sawn asunder. Jewish tradition says that this was the way the prophet Isaiah met his fate under the wicked reign of King Manasseh. He was placed in a hollow log, and then it was sawn in two. But perhaps the most common way that believers in the Old Testament were killed was by being slain with the sword Just as the Lord allowed some of his servants to escape the edge of the sword, remember we read that in verse 34, others died by the edge of the sword. Jezebel apparently killed many of the Lord's prophets with the sword. And Uriah the prophet, who predicted the doom of Jerusalem, just like Jeremiah, was struck down with the sword by King Jehoiakim. according to Jeremiah 26, 23. So Old Testament saints were killed in many brutal ways. And yet they were men and women of faith. But let me pause for a moment and say this is not something that only happened in the distant past. Christians are murdered somewhere in the world every day. And perhaps the day in which they are most commonly murdered is on Sunday. You ever thought about that? As we gather for worship here in this very comfortable, beautiful surroundings, there are some Christians today Who will die for their faith. And some of them will die in brutal ways. And the same grace that sustained those ancient believers is sustaining those who are perishing today. Church history is filled with stories of Christians dying with grace and peace at the hands of wicked men. There's another category of suffering mentioned here. A living faith enables Christians to face more common forms of persecution. Notice verse 36 begins with, and others. That is, others of a different kind. Some did not die for their faith. We read of mocking, first of all in verse 36, trial of cruel mockings. This refers to perhaps the most common form of persecution, which is verbal abuse. Jesus said, Blessed are you when men shall revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. The scourging here is a reference to being flogged or whipped like our Savior. Jeremiah experienced this form of punishment for speaking the truth. See Jeremiah 37 Next, we read of believers who were chained and imprisoned. This was often the experience of the Old Testament prophet and a multitude of Christian since. Think of the Apostle Paul, John Bunyan, Richard Warmbrand, to name just a few. And there are hundreds and thousands of Christians alive today who are imprisoned for their faith. And thirdly, a living faith. enables Christians to face exile. Look at the last part of verse 38, 37, excuse me. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted , tormented This does not mean that these early Christians like to wear exotic clothing. The idea is they had no means to purchase normal clothing, and so they had to make do. With what they could find or procure for themselves. When it says they were destitute, it means they were homeless. They had no proper home to live in. And then we see a continuation of this description at the end of verse 38. They wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and caves of the earth. They were cast out of one country after another until they wandered like nomads in the deserts and mountains. They lived like animals sleeping in caves and dens. They were allowed to live only in places where no one else wanted to live. Can you imagine having no home? No place to call your own, no place to shield really your family from the elements and from danger. Can you imagine having no proper clothing or food for your family? Just think for a moment of the anxiety and the care and the fear and the unrest that these men and women had in their hearts. As they just tried to survive and yet be faithful to the Lord. This was a price that many were willing to pay to follow Christ. Now I wonder what you think of this. I wonder if you would think, I don't know why they would have done that. I mean, that's pretty extreme devotion I've had people tell me before, you know, religion is a good thing except when it becomes extreme. This is extreme. How many people, how many people in our nation would truly follow Christ if this was the cost? That you lost everything, that you would subject your family to daily danger and discomforts. That you would be roaming around with a few belongings, just trying to survive. Would you think the price is too high. There's got to be another way. This is the price that Christ calls on his followers to be willing to pay The reason why we have some struggle with this is because our thinking has been so influenced by our culture of culture. comforts. We have had embedded in our minds that what you need to do is have a very comfortable home, a very comfortable lifestyle. And then maybe after you have all the necessities lined up and everything, then maybe you can do something For the Lord, but certainly no one should question or ask you to go beyond the essentials of life. There are many Christians today who have bought into the health and wealth gospel They believe that it's God's will that all of his children live lives of comfort and ease and affluence. But text like this and a multitude others reveal otherwise And those who have bought into this false theology, to some degree, when suffering comes into their lives. Their wrong thinking reveals itself in their response. They walk away from God. They often feel that God has failed them. I mean, they were trying to do their best, and now He sends this into their life This is not a response of faith. There's a common misconception that suffering makes you stronger. This is only true if you respond in faith. The fact is there are many Christians. who through the difficult circumstances of life have become much weaker than what they once were. They have lost their love for Christ, their zeal for witnessing and serving Him. There's no joy in their life. They become cynical. Their faint shadow of what they once were spiritually, because one after one after another, trial and difficulty, and painful situations come into their life. And they think God's been unfair to them. And rather than clinging to God more tightly, they have nearly abandoned Their faith. Well, God has called us to trust in Him. No matter what. And to say with Job, though he slay me, yet I will trust in him. People with a living faith can endure intense persecution I have a book in my library called Singing in the Fire. It's a depiction of various Christians in different ages of the history of the church who have experienced Intense suffering and persecution, and yet they had joy and peace in their hearts. They were able to sing in the fire because God was with them. And thirdly, I wanted to say that people with a living faith can face suffering in a way that brings glory to God 's. Every time you face a painful trial, there is going to be a temptation for you to respond in a way that does not glorify God. And it's sinful. Because when we are tried, it really brings out what we're trusting in. It's very easy to look like a good Christian when everything's going well. well in your life. When your bank account is bulging, your health and your family are both prospering, everything seems to be going great But then when the bottom falls out, it reveals what you're really trusting in. And so these early Christians, when all of a sudden the price of following Christ became very, very high, it reveals What they were really trusting in and how committed they truly were. Now there are many ways in Scripture that we find of magnifying God during times of suffering. But I want you to notice just a couple statements made in this passage about this. In verse 35, it says, others were tortured. Not accepting deliverance. Throughout history, believers have accepted torture rather than renounce their faith. This again is a disturbing thing to think of. People enduring great suffering, and yet they could find. Instant relief from that suffering if they would just renounce Christ. We know in the early church, in the Roman era, there were people Who were Christians who were tortured, and all they had to say, instead of saying that Jesus is Lord, all they had to say is that Caesar is Lord. And the torture torture would end. And there were many brave men and women who would not say those words. And they trusted in God. And they rested in Him. And they brought glory to His name They were a powerful testimony to those who tortured them. And to the world who heard stories about men and women who were brave and courageous until the very end, and they would not turn away from Christ. They were showing in a very tangible way that Jesus was far better than anything the world had to offer. You know, we like these Christian cliches and we say things, yes, Jesus is all the world to me. But then we make choices and decisions that reveal that he's not all the world to us. But these people who rather Then renounce Christ except to torture were indeed in a very powerful and tangible way, saying to the world, no, Jesus is my treasure. He means more to me than comfort or life or any possession. This is why one early church historian would say indeed that the blood of the martyrs was the seed of the church because As believers were being tortured and killed, other people said, there must really be something to this if these people are willing to die like that. And the way in which they died, the way they died so peacefully, how can that be explained by normal means? And they were intrigued and they were brought to faith in Jesus Christ. This is an amazing thing to consider. Why did they make such choices? It says here in our text that they might attain a better resurrection. Remember that word better is one of the key words, if not the key word, of this book of Hebrews, and we encounter it here again. resurrection. And what way was it a better resurrection? Well, this is a reference to the first phrase in verse 35. Women received their dead, raised to life again. They were in a sense resurrected from the dead. But there's a difference between this and these others who died for their faith, in that those who were resurrected or perhaps better resuscitated to life, they died again in a natural way. But these martyrs who died for their faith They died and rose again never to die again. They lived eternally with the Lord. They had a better resurrection. This amazing event of people choosing Christ, choosing to follow Christ and die, then to be released in life. has happened many thousands of times over the years. What was the Lord's pronouncement concerning these faithful martyrs? We have it in. This parenthetical phrase at the beginning of verse 38, the Lord says, of whom the world was not worthy. This is the author of Hebrews writing, but he's being led in his wording by the Spirit of God. This is God's perspective. The world was not worthy of these noble people who were tortured and exiled and died for their faith. And this is the contrast here. The world viewed these people and said, These people are strange. They don't deserve to live. in society. So they cast them out to the ends of the earth, to places where it was not really safe or easy to live. And the Lord says, yes, you cast them out because your society was not worthy of them. What you thought was a disgraceful thing to be due to them actually reveals a truth that your wicked worldly society is not worthy of such people. This is one of the amazing statements in this book. Reminds me of that statement in Chapter 2 and verse 11 that we encountered some time ago where it says that he is not ashamed to call us his brethren. amazing thing and here we read the world is not worthy of such people. This is what motivated this great host of Christian martyrs. It was to hear well done. The good and faithful servants. This was not a cultural Christianity they possessed. This was not a health and wealth gospel that kept them going. It was a supernatural living faith that would not die, that would not turn away from Christ, no matter what. When Christians died and suffered in such noble ways, it was a powerful testimony to the world. Most of us will probably never have to choose between following Christ or death. But perhaps some will. I think we're very tempted to look at that, to think of torture, think of the brutal ways that people died and said, boy. I I know myself and I think if I were in that situation, I would just buckle. I would collapse. I wouldn't stand up to torture for maybe, you know, maybe 30 seconds. And I'd be alright, alright, alright Because that's the kind of person I am. But I want you to know that you have not been been given the grace that these martyrs were given in their hour of trial and death. And so you cannot say how you would respond. You could find that God would fill your heart with boldness and courage and peace in a way like you've never experienced before. Not because you're a strong person, but because God is faithful and he delights to bring glory to himself. Through our suffering and trials. Now, how can we, in the suffering that we face in this life, glorify God We are told in Scripture, whether we eat or drink or whatsoever we do, we are to do all for the glory of God. In our suffering, in this life, we have an opportunity to glorify God and to show that He is our true treasure. So let me give you some ways that we can bring glory to God in our suffering. I ask you at the beginning of this message, what suffering are you facing? So I want you to think about that right now. Number one, one way we can glorify God in our suffering is by refusing to compare our suffering with others. Why is it that I have this in my life and they don't? Why do I have so many trials and difficulties and other people don't seem to have them? That's not glorifying to God. That's only going to lead to spiritual disaster. You must not do that. You must trust that God has a good reason For why you are suffering. Don't compare your suffering with others. Don't go on social media. scroll endlessly for hours and say, why is it everyone lives a charmed life but me? They have beautiful vacations and wonderful families and they all have smiles on their faces. And everything seems great, and yet my life is very painful. Don't do that Don't compare your situations with others because so often you don't know their situation. You don't know their struggles. You don't know what they're facing. And God has told us it's not wise. Number two, refuse to indulge in self-pity. There is a pernicious sort of pleasure that people get by indulging in self-pity , just feeling sorry for themselves. Oh, my life is so horrible. My life is so bad. Won't you cry with me a little bit? Self-pity is like drinking sea water. It might make you feel better for a little while, but if you keep doing it, it will kill you. Self-pity does not glorify God. It doesn't help your situation either. It makes it worse. Refuse to indulge in self-pity. God has called us not to self-pity, but to be content in whatsoever circumstance we find ourselves in Number three, refuse to complain to others. This doesn't glorify God. Don't go around in every conversation And everything revolves around how difficult and bad your life is. And every person that you meet, you find a new person that you We all have met people like that before. And what they are often trying to do there's a there's a place to share your burdens with others and ask them to pray. Don't misunderstand me. But so often what people do when they complain is they're asking people to affirm, yeah, God really hasn't been very fair to me, has he? My life is really bad, right? Agree with me, it's really awful. And the more you talk about it, the more you think about it, the more your whole mind and your whole life and your whole perspective of the world becomes dominated with these problems in your life. And you're oblivious to the 1,000 blessings that God has poured out on you. Don't do that. Don't get that That tunnel vision. Refuse to complain. Take your burden to the Lord and leave it there. Number four, refuse to become bitter as if God owes you a comfortable life. I think everyone here would probably say, I don't believe in the health and wealth gospel. But so often embedded deep in your heart is this idea that God exists to Make me happy to answer my prayers so that I have a comfortable life and I don't face any difficulty or hardship. And so when your life is really hard, you're thinking, he is not doing a very good job. This is not what I signed up for. Don't become bitter. Bitterness is a poison. We're going to talk about this in the next chapter. This is often the response of people who go through sustained trials when they don't respond in faith. Sometimes those trials are brought about as the chastening hand of God, like a father who is spanking his child. That's what we're going to read about in the very next chapter. And what happens if you don't respond in faith and you don't accept it and say, Lord, it is good for me that I've been afflicted? Then you become bitter, you become angry , become dissatisfied and cynical about life And it doesn't just impact you, you begin to poison everyone around you. You make your family members miserable. You make other people, you sow discontent in the hearts of other people. You're like the opposite of a good testimony. You're a bad testimony. Rather than bringing glory to God, it's like you're trying to rob him of his glory. God doesn't owe you a comfortable life, and he's never promised that he would give that to you. He does not exist so that you can find the American dream. And you have to remember that. Number five, remember that God is good, and that this present suffering is all part of His perfect plan for your life. When you are suffering, the thing you're tempted to do is question that God is good. But God is good. He is good in everything that he does. No good thing. Will he withhold from them who walk uprightly? So you have to continually remind yourself of this truth. God is good. And he has brought this into my life for my good. And it's all part of his plan for my life. I will accept it. I will respond in faith to this challenge. I will not abandon my faith. And then number six. For those of you who are facing what you would describe as intense suffering, let me remind you of this. God did not spare his beloved son the most intense suffering imaginable. And we're going to see at the beginning of this next chapter that Jesus Christ is presented as the ultimate example of faith. Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame. So if God did not spare his beloved Son , The shame, the pain, the degradation of the cross, why would you think that it would be his plan that you never experience any suffering or difficulty? Number seven, recognize that in your suffering, you have a great opportunity to demonstrate that Christ is all you need. It 's all that you need. In your suffering You can bring great glory to God. You can be a blessing, an example, a comfort. To hundreds of people who are watching, who know your circumstance, who are praying for you. You have unsaved people who are watching to see how you go through this trial and you have the opportunity to demonstrate to them in a powerful way that Jesus is all that I need. One of the most famous martyrs of the early church was a man named Polycarp Smyrna. The governor of Smyrna decided to attack believers in this region of the world. And he wanted to get this legendary man who was a spiritual leader and father to many. And so he captured some Christians and he tortured them until they told the authorities where he was. And he found this elderly man, Polycarp, praying in a barn. The soldiers that came to arrest him heard his praying, and they were so mesmerized by his words that they waited an hour before they came in to arrest him. him because they could not imagine disturbing this holy man. They arrested him and took him to the governor And the governor told him to renounce Christ, or he would be brutally killed. And the white-haired old man said, eighty and six years Have I served him, and he has never done me wrong. How then can I now blaspheme my King and Savior? They tied him to a stake and set the wood on fire. But the flames did not seem to burn him or distress him. He had a look of peace, the joy on his face. And finally the soldiers became so angry that one ran at him and killed him with a sword. But his testimony in death had a great impact on that community and has been passed down through the centuries of the church. Because Christ is better than life. Let's close in prayer Father, we thank you so much for your word. Thank you, Lord, that it meets us where we are And it always reveals to us the truth that we need to hear. Father, only you know the number and the extent of suffering. That is represented in this congregation today, but you know every heart. I pray that you would use your word To strengthen and sustain the faith of those who might be weak, or those who might be questioning your goodness. Indulging in self-pity and complaining to others. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to do Be a people this who walk by faith even in the midst of the fire. And I pray that you would remind us that in our suffering you are with us and that we We have opportunity to bring glory to your name and the way we respond. And Father, for those who are here today who are yet lost in their sins , I pray that you would remind them that the suffering that they experience in this life is nothing compared to the suffering they will experience in life to come. they do not put their faith and trust in Christ alone. Oh Father, would you strengthen your people and would you draw sinners to yourself? For your glory, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We're going to close this morning with hymn two ninety-six in your blue hymnal. This psalm, or this song rather, calls us to