It was really good singing tonight for a Wednesday night. Often hard to sing. Sometimes after a long day of work, your voice is tired, but it's really nice singing. I really appreciate that. We are in the book of 1 Thessalonians, and we are continuing in chapter 2 of our study of 1 Thessalonians. The first thing we're going to do is work on our memory verses. that we've been going through for a couple weeks, and I think probably by now many people have these verses down to memory. But would you join me in standing? We'll say these together through two times. And if there's anybody that would like to try to quote them as an encouragement to the rest of the church, that would be a great opportunity. We'll say the reference, then the verse, then the reference and verse again. 1 Thessalonians 5, 3 through 4. While people are saying there is peace and security. then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. First Thessalonians five, three through four While people are saying there is peace and security, then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. So we are looking at chapter 2. We're continuing on. We began chapter 2 last week, and we're we got all the way through verse 4. And we touched on verses 5 and 6, but I'm going to read to you just briefly from the beginning of chapter 2 of 1 Thessalonians so we can build the context here. He says, For you yourselves know, brothers, that our coming to you was not in vain. But though we had already suffered and been shamefully treated at Philippi, as you know. We had boldness in our God to declare to you the gospel of God in the midst of much conflict. For our appeal does not spring from error or impurity or any attempt to deceive. But just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak, not to please man, but to please God who tests our heart. For we never came with words of flattery, as you know, nor with a pretext for greed. God is witness. Nor did we seek glory from people, whether from you or from others. Though we could have made demands as apostles of Christ, but we were gentle among you, like a nursing mother taking care of her own children. So being affectionately desirous of you, we were ready to share with you not only the gospel of God, but also our own selves, because you had become very dear to us For you remember, brothers, our labor and toil. We worked night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you, while we proclaim to you the gospel of God. You are witnesses, and God also, how holy and righteous and blameless was our conduct toward you believers. For you know how, like a father with his children, we exhorted each one of you and encouraged you and charged you to walk in a manner worthy of God who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. That's as far as we'll go this evening. Just by way of review of the book of Thessalonians. We know that the structure is basically two divisions within the book of 1 Thessalonians, the first three chapters, looking back at God's work among the Thessalonians. And what God had done through the Apostle Paul and Silas and Timothy there. And then the last two chapters, it's a look forward to the return of Christ and how they ought to live. In the light of the return of Christ. Because Christ is coming again, how should we live? The first chapter really was a chapter full of thankfulness Thankfulness for all that God had done there in their midst. And really overwhelming praise of the transformation. They had turned from worshiping idols to serve the living and true God. And he was praising God and He was thanking them. for their faithfulness. And he continues that thankfulness into chapter two. But in chapter two he begins to say, remember how we lived, remember how we ministered among you. And he is defending their ministry against charges that really become obvious as we go through the second chapter. There are charges by those outside of the church. accusing the Apostle Paul and Silas and Timothy of certain behaviors that they're they're doing this for the money. They're just flattering you. They came in and as we looked at last week, they came in and they just wanted your women. And that's why the the uh the noble women, many of the noble women, came to Christ and they said, Aha, look what he's doing. He's trying to get the money from these noble women. And these accusations were leveled against him, and he said, guys You know how we lived among you. You remember our behavior among you. You remember our message. You remember how we came in. He described how they came in beaten. And bruised and battered, sore from the beating they took in Philippi from the ministry that they had endured there. And they didn't come in with fanfare. trying to to gain a crowd, they came in faithfully proclaiming Christ. Christ crucified and risen again. And he said, You know our conduct among you. That's why as we went through these verses just now, you probably noticed how many times he said, You know You yourselves know, you remember. He he's pointing these things out to them, and we'll see it as we go through these verses tonight. He continually brought them to this fact. You guys know these things. Why are you listening to this? This uh dribble from those that are enemies of the cross of Christ, you can just simply look at the example of our lives and you know the truth. So the theme of Thessalonians is continue to grow in faith, hope, and love in light of Christ's imminent return. And that's what we're looking at this evening as we continue to go. We see this great quote by C. H. Spurgeon, we do not hate flattery, any one of us. We all like it. And that's what the reality is that Paul defends against. We didn't come there with flattery, as we'll see here in just a moment. The true Christian minister, actually I titled this message tonight just because it seems to fit. Family affections of Christian ministry. Family affections of Christian ministry. He talks about being like a mother among them, gentle like a mother, and instructing like a father. There are these family affections that he has. for the Thessalonian believers. But he describes the the nature and the attitude of a true Christian minister. And the first thing we see here is that a true Christian minister rejects Selfish motives. And the first thing we see as we come into verses 5 and 6, he says, For we never came with words of flattery, as you know, nor with a pretext for greed. God is witness. And so the first thing he's saying he rejects here, you know, we didn't come in using flattery to gain a following We didn't come in using your pride as a means to gain a following. Flattery is the use of praise and the use of smooth words for the purpose of gaining influence. or benefit over another person. I mentioned last week the church planting instructor that urged young church planters to preach to people's virtues. So that they will come back, because everyone likes to feel that they're pretty good. That's flattery. That's the exact opposite of what the Apostle Paul's ministry was like. He didn't use flattery. He outright rejects this idea. that he was using flattery to gain a following. It's been said there are only two groups of people that actually fall for flattery. Men and women. The only two groups that ever fall for flattery. Another saying is that a man's body is remarkably sensitive. Pat him on the back and his head swells. We all know the danger of flattery. We all like it. I mean, that's what Spurgeon said. There's not a single one of us that doesn't like to be flattered, but flattery Is dangerous. We might view flattery as a very minor sin. Flattery's not that big a deal. But it is dishonest It is selfish, and it is categorically denounced by God. I don't know if you think about this that often, but it is something that's mentioned time and again in the book of Proverbs. Denounced by God categorically. Look just at a couple examples here. We have in oh I don't have that. I have it in your notes. I'll we'll go back to there. But this one we'll just start with this one. Proverbs 28, 23. Whoever rebukes a man will afterward find more favor than he who flatters with his tongue And it's interesting here. He contrasts rebuking someone with flattering someone. And he says, the rebuker actually, in the end, is more appreciated than the flatterer. Though initially We all know we don't like the guy who rebukes us, but we really appreciate the one who flatters us. But in the end, we appreciate the one who rebukes. Compare that to what what Paul said about his ministry in 2 Timothy. I charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom. Preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. Reprove, rebuke, and flatter. No, reprove, rebuke, and exhort. with all long suffering, with complete patience and teaching. So if Paul says, this is the character of faithful ministry. Reprove. Rebuke and exhort. Timothy, this is what you are to do. It's for this reason that Paul can say in these verses here, I didn't flatter, you know it. How do they know it? Because he rebuked them. You know the person who rebukes you. You don't quickly forget a rebuke. I don't at least. I the rebukes often last a long time and you go, oh, oh, they they they cut quick. And he says, as you know , we didn't use flattery. Because they had felt the quick rebuke, the appropriate rebuke that Paul gave to them. They were aware of his bold preaching and the message of repentance, and he did not hesitate to rebuke their sins. And so they knew very well that was the case. In Proverbs 26, 28, I think I have these in your notes, it says, a lying tongue hates its victim. And you say, yes, that's true. And a flattering mouth works ruin. Oh. A flattering mouth works ruin. Proverbs 29, 5. A man who flatters his neighbor Spreads a net for his feet. Interesting. Flattering is such a minor sin. It is not, because we use flattery to gain an advantage over somebody. To gain some sort of advantage, whether it's social, financial, relational We're using flattery. We're setting a net for their feet. And God rebukes that. And Paul says, you know. That is not characteristic of my ministry. Flattery is opposed to the glory of the message that we have received, and it is opposed to the God that we represent. That's why Paul could say in verse 4. That he preaches not to please man, but to please God. He was preaching for an audience of one, although there might have been hundreds of people that listen, he was concerned. What does the one true God say and think about my preaching? I believe we have this in our slides here. Second Corinthians chapter 2. He says, For we are not like so many, peddlers of God's word, but as men of sincerity, as commissioned by God, in the sight of God, we speak in Christ. And if that's the truth, then there's no room for flattery in the Christian ministry. There's no room to flatter because we preach in the sight of God And we speak in Christ. So he rejects out of hand this idea that he came to them with flattery. He also rejects this motive of greed. He says in verse 5, For we never came with words of flattery, as you know, nor with a pretext. For greed. God is witness. The word pretext has the idea of an outward show, like putting on some sort of veneer or costume to represent something that's not true. That word was used by Jesus to describe the Pharisees who, he says, for appearance's sake, would offer long prayers. They would go out into a public place and they would offer these long prayers, and they were doing it not because they cared about God, not because they they loved praying, not because they were seeking the face of God, but because they wanted to be approved by men. So for appearance. sake, to appear holy, they would do it. And in every generation there are those who look at ministry as a means to make money. And they will put on a show, they will act holy, they will go through the motions of ministry, but their motive is greed. Their motive is to use the flock of God to gain something from the flock. This was not new to the New Testament. It was in the Old Testament. The shepherds are rebuked. We looked at this just a few weeks ago. Pastor Lehman was preaching through John 10. when the shepherds are rebuked in Ezekiel because they are taking advantage of the people of God. They put on an outward show spiritually in order to scam the vulnerable. Even in the first century, we have what's known as the Didicase, one of the earliest Christian writings. Comes from around the year 100. It was a catechism and it has a lot of Christian teaching that some of it's good, some of it's not so good. But he says this in or says this in the Didic, let every apostle that comes unto you be received as the Lord. And he shall stay one day, and if need be the next also. But if he stays three days He is a false prophet. And when the people when the apostle goes forth, let him take nothing save bread till he reaches lodging. But if he asks money, he is a false prophet. So very early, even in the first century of the church, there were people going around claiming to be apostles, claiming to be prophets, and they were traveling from town to town Bilking people out of their finances, saying, hey, can I stay here? Like, well, if you're a prophet, yeah, you can stay with us day one, day two, day three, day four, day five, and they're living off the people Not because they have a ministry to do, but because they are receiving without giving. And so in this early Christian teaching, it says, if he stays two days, that's fine. The third day? He's a false teacher. Just so you know. And if y you can give him bread for his journey to the next town, if he asks for money, he's a false teacher So there were expectations because this was already being abused in the first century of the church. And Paul warned against this even to Timothy in 1 Timothy chapter 6. Oh, I don't have that in I must have it in your notes. I apologize. Paul warned Timothy to learn to be content. In 1 Timothy 6 9, he says, but those who desire to be rich. fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. This is the reality of those who use ministry, use the gospel for greed, and it causes great destruction. Pastor mentioned how, as a pastor, he mentioned this this past Sunday, as a pastor, he refuses to know. how much people give, who gives what in the church. And the reason for that is so that as a pastor he doesn't treat people differently because of their giving status. Paul refused to change his message. And soft pedaled the truth for fear of upsetting a significant giver. He never soft pedaled the truth. He was always faithful to preach the gospel because again he ministered with an audience of one. He was concerned what God would say. He also rejects in this verse the motive of glory. Verse 6, nor did we seek glory from people, whether from you or from others, though we could have made demands as apostles of Christ So Paul was an apostle of Jesus Christ. He saw the risen Christ. Christ appeared to him on the road to Damascus. He was an apostle sent out by Christ. He describes him as being as one born late, the last of the apostles. His missionary companions were also apostles. They were sent out from the church. The word apostle just simply means one who was sent out. They were like missionaries sent out from the church. They had the authority of the church behind them. They could have made certain demands. They could have had certain expectations of the people they were ministering to because of the authority as apostles But they didn't. They could have expected to be received with a certain honor, but they chose not to receive it that way. Paul and his team purposefully avoided using their position for personal glory and honor. The Christian's focus is summarized in Psalm 115, verse 1. We looked at this a few months ago. Not unto us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory. Not to us, but to your name. And Paul says, I came in there and I could have made demands. I could have sought certain treatment because I am an apostle of Jesus Christ. I saw the living Christ. Jesus Christ came to me and chose me for this work. But I didn't, so that the gospel would not be hindered by the work that we're doing and by the demands and by the demands that we're making. He described himself as a clay jar. in 2 Corinthians. He's a clay jar. Not a really glorious description. He said we had this Amazing treasure in a clay jar. It's kind of like describing today. We don't use clay jars, but it might be similar to saying, I'm like a cardboard box. And I have this amazing treasure that I am proclaiming, but I'm just a cardboard box that holds the amazing treasure. There's nothing special about me. And so he didn't seek glory. He didn't minister for greed, and he didn't use flattery. And on the heels of this He describes how he did minister, the spirit in which he did minister, and he uses two metaphors. And this is where the family idea comes in. He describes himself like a mother and like a father. And this isn't the only place where he uses these metaphors. In Galatians 4 , in these hard words he's writing to the Galatian Christians because they have polluted the gospel. He says, My little children, for whom I am again in the anguish of childbirth, until Christ is formed in you. So he calls them my little children. The idea is That they are his children. And then he says, I am again in the anguish of childbirth. I am bearing you as children, describing himself like a mother. Because they have turned away from the true gospel. In 1 Corinthians chapter 4, he says, For though you have countless guides in Christ, you do not have many fathers. For I became your father in Christ Jesus through the gospel. He's telling the Corinthians, I led you to Christ. I brought the gospel to Corinth. I'm your spiritual father. You should listen to me as your spiritual father. I am the one who brought you to Christ. And he uses these two analogies, the analogy of a mother and of a father, in these verses. And the first thing he says that the true Christian minister is gentle, like a nursing mother. Like a mother, he ministered gently. Notice what he says in verse 7. But we were gentle among you, like a nursing mother taking care of her own children. So being affectionately desirous of you, we were ready to share with you not only the gospel of God, but also our own selves, because you had become very dear to us. You see these words of affection, longing, love Tenderness, gentleness. There's probably no greater example in creation that one could employ for gentleness than the examples in the illustration of a mother with a nursing child. When you think of something that's gentle, it's probably the premier example that you would think of is a mother nursing her child. It's God's design. And the world is much better for it. The world is much better for God's beautiful design. What makes a mother so gentle? It's been said, and I think rightly, a mother is only as happy as her saddest child. If you're a mother, you know this to be true. If one of your children is sick, You're you're sick until she's better. If one of your children is sad, you're sad until that child is better. A mother is only as happy as her saddest child. And I think that's something to do with this idea of gentleness. It's the ability to identify with the pain or the weakness of her child. And Paul says, I was gentle among you, like a mother nursing her own child. The word gentle encompasses qualities like kindness, patience. Tender-heartedness, loyalty, compassion. These are the ideas like hey, a mother is is so patient. A child may wake up in the middle of the night and the mom is still patient with that child The child might be sick and throwing up, and the mom is working tenderly to care for the child. Later on, he uses the word taking care, and the word literally means to impart warmth. Can you picture a mother tenderly holding her child to her breast, caring for her child? And that's the the words that Paul chooses to use about the nature of his ministry. I was gentle. I was patient. I was kind. I felt for your pain and your failures. He was the Apostle Paul. He was a man of action. But he was also gentle. He could have used his authority, but he chose to come in love. He was gentle to them like babies in Christ. He was a loving mother who cared for his children. It takes time and energy to care for a child. And Paul didn't put the, you know, turn over the the baby Christians to babysitters. He made sacrifices so he could care for them. He was gentle like a mother to her own children. Yes, he says, to her own children, not someone else's children. Many of you are mothers and you're gentle to everybody's child, but there's something special about your own child. And the gentleness that you show to your own. The word gentle is only used, this word that's translated gentle, it's only used one other place in the New Testament. And it's significant because it's used in the context of a Christian minister. In 2 Timothy chapter 2. Let's see if I can find it. It says, and the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome, but kind. That's the word here. but gentle to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness. I spoke with a pastor friend just today who had a difficult business meeting at his church on Sunday evening and was personally attacked by people in his church. Verbally attacked, not physically attacked. And it was very painful for him. And what so struck me about him was he said, I'm asking God To humble my heart. And I said, well don't do you want to I was texting with him, do you want to talk? And he said, no, I'm afraid if I talk, I'm going to say things that it's just going to nurse my pride, and I don't want that. I want to hear the voice of God on this matter. He was showing the gentleness of a true Christian minister that said, I'm willing to take personal attack. Because I believe what I'm doing is right. And I'm going to let God speak to me and humble me if I've done wrong. But he was willing to he was kind to everyone. He refused to respond in kind. This is what he says. The Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome. It's very easy to become quarrelsome. We all know that tendency within us, but Christians are to be kind to everyone. He says, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness. I think too often in the church today, this quality of gentleness. Is actually overlooked for apt academic aptitude. What degree does he have? How far is he advanced academically? Or organizational leadership skills? What is is he more like a CEO? Can he handle the organizational leadership? Or does he have a charismatic personality? But the characteristic of gentleness, Paul says You know my ministry among you. I was gentle like a nursing mother. I was kind even when I was spoken ill against. Even the imagery of a shepherd encompasses this idea of gentleness, a shepherd taking the sheep and caring for the sheep. Gentleness is characteristic of our God and of our Savior Jesus Christ. In Psalm 18, David says, You have given me the shield of your salvation, and your right hand supported me, and your gentleness Made me great. We think of God as the Almighty, but if He He's only the Almighty, we're doomed. He's also gentle. And praise God, He's gentle to us. Because we are weak and we need his gentleness. Jesus says, Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. So like a mother, he was gentle. Similarly, like a mother, he ministered affectionately. In verse 8, he says, so being affectionately desirous of you. We were ready to share with you not only the gospel of God, but also our own selves, because you had become very dear to us. We have this idea of affectionate desire. The term could be translated, we loved you so much. Because we loved you so much. It's a rare word, this word that's translated affectionately desirous It's found on ancient tombs of babies that died in infancy to describe the deep love and longing of their parents for the child. The affectionate desire. Paul says, this is the love that we have for you. Like a parent's love for their child. And he uses this term to describe his love for the Thessalonians. It was not a dry academic professional relationship, but a deep Passionate, loving relationship. And he says, You know, you observed this. You saw how we lived among you. You saw the care that we had for you. And we ministered affectionately. Like a mother, he ministered self-sacrificially. The word that's translated willing here Where he says, um, so being affectionately desirous of you, we were ready or willing to share with you not only the gospel of God, but also our own selves. That word here that's willing or ready, it's actually Uh even a more beautiful word. It actually is translated a word that expresses delight or pleasure, not just willingness or readiness. It's the word in Matthew 3. 17, after Jesus was baptized, the Father says Behold, a voice from heaven said, This, this is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. That's the word that is used here. He says, We were well Pleased. We're not just willing. Ah, sure, I'll do it. We were well pleased to preach the gospel to you and give you our own selves along with the gospel. It's the idea of complete self-sacrifice, but done with a joyful, willing spirit. So that deep affection. It empowered their gospel preaching. They're sharing a priceless treasure. But they didn't just, again, they didn't just share the gospel. and then leave. They did so sharing their own lives, their own souls. The word literally means we shared our own souls with you. We gave ourselves to you. And again, it fits that beautiful picture of motherhood. As mothers know, a mother gives herself soul and body for the benefit of her children. Because of the intense love that she has for her child. When the gospel is preached with that kind of love, it's hard to resist. It's extremely powerful. People, you've heard it said, don't care how much you know until they know how much you care. And Paul cared. And it was obvious. He says, we gave our own souls to you. As we minister to you. And likewise, like a mother, he ministered tirelessly. They ministered, he says, with labor and toil in verse nine. Again he says, You remember, for you guys know this, you saw this, you remember. Brothers, our labor and toil, we worked night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you, while we proclaim to you the gospel of God. This analogy again fits that of a mother. The old saying is that a father's work is from son to son, but a mother's work is never done. It's a maxim. It's funny, it's that same phrase is actually said in Swahili too. Father's work from son to son, but a mother's work is never done. And you who are mothers know this to be true. And Paul says, this is how we ministered among you. He says, remember that? We didn't come in like the sophists. We didn't come in like the traveling teachers that just came in and looked for a crowd and sought to make money off you guys. But we worked night and day so that we would not be a burden to any of you. Acts 18. 3 tells us that Paul was trained as a tent maker. It was the responsibility of every Jewish father to train them theologically, his children theologically, but also to give them a trade that he could do. And Paul was a trained tent maker. And so Paul would labor preaching the gospel, perhaps even while he is making tense. You can picture him there sowing and cutting, and there's people around him, and he's sharing the gospel with them. This is what he did when he was in prison. He says, tied up to Roman soldiers. He's preaching the gospel to the soldiers who are tied up next to him. And then he's working late into the night to provide for the needs of himself and Silas and Timothy. And preaching the gospel all the while. Faithfully, sacrificially. If you were to look at 1 Corinthians 9, which I don't want you to have time to look over there right now, I'm just going to read to you, beginning in verse 11, he describes his missionary philosophy as a pioneer missionary. He refused to receive financial gifts from those he ministered to, so that he wouldn't put an obstacle in the way of the gospel. He said, If we have sown spiritual things among you, is it too much if we reap material things from you? If others share this rightful claim on you, do not we even more? Nevertheless, we have not made use of this right. But we endure anything rather than to put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ. Do you not know that those who are employed in the temple service get their food from the temple And those who serve at the altar share in the sacrificial offerings. In the same way, the Lord commanded that those who proclaim the gospel should get their living by the gospel. But I have made no use of any of these rights, nor am I writing these things to secure any such provision, for I would rather die than have anyone deprive me of my ground for boasting For if I preach the gospel, that gives me no ground for boasting. For necessity is laid upon me. Woe to me if I do not preach the gospel. For if I do this of my own will, I have a reward. But if not of my own will, I am still entrusted with a stewardship. What then is my reward? That in my preaching I may present the gospel free of charge, so as not to make full use of my right in the gospel. For though I am free from all, I have made myself a servant to all, that I might win more of them. So Paul says: as a pioneer missionary going into areas where the gospel has never gone, I refused to receive financial remunerations from those that I was bringing the gospel to. And I said I continue to refuse that. However, when he left Thessalonica, if they were to send him money to enable him to go elsewhere, he'd say, that's fine. The Philippians would send him money to enable him to go to Thessalonica and Corinth and Rome and beyond. But he says, While I am here, I refuse to take advantage of this, so that I don't put a stumbling block in the way of the gospel. We see this attitude that like a mother, he ministered tirelessly, working night and day to preach the gospel. The second thing we see here is that like a true Christian minister, he leads like a father. Continuing in verse 10, he says, You are witnesses. Again, you see this. You remember, you are witnesses. You know, he's telling them again and again, just look back at how I lived among you. That should be sufficient. You are witnesses, and God also, how holy and righteous and blameless was our conduct toward you believers. For you know how, like a father with his children, we exhorted each one of you and encouraged you and charged you to walk in a manner worthy of God. who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. We have the first thing here, I think, that's describing a father. A father leads by example. Father leads by example. Fathers, you know the the joy and the humor sometimes of watching your child try to mimic your footsteps. Try to mimic how you hold a hammer. Try to mimic some of the things that you do around the house. And there's a joy and a delight in that. The Bible says the glory of children is fathers. There's something special about a father that God has given. And he's saying, like a father, I set an example for you. In my character, the way I responded to you. He says, you are witnesses, and God also, how holy and righteous and blameless Was our conduct toward you believers? He says, You remember our example? When we were with you, we didn't do anything that was untoward. We spoke honestly. We were careful in our behavior towards everyone. We were faithful to set a good example for you. Just as a physical father, so too a spiritual father is called not only to be an example, but also to give instruction to their children. And Paul says, I was an example for you. I responded blamelessly for you. The word blameless is an interesting word. It was a word that actually in a lot of the Thessalonian graves of Christians, they began to put on the gravestones of Thessalonian Christians. Blameless. describing the character of their lives. Probably in in response to this instruction, the Paul said, remember my example? Remember how I lived blameless, there was no charge that could be brought against me. And there's something joyful about knowing nobody has anything that they can bring against me. There is nothing that you can bring against me that's going to detract from the gospel I'm preaching. And Paul said, You know that. That I behaved blamelessly towards you. J. Vernon McGee said, people will say ugly things about you. But the important thing is to make sure the criticisms are not true. Paul and his companions maintained a holy life. A holy life does count. It has nothing to do with obtaining your salvation, but it has everything to do with the salvation of folks around you because people are watching you. Paul says, You saw how I lived. I lived holy. And it was that holy life, that blameless life, that enabled the gospel he preached to be so readily received. Then he said, And you also know how I instructed you. You can think of Proverbs, the book of Proverbs, Solomon as a father instructing his sons, chapter after chapter after chapter, giving biblical instruction to them. Ephesians 6. He tells that a father should take the leadership not only in discipline, but also in instruction. He says, fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. It's the Father's responsibility to set the tone of discipline. There will be obedience. And when there is a violation of that, there will be punishment. But it's also the Father's responsibility to set the tone in biblical instruction. This is the truth. And this is what the Word of God says. And the Father is to be the leader in that. And he describes that in these verses He says, For you know how like a father with his children we exhorted each one of you and encouraged you and charged you to walk in a manner worthy of God. Who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. The word exhorted refers to like a strong appeal, an emotional appeal. Paul didn't just say, here's the truth, take it or leave it. It was a strong appeal to obey. Encouraged him. That is the idea of soothing, encouraging words because of the many obstacles and failures that come in the life of a young Christian. You know the life of young Christians in these people came out of all sorts of immorality and drunkenness and idolatry. And sometimes it's three steps forwards and two steps backward. And so he says, I encouraged you. I was gentle, even as a father, encouraging his child. And then he said, I charged you. The word charge is like a solemn, earnest appeal. Urging them based upon the nature of God. Paul says, I did this like a father, patiently, consistently, lovingly, firmly As a father to his child. And this wasn't just done collectively, like in a congregation. He says that he spoke to them individually. Notice what he says here. That we exhorted each one of you and encouraged you. Requires intimate knowledge of that person , relationship with that person. Takes a lot of effort. As a true spiritual father, he spoke to these young Christians with strong appeals and encouraging words. To live worthy of the God who had called them out of darkness into the kingdom of light. He was gentle like a mother. An example and encouraging like a good father. So what are the applicational points here? First of all, Christians, could it be said of you that you're ministering with the gentleness of a nursing mother? Think of those you minister to. Do you lead with strong affection for those that you are called to minister to? Is it evident to all? Could you say like Paul did many times, you remember, you are witnesses, you know. Or they say, no, you're not. Ask yourself, how can I show gentleness to those that God has called me to evangelize and those that God has called me to disciple? Secondly, ministry is relational, not transactional. We are called to invest our lives, not just deliver a message. It is a relationship. Are you able to say with confidence you are witnesses in God also how holy and righteous and blameless was our conduct? People listen not just to our words, but they listen to the testimony of our lives. And lastly, do you exhort like a father? Do you care enough to instruct and encourage believers to walk worthy of the God who has called them? These are the examples of Paul's ministry to the Thessalonian believers, and may God help us. To minister with that same heart. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the testimony of the Apostle Paul and Silas and Timothy and their faithfulness in ministry to the Thessalonian believers. Father, I pray that you would give us a heart like this that is gentle Affectionate, relational, Lord, that that is compassionate and self-sacrificing And yet also a firm example and a strong encourager. Lord, I pray we'd be gentle like mothers. And that we would be exhorters like fathers. And Lord, did you make us bold in the gospel the way the Apostle Paul was? I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.