So again, welcome to the second week of Jude. We're going to jump into the body of the letter. Last week we covered a few things, and I'll briefly remind us of that intro. As we warm up to get into those verses. So if you haven't already, please open your copy of the scripture to the book of Jude. It's right before Revelation, the last book of the Bible. It's a very short book, 25 verses, so maybe a page. So if you go from that to a different book, you've missed it. It's very short. But I mentioned in our last study, the theme I want to posit for everyone is this contending for the faith. once for all delivered to the saints. As Jude presses this forward. We talked a little bit about this last week where In this book that's known for being a teaching against the apostates, even though Jude spends a considerable amount of the verses discussing the behavior and the acts of these apostates , His admonition for the believers is to build themselves up in the faith. And so we're going to get to that little willing in weeks to come. But let's just kind of review briefly what we've talked about so far in our study. We talked about Jude, who is the author of this book, and his audience. Those who are called, those who are beloved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ. This is the believer. And he also talked about his nature of why he needed to write this letter, that he was actually intending, praying, already working, in a sense, to write a different letter, but Something has come up. He said, I found it necessary to write to you, to appeal to you, to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. And this comes clearly in the next verse in verse 4 where we ended last week because he found it necessary, because certain people have crept in unnoticed, that is, crept into the church. And these certain people, he elaborates with kind of four points. those who long ago were destined for this condemnation, who are ungodly people, who pervert the grace of our God into sensuality, and deny our only Master and Lord. Jesus Christ. So that's what we covered last week, getting the author, his purpose, and really setting up this these two people that he's going to speak about. Jews are going to be speaking about what he calls those people. He's referring to the certain people. It's interesting how he uses these pronouns here, but you know, these certain people. And then who remembers what his title for the believers are? Remember from last week? Anybody? Beloved. Thank you. Yes. The beloved. That is his title for the believer. We're going to see him mention this over and over again as he gets into the letter. So the beloved he's speaking to, but he's condemning those people. So now that we've got our kind of review up to speed here, tonight I want to try to cover verses 5 through 10 in the study. So as you look at the book of Jude, there's a couple different ways that theologians have broken up this book. It's only 25 verses, there's a couple different themes going on in the book. For the intent of this study, I've decided to break it up into the, and so I have at least five lessons, into Jude's referencing of historical context. He's going to have a couple different times where he references historical markers. And tonight he's going to reference three historical markers. And he's going to use them as illustrations to kind of prove a point on how these apostates are acting. He does this throughout the book. I'm going to give you some forewarning tonight. Jude references things that we do not consider canonical Meaning that there are references that are not in the Bible, like the book of Enoch, for example. And so we'll talk a little bit about that when we get there. But his purpose in all of this is not to validate these other stories, but simply to draw illustration to the point he's trying to make. And so he does this over and over again as we get into the book. So again, tonight we'll cover verses 5 through 10. Really the first section of this, which you'll see in your notes if you have it, is verses 5 through 7, where he's going to talk about the fate of the apostates, and this is where we have those three illustrations. And then 8 through 10, he's going to kind of apply those teachings, those illustrations to the apostates and really what they're headed for. Really how they're acting, what they're doing. And in in verse 9, we're going to see this strange little interlude, which is uh probably the probably the most maybe the most difficult verse in the book of Jude about Moses and his bones. But we'll cover that tonight. And so hopefully we get through all of this, but this is going to wrap up this first section of this referencing to these historical markers. But So jumping in, verses 5 through 7 talks about the fate of the apostates. So look in your scripture and let's look at this together. He says, Now I want to remind you, although you once fully knew it, that Jesus, who saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe. So this sense of now is Jude's way of kind of continuing the conversation as he talked about these certain people. He's now wanting to kind of continue that conversation and adding to it By highlighting what he's about to bring forward. And he's going to again go into these three historical references. And he says, I want to remind you. Now when we read this with our own kind of English eyes, especially with this next line where he says, although you once fully knew it , We kind of get the kind of the the feeling that Jude's telling them something that maybe they've forgotten. But that's not the not Jude's intent here. It's not the way that he's explained this. He's stirring them up. The people that he's speaking to have not forgotten this. But it's kind of a way that he's encouraging him, the way that the Greek reads is something really a desire to say, hey, I want to kind of stir this up in you, this thought. Right, not that you've forgotten it, but I want you to recall this one truth in your mind that you have and stir it up to you. That's what he wants to do. He wants to remind them, kind of bring it back forward. Because although you once fully knew it, this is where the ESV and the King James actually kind of miss this translation a little bit. Because when we read this, we're like, well. Obviously they once knew it and he's reminding them it must be that they forgot this. But that's not true. That's not what Jude is alluding to. I actually like the way the NIV has translated it when it says, although you already know all of this. Rather than, although you once fully knew it. He's saying, Hey, I want to stir this up into you, although I know you already know this. I want to stir this up to you. He's not talking about something they've forgotten, but he wants to stir it up inside of them. This is the kind of loving stirring he's doing to his brethren as he tries to encourage them. The KJV's translation I like too where it says, put to remembrance. It's kind of a nice King James kind of way of kind of positioning this. Again, it's not accusatory, but it's kind of a soft introduction to the message he wants to deliver. Because this information, again, has been once delivered to the saints. And he reminds us here, you once fully knew it. Now, there's something important in this as we think about this book and we think about the apostate teaching. He's reminding them of things that have been already delivered. And there's some significance to this. The steadfast faith, once delivered, complete to the believer. See the heretics that he's going to talk about They're delivering a new knowledge. They're delivering something additional. So Jude's being very careful here to explain to them, hey, I'm not telling you something new. I'm just stirring up in reminder something you've already known. The faith, the scriptures, the steadfast truths. I'm not going to tell you some new information like the Gnostics are doing. I'm going to call you back. To the faith. That's why he's making this kind of callback to the things you once fully knew. He's making sure you understand that it's not something new, but reminding them. of what they once truly knew. Again, this contrast just calls out the false teachers as he moves forward. And so he's going to now walk through three historical things. But first, we have to address this line. Those of you who are smart are thinking about this Read this and maybe it tricked your mind, maybe not, maybe just read it and kind of moved Wednesday. You know, it's a little late, you've been at work all day. Would you say that Jesus is the one who delivered the Israelites out of Egypt? Why does Jude make that claim? That's a good good question. Maybe you thought that, maybe you know the answer. But what's interesting here in the various manuscripts that we have, most all of them attest to Jesus being the translation. Some say curios, which is Lord But what's important about this in the translations, and even theologically, as we think about this claim, and he's going to use three Old Testament references here, he ascribes them all to Christ. So, what this tells us initially as we look at this is that by this point of the church, that the God-man Christ who's come to earth has been fully recognized. As the Trinitarian, as the God man in the Trinity Godhead. He's been fully assumed in the sense that Jesus is part of the Trinitarian God. The gospel is Trinitarian in nature. It's not just Yahweh in the sense that Jesus in the same sense is part of this work. Really interesting component. The implications here are vastly Christological as we think about what this means. For our understanding of God, that Jesus, in a sense, was part of this work. He becomes so clearly identified as the eternal Son by this point, God in the flesh that he was part of this connection to the Old Testament works. This also points to the eternality of Christ. That when we think about You know, the sense that Christ came, who was once kind of unknown, once unrevealed, now revealed in connection to God in all time. The pieces are now coming together for the church. The gospel in the scriptures are Trinitarian. But he gets into this first illustration. And he said, who saved a people? out of the land of Egypt. This is a pretty straightforward instance. We understand this from Exodus. This is Exodus 12 through 15. It's the account of the Passover and the Exodus out of Israel. of these people being saved physically as a people for God's own name. The saved here has some connection to faith, but we're going to assume this later in the next line. But it says, afterwards destroyed those who did not believe. This, of course, afterwards is a is a um is a connection or a call out to what we know as the Kadesh Barnia and the return of the twelve spies in numbers, but the references in your notes here, numbers 13, Deuteronomy 1 where he destroyed those without belief, sparing Caleb and Joshua and those under the age of twenty. This afterword, this this phrase really speaks about a second time or a second salvation. In a sense, he's saying that God saved these people as a people out But he saved those who believed later and destroyed those who did not believe. This unbelief is what brought on this destruction. And this is the important component here. These three illustrations are going to walk through three accounts of deserved judgment and destruction. On three different accounts. Here, it's on belief. They did not believe, and this is why they reached this judgment. Going to Jude 6. He's going to do his second illustration. This time he's going to talk about the angels. It says this. And the angels, who did not stay within their own position of authority, but left their proper dwelling, he is kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day. Here again this phrase of judgment. So this is where Jude gets really interesting. There is If you want a book with rabbit holes, Jude is the one for you in terms of places you can research and dive into. What's also really interesting in the book of Jude, just through my studies, is his his use of these examples, especially when he gets to Enoch and his understanding of angels is quite interesting. So this and here, again, is just him kind of uh serializing or kind of creating additional references to what he's talking about. You could almost say similarly or additionally in that same way. But he's talking about the angels. Now we have the article here, but in the Greek there's no article. So what he's speaking to here is not like a certain certain group of angels, but he's speaking about angels as a class of people. These are the highest created beings, yet these angels failed to do something. I like how it says it here, it says, did not stay within their own position of authority. This is actually the same word that we can translate into kept. And we've talked about this a little bit last week, how Jude is going to use this idea of kept, how we're kept in Christ, kept by the power of Christ. Here, Jude's using kind of a the connection between Do not stay has kept. In a sense, these angels didn't keep something, and now God is keeping them for something else. But this this uh actually this not stay is the only version, ESC is the only one who uses this version, but it ties into this idea of being kept throughout the whole team, uh the whole book of Jude. So as you look at this verse, he's talking about these angels did not keep something which was their own position and authority, but left it And now God is keeping them in their own in their own judgment, eternal chains and gloomy darkness until the judgment. What's interesting about this, just as a quick pause as we think back to the previous verses, is that we see a great contrast quickly now between the angels and man. The angels were given something. They were given their own position of authority. This is something transferred to the angels that was theirs to hold and to keep. But they left it. And because of this, they haven't kept it. God now keeps them under gloomy darkness. In contrast to us as Christians, we are saved and kept in Christ. We are kept by and for Christ. It's his power that keeps us. Unlike the angels who had their own responsibility, it is by Christ that we are kept in salvation, by his power, his authority. The angels were given their own set of authority and power, yet they failed to do it. Christ being perfect in full power, we are kept by him unable to be swayed. We are kept in Christ. But what he's basically getting at here is that they had their own position and authority. The scripture talks about much of the authority that angels given. Angels angel ology is one of those areas of doctrine that isn't talked about much. It doesn't have a lot of verses to support it. It's It feels mystic in some way to us as we think about our faith, but there's a a lot going into angels and what their positions are and what their um their domains are and the powers they have and you can Spend a field day doing that research yourself, but in a sense, understanding that this was something given to them by God that they failed to keep, but they left their proper dwelling. So God had given them this position, this authority, but they left it. So the question kind of now is like, what is he talking about? What is Jude alluding to? What did they leave? What is he talking about? Well, there's a couple different explanations and opinions on this topic. Some people will point to the book of Enoch, where there's some accounts of the angels. There's also Genesis 6, and there's also even maybe thinking of when the angels followed Satan and were cast out of heaven. I think the explanation of Genesis 6 makes the most sense. And the Genesis 6, if you if you want to turn there, you can look at it, but I'm not going to read through it. This is the account when the angels left their position to because they were delighted with the daughters of men. They went down and had sexual relations with humans. This, I believe, is what Jude is referring to. The reason I believe this is because it's it's the story speaks to this idea of leaving and fornicating in a sense of when we get to the next verse in verse 7, it'll make more sense. But also what's more compelling is that these stories we hear, these first three stories of the angels, of the um that landed Egypt, and the story of Sodom and Gomorrah. These are three very common stories used in Hebrew-Judaic literature to discuss judgment. These are like every Jewish pastor's favorite illustrations, basically. They're going to use these same three examples because they're really well known to explain this idea of sin requires judgment. So we look at it and we're like, oh, that's some interesting choices. Like, pick those three. But if you were a Jew in this time, grown up in this period This would have been second nature to you. It would have been like the most common stories in the Bible. You would have learned these in Sunday school, would have been everything you would have known. So these are very common, common studies. And so that's why I believe he's using these stories in the same way. They're widely known as examples of sin to the Jewish people. Yet, whatever the reason is he's using this, it's still purely an illustration. He's using it to illustrate a point that they left their authority, they disobeyed the Lord And now they have a punishment. Because if they did not stay, they didn't keep what they were given. God now keeps them in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment. He being God Is now the one who is in power of keeping them. I like how one commenter said it that those who cannot keep what God has entrusted to them cannot be trusted. And must be kept now by him. Again, this idea of this repetition of this keeping idea works us all the way through the book of Jude. Of course, the great day we think of as the great judgment. Great day of judgment in Christ. But both of their their punishment now is both eternal now, in a sense they're kept in chains under gloomy darkness. This is actually only here and in the book of 2 Peter is this phrase used in the sense of this utter darkness, this kind of deep, you know, judgment kind of darkness. Not like, hey, the lights are out, it's dark in here. This is a reference to a kind of uh punitive darkness. It's an underworld idea. There is no light there. They are apart from God and they are kept there. Till judgment. So not only will they receive judgment on the last day, they're actually held there now eternally in chains, in bondage, kept. until the final judgment as well. So their punishment is now and until again in the great day. In this idea of, just repeating, there's a disobedience, there's an unbelief, and then there's a punishment, a judgment that awaits them. Since Jude's going to bring us the last of these three illustrations, now he gets to Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities. So in Jude 7, he says, Just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, which likewise indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desire , Serve as an example by undergoing a punishment of eternal fire. Sodom and Gomorrah stand as the proverbial example of a disobedient people. I gave you a slew of references in your notes. They're used all over Scripture for this exact purpose. It says, which likewise indulged in sexual immorality. This is referring to some sort of se it the question is kind of what is this likewise pointing to. What is he getting at with this likewise? Well if we come back here, we understand the angels, this story from Genesis 6, talking about the angels coming down and fornicating with humans. That That's what caused them to be locked up because they disobeyed. They left heaven. They weren't supposed to. They disobeyed. So maybe this likewise is talking about what happened previously. Like kind of likewise there's some sexual immorality going on here. That's definitely plausible if if we hold on to that idea So there's this tie back, you know, in a sense to verse six. But I would also not rule out a tie back to verse four speaking of these certain people. Right? He could be calling back to back here to verse four, right, who pervert the grace into sensuality. He could be calling back all the way to there. So the likewise It's kind of like, what are you referencing here, Jude? How far back are you trying to go here? I think both are easy, plausible cases, both make sense to me. But the point is, again, he's pointing out they are indulging in sexual immorality. The strength of this verb Is is critical to understanding this verse. They're indulging. It's one of being sold out. into sexual lust. They're fully given over to this sin. There's an understanding here that this these people are even going they're going outside of any moral bounds, any restraint. They are fully indulging into this. This is not a sin that they have stumbled into, like they came over and, you know, they they sinned and then they're back. This is a sin that is blatant constant, indulgent, they delight in it, they're public with it, the indulgent nature of it is what's just magnifies the immorality here. It's rampant. And because of this, they continue to pursue it and pursue unnatural desire. They're going after it. It's the same kind of force as this indulgence. There's this unbridled appetite for this kind of sexual immorality and unnatural desire. Now, depending on what version of the scripture you have, you may have something different than unnatural desire. The LSB uses this phrase strange flesh, which is kind of an interesting that's actually closer to what the Greek says. It means other flesh or another flesh. But it's clear from the scriptures that what Jude is talking about or what this reference to Sodom and Gomorrah is, is about immoral sexuality, homosexuality. in that sense. Romans 1. 27 talks about this same as Paul uses Sodom and Gomorrah for the same reason. Now even in the commentaries that I read this week, some would like to try to argue that this is not about homosexuality. But maybe some other kind of sexual sin. Again, it's talking about some other flesh or some other type of flesh And you know, there is no word for homosexuality in the Greek. This wasn't a concept they necessarily had. They knew it was immoral, but it was a modern convention. But what the author is driving at is that whatever they are doing is outside of God's morality. There's something, in a sense, we'd say wrong, but it's contrary to the natural order of God. It's contrary to God's creation order of woman being given to man in a monogamous covenantal relationship in marriage. Anything outside of that is immoral. So it doesn't matter in a sense, there's no word for it. It is exactly what it is. And these men were pursuing this with brazen immorality. They were indulging in it, pursued after it. You know, as this world tries to pick and and you know, defend this and and try to work this in here. I think we have to be conscientious of this and understand it Not that we have to greatly have apologetics against it, but in a sense we don't need a word for every sin that's capable. I think we'd run out of words. But God gave us the truth. He gave us the moral bounds in which we're to keep it. You know, I I know, in a sense, what a chicken is. But if you tell me, hey, there's an animal that's furry, it's got four legs, and it has claws, I might not know what it is, but I know it's not a chicken. This is what he's getting at. The immorality here, in a sense, we if they're indulging in it, it's likely homosexuality. It could be far worse than that. But we know it's not morality. It's not God's will. It's not his purposes. It's not his divine creation. It's unnatural in the sense of God's created natural order. This idea of unnatural desire is a really graceful way of saying it, but I think it comes up a little short. But it serves as an example, and this is exactly Jude's point of all of this, is they all serve as an example, and these serve as an example by undergoing a punishment of eternal fire. This is the right idea that they are currently under this punishment. Those in Sodom and Gomorrah are still under this punishment. It's happening now, it will continue in the future, and it is a punishment because they have defied God's law. It is a just punishment. punishment that they are going under. They're not kind of in a limbo waiting to see how the court case is going to work out. I mean they're not like Diddy. They are guilty and under punishment right now. And it's of eternal fire. Because God is just, and just punishment is what God does. And of course the eternal fire is where they are. That comes from Luke 16, we know, of the nature of that. So taking these three examples, what do we see here? Was something communicated by these three examples kind of collectively? Well, the the three examples are not in chronological order, so he's not trying to kind of walk us through a story. 2 Peter, we talked about last week, they're actually in chronological order in 2 Peter. He does that. So the order here, I think Jude 's trying to communicate something. Scholars are a little back and forth about it, but I like how one scholar noted it. He says that maybe this order is kind of a teaching order. It's a didactic order in the way he's saying, I'm going to give you these three examples because I want to show you something in these three thoughts. That first comes unbelief in apostasy Then comes rebellion. They did not stay. They rebelled. And then comes complete anarchy, immorality. That maybe there's something in this that he's saying that this is the path of the apostate and where he's headed. It's both the starting point and the destination. And if you've ever engaged with someone in apostasy, these are part of the you know the fit and fiddle of these characters. who not only have unbelief, but eventually have rebellion against the word, whether it's in their life or in their actions. And then this craving of anarchy and immorality that actually their belief supports in their actions. These examples serve as an example of judgment. God's judgment against his word and in truth, just with the cursory knowledge of these three ideas, you can see the underlying message of the story. He's speaking to his church. Disobedience, these things follow, and judgment is what comes. The fate of those who disobey God is one of a fiery punishment. So he lays all of that out for us to get to verse 8. So after giving these examples, He now wants to speak to these apostates. So these are kind of three theoretical examples. He's going to pull them down and now apply them to his viewers. So the sins of the apostates, 8 through 10. He says, yet in the like manner, these people also, here's those of these people, this is how he likes to refer to that group. Also, relying on their dreams, defile the flesh, reject authority, and blaspheme the glorious ones. So he brings this back to these people now. And he's going to say, in a like manner, in a sense, like these three examples. He's including the scope of those three examples. These men are sinning in the same way that the Israelites, the angels, and the Sodomites. sinned in the same exact way. So there's something interesting about these guys. These guys are relying on their dreams. The idea here is that these men were accepting and inserting something in addition to the scriptural truth. Most scholars believe that these men were, this idea of relying on dreams refers to visions or some kind of revelation they received in dreams. To guide their actions and impulses. In a sense, they had the word, but that was secondary to what these dreams, or this additional revelation, was showing them, which led to some of this apostasy. Some commenters would say maybe that Jude's referring that these guys are kind of like living in a dream world. Like they're not really connected with reality. Like they're they're dreamy, they're dreaming in their heads. The problem I have with that is that's that's kind of like that's not really a first century kind of uh idiom. Right? It's more of a modern idiom, like you know, we're you're you're you know dream you're a dreamer kind of person or you're not a it's not a colloquial saying of the first century Plus, we also have evidence in Jeremiah 27, 9, where it talks about not listening to dreamers, those who use their dreams as some kind of prophecy. So this is clearly something that existed. As a means of kind of spiritualizing things. So they're relying on dreams. This is why the Word of God has warnings that says, do not add to the Word of God. The canon of God is closed, no future revelation is to be honored among God's people. Behind every false religion from Christianity is the adulteration of the word. Either adding to it, like the Jehovah's Witnesses or the Mormons, or taking away from it, like the Immersion Church. Behind every one of these, even the prosperity gospel has this vein of uh Pentecostal revelation that influences or goes above the word. They trust their experiences, in a sense, over the Word of God. Apostasy starts where the Word of God ends. Yet these men, because of these dreams, do three things. They defile the flesh, reject authority, and blaspheme the glorious ones. This defiling of the flesh is similar to this idea of immorality we saw in the previous example. It's defiling of the flesh, which in a sense pollutes their flesh, pollutes their immorality, and also involves Defiling others that they interact with. In a sense, they're defiled and they're they're sharing their defilement with others. It has a moral nature to it. They also reject authority. What's neat about this, and I know you're probably like, eh, I'm done with the all the Greek references, but this is really interesting stuff in here with this because it helps us understand. that this word is also translated dominion, which has the same nature or the same root as Christ. So in a sense when he says reject authority, he's actually using it in the construction to come back that this points back To this. In a sense, denying the Master and the Lord, he's rejecting the authority, the Lord, the Curion, the dominion of Christ, rejecting that authority. Not the authority of a king or the guards. No, he's rejecting the authority of the Lord. And they blaspheme the glorious ones. These men are also blaspheming the glorious ones. Now, this Glorious Ones is a tricky verse to understand as much of Jude is, as we'll find out through this study. But what they're saying here is they're they're pointing to this context that I think the glorious ones they're speaking to here are are angels. That's who they're speaking about. Some would say maybe this is Christ, but that doesn't fit because it's obviously a plural, and Christ wouldn't be in a plural if he's blasting the glorious one, then maybe that would have some Some leverage there, but the glorious ones clearly points back to something, especially after the examples he's just given. It kind of fits better. I wish there was a direct one-to-one alignment between these three things, between these three flesh and the authority and blaspheming to the three previous examples. But there's not a direct one, or it's it's maybe loss on our 21st century eyes, but the thrust of it's still there. There's immoral action and judgment, and these guys are following in the same way. So they blaspheme these angels. So this is what brings us to this next verse in verse 9. I mentioned this one's kind of tricky. Maybe you're maybe you have thought about this verse before. You maybe just as you read it, you kind of went through it and skipped over it. But He says this in Jude 9. So he's talking about these guys. Then he says this. But when the Archangel Michael, contending with the devil, was disputing about the body of Moses. He did not presume to pronounce a blasphemous judgment, but said, The Lord rebuke you. Now I think on the surface we all kind of understand where Jude's going with this. He's just talked about this blasphemy of angels. Right? We have this blasphemy word here. So he's kind of picking it up. This is like a a bridge illustration. It's not really app applying. It's like he kind of inserts another illustration. to get to his points. But he talks about this blasphemous judgment. And there's angels involved here, right? So he's kind of messaged angels and he comes back here. When the Archangel Michael contending with the devil, disputing about the body of Moses. Most scholars would say this is difficult to interpret, but this is a, in a sense, it's not uh something we encounter all the time thinking about these these stories and how this kind of works. Again, this idea of angel ology isn't something we all uh readily study. But we are introduced by another character here, the Archangel Michael. And I gave you some notes in uh some points in your notes here, but Archangel Michael is introduced here in Jude, also in Daniel and Revelation, we hear about him. He's got uh a lot of um mentions of him. We know he's a leader. of angels in heavenly warfare. He's a protector of Israel. He's a spiritual war warrior against satanic oppression. He's called the Archangel here in Jude, but chief prince and great prince in Daniel. His name means who is like God. He is an important angel. And obviously he's dealing with something here. This story of the Archangel Michael and Moses. Does not come from our canonical scriptures. Most scripture uh believe our most um The scholarly work talks about this coming from a work called The Assumption of Moses, which is a non-canonical book. The early church fathers speak about this. They they know this work, they've talked about it, they mention it. It's just not something we put in the Bible. This comes from an oral tradition. And Jude uses these oral traditions throughout. We're going to encounter Enoch a little bit later. We don't know kind of the nature of this, where this comes from, how they're wrestling with it. Um but It seems like at some point Moses was trying to be buried, and then there's a confrontation between uh the devil, Satan, and Michael. And Jude doesn't give us more detail because that's not kind of his point. He's kind of referencing the story, but he's using it to prove a different point. He's not trying to justify this story or explain it fully. Again, his readers likely understood this reference. They knew it. They knew what he was talking about. So speculation aside, we can get back to the point of what he's getting at, is that he did not presume And this is the contrast to those who blaspheme. He did not presume to pronounce a blasphemous judgment. He didn't take the power upon himself, or he did not use his own authority, which in a sense would have been stepping over God's rule. He did not blaspheme the glorious ones, because these men, as they blaspheme about angels and speak to them, they are using a language that is defiling of God, God in his character. The here, Archangel Michael, did not take judgment upon the devil to be his own. But let the Lord's judgment be his yielding, his authority. He did not take authority from the Lord, but he said, the Lord rebuke you. He did not step out of his place to rebuke the devil. He did not take power to his own or his own judgment. He looked to the Lord for his own judgment. He did not presume that kind of power, even though he was the highest of angels. He did not take that. And that angel, in contrast, is much higher than these earthly men that Judas talking about. But he said, the Lord rebuke you. He refused this blasphemous judgment, he refused to speak over, ahead, or contrary to what the Lord has said He did not pronounce his own judgment, because he remembered in James where it says, There's only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save and destroy. Instead he commits all judgment of the devil to the Lord. Using the same rebuke and judgment given to Satan in Zachariah 3-2, it's the same words used. Based on the truth of Scripture and God's word, not his own power and authority. But he's going to link this together here. He's going to link it to the next verse in Jude 10. But these people blaspheme all they do not understand and are destroyed by all they understand instinctively, like unreasoning. animals. Jews going to take this blasphemy idea, which really is the speaking of these false teachers, their words, the way that they're justifying their actions. They're speaking of their evil deeds and their apostasy. They are speaking ignorantly with great consequence. To their lives, to the spiritual realities they do not understand. They're blaspheming, speaking about the things of the Lord, things of spiritual realities that they do not understand to the level of blasphemy. There's a real judgment here. These men are speaking, probably teaching things that are blasphemous, assuming spiritual knowledge and strength while uttering lies. There's a fountain of falseness leading to a river of iniquity. This, in this sense, there's a great judgment already. But they're doing this by blaspheming, and if it wasn't worse enough already, and they are destroyed by all that they, like unreasoning animals, understand instinctively. They're being destroyed by their knowledge of what they do know. It's the same thing that unthinking, unreasonable, unreasoning animals know, which is their flesh. their body, their animal instincts. They are servants of their impulses, their appetites, and their sexual desire. They're like animals, beasts feeding on their flesh. It's the instinct or naturally, it says in some translations, shows the corrupt nature of man , fallen and sinful They're being destroyed by what they choose to do, because they're acting like lustful animals I like how one commenter says this. Their way of life is to allow the instincts that they share with beasts to have their way. Their values are fleshly values. Their gospel is a gospel of flesh. Jude describes these men who have lost all sense of and awareness of spiritual things, and for who the things demanded by the animal instincts of man are the only realities and their only standards. They're just given, indulged into the flesh. And their end Is their destruction. So you see the connection between these three examples in the beginning, and now he pronounces this destruction on these men. who do the same thing. The larger thrust of this is that there is a disobedience to God. denial of his authority and his power, which leads to judgment and destruction. And this goes for everyone. So, how do we take these five verses and apply them for ourselves tonight? Just a few minutes to go. There's a lot in here, a lot of different thoughts. I want to try to stay in the spirit of Jude and the building up of ourselves, but we must remember and take that we are a people under authority. Under the authority of God. Roughly four times the idea of being under authority has come up in these verses. We are not of our own. We are bought by the blood of Christ. We are owned, in a sense, by him. We are a people of Christ. And I think there's three things we can see here in the text. First, we must speak like one under authority. We don't speak about spiritual realities that we don't understand, or speak incorrectly about the Word of God, or speak beyond the Word of God. This is actually more common than you think. I've heard the phrase, you know, God won't give you more than you can handle. That's wrong. But we like to encourage people with that. Now I'm not saying that's blasphemy, but I'm saying you're dancing close to spiritual untruth. As people under authority, we have a great gift given to us, the Word of God, which is fully capable to encourage and build up and edify each other, which we should use. But we should be careful knowing that we are one under authority. It can be well-intentioned, but we can with our lips say things that go against God. And second, we must act like one under authority. As people under authority and people bought by the blood of Christ, we are not of our own in our body. See, Jude speaks to a few sins here. First of sexual immorality. The bounds of Christ are for again for heterosexual, monogamous, sexual relationship in the covenant of marriage. Everything outside of that is sin. It's a rebelling against God and God's authority. There is also a latitude here for just chasing any manner of fleshly desire that becomes indulgent. interactions. It's a question of indulgence. You are under the authority in your flesh What place does indulgence have? It becomes idolatry. This indulgence can be for food, it can be for sex, it can be for indulgent pleasure of any kind of the flesh. Again, it's an indulgence. It's a giving over. It's not that just you just you know you like a donut now and then. We're talking about complete giving over of our flesh to something sinful that takes the place of the Lord. If you cannot resist the flesh and its desires, you may be acting indulgently. And have no control. Homosexuality, pornography, drugs, all of them represent a giving over of authority to pleasure of the flesh rather than acting under the authority of the Lord. If there's a part of your life that you are not in obedience and your flesh is your authority, repent of it. Judas saying to you, stop acting like a beast. You are made in the image of God and have the Spirit of God choose this day whose authority you'll be under. And lastly, we must receive. The word of authority. If you don't know the Lord tonight, you've not bowed to him in authority in your life, you are like the beast driven by your sinful nature. and destined to destruction. So turn to the Lord tonight. I'd be happy to talk to you more about this. But also means that we are To know the master, know the one we're under authority, to know his word and the faith once delivered to us. It is there, accessible, known to us. 1 Peter 1 3 4 says, His divine powers granted us all things that pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence. by which He has granted us this precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in this world because of sinful desire. Receive the word. Repent of anything that is not under the authority of God in our lives. Put it under the yoke of Christ. Put yourself under the yoke of Christ. It is the word of God that has the power to change our lives. Don't hold that in your life at arm's distance. Be under authority, the authority of Christ, his word. It is a light yoke, as he said. Let me close this in prayer. Father, thank you that you are the one worthy of all honor, glory, praise, and authority. That you are the Holy One, the one that we give our lives to, Father. Help us to grow, to be encouraged, to yoke ourselves to your word and to your truth, that we be like soldiers under authority. Acting, speaking, and loving as you've commanded us to do. Pray that we be on watch for unbelief. And thoughts in our minds, Lord, that we would be strengthened and built up in love, as Jude commands us, Lord, in your holy love, in your word, in your scriptures. We thank you for this time and bless our time of prayer now in your Son's name. Amen