If you have your Bibles, would you turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 1? 1 Peter chapter 1. On February the 9th, 1709, there was a fire in the little village of Epworth, England. It was a fire in the Parsons household. Young John Wesley was upstairs. Asleep. And the fire broke out. Everyone else had gotten out, but he remained. Two neighbors saved his life. One stood on the shoulders of the other and reached into the upstairs window and pulled him out. Only moments before the roof collapsed, everyone in the little village considered it a miracle. That he was spared in such a way. And John Wesley was told as a young boy that God had something special for him because He was miraculously saved from that catastrophe. And he never could forget that. And after a long journey He was born again. And he would go on to preach 43,000 sermons over 66 years of ministry, and he was one of the instruments that God used to bring about the Great Awakening, a sense of destiny, a sense of purpose. Has a very powerful influence in the life of an individual. People who believe that they have something important to do live differently than those who do not. This is exactly the message that Peter is conveying to his readers in the book of 1 Peter He is revealing to them that they have been saved to bring God glory. And part of the way that we bring glory to God And our salvation is by living lives of holiness and obedience. The paragraph that we have been considering in recent weeks Has this as its main emphasis. We read this together a moment ago. But as he with has called you is holy, so be holy in all manner of conversation, or we would say, conducts. And then Peter provides right after that command three reasons why we should live for Christ. One is because our Father is holy, verse 16, because it is written, Be holy, for I am holy. And then a second reason that we should live holy lives is because we must give an account to our Father who is the judge of all the earth. Therefore we must live. In godly fear. Verse 17, and if you call the Father, who without respect of persons judges according to every man's work, pass the time of your sojourning here in fear. And then in verses 18 and following, Peter is going to give a third reason why we should live lives of holiness, and that is because of our redemption. And this one he spends a little more time on because it is the clincher. It is the ultimate reason. And in verses 18 and 19, he talks about the cost of our redemption. For as much as you know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious Blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish and without spots. And in verses 20 and 21, he's going to continue to talk about our redemption as a motivating factor. But now he's going to talk not so much about the son 's role in our redemption. but the Father's role in our redemption. But this was all part of his plan for us, for his people. This was all part of his providential plan that we would live to bring him glory. Now sometimes we think of Christ's death on the cross Something that he did alone, that the Father really had not much to do with it, and that perhaps we think of our Savior as the only one who as it were, suffered or made a sacrifice, but that is not the case. The Father gave his beloved Son. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. The Father's giving of his beloved son was the greatest demonstration of love the world has ever witnessed. And Peter is reminding his Christian readers of this because this is intended to inspire them to live lives of consecration and obedience. This is God's destiny, God's will for all of his children, that we would become the trusting, obedient children of God that he has called us to be. Now look at our text this morning, verses 20 and 21. You'll notice there's some parallelism here in that both of the verses begin with who? The first two refers to the Lord Jesus Christ, and the second one in verse 21 refers to believers. We see here Peter is reminding them of the application of this great doctrine of redemption, that this was something that personally touched and affected and has changed their lives. So let me ask you a question this morning. Why do you think God saved you. That's a very important question. And one that people often get confused. Was it simply to save you from an eternity in hell? That certainly is true, and it's a marvelous thing. Was it that you would have a better marriage? more compliant children, better health, better understanding of handling finances These may be byproducts of walking the Christian life, but they are not the purpose. The purpose that we find in Scripture, the overarching purpose, is for the glory of God. And that relates directly to the way we conduct ourselves, to the way we live our lives. One of the most important gospel references in this book of 1 Peter is found in 1 Peter 2, 24 Let me read this for you. It says, who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree That we being dead to sins should live unto righteousness by whose stripes ye were healed. We have been saved that we might live unto righteousness, which is another way essentially of saying that we would live holy lives. for the glory of God. So let me ask you this morning, are there signs that you are living an obedient Christian life? Are you progressing in your Christian walk? Do your friends and neighbors perceive that your lifestyle is different from theirs? That your lifestyle is governed by different principles than their own. If not, then perhaps you have forgotten the cross. You have forgotten that you are not your own, but that you have been bought with a price. Perhaps you have forgotten your father's plan for your life. I want to preach to you this morning from these verses on this truth that God's love is revealed in our redemption. The first thing I want you to consider in verse 20 is that God our Father lovingly planned for our redemption in Christ. Look with me carefully at verse 20, who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world. but was manifest in these last times for you. We see here that our redemption through Christ as part of his eternal plan for us. Now why does Peter mention this here in this passage? Well in the previous verse in verse 19, Peter describes Jesus as a sacrificial lamb. as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. And a reader might read that and think, well, Jesus was a victim. Jesus was cruelly murdered. This was a horrible catastrophe. How could this happen? How could there be such a miscarriage of justice? And so Peter is quick. To answer that false understanding and says, no, no, no, no, this was not an accident This was not something that happened apart from God's sovereign plan of redemption. And so he goes on to say that who, that is Christ, barely was foreordained. before the foundation of the world. I have heard preachers give the impression that Jesus was a powerless victim. This is not the case. He could have called 10,000 angels. His father at any instant could have rescued his son and destroyed all of his foes. But what Jesus was doing was fulfilling his father's great plan of redemption Now what was foreordained was the work of Christ as Redeemer. Notice this first phrase, who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world. The context here, of course, is the context of our redemption. Now, this word foreordained is the same word Same Greek word that's translated for knowledge in verse 2. Look with me at 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 2. Many weeks ago we covered this verse. It says, elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. And here that same word is translated, foreordained. And that is because the translators understood that this word had more of a sense, not of just something that God knows beforehand. But something that God has ordained to take place. The Greek word, I normally don't pronounce Greek words, but it's the word prognosco. It's made up of two parts, to know before And we get our English word prognosis from this. A person goes to the doctor with a serious illness, and they may ask the doctor for a prognosis They're asking the doctor, how do you think this will turn out? How will this disease run its course? Will it be able to be effectively treated? What do you think is going to happen? But what we see here is that there's more in view than just knowing what's going to happen. And I want to turn with you to an important cross-reference. that connects this term to the work of Christ, and that is Acts chapter 2 and verse 23. Would you join me there, please? Acts chapter 2 and verse 23. This is Peter's Pentecost sermon. He says in verse 23, speaking of Christ. Him being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain. These men did what they wanted to do. They did something that was heinous and wicked and a miscarriage of justice, and they are responsible for that But what they were doing was all part of God's plan of redemption. Yes, it was wicked, but they were doing God's plan And it's through their actions they were accomplishing his great plan of redemption. This was all part of his determinant counsel, it says here, and foreknowledge. The cross was not a great catastrophe. It was not an afterthought. It was all part of God's plan. Now turn back with me, please, to 1 Peter chapter 1. We read this amazing thing that this was foreordained. Well, when did God make this plan? The answer is before the foundation of the world. Now that's hard to understand, isn't it? before day one of creation, sometime before then, we might say from the beginning of time or before time began. Because we are time-bound creatures, it's very difficult for us to even come up with an expression That is logical to define this period of time. How can there be a time before time? It doesn't all make sense, but there must be a time before time And God has always been, and God always will be, and therefore God existed before time This expression is used eight other times in the New Testament. We're not going to look at all the references. Let me give you just a few examples. In Matthew chapter 24 and verse 34, we read, the Lord saying, Come ye blessed of my Father. Inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. In John chapter 17 and verse 24, in our Lord's great high priestly prayer that he prayed for his disciples. the night of it before his crucifixion. His final petition for them was this, that they may behold my glory which thou hast given me before the foundation of the worlds. But perhaps the most important text relating to our verse this morning is Revelation chapter 13 and verse 8. that speaks of the lamb slain from the foundation of the earth. You may say, well I thought the lamb was slain at Calvary. He was. But the plan for that goes back before day one of creation. Again, this is hard to comprehend. Before God ever began creation. Before there was a solar system and galaxies, God planned for our redemption. He sent his son to redeem us from our sins. You see, God's plan of salvation was not an afterthought. The fall did not take God by surprise. The rejection of Christ by his own people was not a shocking development. God had planned long ago to redeem you through the death of Christ on the cross But his plan is not just that you would escape the flames of hell and go to heaven. Let me show you a further connection between God's sovereign plan and our holiness. Turn with me to the book of Ephesians and chapter 1 and verse 4. Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 4. Notice what it says, according as he hath chosen us to in him that is in Christ before the foundation of the world. There's that expression. Why did he choose us in him before the foundation of the world? That we should be holy and without blame before him in love. God 's sovereign purpose is that we would live lives of holiness. This is a wonderful truth for us to consider. This is God's destiny for us. I don't usually share personal stories, but I can't think of a better illustration. uh than this, so so pard me for this, but I can remember when I was about in seventh or eighth grade And my father telling me that before I was born, he was praying that God would make me a preacher. And he prayed that I would be able to have a seminary education, something he was not able to obtain. And I can remember that that had a profound impact on my life, that my dad was praying for this. And he had not throughout my life growing up mentioned this to me. He never said, you know, I'm really counting on you now to be a preacher or something. It was never like that. There was never any pressure about that. I really didn't know that. But when I expressed just a little hint of maybe sort of, considering the ministry, he said, well, you know. I was praying for you that God would lead you in this direction. I've been praying for this for years. In fact, before you were even born. That had a powerful impact on me. Well, you know what? Before you were ever even born. In fact, before day one of creation. God had a plan of redemption. God had a purpose for your life. This is a wonderfully motivating truth for us to consider. And it should cause us to want to live lives of purpose and meaning and consecration for Christ. Notice what it says then in as we turn back to 1 Peter 2 the second half of verse 20. It says, but was manifest in these last times for you. Often people will ask me, Pastor, do you believe we're living in the last times? And I probably shouldn't say this, but I always give the same answer. I always say absolutely. In fact, we've been living in the last times for 2,000 years. Because that is the biblical truth. The Bible speaks of this entire period as the last days. Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 2, God hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son. The coming of Christ, the first advents, was the beginning. of the last days. And it was also providentially the exactly right time for the incarnation. And the most significant verse for this teaching is Galatians 4. 4 when it says But when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his Son. The world stage was perfectly set for the incarnation. It was prepared politically. The promised birthplace of the Messiah was brought about. Through human agency by the decree of Caesar Augustus. And Jesus was sentenced to die by a governor A Roman governor on a Roman cross. The world was prepared culturally. The Greek language provided a vehicle, a medium through which the gospel could go forth. to the ends of the known world. And the New Testament would be written in Greek, a language that people of virtually every cultural identity in that area could read for themselves. And the world was prepared religiously. The Jews were praying for a Messiah, and many Gentiles were getting weary of their idolatry. the idolatry of their ancestors and were looking for something that was real. Everything was perfectly set for the incarnation of the Lord Jesus Christ. And Peter is telling his readers that God's timing was perfect. And in the providence of God, they were living in that generation right after the incarnation. This is something that Peter has already mentioned to them as a great privilege. Remember what we considered in verses 10 through 12 of this first chapter. He says, of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you, searching what Or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify when it testified beforehand the suffering of Christ and the glory that should follow, unto whom it was revealed that not unto themselves Notice this, but unto us they did minister to things which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you, what the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven, which things the angels desire to look into. Peter says, you are so privileged to live in this age of fulfillments, right after the coming of Christ. You're living in the age of the apostles where the gospel was preached with power and with authority. All that those prophets were longing to see. and to understand all that the angels are curious about is being fulfilled. And you are the recipients of it. And notice the way that Peter makes this a very personal thing. He says, was manifest in these last days for you. You see, it's very easy for us to take the abstract truths of the gospel and think of them in a solely academic way. But if we are ever going to receive the blessing and the benefit from them, we must receive them by faith in a personal way. We do live in a day of great blessing. We can read God's completed revelation. We have the Word of God. Many believers in past ages did not know how to read or did not have the finances to own a Bible or a Bible had not really been collected in their language. That's not the case for us. We can listen to the gospel anytime we want thanks to modern technology, and we can study the Word of God with a mind-boggling number of resources available to us. But all of these advantages will mean nothing if we do not take it for ourselves and believe it and receive it. Let me ask you, is the gospel personal to you? Is the gospel something that you have only heard about? Or is it something that you have received? Is it something that you have made a part of who you are and what you believe and how you view the world and has changed your life? that has brought you out of darkness into God's marvelous lights, the gospel changes everything And it is a personal blessing for us to receive. The second thing I want us to consider now is in verse 21. And that is that God our Father lovingly provided for our redemption through Christ. Look with me at verse 21, who by him Do you believe in God that raised him from the dead and gave him glory, that your faith and hope might be in God? We see here first of all that our Father provided a mediator so that we would come to God. Now the who in verse 21 is a reference to us. We are those who through Christ have come to believe in God. You notice it is by Christ and through Christ alone that we come to know God. This is a very unpopular truth. The Bible teaches an exclusive path to God. The Bible is a book of certainty, a book of dogmatism. People in the world today do not like that. It seems to conflict. With what they consider to be tolerance and pluralism. The motto that most educated people in Western culture have accepted. Is that religion is basically a good thing, that God is a very helpful construct at least for people to believe in. It helps them in times of tragedy. It helps them make sense out of the chaos of their lives. But we need to understand that no one should be so arrogant as to think that their little group that their denomination or their religion has a corner on the market of truth and that theirs is the only way The only problem with that, which seems perfectly logical and understandable, is that that's not what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches very clearly that there is only one way to God. This is what Jesus taught. He said in the upper room, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. That is a very categorical statement. There is no room to wiggle out of that. Either Jesus was wrong and didn't know what he was saying, or it's the truth. In Acts chapter 4 and verse 12 we read, Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. And in 1 Timothy 2 and verse 5, for there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. There is no way that you can make God-revealed Christianity compatible with pluralistic teaching. To say that there are many ways to God is to lessen the value of the cross. In fact, to completely destroy it, it would mean that God really didn't need to send his son to die. Because there were other ways that we could be saved. It is to completely up-end and destroy the very foundational premise of Christian theology. And it is to reject the clear teaching of the Word of God. Our Father provided only one way to himself And that is through the Lord Jesus Christ, specifically through his saving work, his death and resurrection. The Bible teaches clearly that the only way that anyone can truly know God our Father is through His Son. That is what the Bible teaches. That is why we must go forth and evangelize. That is why we must send missionaries to the ends of the earth, because they're not going to come. To know the Father, to know God, to have a home in heaven apart from the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ John chapter 1 and verse 18 says of our Lord that he hath declared the Father. And the word declared there means essentially that Jesus has explained or unveiled or revealed the Father to us that we really can't know God apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm reminded of Kipling's parable of the six blind men. He took this from Indian tradition. The story is told that there was a village and there were six men that lived in this village in a communal existence And they were born blind, and one day they heard a commotion. The people in the village says that an elephant has come into our village. And they thought to themselves, well, what is an elephant? We've never seen an elephant, so they ventured out to investigate for themselves. And one man reached out and he touched the leg, brushed up against the leg of the elephant, and he said, you know, an elephant I think is like a pillar. That's what an elephant is. And another man touched the tail of the elephant. He said, no, no, no, no. An elephant is like a rope. Another man touched another leg and said, I think it's more like a tree. Another touched his ear and says, you know, it's more like a fan-like creature. Another man bumped up against the side of it and he says, No, this thing's like a brick wall. Another man grabbed the elephant's tusk and he said, no, it's like a hard pipe. And they began to argue about which was right. the religions of the world do through observation, through God's revelation of creation. glean a little bit of light about God. They know that there is a powerful being, far much more powerful than they are. Okay, that's true. They may know that this God is a God to whom they should give prayers to, and they know that he is a God that perhaps demands sacrifices. So that they have some vague notions, they have a little bit of things right, but it's mixed in with a great deal of distortion. But they can't really understand who God is. They're like those blind men who have a completely distorted view. Through the scriptures, through Christ, through his incarnation, we have come to see God. Not that we understand him completely, but we can know him, and we can have a relationship with him through the mediator, the Lord Jesus Christ. We see here also in this passage that our Father has provided a risen Savior so that we can trust in God. It says of our Father that he raised him up from the dead, reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now sometimes in Scripture we read that Jesus rose from the dead. That is, that he actively did it himself. But most often we read that the father raised him from the dead, that it was the work of the father. They're both true. The father raised him up. This was the ultimate confirmation that Jesus was who he claimed to be the Son of God because on many occasions Jesus predicted his resurrection. And so if he remained in that tomb, it would have been the ultimate argument against all of his claims to be the Messiah, the Son of God. His enemies would have said, you know, this man said that he was going to rise from the dead, but look, his grave is here, his body is there decaying. He obviously was an imposter. But he didn't remain in the tomb. The Father raised him up, signifying that he was indeed his beloved son, and that his sacrifice was fully accepted in place And Peter goes on to say that the Father gave him glory. Certainly there was glory at the resurrection, but this is going a step further. He's talking about his ascension and his exort exaltation at the right hand of the Father, theologians call this the session of Christ. You see, God's great plan of redemption is ultimately for the glory of his son. And this is what the redeemed instinctively understand. One of the most inspiring and moving passages to me in the Bible is what we read of in Revelation chapter 5. When we see the countless multitude of the redeemed singing, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power and glory and riches and wisdom and strength. That is the cry of all the redeemed. Worthy is the Lamb. He is worthy of his glory. And all of God's people throughout the ages will ascribe glory to Christ for his redeeming work. Now, what difference should this doctrine make to our lives? Notice Peter is going to wrap this up at verse 21. He says, the last phrase, that your faith and hope might be in God. Peter here is coming to a conclusion of this paragraph. This paragraph began in verse 13 and it runs through verse 21. And in proper fashion, he is summarizing what he's been saying. What should be our response to these truths? to our call to holy living, to the idea that we have been redeemed, we have been bought with the price. What should be our response? Our response is that we would come to trust in God and live for Him. The Christian life is a life of faith. Now I find it interesting that Peter once again uses this term hope. He's using this intentionally as the bookends of a section of thought. It's a literary device. If you look with me at verse 13, the first verse of this new paragraph, what does he say? Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope To the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Notice the term hope there. And now in the last verse of this paragraph, he says that your faith and hope might be in God. Peter's been called the apostle of hope. And here he puts these this term hope as like bookends. It's a fitting way for him to conclude what he is saying. Let me remind you that biblical hope is not a fond wish, but a confident expectation. Let me also remind you that this book was written to suffering Christians. He was writing to first century saints who were being persecuted. Some were cast out of their synagogues. Others had to leave their homeland. Some were imprisoned. They were facing hardships and difficulty, and it was only going to get worse. And the days following the writing of this epistle, and yet Peter caused them to faith and hope. What kind of hope should we have? We should have a hope that is grounded in the gospel of the cross. When we look at the cross, it reminds us of a God in whom we can trust, a God who has a plan, a God who is working out his plan. His overarching plan of redemption, of bringing glory to himself and to his beloved son. This is a hope that is rooted in the very nature of our Heavenly Father. This is the way we must live the Christian life. We will face hardship. We will face persecution and disappointment and resistance and affliction and difficulty, but we are to always remember who we are, that we are a new kind of people. We are people who have been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. We are people who have been given a purpose and a plan in ages past by our Heavenly Father. And we must live our lives with significance and meaning and hope. So let me ask you, are you living by faith? Is your life filled with hope, the confident expectation that God will work all things out for your good and for his glory? The only way this is possible is if you have come to place your trust in the only Redeemer that God has provided, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. To reject the Savior is to reject your only hope of salvation. This is a serious matter. This is not just some lecture that I give. This is not a form of entertainment. This is worship. This is us trying to grapple and understand the most important and significant truths that we will ever face in our lives. And I feel certain that there are people here this morning, right here in this room, who do not have that hope of salvation. You may have a pleasant disposition. You may have some basic knowledge and information. You might have memorized a few verses. You may like the fellowship to some degree of Christian people, but you have never been born again. This is always something The parents have to be very aware of. It's very easy to be brought up in a Christian home. And in order to be compliant, in order to please your parents , You go along with the program and you make some type of profession of faith And for a long time it may be difficult for anyone to discern , do they have a true and living faith? Do they have something that is supernatural at work in their hearts? Have they really been changed from the inside out? And often it does not begin to manifest itself in any way until they grow up and start making choices of their own and begin to flex their independence. And then you begin to see the evidence, the fruits of what they truly believe and what has truly transpired within them. Maybe you're one of those young people. Do you have a new heart? Have you been redeemed? Have you been born again? Do you just have a form of godliness? Do you just have a nominal Christianity? Where if someone upholster asks you, are you a Christian? You say yes. But there has not been any heart change, and you are not the person described here who is living by faith that every day you depend on God and you seek to live a life that's pleasing to him and you live with that hope. that someday you will be with him in glory and that confident expectation is what brings you through the difficulties of this life. If those things seem foreign and strange and you would say that certainly does not describe me, my friend, you have not been born again. You may be a nice person. But apart from the work of the Spirit of God, apart from you coming to cling to Christ alone as your Redeemer, you will perish eternally. Can you say with the hymn writer, my hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness? I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name. Does that sound extreme? Does that sound like over the top? kind of religious speak, but something that you would never feel in your heart. My friend, if that is the case, you need to be saved. Because I believe that every truly born-again believer to some degree can identify with their words and say, that's right, that is my only hope. Christ is my only chance that I have of being redeemed, of being accepted by the Father. He is the one and the only one that I am trusting in. Is your hope in the Lord? Are you trusting in the atoning work of the Lord Jesus Christ? Our Father sent only one Redeemer. He is the only way that we can be saved, the only way that we can know God, the only way that we can live with hope. Let's close in prayer. Father, the gospel is our only hope. Our Savior is our only Redeemer. I pray that you would help us to take these matters seriously to not just zone out and dismiss and ignore the truth of the gospel. I pray, Father, that you would use these words for your glory, that you would use them, Father, to at the very least convict someone and alarm someone of their true estate before you. I pray, Father, that they would not Seek to silence your Holy Spirit, but that they would respond to the light that you have given to them. And that they would be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.