Give your Bibles, please. Would you join me in Hebrews chapter 11? Hebrews chapter 11. I read the story once of a man Who fell down an old abandoned well. And as he was falling, he grabbed hold of the rope. But the rope was slick and he could not pull himself up. Called out for help, but no one was around to hear him. He clung to the rope for as long as he possibly could, but he continued to slip down. And as he lost all strength, he bid the world farewell and let go of his lifeline, only to fall six inches to the bottom of the well. There in the darkness he laughed at his fear and panic We live in a culture and an age that's filled with fear and anxiety. Anxiety. Did you know that? Anxiety is the number one mental health problem in America. About one in five Americans struggle with anxiety. Numbers are even higher for young people. Since the COVID pandemic, the numbers have skyrocketed. About 40% of adults between the ages of 18 to 29 say they struggle with anxiety. And I'm told that one of the most anxious times of the year is the very beginning of the year. Because you are keenly aware of the future. What's going to happen this year? And you can easily fall into the trap of all the what-ifs. What if my marriage falls apart? What if my spouse dies? What if my child succumbs to cancer? What if I die How do Christians deal with worries and fears? Well the biblical answer is really twofold. You could say they're both P's, there's prayer. And there's the promises of God. This morning we're going to look at the latter of those, the promises of God. Turn with me if you're not already there to Hebrews 13. Most of you know a lot about this book because we spent a couple years preaching through it. The book of Hebrews is essentially a written sermon sent by a pastor who is unknown to us, but was known by the church that received this letter. They were probably a Jewish community that were worshiping the one true Savior, Jesus Christ, in the city of Rome. This church had faced serious persecution in the past. And now a new wave of persecution was on the horizon. Apparently some of these believers were considering going back to Judaism because there was safety there. So the author of this book exhorts them to persevere in faith because Jesus is better than anything Judaism or the world had to offer. The body of this epistle concludes at chapter 12, and then in chapter 13 we have an epilogue, some brief practical instructions given from a pastor's heart. In verses 1 through 6, we have the pastor exhorting his readers to write behavior. We call this ethics. Christians should live differently from unbelievers. Now, our text this morning It's just two verses, verses five and six, very well-known verses. Look with me, please, at these verse five. Keep your life free. From love of money and be content with what you have. For he has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. So we can Confidently say, the Lord is my helper, I will not fear, what can man do to me? So, I want you to notice we have two commands in verse 5. They're like two sides of the same coin. Keep your life from the love of money Then the other side of the coin, be content with what God has provided for you. You can see how those two things go hand in hand Why should we do this? For he has said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. These are some of the most significant words in Scripture. God's promise that he will never leave or forsake his people. And then in verse 6, we have this wonderful response to this truth. Look at verse 6. So we can confidently say The Lord is my helper. I will not fear what can man do to me. So we have two commands that are grounded in a promise. I will never leave thee forsake thee, and then the courageous attitude that is response to this same promise. Now our text this morning does not contain the word anxiety or worry or fear. But that is definitely the context in which it was written. The writer of Hebrews is addressing a congregation that was about to face severe persecution. And they were worried about their future. And so this beloved promise is given by this pastor to answer their anxious concerns. What is at the heart of these commands and this promise? Let me put it to you this way. Believers should find their security and satisfaction. in Christ alone. Believers should find their security and satisfaction. In Christ alone. And when a believer finds their security and satisfaction in God, it brings stability and peace to one's heart. So let me work through this passage. I pray that it will bring comfort and strength to the Lord's people. The first point I want to make is that Christians should not seek to find our security and money because we find our satisfaction in God. I'm addressing this very first command, keep your life free from the love of money. We have two halves of the same truth in verse 5. Coveting and contentment. If you are content, you don't covet. And if you covet, you're not content. So let's begin with this negative aspect of the truth, that we are to be free in our lifestyle from the love of money. I would put it to you this way, in a very practical way. If your New Year's resolution this year was to make a lot more money so that you felt more secure. That would be a violation of this command. That's a very American thing to do But it should not be the aspiration of a believer. Let me be clear, money is not evil. Some of the great saints of Scripture were relatively wealthy, but the love of money is wicked. Now let me ask you this question, a very personal question. Are you free from the love of money? I bet you had an immediate yes come to your mind. And I say so because I think that when we think of coveting or loving money, I think we invariably think of the super rich. We think of people like Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk. You know, Jeff Bezos is about the same age as I am. Our net worth is a little bit different But I want to say something to you with all my heart and complete honesty. I would not trade places with that man And if there was some way you could delve into the depths of his soul and live with him 24 hours a day. and live in my life 24 hours a day, I think you would find that I have much more love, joy, and peace in my life than he does. Jeff Bezos owns at least 20 mansions worth over $500 million. But he's not content because he buys new ones every year. He was once went out to California to look at the two largest private residences that were available. The realtor showed him this one, many millions of dollars, another one, many millions of dollars, and he said, I can't decide, I'll take them both. And then he went to remodeling those and enlarging them. Because although one would get weary from walking from one end of the house to the other, it still was not large enough for me. him. It wasn't opulent enough for him. Indeed, this is an egregious example of loving money, and that's what we think of. And so you say to yourself out there, I'm no Jeff Bezos. But let me ask you this question. What kind of individuals was this pastor speaking to here in Hebrews chapter 13? They were a persecuted minority. They were not longing for luxury yachts. They were just trying to survive. In Hebrews 10, 34, we read that some of them had lost their property because they were followers of Christ and some had been imprisoned. My point is that materialism, trusting in money, is not just a problem for the super rich. It's a problem for everyone who does not find their satisfaction in God. Now there are several varieties. of materialism or the love of money. They're first of all those who find their satisfaction in status or money. When they look at their bank account or their stock portfolio or their four-car garage, they feel a sense of accomplishment. They feel I have won at the game of life. And often these individuals will purchase status symbols so that everyone knows that they are important. And this is, again, a very strong and bombastic example of materialism. But there's another variety of materialism that we don't see as wrong that is incredibly common in the Christian community and is fully accepted. And that is when we seek to find our security in money. This is where these early believers were struggling. This is why this pastor says what he says to them. He's saying to them, these persecuted believers, the answer for you is not to somehow find another revenue source and to stockpile your resources for the coming persecution. You might be here and you might say, Pastor, I don't want to be rich. I just like to pay off my debt, be able to live in a nice house and put away a nest egg for retirement. Is that so wrong? Not necessarily. Don't get me wrong, the Bible commends planning for the future. We're to be like the ant who knows that winter is coming and he stores up food items. And we're to be frugal in our spending. In fact, materialism can manifest itself in different ways. Materialism or loving money can be manifested like it does in the lives of many people, where they just spend money always above their means. Which I am told is true of most Americans. You can look at the statistics You know what that is? That's a manifestation, that consumerism, that's a manifestation of loving money. If I get really nice things and really good things, then then my heart will be full and my life will be good. But there's another form of materialism. You know what that is? I'm going to stockpile all kinds of money away. I'm not going to live opulently, but I'm going to stockpile vast resources of wealth, and by looking at my holdings I will find great security and satisfaction. And have peace in my soul. You know what that is also? That's another manifestation of loving money. They're both wrong. So let me be clear again. It's not wrong to save money and to be frugal So that you're not a burden to others and you're able to provide for yourself and for others. This is what the Bible commends us to do in Ephesians 4. We should work with our hands so that we can only provide our own needs, but meet the needs of others. It's great to be a blessing to other people. But if the only way you can lay your head down on pillow at night and be at peace is because you have all your financial ducts in a row and you're affluent, You have a serious problem, my friend. And one of the reasons why it's a serious problem is because you're trusting not in the Lord But in your money, well there's another reason it's a problem. Because you could lose it all You could lose it all. If your security, if your sense of well-being, if your sense that everything is alright in the world and therefore I can sleep well at night is because I have all these resources. What happens if it's gone away from you? And by the way, how much is enough? How much is enough for you to say no matter what happens to me the rest of my life, I am set. Catastrophic health problems, recession, end of the world, I'm good. No, my friend, trying to find security that way is like a dog chasing its tail. It's a foolish endeavor that never comes to anything. You see, it's foolish to find your security or your satisfaction in anything other than God. And that brings me to my next point. It's got awful quiet in here. I don't know why it's sudden. Number two, Christians should be content. with what God has provided for us because we find our satisfaction in Him. What is the positive side of this exhortation? Be content. What is contentment? John Owen, the great Puritan theologian, defined it this way. A gracious disposition of mind arising solely from trust in and satisfaction with God alone In other words, I'm content with what I have and my situation in life right now, even though it may not be ideal, because I trust in God and I am satisfied with Him. Contentment is a very important part of Christian living. A Christian who is perpetually discontent is an easy mark for Satan. If you're discontent, you're going to be complaining a negative spirit. That will impact everyone around you. If you're discontent with your spouse, you're very vulnerable to an affair. If you're discontent with the station that God has placed you in life, you very well may do things that are wrong to get out of that situation. But contentment often seems elusive and unattainable. We have been conditioned to believe from infancy, especially in the West. But there are a host of needs that must be fulfilled before we can be content. Let me list a few. We must have a large home. At least two nice cars, a rewarding career, a happy marriage, a healthy body, a good retirement, exceptional children, great friends, and the list goes on and on. And if we have all of these things that we call essentials, then and only then can we truly be content and happy. And so people scramble throughout their lives trying to have all of these things, and yet they always seem to come a little short. You see, this is the way we've been taught to think. This is why when we send a mission team to a third world country from America, they are shocked to find out that the people seem happy and content, although they are living in abject poverty. We say this shouldn't be. They should be the most oppressed, downtrodden people on the earth, and yet they're happy. What right do they have to be happy? It's because the whole premise that you've been taught from childhood is not true. You don't need to have all of these luxuries. in order to be happy and content. This passage is really astounding. If you put yourself, these are poor people that are hearing these words that have been displaced, and he says, be content with what you have. You may object and say, you don't know how little I have. Well, it's likely that you have more than the people who first heard these words. And yet God's message to these persecuted people was be content with what you have This is what the Bible consistently teaches. In 1 Timothy 6 and verse 8, it says, but if we have food and clothing with these, we will be content. So let me ask you a hard question. Do you have food and clothing? Do you have food at home? In your pantry and in your fridge, I'm sure you do. There is no one here this morning that is wondering, I wonder if we have any food to eat today. I seriously doubt that's a thought that's entered your mind. What about clothing? Got any clothes in your closet? I think you have an embarrassing amount of clothing in your closet. Have you ever seen how large closets are today in new homes? Unbelievable. Did you know that a hundred years ago the average American home was 700 square feet? People have dog houses that are larger than that today. They think it would be inhumane for anyone to live like that. Well, that's how all of our ancestors lived. Can you be content with what God has provided for you and be at peace and be alright with it? Or is it, ah, I must have more. I must have better. This is out of step with our culture. This is not what politicians tell us. This is not what our consumerist society tells us. It constantly proclaims you need more stuff. But this is what God tells us. Be content with what you have. God is calling on believers to be salt and light in our materialistic world. We live in a culture And we're blind to it because we're into the culture that is so incredibly materialistic. We don't see it. It's like we're nose flying. You know how if you're in a in a house where skunk has been or something, after you've been there for a few hours, you don't smell it anymore. But everyone in the nerves at the door does. And they're blown above. Oh, you can't smell that? That's the way we are with materialism. Because we're in it all the time. And everyone around us is in it. If we're going to be salt and light and demonstrate to the world that we are truly different, that we're not just people who go to church and avoid scandalous behavior, but that we have fundamentally been changed. We have to show them that the way we think and what we want and what we're living for is very different from theirs. They should see that our lives are not filled with anxiety and worry about our finances and our money, that we just were just like every other American fighting and clawing to get ahead. They must see that we have a different basis in our lives. My third point is this, Christians should not be filled with fear and anxiety. Because we find our satisfaction in God. Notice the last part of verse 5, we have the word for He has said, that is, this is the reason you should not love money but be content. Because he has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. This is one of the most profound comments found in Scripture I wish we could let it sink into our hearts. This is what everyone truly desires, although they may not be able to put words to it. in all relationships and communities. And people get married, you ever notice that marriage vows You know, for better, for worse, for richer, for poor. It's kind of like saying, I'm never going to leave you or forsake you. That's what we want in a spouse. We want someone who in thick and thin, they're going to be there for you. And they're not going to abandon you. And they're going to put up with your quirks and your failures. This is God's marriage vow for his people. And even if you marry the best spouse the world has ever known, they cannot fulfill this in the way that God can. Because your spouse may someday die before you. And they will forsake you. Not because of sin on their part, but because of human limitation. And so many times I've spoken to widows and widowers in the silence of their home when they say, I just feel like I've been abandoned. Not through any fault of their spouse. It's just the reality, the harsh reality of life. And you can join clubs and groups and have friends. But so often they drift in and out of our lives. What we desperately want is someone who will commit to us forever. And that's what we have as believers in God. This is the answer to all your anxiety, your fears, and your worries. I will never leave you nor forsake you. Christians in previous centuries called this the pilgrim's staff. It was something you could lean on as you walk through life's journey. And this staff has never been broken. We find variations of this promise all throughout Scripture. In Genesis 28 and verse 15, it says of When Jacob ran from home and there was that incident in Bethel that we called Jacob's ladder, God says to him, I am with thee and will keep thee. In Deuteronomy 31, Moses gives this final charge to the people, and he says, he will not fail thee nor forsake thee. In Joshua chapter 1 and verse 5, when Joshua takes the place of leadership from Moses and he feels very intimidated by this, God says to him, I will be with thee, I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. And in 1 Chronicles 28 and verse 20, David says to Solomon as he passes the time of leadership to him, God will be with thee, he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. And Jesus said something similar at the Great Commission when he said to his disciples, Behold, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. This is a truth that has sustained believers throughout the ages. And there are two implications of this precious promise I want to just consider for a moment. Number one, God will never abandon us. He's never going to abandon you if you are his child. This quotation has five negative particles to make it incredibly emphatic. This verse is like in bold print and all caps underlined in the italics. It could be expressed this way. I will never know never leave thee, nor ever forsake thee. So why does God express this truth so often and so emphatically? You know why? Because we tend to doubt it. We doubt this when we have failed God. When we have nosedived spiritually. And we think that God is going to abandon us and walk away from us because he's profoundly disappointed. But he's not like us. He's not going to give up on us. We doubt this when we're facing a serious problem and the crisis seems so much more real than the presence of God. This is why our hearts are often overwhelmed with anxiety because we're considering this problem and it's blotting out everything else we can see. It's right there in front of us, and we obsess about it. We fixate on it. And it becomes massive in our thinking. And we forget the promises of God. Perhaps this is the way you feel this morning as you face the new year. Listen to this promise. God will never leave you or forsake you. We doubt this promise when the bank account is empty and the bills are piling up. But God will not fail you This promise was true for Jacob. It was true for Moses and Joshua and David and Paul. And you will find it to be true if you walk by faith. But there's a second implication from this promise, and that is that God is all we need. You might say this can't be true because We're human beings. We need things like food and water and air to breathe and food and clothing and shelter, yes. But if we know God, God will provide these essentials. This is the ultimate spiritual lesson of our Christian life. This is the truth that Paul had to learn. He said, I've learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. This is the truth of the psalmist Asaf had learned in Psalm 73. The psalm tells about a man who begins the psalm who's very envious at the prosperity of the wicked. But then he goes into the sanctuary of God and he gets things in right perspective. And he says at the end of the Psalm, Whom have I in heaven but thee? And there is none upon earth that I desire beside thee. That's a beautiful expression of finding your satisfaction in God. God. God will provide all that you need because He has promised to give you Himself. And when we find our satisfaction and our security in God, all of our fears and worries will disappear. Number four, Christians should be courageous because we find our satisfaction in God. Look at the response to this wonderful truth. Verse 6. So we can confidently say the Lord is my helper. I will not fear. What can man do to me? Notice this is something that we can confidently or boldly say. This speaks of courage. This is how we should face our crisis today. This is what this pastor is exhorting these believers. their attitude to be towards their crisis. And yet so often we do not feel confident and courageous. Why is this? The answer is because we failed to respond in faith to the promises of God. You see, all the promises in the world will never bring comfort to your heart. If you don't trust the one who made those promises, right? If someone comes up to you and says, I'm going to give you $10 million , You probably wouldn't run up and down and jump until you ask a few more questions. Who are you, by the way? And why do you want to give and do you even have this money? You don't trust the person who's making these incredible promises. And I'm afraid that this is so often our problem. I'm not preaching at you. This is my problem as well. And I've said to you many times from this pulpit the reason why we struggle to trust God often in crisis and in the valleys of life is because we don't know him well enough. You see, it's easy to be on cruise control in our Christian lives. and we think we're walking with God. We think we're like, you know, we've got everything spiritually figured out. And then God sends a crisis into your life that you never saw coming. And it throws you for a loop. and you find yourself asking all these questions, and all of a sudden you realize, you know what? I guess I didn't really have that rock solid trust and dependence on God that I thought I did. And the reason is because we don't know him well enough. If we knew God perfectly, we would never doubt. We would never question. I believe that someday when we are in glory, we will review our lives and we will say, Why did I doubt all the time? Why was I so anxious? I could have just trusted in him. He was never going to abandon me or leave me. Why didn't I believe his promise? My life would have been so much more peaceful and stable. You see, when we face a crisis, we come to a fork in the road and we usually respond in either panic , Or in prayer. We will either look to God or we will look at our problem. Verse 6 is a quotation from Psalm 118. It says, The Lord is on my side, I will not fear. What can man do unto me? When the Lord is on your side, you have nothing to fear. Does that mean that nothing unpleasant or uncomfortable will ever happen to you? Absolutely not. Consider this original audience. They were getting ready to face the severe persecution of the Emperor Nero. They had already been cut off from their families. They'd been put out from the synagogue. Some had lost their jobs. And some of them would probably in the days ahead lose their lives. And the pastor says to them, you should face this boldly, because what can man do unto you? You might say, well, I tell you what he can do. He can kill you. That's right, and he sends you directly to glory with the Lord's. These Jewish believers who lived 2,000 years ago were just like you and me. They wanted a sense of security. What is the answer to a person's gnawing sense of anxiety? It is this reality. You have an Almighty God who will never abandon you. It's no guarantee that no problems will encounter you in this coming year, but it is a promise that God will go with you in those problems. He will walk with you through the valley. He will give you his presence. He will give you strength. He will show himself to be faithful to you. So let me ask you if you have this kind of foundation in your life. Do you possess the radical contentments It's described here because you know the Lord as your Savior. Are you facing the future with courage because you know the Lord is on your side? Christians should be the most fearless people on the planet because God is with us and we are satisfied with Him. One of my favorite hymns is How Firm a Foundation. You sang to the Lord. You may have picked up on that, because we sing it often. The second verse says this. So wonderful words filled with Scripture. Fear not, I am with thee. Oh, be not dismayed, for I am thy God, and will still give thee aid. I'll strengthen thee, help thee, and cause thee to stand, upheld by my gracious, omnipotent hand. But my favorite verse is the last one. Listen to these words carefully The soul that on Jesus has leaned for repose, I will not, I will not desert to his foes. That soul, though all hell should endeavor to shake, I'll never know never. No never forsake. But these wonderful promises, I must conclude, are not for everyone. It is only for those who have a personal relationship with God through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Those who reject the gospel cannot claim this promise. Instead, the opposite is true. God will abandon you in the lake of fire and he will say, I never knew you. Depart from me. So my friend, if you're here today and you are lost, but this promise Of God's sustaining presence is so attractive and so appealing to you. Won't you repent of your sin and trust in Him as your Savior today? Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is filled with the promises that fearful people like us need to hear. I pray that you would use your word. To strengthen your people and to draw sinners to the Savior today. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen