Would you please join me in John chapter 1? By God's grace, we will finish John chapter 1 today. Looking at that final paragraph that begins with verse 43. Archimidides was a Greek. Mathematician, one of the greatest in the ancient world, developed a formula for finding volume of a sphere and the value of pi. He's most famous for some help that he gave to King Haron II of Syracuse. It seems that the king had commissioned a famous craftsman to make him a beautiful crown of gold, and so he measured out to this craftsman a precise amount of gold. So that the crown would be solid gold. And in time, the craftsman came back with this beautiful crown that looked wonderful. But the king heard rumors that the man was crooked, and that he substituted silver for gold in the alloy, and that he kept some of the gold for himself. But the king couldn't prove it without destroying the crown, and so he turned to this famous scientist and mathematician, Archimenides, to find the answer. It was difficult to find the volume of something when it has an irregular shape like a crown, so Archimedides wasn't sure what to do. So he went to take a bath to think about it. And as he got into the bath, water was displaced and spilled over the side. And he began to think about that, and he realized that by immersing the crown and precisely measuring it and knowing the density of gold, he could calculate whether or not the volume was that of all gold or not. And indeed he discovered that the craftsman was crooked and that it was not solid gold. And when he found out and figured out the solution to this conundrum, he shouted, Eureka, which means in Greek, I have found it. Well, it might interest you to know that this Greek word eureka is found several times in our text today. Twice in verse 41, you can see it there. Once in verse 43, and twice more in verse 45. So this passage is all about finding. But there's another theme that's prominent as well, and that's the word following. You'll notice you'll see this in verse 37, in verse 38, in verse 40, and again in verse 43, where it says of Jesus, he found Philip and said to him, Follow me. So this passage is all about finding and following Jesus Christ. Now the final two paragraphs in John chapter 1 describe to us how Jesus gathered his first disciples And what we discover is that the very first disciples were originally disciples of John the Baptist. John the Baptist, however, turns them to Christ. When he sees Jesus walking by, he says, Behold the Lamb of God. Initially, two disciples follow him, one 's name Andrew, and we strongly suspect the other is John, the writer of this apostle, although he is not, of this book, although he is not named. And then of course Andrew goes and finds his brother Simon Peter, and he also becomes a follower of Jesus. So originally there were two and then three disciples. And now on this next day, we discover that two more disciples follow Jesus. Their names are Philip and Nathaniel. Now, before we dive into these verses, I want to answer a question that may have entered your minds. If you've read through your Bible and you know the gospels well, you know That there is another account of Jesus calling his disciples, we find it in the synoptic gospels, that is, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. And it seems to differ a good bit from this account. Let me read Matthew's account of this. Matthew chapter 4 and verse 18 says this. While walking by the Sea of Galilee, he that is Jesus Saw two brothers, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen And he said to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Immediately they left their nets and followed him. And going on from there, he saw two other brothers, James, the son of Zebedee, and John, his brother, in the boat with Zebedee, their father, mending their nets, and he called them. Immediately they left the boat. and their father and followed him. So so how do we understand these two callings? Well first of all we do understand them as two callings It seems that in John chapter 1, that was the first one when Jesus first made contact with these men. And then sometime later, we have no idea how long transpired. He calls them to follow him, we might say, full time. After this initial call in John 1, they went back to Galilee. They went back to their work as fishermen and everything. They were his disciples. They would meet with him and talk to him perhaps after their work. But then the day came where he called them to follow him, and they put down their nets, and they walked away from their fishing career, and for the next three years or so they would follow him. Now today we are looking at our Lord's initial interaction with two of his disciples that are less well known, Philip and Nathaniel. But this is not just an historic record from the first century. This is the Word of God, and so it has great relevance for us today. It reminds us of who we are as Christians and what we have been called to do. I want us to see in this final paragraph in John 1 that those who are found by Christ. should find other disciples for Christ. I have two main points. The first one is that Jesus finds or calls all his disciples to follow him. Look with me at verse 43. The next day Jesus decided to go to Galilee. He found Philip and said to him, Follow me. Now Philip was from Betheda, the city of Andrew and Peter. This incident took place the day after Jesus first met with Simon Peter and was converted. And then we learned that Jesus decided to go to Galilee, that is his home region. And then we read that he found Philip. Now it's not clear if Jesus found Philip still in Judea before he went to Galilee. or if he found Philip on his way to Galilee, or he found Philip when he arrived in Galilee. The text is not clear about that, and people have different ideas about what was the case. The fact is we simply can't know for certain. But the point is he did find Philip. And the word found here would suggest that Jesus was looking for him. Now, why would Jesus be looking for Philip? Well, there's a clue, I think, given to us in verse 44. Now, Philip was from Bethesda, the city of Andrew and Peter. Why did John the apostle put that detail into the text. I think it's because it's indicating that Andrew and Peter, in talking to Jesus, mentioned their friend Philip, who was in the same fishing business. who had been looking for the Messiah, and that he should seek to find Philip and speak to him. And so he does And Jesus says to him, follow me. This is remarkable We don't hear of any other conversation. He just says to him and issues this command. This man who is apparently a stranger says to him, follow me. And Philip does. Now who was Philip? Well, we know a few details about him. He was from uh Beth Seda. which was a fishing village on the banks of the Sea of Galilee. You can go to this town today and see it. It's still there. The word Bethsaeda refers to a place that was known as Fishertown. Because guess what the chief industry was there? fishing. It was at that intersection when the Jordan River comes into the Sea of Galilee. And it's right there that this little village is located. It's interesting to notice that Philip is always listed in the Gospels as the fifth disciple. You have Peter. and Andrew, James and John, and then number five you have Philip. So I I use that fact to say this. He was not the the leading apostle He was not at the very bottom. He was somewhere in the middle. You could say that Philip was an average disciple. He's only really mentioned in the Gospel of John, and we have him here in chapter 1, and then three other times in the Gospel of John. And every time he speaks in the Gospel of John, it really doesn't reflect that well on him, to be honest. So in chapter 6, we read about the feeding of the 5,000. And it is Philip who says, if we even had more than half a year's wages, we couldn't feed this multitude. That kind of looks a little bit like unbelief on his part because the Sager is right there in his midst. And then we read of him in John chapter 12 when some Greeks came to Philip and said to him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus You would think this would be an easy thing. All right, he takes him to Jesus. But instead he turns to Andrew and says, what do you think we should do? And then Andrew takes him to Jesus. So he doesn't seem to be an incredibly decisive leader. And then it's Philip in the upper room and recorded in John 14, who says, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us. And Jesus said to him, Have I been so long with you and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. So Philip's record is one of unbelief, poor leadership, and theological confusion. But having said that, the Lord called him to be his disciple. This gives hope to all of us, right? We fail, we blunder. Aren't you glad that all your words are not recorded in Scripture for people to see? But I think there is something amazing here, and that is that Philip is actually the first disciple that it's mentioned that Jesus called him to follow him. Remember the other disciples were sent by John the Baptist, or one was found by his brother. But Philip's the first one where Jesus said to him, Follow me. And he did. Preachers and scholars through the centuries have seen in this an echo, a reflection, a parallel of what the scriptures describe in salvation. We will see later in this gospel that all Christians have been drawn by the Father and that all true Christians have been effectually called to salvation. Romans chapter 8 and verse 30 says, those who he predestined, he also called, and those whom he called, he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. We don't read in the gospels of Jesus going and calling someone and saying, follow me, and they say, no, thanks. I'm kind of busy right now Every time he called people, they followed him. He spoke with authority. In the ancient world, a disciple would decide who his rabbi would be. Just like a young person might decide what college they're going to attend. And they might visit different colleges and attend different classes to see what it's like, and then they make their decision. It was the same way in the ancient world when you were going to become a disciple of a rabbi But Jesus chose his own disciples. They didn't choose him. He says in John chapter 15 and verse 16, you did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit. So I think we see in the call of Philip a reminder to us that all true disciples of Jesus Christ have been graciously called by him to follow the Savior. But secondly, I want you to notice that Jesus uses the witness of his disciples to bring people to himself. Look with me, please, now at verse 45 in our text. We read, Philip found Nathaniel and said to him, We have found him of whom Moses and the law and also the prophets wrote. Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. Now before we analyze this verse, I want to remind you of who Nathaniel was. Because you may have never thought of this man before. Nathanael is the first name of disciple that's also known as Bartholomew. Why do scholars think that is the case? Well, in the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, we read there's twelve disciples. And one of the disciples was named Bartholomew. What's clear is that Bartholomew means son of Ptolemais. That is, it's the equivalent of what we would call today a last name. Alright? So in the synoptic gospels, in essence, we have his last name. He's a son of this person. But in John's gospel, we have his first name, Nathaniel. And the other thing is that every time we read a listing of the apostles, Bartholomew is always found and linked with Philip. And here in John 1, we read that Philip went and found Nathanael. So because of those three pieces of information, The consensus of church teachers and preachers and scholars in the centuries has always been that Bartholomew and Nathaniel are the same person. Now, here Philip brings Nathaniel to Jesus. And notice how he introduces, how Philip introduces Jesus to Nathaniel. He says, We have found him of whom Moses and the law and also the prophets. The law and the prophets is just a way of referring to the Hebrew scriptures, what we would call the Old Testament He's saying that the whole Old Testament points to Jesus and promises this Messiah would come and he says to him, we have found this one. His Confession here is almost identical with what we found earlier when Andrew says to his brother, we have found the Messiah. It's just a little bit elongated, but it's saying exactly the same thing. We have found the Messiah. Notice how he identifies Jesus. Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. Now, if you're a careful thinker and reader, there might be something there that bothers you, right? Did you catch it? The son of Joseph. You say, wait a minute. He got it wrong. Philip got it wrong. Jesus is not the son of Joseph. He was born of a virgin. Yes, indeed, that is the case. But legally , Jesus was a son of Joseph. He was adopted by him And it sufficed to say that Philip did not know this teaching yet. How long has he been following Jesus? One day, one day. He didn't know all his Christology yet That was yet to be revealed. So I think we should not be too critical of Philip's statement here. The Bible is not saying that Jesus is the son of Joseph. It's saying that Philip said that Jesus is the son of Joseph. Okay? Let's understand that distinction. Now what is fascinating is Nathaniel's reaction to this introduction. He says, can anything good come out of Nazareth? Now why would he say that? This has almost become a famous thing. I don't think it was because Nazareth was a wicked place. I've heard preachers say that before. This week I looked and scoured. There's no evidence that Nazareth had like a bad reputation. You know, Nazareth is like sin town. Nobody thought that. Nazareth was probably a village, archaeologists say, of between three to four hundred inhabitants, and it was isolated. So, Nathaniel might be saying this about Nazareth because it was an obscure place. It's not mentioned at all in the Old Testament. There's very little record of it in other ancient records. We do know it existed. And we have found inscriptions about it. And it is located up on a mountain. You can go and visit Nazareth today. But there's not a whole lot there. But another reason that Thaniel may have reacted this way is because he was from Cana. We learned about that in chapter 21. And Cana and Nazareth were not that far apart. And so there's often a sense of rivalry between little towns or villages that are close by, rights? And so he could hardly believe that that sleepy little village of Nazareth was where the Messiah was residing. That just didn't seem to fit. And perhaps Nathaniel knew his Bible and he's saying, wait a minute, the Messiah is supposed to be from Bethlehem, not Nazareth. Bethlehem is the city of David, and of course that is where Jesus was born, but that's not where he lived most of his life. Now look with me at verse 47. Jesus saw Nathaniel coming to him and said, Behold , An Israelite indeed in whom there is no deceit. What is he saying here? Some think that perhaps he is saying that Nathaniel was part of the remnant, that he was a true follower of God. And when he says there is no deceit, he was saying that this man was righteous before the law. Most scholars don't think that is the case, however. They think that there is an intended contrast between Israel, notice the reference to Israelite here, or Jacob, who was known for what? For scheming, supplanting. And when he says no guile, he means there's no pretense in you He is a simple man. He is a plain-spoken man. You don't have to parse his words to find out what he really means. He says what he means and he means what he says He's very blunt, straightforward. That's what he's saying, I think, about Nathaniel. And Nathaniel's a little taken back because this Jesus, this man he's never met, has just pegged his character perfectly. And so he says, how do you know me? You ever had the awkward circumstance, I certainly have, of someone coming up to you and talking to you and knowing things about you, and they address you by name, but you don't know who they are. And you can't place it. And you're like going through your brain really fast, like, all right, where have I seen this person before? Who who could have had a connection with them or who could have told them these things about me? That's what's happening here. And Nathaniel, it seems, is assuming that Philip has filled him in about his character. But that is not the case. Because Jesus says to him Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you He didn't get this information from Philip. The explanation is that Jesus had supernatural knowledge about this man. Because Jesus knows his sheep and known of them. But what is really remarkable is this encounter that may have caused you to scratch your head before. He says, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you. And with that simple statement , How does Nathaniel answer? Look at verse 49. Rabbi, you are the Son of God. You are the King of Israel. He does a 180 instantly with that statement. He goes from being a skeptic and anything good come out of Nazareth to you are the Messiah. What is it that was so convincing and so powerful in that simple statement of Jesus, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you? The answer is we don't know for certain. What we do know is that Jesus had supernatural knowledge of him. This is sort of like, if I can use this analogy, an inside joke, where Philip, excuse me, Nathaniel and Jesus know what he's talking about, but nobody else knows what they were talking about. But let me give you the best and I think the most common suggestion We know that it was customary and desirable for Israelites to plant a fig tree, what we would say, in their yard, by their home, because they lived in a land where there was very little shrubbery. and very little shade and very hot. And so the fig tree would provide shade. It would also provide a level of privacy And often devout Israelites would go out under their fig tree with no one else being able to see them, and there they would pray and they would meditate to God's. And so I suspect that Nathaniel had recently been earnestly praying to God about some matter. Perhaps That God would reveal to him the Messiah. And Jesus meets this man for the first time and he says, I saw you when you were under that fig tree. And Nathaniel knows that nobody could see him. He was secluded. Nobody was there. The only person that could see him was God. And the only person that could know that he was pouring out his heart that day was the Lord. And that, I think, explains why there is this instantaneous transformation in his attitude to Jesus. This is an amazing thing. He says, you are the Son of God, you are the King of Israel. These are descriptions of the Messiah that are found in Psalm 2 and 2 Samuel chapter 7. It seems that very clearly evident Nathaniel had been looking for the Messiah. Now notice what Jesus says to him in verse 50. These are enticing words both to Nathaniel and I think to the reader of this gospel. Jesus answered him, Because I said to you, I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? You will see greater things than this. He says, this is only the beginning. Keep following me, Nathaniel. You'll see much greater demonstrations of the power of God than this. And then we come to verse 51. And here for the first time we find something that's characteristic of John's gospel. We see in the very first part it says, Truly, truly, I say to you. This is something we will encounter another 25 times in this gospel. It's sometimes translated verily, verily, or truly, truly. It's literally Amen, Amen. It refers to what is firm or true. This is something that Jesus used to draw attention from his readers and say, listen carefully to what I'm about to say. And this is what he says, you will see heaven opened and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man. This is a reference to Jacob's dream that's recorded in Genesis 28. Remember, Jacob ran away from Olm Fleeing for his life spends the night in the wilderness, uses a stone for a pillow, doesn't sound very comfortable to me And he has this vision, what we call Jacob's ladder, of a ladder that went from earth to heaven, and angels were upon that ladder. And he hears the Abrahamic covenant, and this covenant is affirmed with him. as a descendant of Abraham. And Jesus says to him, just as that was a revelation from God and of his covenantal blessings, I want you to know that you will see much greater revelation than that if you keep following me. Because Jesus is the ladder. He is the bridge. He is the mediator between God and man. The only way that anyone can know God is through Jesus Christ. He's the only way. And one of the most famous verses, of course, in this very book of John Is John 14, verse 6, where Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. There is no other way. to know the glory of God and to spend eternity with him except through Jesus Christ. So that begs the question, have you come to God through Jesus Christ? Are you trusting in Jesus alone? Do you see him as indeed the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world? As the only Savior that God has provided, the only way you can truly know God is through Jesus Christ in his atoning work. But now I'd like to turn to just a few points of application. The first one is this following Christ is a lifelong pursuit. When Jesus said to Philip, follow me, he said in the present tense, which means it could be rendered, keep on following me. You never would find in the first century a person who maybe took upon him and started following a rabbi for a few days or a few weeks and then decided This guy's no good. I'm not going to follow him. And then left him, but still for the rest of his life called himself a disciple of that rabbi. That would have seemed strange. Weird to people. Because if you're a disciple of a rabbi, it means you continue to follow them and their teaching. And so I'd suggest to you that if you've stopped following Jesus, you're not really his disciple. It doesn't mean you have lost your salvation. It means that you never were truly following him. We're going to see in this gospel in chapter 6. of people who spoke of following Jesus, but then no longer followed him Jesus says in John chapter 8 and verse 12, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. A true disciple does not walk in darkness. That doesn't mean that a true disciple will never sin or never stumble or never backslide. But darkness will not be the domain in which they live. They may struggle their sin and hate against sin, but they don't embrace their sin and they don't live in sin. They come to the lights. They seek the Lord. They seek forgiveness and repentance. But those who are false disciples remain in the darkness. In John chapter 8 and verse 31, Jesus said, if you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples. And when he says, abide in my word, he's speaking of obedience. And in John chapter 10 and verse 27, Jesus says, My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life, and they will never perish. What a wonderful promise. We love that reassuring promise that he gives eternal life as a gift and they will never perish, but it's only for those who continue to follow him. I don't mean by this for a moment that somehow we keep ourselves saved by following him. It's not like we look at a Christian life and we say, oh, I better do some good things today because I'm about to become unsaved. No. That's wrong. But we follow and obey and bring forth fruit because it's the natural result of our following Christ, of having been transformed by his grace Jesus says in John 15 and verse 8, By this my disciple is glorified that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples. It's bringing forth fruit that shows that you are indeed following Christ. And so often we want to reduce that fruit to doing a few things that any lost person could do. Activities and so forth. But I think a good test would be the fruit of the spirits. It's very, very hard to fake those things. Love, joy, peace, long suffering, patience Goodness, meekness, etc. It's very, very hard to exemplify those things unless the Spirit of God has transformed your life, which is the fruit of following Christ. Second, we see the Lord brings people to faith in different ways. Andrew and John were influenced to come to Christ by the ministry of John the Baptist. Peter came. to Jesus by the witness of his brother Andrew. And Philip came quickly while Nathaniel needed an extraordinary revelation before he would believe. Some of you came to Christ at a very young age from Christian homes. Others of you came to Christ as adults after living in sin. We come in different ways, but we come only through Christ. And only through faith and repentance. And then the obvious application of this passage is that those who have been found by the Master should go out to find others. We see here the spiritual chain reaction. That when people come to know the truth, They instinctively want to share that truth with others. This is one of the things I look for as the fruits of genuine faith. When someone makes a profession of faith, if they've truly been changed on the inside, it's suddenly going to dawn on them, wait a minute. If this gospel saved me, then it means that my spouse and my best friend and my parents and my co-workers who have not embraced this truth are lost. And I need to go and tell them. That's the logical outworking of someone who has been born again. And I want you to notice that you don't have to be a spiritual giant to share your testimony. I've already talked about this man Philip and his blunders. But he came to his friend Nathaniel, and Nathaniel raised this objection, can anything good come out of Nazareth? And you know what he says to him? He just says, come and see I'm not going to argue with you. Just come and see. Come and see. You see, sometimes we don't witness to people because we think I'm not I don't have the answer to all their objections. I don't have every passage that I at my fingertips that I can go to and show them why they're wrong and show them the answers. And so I probably shouldn't share anything with them because I'm just going to mess up But if you're truly a child of God, you have a testimony, and you can at the very least say, He's changed my life. Why don't you come and see? Why don't you read this book? Why don't you come with me to church? Why don't we do a Bible study together? I don't have all the answers, but this book does. We also see here that you should begin with your family and friends. Andrew went to share his newfound faith with his brother and Philip with his best friend friend Nathaniel. And this is where we must always begin when we come to Christ. We must share the gospel with those we know best. This is what it means to be a Christian. We see here also that Jesus is worthy of our trust. These men that he called the twelve, all of them would follow him the rest of their days. And they would give their lives for him in martyrdom, except for John, who was also severely tortured, and would write this book. In other words, they were truly committed followers. And it's because they saw Jesus, and more importantly, they saw the risen Lord. after his resurrection, which convinced them he is indeed who he claimed to be. And this message is so profound and great that I will give my life and the rest of my days to sharing the good news. But the big question is, who is Jesus? John chapter 1 answers this convincingly and loudly. This chapter is filled with confessions and titles concerning the identity of Jesus Christ. Notice these titles, and this is not all of them. He's called in opening of this book the word The only begotten Son, the only begotten God, the true light, the Lamb of God, the Messiah, the King of Israel, the Son of Man, the Son of God. We see in the confessions of these individuals and in the record of John the Apostle that Jesus is worthy of your trust. The whole point of the Gospel of John is given that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. He is worthy of your trust. He is worthy of your life. He is worth following all your days. Now perhaps you would say, like I've encountered many times by individuals, thank you for that. But my life is pretty good I don't think I need that. I'm glad it works for you. I'm glad it's helpful for you to believe in this Jesus, to believe there's a God, and to pray. I know a lot of people need that kind of help, but I don't need that kind of help. My life is good. And I don't need that emotional crutch. I don't need that. Thank you very much. I appreciate you sharing that with me, but I'm not interested at all. But there's more to the story than this. It's just not like I'm trying to sell some product and you say no thank you in a polite way. Because what the Bible teaches and what this Gospel of John teaches us, we will see in days to come, is that those who reject the light, those who reject the Savior, will perish eternally. This is not some truth that you must easily dismiss and go on with your life. There are very serious consequences. To rejecting the gospel and turning away from Christ and refusing to follow Him. Only those who repent and believe the gospel. Only disciples will be saved and live with him eternally. Those who go their own way Who see no need of a savior, who in essence think they find the sufficiency in themselves, or in something else, all of those will perish. This is a very unpopular message. It's very politically incorrect. The world scoffs at this kind of narrow, bigoted view from their perspective. But my friends, it's the truth. It's what God has revealed. And you dare not reject it without considering the claims of Jesus Christ. Let's close in prayer this morning.