Have your Bibles, would you join me in Psalm forty-two? Psalm forty-two. Certainly the greatest allegory of the Christian life was written by a common man in the 17th century by the name of John Bunyan. I'm referring, of course, to Pilgrim's Progress. Most of you know that story Pilgrim leaves the world to make his journey to the celestial city. And in his journey, he encounters many difficulties. Two of the greatest dangers that pilgrim faces are the slough of the spond and the giant of despair. The slough of the spond is an archaic way of referring to a muddy bog that you find in England that will trap an unsuspecting traveler and often result in their death. It's the feeling of being caught in something that you cannot get out of And the more you struggle to get out of it, the deeper you get. And the giant of despair was the keeper of a prison. And Doubting Castle. These are very apt descriptions of the way that Bunyan felt at times. And the way many Christians feel in their journey to the celestial city at times. I'm referring, of course, to the problem of depression. John Bunyan faced great hardship in his life. He was a man with very little education. He was a tinker, that is, a mender of pots and pans. He was a very big, strong man who carried around a heavy anvil on his back, and he would go door to door And see if there were any pots or pans that needed to be mended, and he would do that right out in their front yard and make a small amount of money just enough to survive that way. But after a couple years of agony and spiritual difficulties, he finally came to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ and God called him to preach. He was attending a small little Baptist church, and one day they gave him the opportunity to preach, and people were confounded because this very common man was a gifted preacher of the gospel. But he was living in a day when you needed to have permission from the established church to preach. And so he was imprisoned on and off for some 12 years. for preaching without a license. And during this time he was unable to provide for his family who were already in meager conditions. And the thing that broke his heart was he had a quiet but beautiful daughter named Mary, who was blind, and he could not provide for her needs. And so he was often discouraged and depressed. Bunyan knew that this was a great obstacle that Christians encounter, and so he makes references to it in Pilgrim's Progress, which in many ways is autobiographical. Bunyan knew that the scriptures were filled with advice for pilgrims who go through these difficult patches in their life. One of the great passages of Scripture that addresses this issue is the passage that we read today in Psalm 42. I want to say a few words about this portion of God's Word before we really begin to dig into it, and we're certainly not going to cover all the verses in this chapter. The fact of the matter is that this psalm was written by an unknown writer. It says to the chief musician, Maskil, for the sons of Korah. The sons of Korah were musicians. And it's not certain from this inscription whether or not it is indicating that they wrote it or that it was written for them to perform. The reality is we will probably never know who penned this portion of God's Word. I need to also mention to you, and perhaps some of you have a study note in your Bible, that it's very likely That Psalm 42 and 43 were at one time part of one poem. Let me remind you that the verse divisions and the chapter divisions in your Bible are not inspired. They were done by editors many hundreds of years after they were written, and they are very helpful for us. If we had no chapter or verse divisions, it would be very difficult for me to say, turn your Bible about halfway. And I'm looking at this passage, it would be very difficult. And so we're thankful for this, but we understand that these editors sometimes did not get their divisions exactly right. Now, why would anyone think that Psalm 42 and 43 were originally one psalm? Let me give you three reasons. Number one, they are combined in some very, very ancient manuscripts. Number two You'll notice there's an inscription over Psalm 42, but not over Psalm 43. , And this is the only psalm in the second grouping of Psalms that doesn't have that kind of inscription. And of course, there is a continuity that's found. There is a refrain that is found in both of these Psalms and a progression that runs through these two Psalms. Let me show you this in Psalm 42 and verse 5 we ring we read together today, Why art thou cast down all my soul? Why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. You'll see that almost identically again in the last verse of Psalm 42, verse 11, and you'll see it again at the last verse of Psalm 43 and verse 5. So what is this portion of God's Word all about? You don't have to be an exegetical genius to figure this out. Look with me at verse 3. The psalmist writes, My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God 's? We have here a refrain in verse five. Why art thou cast down, all my soul? Why art thou Why art thou disquieted in me? And then look with me at verse 6. Oh my God, my soul is cast down. Look with me at verse 9. Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? What do we call someone who has cast down, who is despondent? who is filled with sorrow and despair. We call that person today depressed, which of course is simply putting into English this idea of being cast down. I think what we have in this portion of God's Word is, among other things, a biblical model of how a believer struggles through spiritual depression. You'll notice that in the inscription of the psalm, it's called a maschile. This is that word means instruction. It's a psalm of instruction. It's intended to teach us something. And what it teaches us is how to deal with this problem of despair or depression or discouragement that believers will pass through. I am sure that there are many people today in this assembly right now who, if you were to open up about your life, you would say that you are depressed. When I became a pastor, I was absolutely astounded And how many people find themselves in this situation? There is rarely, rarely a week goes by. that someone isn't crying in my office. That's why I always have a large box of tissues on my desk because they are used on a regular basis. This is not an uncommon experience for people. It is a very common problem. And it's something that often people will not talk to others about. They come to church, they they put on their smiley face, and they greet people kindly, and everyone thinks everything's great in their life, but that's not really the case. There are so many causes of grief and despair in this life. So many of them involve a sense of loss. A loss of a person's health, a loss of their career, a loss of a loved one, the loss of a child, a loss of peace and joy. These are very powerful feelings and emotions that people encounter And the fact of the matter is the scripture does have something to say to that. God has provided answers in his word. And one of such places to find answers is right here in Psalm 42. I want to preach to you this morning on struggling to find God in the darkness. How to trust God even when it seems that He has deserted you. I have three points I want to make from this. The first one is this. You need to recognize that spiritual depression is a common experience of even mature believers. That is a very important thought to grasp and understand if you find yourself cast down and discouraged and despondent and you've been that way for some time. This is not an uncommon experience. This is a very common situation that the best of believers find themselves in. Now the fact is that depression is a touchy subject among the people in general, but especially among believers. People don't want to let people know about their vulnerabilities and their weaknesses, so generally we keep these things private. But this perhaps is even more so, unfortunately, among the people of God. I have heard many preachers take the position very simply that if you're depressed, it's because you're sinning and you're not trusting God, and shame on you. And so a person who's already cast down, they just push him down a little bit further with a healthy portion of guilt. But I don't think that that really accurately reflects what the Word of God teaches. Sometimes well-meaning Christians will quote verses like, The joy of the Lord is your strength. And a person might open up to them and say, you know, I've just been so discouraged and so cast down, and I can't seem to get out of this. And they say, well, you know, the joy of the Lord is your strength. Or they'll say, you know, the Bible says, rejoice evermore. That's a command. Or they'll say, it says that you are to count it all joy. Yeah, you've got all these problems, but just count it joy. Or they'll say, you know, one of the fruits of the Spirit is joy. You must not be walking with the Lord. And sometimes people are well-meaning, but they're not helpful at all. We even have choruses that suggest this. And I want to say this chorus, and please don't go around and say that any church that sings this is evil or any Christian should never sing this again. I know the author meant well, and I think I know what their heart was trying to say. But you know the wonderful course? Every day with Jesus is sweeter than the day before. That's a wonderful sentiment, but you know what? It hasn't worked out that way in my experience. I can't say that every single day, you know, is just better than the other day, and I I you know I'm so happy I can hardly take it. That's not the biblical portrait of the Christian life. And I think that Bunyan would beg to differ with that The fact is that spiritually mature believers go through periods, sometimes of profound depression. Whoever wrote this psalm, I believe, was spiritually mature. We see in verses 1 and 2 that this person had a passion for God. We have, of course, a chorus that comes from this. It says, as the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? This person loves the Lord. They're seeking the Lord. They have a passion for the Lord. That's not true of someone who doesn't know God. We see in the next psalm, which I think is part of the same poem, That this person has a heart for God. Look with me at verse 4. It says, Then will I go unto the altar of God, unto God, my exceeding joy. This person loves to worship God. The man who experienced this and wrote about this was a mature believer who was facing at this time a time of profound discouragement And the fact of the matter is, the pages of Scripture are filled with biblical characters. That faced oppression. Job had an exemplary response to sorrow At the very beginning, when he says, The Lord hath given, the Lord taketh away, blessed be the name of the Lord. His wife told him to curse God, but he wouldn't do it. He was steadfast in his faith, but as the time went on As days turned us into weeks and weeks into months and months into years, where he was reduced to being in great pain and difficulty. He began to question God. And he says in chapter 3 of Job, I wish I had never been born. My life is so miserable. I wish that God would just take away my life. And of course we know about the prophet of fire, Elijah. Got this message from Jezebel, and he ran for his life. And he realized how he had discredited himself. And he asked the Lord to take away his life. He didn't want to live anymore. What about David? A man who was greatly used of the Lord, a man who wrote many of our Psalms. This This man was often out in the wilderness fleeing from his life, first from Saul, and then later from his son, and some of the Psalms that he has written and the things that we read in the historical books. Speak of a man who was distressed and discouraged and was about to give up. Jeremiah, we looked at a passage written by him last week. Jeremiah, the weeping prophets. And he says in chapter 20 of Jeremiah, cursed be the day wherein I was born. And how about John the Baptist? The man that Jesus says was the greatest born of women. He said there was a time when he was thrown into that dark prison cell, and he sent out one of his disciples, and he says, Go and ask Jesus, if he truly is the Messiah, or should we look for another? This man who was boldly proclaiming the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world, and was pointing everyone to Christ. Now in the darkness of that prison was having his doubts. And then we have the Apostle Paul. Who often speaks in his books of being cast down, of being troubled, of being fearful, of being perplexed, and even sorrowful at times. Read the book of 2 Corinthians. The scriptures are filled with real life people who didn't walk around with a big smile on their face and with an easy life, always responding in faith. That's not what we find in the pages of Scripture. We see this biblically, we see historically. Some of the greatest giants of the Christian faith, people like Martin Luther, the great reformer who struggled with depression. Or William Cooper, the hymn writer I've spoken to you often about, a man who wrote, There is a fountain filled with blood. This man who was profoundly depressed and was, before his salvation, put into an asylum. This friend with John Newton, the author of Amazing Grace, who ministered to him so patiently, Adam Arm Judson. Who when he went to Burma as a missionary and found year after year that his message was rejected and then he was imprisoned and then his wife died And for two years he did no missionary work. He stayed by her grave out in the jungle and just wept. And wondered what he had done. Hudson Taylor. We all know about Hudson Taylor. The pioneer missionary to the interior of China, what you may not know is that he also struggled with depression. In fact, there was a time in his life where his closest friends watched him carefully because they feared he would take his life. C. H. Spurgeon, the greatest preacher of the 19th century, struggled often with bouts of depression. And Martin Lloyd Jones, the great Welsh preacher in London, also struggled with depression. And in fact, he wrote a very famous book called Spiritual Depression and the first sermon in that book. is taken from this text. And one of the reasons he could preach so effectively on this topic is because he was sympathetic to the condition. I say all of that to say that spiritual depression is a very common experience among the Lord's children. And it's very important that Christian people understand this. and that they do not fall into the trap of thinking God must be punishing me, or perhaps I'm not a Christian because I've been told that Christians don't have this problem. Or they might say the Christian life doesn't seem to be working for me. Everyone else seems to be happy around me, but I seem to be struggling so much. That is not the case. There are many people struggling around you. It's just you don't know about it. I always think of 1 Corinthians 10, 13. Where it says, there is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. And of course that word temptation, there can be trial. Often, when we encounter a great difficulty, a great period of sorrow and confusion in our life, we tend to think I'm the only one in the world who's going through this. No one can understand me. And that is a dangerous thought. But the truth is, whatever you're facing, whatever depression, discouragement, or anxiety you are facing, it is very common. And God's Word has answers to that. That brings me to my second point. And that is that you need to understand that spiritual depression often blocks your perception of the presence of the Lord. Let me take a moment and explain this expression. I've been using spiritual depression. I recognize that depression is a complex problem that involves the whole person. There's often a physical and psychological contributor to the problem. But for the believer, there is always a spiritual dimension to that depression. Because often when we're going through a time of depression, we feel that God is distant from us. We sometimes think that God has abandoned us. His word doesn't seem alive to us. It doesn't seem to comfort us. It doesn't seem to give us counsel. Even the company of the people of God does not seem to lift our spirits. The Bible seems to be a closed book, and our prayers seem to bounce off the ceilings. And often Christians feel that God has abandoned them or is punishing them But it's important for us to interpret from the Word of God what is really going on. This is not a strange or unusual occurrence. This is not something that is unique that has happened to you. This is something that Christians have always faced, going all the way back. to the pages of Scripture. Believers in the Middle Ages called this the dark night of the soul. The Puritans called it spiritual desertion. And they wrote many volumes about this experience. So, what exactly is the psalmist experiencing in this life? In the first two verses, the psalmist describes himself metaphorically as a panting deer that is eagerly searching for water in the arid wasteland. His whole being is panting for water to quench his thirst. Many commentators believe that the author was in exile and unable to go to the temple to worship. Verse 6 would seem to indicate that. He says, uh chapter 42, My soul, O my God, my soul is cast down within me, therefore I remember thee. from the land of Jordan and of the Hermonites from the hill of Mizar. He is far away from Jerusalem, but he is remembering with with fondness his time of worship in Jerusalem. His problem is not really geographical, however, it is spiritual. Notice this repeated question that we find in verse 3 and again in verse 10. It's this, where is Thy God. He hears this from his foes, his enemies, but he also hears it from his own heart. Where is your God 's? This is why he says in verse 9 that God has forgotten him. And in chapter 43 and verse 2, he says, Why have you cast me off? This is the natural reaction of believers when they go through this time. They think that God has somehow abandoned them, that God has cast them off, that God has turned away from them. And notice how this manifests itself. You don't feel that God is listening to you. He says in verses 3 and 4, My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say to me, Where is thy God? When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me. It's a picture of prayer. It's not that this person isn't turning to God. They are turning to God. They're pouring out their heart to God, but God doesn't seem to be answering. This poor man is crying out to God in the darkness of his affliction, but it seems as if God is not listening. There is no answer, there is no relief, there is no sense of assurance. And I'm sure that there are many people here who have been there before. If we were all comfortable with one another, if we were transparent and honest. And did not worry what people would think or how they would judge us, we would be able to share these experiences more freely. But the fact is there are many, many people who have felt exactly like that And even when you're like this, you don't even feel like you can enjoy the worship of God as you once did. I have a book in my library on this psalm written by a man named Sherwood Wirt. He describes a time right after World War II when he was stationed on the Aleutian Islands. It was a desolate location and a miserable assignment. It was cold and dark all the time. These are those little islands between Alaska and Russia out in the middle of nowhere. And he was stationed there, and he says, To me the heavens became as brass, and the reading of the Bible a tedious exercise. And then one day he heard a song on the radio. I didn't plan this, but it happened to be the song that our choir sang this morning. I trust in God wherever I may be, upon the land or on the rolling sea, for come what may, from day to day. My heavenly Father watches over me. And he says in his book that that song changed him, and he found hope and strength. And that song on the radio that sustained him for the days to come. In time of depression, you must not stop turning to God. So often Christians, when they're in this place of despondency, they turn to God, and as I said, it seems like their prayers are bouncing off the ceilings, and it seems like the Bible is a closed book. And so they just stop seeking the Lord because they think he's not there for them. But that is not the case. It is their perception that is at fault. And they must continue to seek the Lord's. Notice how the psalmist mentions he has not always felt this way. Look with me in verse 4, the second half, he said. For I had gone with the multitude. I went with them to the house of God with a voice of joy and praise with a multitude that kept holy day. He's remembering here a better time. There was a time he's thinking when I used to go to church and I went there with joy. I went with my family, with my friends, and it was a wonderful experience. It was the highlight of the week to worship God with the people of God. But now it only seems like a faded memory. And he's saying what despondent people often say, if only I could go back, if only I could enjoy things as I once did, if only I could fear new feel near to God once more. Spiritual depression is a real challenge to our faith. It's really hard to believe that God is with you when everything inside of you and around you seems to be crying out Where is your God? And often when people feel like they need the presence of God the most, is when they cannot sense it at all. This is a test of our faith. And the believer walking through the valley of darkness must continue to seek his God and trust in God. That brings me to my third point. And that is that spiritual depression must be combated by reminding yourself of the promises of God. There's this refrain that's found through this portion of God's Word. We read it together today in verse 5 where he says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. Notice how he reminds himself of what is true. I always think it's interesting that in that great passage in Philippians 4 where it tells us not to be anxious, be careful for nothing. It then follows that up with things that we are to think about. And the very first thing on that list that is to be the subject of our meditation is whatsoever things are true. So often, when we are anxious and despondent, our meditation is not based in reality. It's not based in really hard facts. It's based in suppositions and projections and amplifications. And we think to ourselves, if this continues, then this will happen. And we extrapolate and we make our situation far more dire than it truly is because we're not thinking about what is true. I mentioned earlier this book by Martin Lloyd Jones, this very helpful book of sermons entitled Spiritual Depression. And he says there concerning this verse, Psalm 42, verse 5, the main art in the matter of spiritual living is to know how to handle yourself. You have to take yourself in hand. You have to address yourself. You have to preach to yourself and question yourself. You must say to your soul, Why art thou cast down? What business have you to be disquieted? You must turn on yourself, upbraid yourself, condemn yourself, exhort yourself, and say to yourself, Hope, bow in God 's I think he was right on target. I wonder if you know how to do that. Do you know how when you've been going day after day with this cycle of endless negative thinking? And it's just digging a deeper hole for yourself. Do you know what it is to say, this is foolishness, this is not true, and you get alone with God? And you talk to yourself a little bit and you remind yourself of what is true. Instead of allowing your thoughts to spiral out of control, you must remind yourself of what God has said. Often when a person is depressed, it's because they've lost sight of the big picture. You have forgotten all the blessings that you have enjoyed from the Lord. You have forgotten that you will spend eternity from God. And you become restless like the waves of the sea. That's the idea of this word, disquieted. This psalmist is agitated and anxious. But he says to himself, I have no good reason to feel this way. And so he wrestles with his thoughts in prayer to God. He reminds himself that God is still sovereign. And that is ultimately where we must go. We must go back to God who is our rock and remind ourselves of certain things that we know are absolutely true and will never, ever change. Because even when you are out of control, God is still in control. Notice how the psalmist turns away his thoughts from his problems to the Lord. You must remind yourself of who God is. And when you fill your mind with who God is, then you will find yourself able to trust Him more. He says at the end of verse 5. Hope thou in God. It's a beautiful study. Consider how this psalmist writes about God. Look with me at this and Chapter forty two and verse two he refers to God as the living gods Not a God who is dead, not a God who is absent, but a God who is alive, who is active in the world, who knows about his situation. He says in verse 8 of this chapter, he calls him the God of my life. Yet the Lord will command his loving kindness in the daytime, and in the night his song shall be with me. And my prayer unto the God of my life, he is saying, God, you are still Sovereign, you are still in control of every aspect of my life, and I will never cease to trust and worship you One of the brightest moments of Job was when he said, though he slay me, yet I will trust in him. In chapter 42 and verse 9, he refers to him as my rock. In chapter 43 and verse 2, he calls him the God of my strength. And in chapter 43 and verse 4, he refers to God as my exceeding joy, literally the God of my joyful rejoicing. One of the ways to combat the darkness is to reflect on the greatness of God So, what does it mean to hope in God? He calls on himself here several times. Hope thou in God. It's an aspect of trusting God. This is not wishful thinking. It's not adopting some unreal optimism. It's not a fantasy of I'm just going to trust in the power of positive thinking, and I'm going to just keep telling myself that God's going to make everything better, even though I don't really believe that. No, that's not what he means by hope here. He's reminding himself that God is sovereign and that all the suffering that he is facing is part of his purpose and plan. If we truly believe this, we'll be willing to wait for the Lord to fulfill his promises in his time. Hope is faith directed toward the future. It's looking to the future not with a sense of fear, but with a sense of confidence because we believe that God is in control and is working out what is good for our life. The Bible teaches that placing our hope in God actually brings His mercy. And Psalm 33 and verse 18, it says, Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy. And Psalm 147 in verse 11, it says, The Lord taketh pleasure in them that fear him, and those that hope in his mercy. And in Psalm 130. In verse 5, the psalmist writes, I wait for the Lord, my soul doth wait, and in his word do I hope. My soul waiteth for the Lord more than they that watched the morning. I say more than they that watched the morning, let Israel hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is mercy, and with him is plenteous redemption. This is the psalm of someone crying out of the depths to God. He says here with determination that he will hope in his word. So are you living in the darkness? Do you need God's mercy and God's help Put your hope in God. Hope involves waiting for God to act in his time. It involves trusting in God even when it seems that he has abandoned you. It means seeking the Lord even when it may seem pointless. One of my favorite verses in this regard It's Isaiah chapter 50, and verse 10. One of the Puritans wrote a book on this, a man named Thomas Goodwin, called A Child of Light Walking in Darkness. It says, Who is among you that feareth the Lord, that obeyeth the voice of his servant, that walketh in darkness and hath no light? Let him trust in the name of the Lord and stay upon his gods. When you're in the darkness and God has not delivered you, you must continue to seek the Lord. You must stay upon your gods. What does biblical hope sound like? Well, you can catch a glimpse of it in Psalm 42. He says, for I will yet praise him. This is the anticipation of faith He says in chapter 43, I will yet enjoy his presence. We see this confidence in chapter 42 and verse 8. Yet the Lord will command his loving kindness in the daytime and in the night his song shall be with me and my prayer unto the God of my life. The psalmist here is anticipating when God will lift the darkness, when God will bless him with his presence again. And he is steadying his soul. With that hope and that anticipation. You see, part of our Christian journey will involve to some degree us walking through valleys in our life. No one wants to do that Sometimes these are valleys that we create for ourselves, but often they are situations that we have no control over that involve our loved ones, our health. our circumstances in life. And sometimes these are prolonged and painful and agonizing. And they seem to crush our soul. So how do we interpret that as believers? That's what's important. You've heard me often say that you cannot control the circumstances in your life, but you can control how you interpret those circumstances. And how you interpret those circumstances makes all the difference in the world. Do you see this as the punishment of God? Do you see this as God abandoning you and failing you and not fulfilling his promises? Or do you see this as God's way of refining you and testing you and strengthening your faith by putting you in a situation that makes you feel utterly weak and helpless? This is what the scriptures teach us. One of the promises that we find in both the Old and New Testaments. Is this, none who trust in him will ever be ashamed. And the idea of that word ashamed is disappointed What a wonderful promise this is to cling to. You know that no one has ever come to God and put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And rested in him for their salvation. And at the end of their life, when they die and they pass away, have said, you know what, that wasn't a very wise choice. That didn't work out very well. No one has ever said that None who trust in him will be ashamed. None will be disappointed. And the reason why we can move forward with such assurance is because we have a redeemer. who has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. He is the one who will wipe away all of our tears someday. And it's not without coincidence that He is the light of the world. Yes, the light that brings salvation, but also the light that will ultimately lift the darkness from our lives. And we will forever live in the presence of his light. That is our final end. That is our hope. That is our assurance. That is the resting place of the people of God. And that is where we must place our hope and our faith Let's have every head bowed and every eye closed. Father, you know much better than I do those that are here this morning and find themselves in the dark. They find themselves discouraged. They cannot sense your presence. They do not see a bright future ahead, but more decline and difficulty and problems. I pray, Father, that. They would be able to view things with the eye of faith and cling to the promises of God And trust in you as their loving shepherd, even when they cannot feel your presence, even when they cannot sense the rod and the staff that comfort them. And Father, I pray for those who might be here, who do not know you as their Lord and Savior. I pray that they would come and believe and trust. and discover what a wonderful God you are. I pray, Father, that you would use these words, especially to minister to your people. And to help those, Father, who find themselves in difficult circumstances this morning. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.