It's good to have you here today. If you have your Bibles, would you turn with me to First Peter chapter four? First Peter chapter four. If you're visiting with us, we have been making our way through the book of First Peter this year. When Julius Caesar landed on the shores of Britain with his Roman legions, he took a bold and decisive step to inspire commitment on the part of his soldiers. He ordered his men over to the edge of the cliffs of Dover, and he commanded them to look down at the water below. And there, to their amazement, they saw all of the ships that had brought them to Britain fully engulfed in flames. He had deliberately cut off any chance of retreat on their part. Now that his soldiers were unable to return to the continent, There was nothing left for them to do but to advance and conquer. And that's exactly what they did. Being a Christian requires commitment. And courage. And the consistent message of the scriptures is that there's no going back to our old life. Jesus never gave his would-be followers the idea that following him would be easy. In fact, he frequently reminded them to count the cost. You see, Jesus wasn't looking to gather a crowd, but to make disciples. One of the pivotal points in our Lord's ministry took place. in northern Israel in a place called Caesarea Philippi. Jesus kind of took his disciples there as what you might call a spiritual retreat. And there he asked them about his identity. He said, Whom do men say that I am? And they gave him several different answers. And then he gave them another question. He said, Whom do you say that I am? And in one of his finest hours, Peter said, Thou art the Christ. the Son of the living God. And Jesus said to him, flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto thee. And then Jesus for the first time told his disciples of his approaching death in Jerusalem. And Peter, the leader of the twelve, rebuked the Lord and said, This shall not be unto thee. Peter could not contemplate that his master would suffer at Jerusalem. And there be murdered. And Jesus replied to him, Get thee behind me, Satan, thou savorest not the things that be of God, but of men. Peter and stint uh people, excuse me, instinctively seek to avoid suffering. That's the way human beings naturally think. But this was not the Father's will for his son, that he would avoid suffering, and is not his will for all who would follow the Savior. Immediately after our Lord corrected Peter, he said these famous words If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. When Jesus said these words, he was not just indicating that following Jesus would be difficult, but that it would involve suffering and possibly death. And Jesus followed that up with these words, for what is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Peter never forgot the lesson of that day in Caesarea Philippi, and decades later. He shares some of what he learned with the Christian church. The book of 1 Peter is all about suffering by the grace of God. And Peter here in chapter 4 Is calling on his readers to understand that following the Lord is costly. And that even though they may do what is right, they may actually suffer for doing what is right. And so he turns them to the example of the Lord Jesus Christ. And in chapter 4, he begins to really apply this example to them. In verse 1, he says, For as much then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise. With the same mind, for he that hath suffered in the flesh have ceased from sin. And the command that governs this paragraph is Arm yourselves with the same mind. He is essentially saying that suffering is not easy and it requires the focus and preparation of a warrior. And then in verse 2, Peter calls on them to no longer live to the lust of men, but to the will of God. He explains to them that there's really just two ways to live. But that they must choose the path of suffering, for this is the will of God. And so Peter concludes the section by providing some compelling reasons or motivations. To follow the path of suffering. We live in a place and in a time when it's very easy to follow the Lord. We face very little suffering in the United States of America for proclaiming that we are Christians. We hear on the news of Christian suffering in some cases for taking a stand for truth. In the midst of our culture, but it's still not a common thing. But in much of the world, it is a daily occurrence. It is costly. to identify yourself as a follower of Christ. And the reality is that the day could come in the not too distant future when once more it would be costly for us here in the United States of America. to do the will of God. And so what would compel us, what would inspire us, what would lead us to do what is unnatural to us, and that is to choose to follow a path that will involve hardship and difficulty and opposition. And in the passage we're looking at today, Peter is going to call on believers to consider three things. First of all, in verse 3, he says, consider your sinful past. He says, look at verse 3, for the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles. When we walked in lasciviousness, lust, excess of wine, revelings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries. You notice he begins this verse with the word for because here he's explaining. Why believers should now live for the will of God. I want you to notice how verses two and three connect. Look at verse two. That he should no longer live the rest of his time in the flesh, the lust of men. But to the will of God for the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles. Last week when we considered verse 2, I mentioned that the life of a Christian can be compared to like two volumes of a book. The first volume records our life story when we were still in the dark, when we were lost and without Christ. But the second volume chronicles our new life in Christ. Peter is going to continue in verse 3 talking about our old life when we were lost, or as he puts it here, our past life. Once again, we see as we did in our reading this morning in Colossians chapter 3, that there is to be a radical difference between our lifestyle Before we were saved, and after we were saved. Now, the point that Peter is making in the first part of verse 3 is this: He is saying. That when you were in your past life as a lost person, you lived to the will of the Gentiles. Now that phrase will of the Gentile seems rather strange to us. So let me try to explain it briefly. The word will here is not the same word as will that's found at the end of verse two when it says the will of God. It's a word that could be translated as want or desire. And he refers here to the Gentiles because at this point in time The vast majority of Gentiles were unbelievers. At this time in church history, most true believers were probably Jewish in origin. And because Peter is a Jew and he's writing from that culture and that mindset, when he spoke of the Gentiles, he was talking about the lost world. And so what he's talking about here when he speaks of the will of the Gentiles is the desires that motivate and compel lost people to live the way they do. Now what kind of lifestyle was this? Peter is going to describe it here with six terms. Let's briefly examine these words. First of all, he says lasciviousness. This is not a word that we use often today. It's rather difficult to pronounce It's a term that refers to debauchery or unrestrained immorality, including virtually every sexual sin imaginable. This term is one of the items found in the list of the work of the flesh in Galatians chapter 5. And there it is said in contrast to the fruit of the Spirit And then he goes on to speak of lusts here, which refers to passions. In context, Peter's obviously speaking of sexual desires that characterize a person's lifestyle. Peter has in mind the type of person whose life is dominated by sensuality. Their music is sensual and obscene. The books they read all have the same theme. The movies they watch and the websites that they view are pornographic, and when they talk, nothing but filth comes out of their mouth I suspect that all of you have at some time in your life encountered individuals like this. Perhaps you were once like this. Peter here says this was characteristic of the old life. This is the degraded lifestyle that we have been saved from by the grace of God. And then thirdly, he speaks of excess of wine. Many versions render this with the word drunkenness. It also includes the idea of being intoxicated by drugs. The world has always sought refuge in substances that will alter our perception of reality because often the world has no answers for reality and the difficulties that it brings. But in the Christian scriptures, we always read that we are to be sober-minded because Christians are not afraid to face reality as it is. Because we have Christ and we have his truth to help us deal with these matters. We have revelings. Which refers to carousing or partying. It describes the violent, destructive, and immoral behavior that often accompanies drunkenness. We see here in these first four items, or I should say first five items, that alcohol and sexual immorality have always gone together. The words banquetings refers to drinking parties where the goal is to get drunk. By the way, you can see here how up-to-date the Bible is, right? These words were written 2,000 years ago, but how they accurately portray the way lost people often live their lives. But then we have something in this list that may seem strange to you, number six, abominable idolatries. This may sound like something completely different from what we've been talking about, but it's not. You see, the idolatry in the Greco-Roman world included immorality and drunkenness and often drug abuse. This was all part of honoring their pagan gods, who were not paragons of virtue, but were often wicked. This was woven into the very fabric of their culture. People had shrines in their homes honoring these gods many times. When they went to their place of business, the guilds that they worked for, they often began their uh ceremonies with some kind of acknowledgement, some kind of a sacrifice. to a pagan deity. It was part of all public uh forums like we might begin something, a ball game or something, with the national anthem. They would begin all of their public social occasions with some type of deference or act of worship to a pagan deity. And so this was all part of their lifestyle. And Peter is saying that that was part of your past life That immorality, that drunkenness, that idolatry, that is all in the past. That must all be, if I can put it this way, in the rearview mirror of the believer, because they have been called out of darkness. into his marvelous light. I want you to know that these items mentioned here must have no part. in the believer's lifestyle today. Now Peter says something very interesting. He says, for the time past of our life may suffice us. I haven't explained that phrase yet. What does he mean by that? Peter is saying, before you came to Christ, you sinned more than enough for a lifetime. You've thrown away and wasted more than enough years. There's no going back to that. There's no point in returning to that kind of lifestyle in any way, shape, or form. Because that is in the past, that was a waste, that was worthless This is important for us to understand that God has called us to a new kind of life. There's been sort of a reaction in modern Christian churches. I'm talking about evangelical churches and fundamental churches and churches that would be on the conservative end of the spectrum. There there has been a reaction to what is the perceived legalism of the generation before them. And to be honest, there were in places and in various forms, there were uh sometimes a form of legalism there. But there often like the swinging of a pendulum, we have gone too far in the other direction, so that many Christians today believe that the Christian lifestyle and the lifestyle of your average lost person should be nearly identical. Almost imperceptible difference between the two. But when we come to list like this in Scripture and we come to direct admonitions of Scripture, we find that there is to be a real and significant difference between the way we were and the way we are. And our memory of our past life and the the sins that we committed and the years that we threw away, he's saying here should motivate us. To want to follow Christ and to look in horror at what is behind us and to move forward, willing even to suffer for the Lord. Secondly, he says, consider your present testimony. He's spoken of the past and now the present. Look at verse 4. Wherein they think it strange That you run not with them to the same excess of riot speaking evil of you We see here the world's response, when a Christian begins to live for the glory of God, the world will think it strange. The idea of the wording here is that they will react with a continual state of astonishment. They will look at our lifestyle and say, why? Why have you all of a sudden changed? Why have you stopped doing these things and now you've started doing these things? It doesn't make any sense to me. They can't understand why you don't do the things that you used to do. It says here that you run not with them to the same excess of riot, literally a flood of debauchery. They can't figure it out. It doesn't make sense to them. Their mind is this, why wouldn't you want to go out and have a good time? Why wouldn't you want to get drunk like you did with us all those other times? Why have you changed all of the sudden? The Bible provides the reason why they don't understand in 1 Corinthians chapter 2. In verse 14 it says, But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. This is why when you try to honestly answer a lost person why your life has changed all of a sudden It'll be like trying to describe to a blind man the color blue. They're just not going to grasp it. That they can't put themselves into your shoes. They can't really understand what you're saying and what you mean and why all of a sudden your heart has changed. Before we go on, I want to ask you a question. Are there any lost people? who are surprised at the choices that you make in life. Your neighbors think you're strange because you go to church on a regular basis. Does your unsafe financial advisor think that you're crazy for giving so much money for the spread of the gospel? Do your unsaved relatives think that you're odd because of the restrictions you place on your children? Do your co-workers feel uncomfortable sometimes around you to speak freely the way they normally speak because of your presence? Are they surprised at anything about you? I hope that the answer to that question is Yes. I hope as I was reading off these kind of hypothetical examples, your mind was saying, Yep, that's happened to me before. Yes, I can remember when my uncle said that to me And and and that's resonating with you. But if you're here this morning and you can say, you know, I can't imagine anyone uh uh no one's ever been surprised at any choices that I've made for the Lord If that's the case, something is wrong. Because your life is to be obviously different. As I've mentioned to you many times before, there's no such thing as an undercover Christian that goes to work and everyone thinks you're just one of the guys, you're just like everyone else, you indulge in the same conversations. that everyone else does, but yet you sneak in here on Sunday and everyone pats you on the back and says you're a a good Christian brother Those two things are contradictory. God expects us to be different and to be a light and to be a testimony of his saving grace. There was a chorus that was popular when I was a child that went, things are different now. Something happened to me. And this is true. Christians are to be light in this dark world. Our lifestyle choices, the way we structure our lives, the way we spend our time, the way we invest our money The things that we talk about, the things that we plan for, the things we invest in, should all point to the fact that we are different. from the lost and dying world around us. The scriptures tell us this on virtually every page. Turn with me. Keep a finger here in 1 Peter 4 if you would. Turn with me to Romans chapter 13. Romans chapter 13. I want you to see that the Apostle Paul says virtually the same thing. Romans chapter 13, I would like to begin reading at verse 11. He says in that knowing the time that now it is high time to awake out of sleep. For now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness And let us put on the armor of light. Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness. Not in strife and envying, but put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. You see that he is using some of the same terminology, the same exhortations that Peter does, because this is God's will for his people. Turn with me, please, back to 1 Peter chapter 4. Now there's more than just the reaction of surprise and shock that lost people will have when we've been converted. You'll notice it says at the end of verse 4, speaking evil of you, literally blaspheming you. We would describe it today with the English word slander. They will slander you. They will take little observations that they have made, and they will construct a horrible picture and description of you. out of that. Because when a person announces that they are Christian and they are living a conspicuously Christian testimony before lost people, lost people will put them under a microscope to find the slightest flaw so that they can magnify that and point it out and pronounce that you are a hypocrite They are often convicted by your testimony. The lifestyle of a Christian is like a light in a dark place. It exposes the sin of others. It reveals the emptiness and ugliness of the world. A Christian can have a powerful testimony without ever saying a word. That does not mean you should not say a word, by the way. But just living your Christian life by refusing to involve yourself in gossip and in course And vulgar language by just doing your job and not stealing from the boss, by not being a troublemaker by working hard every day and giving your boss an honest day's work by just doing those simple things, you are a testimony to the change that Christ has brought into your life. And if you live that way day after day, you will draw out the opposition and the anger of the lost world around us. Christians also in the first century were considered a threat to their way of life. And to some degree that still occurs today Lost people in the first century we know historically tried to discredit Christianity by slandering Christians. I've mentioned this before. We know that the early Christians had what were called love feasts where they would have fellowship meals where they would gather together and they would eat and talk like Christians like to do, but have those close bonds And the Lost World says said that that was an occasion of immorality. They had communion services And the Lost World heard bits and pieces about the the cup and the bread representing the body and blood of Christ, and so they accused Christians of cannibalism And that went around and spread far and wide in the Roman world. And of course, Christians refused to say That Caesar was Lord, instead, they said that Jesus was Lord. And that was considered subversive. That was considered unpatriotic. That was considered a dangerous counter movement to the status quo. And so they were persecuted. Now what kind of persecution do you think That the early church primarily endured. It may surprise you. We often talk about their imprisonment and their death and their exile, and those things did occur But most of the persecution they endured is the same kind of persecution that we can endure as Christians leaving even living in the United States of America. I'm gonna go back, you don't have to turn here. I want to read to you from the Beatitudes, the close of that. Jesus says, blessed are they which are persecuted For righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice And be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Now I bring that out to your attention for this. of the terms that Jesus used there for our persecution refer to verbal insults Most of the opposition that we will face will mean that people will call us names, they will say horrible things about us. That's part of what is involved in following Christ. And this is something that we must be willing to endure. Listen to what Paul says in Philippians 1. 29 He says, For unto you it is given in behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake. Being a Christian, he is saying, is not just a matter of putting your faith and trust in Jesus Christ as your Savior. Yes, that is. But it goes on beyond that to be suffering for him. And Paul later writes in 2 Timothy chapter 3, yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. And the idea of will live as the idea of set their will to live godly. You are determined and committed to live for Christ and to swim against the currents. And to stand up for truth no matter what the cost is. So has anyone ever verbally attacked you? simply because you were living like a Christian. Simply because you were doing what was right. Simply you were doing what the Bible commands you to do or commends you to do. Has anyone ever insulted you because you're a Christian? Not because of something else that you did that was wrong, but because you were doing what is right. Perhaps if the answer is no, it is because you have not had a conspicuous testimony for Christ. It says all who will live godly, all who set their will. And so often Our natural human tendency is to go with the flow, to be accepted by our peers at work or folks in our neighborhood or the other families involved in the sporting event That we don't want to stand out and look different. That's just a natural human reaction. So we just mask and cover our true testimony for Christ. And we forfeit what is involved in following the Lord and being willing to suffer for Him. We are like the Christian that Jesus described in the Sermon on the Mount who hides his light under a bushel. We should seek to do the will of God no matter what it costs us. And of course a few rolling of uh situation where people roll their eyes or talk about us behind our backs is nothing compared with what many Christians in the world today are facing as their cost for following the Lord. So Peter provides three reasons why we should Be willing to suffer and do the will of God. The first is that we are to consider our past life. We are to look back at where we were and say, I I've been saved from that. I want to have no part of that old way of living. And then we are considered our present testimony so that we will be a light, so that we will be salt, so that we will make a difference and glorify Christ. And thirdly, we are to consider our future judgment. Look at verses 5 and 6. of 1 Peter chapter 4. It says, Who shall give accounts to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead? For this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men and the flesh, but live according to God. In the spirit. Now, I want you to notice the connection between verses four and five. Peter is saying, those people who speak ill of you, those people who slander you. Remember that they will someday give an account to God. God will judge them. Those who oppress the people of God, those who are murdering Christians today throughout the world, and make no mistake it is occurring, it happens every day And they may live in a country where that is not something the authorities are going to pursue. They will someday face the ultimate judge. and answer for their crimes against God's people. Now all human beings who have ever lived will be judged by God in different ways. But every single one of us will give an account, both Christians and non-Christians. The focus here in context is on God's judgment of the wicked who have persecuted his people. You ever noticed in passages that speak of final judgment? It often speaks of the quick and the dead. It's important you understand that the word quick there is an old Elizabethan phrase that means the living. You can divide all human beings who have ever lived into two very distinct Groups, those who are live right now and those who are dead. Everyone will be judged Now, why does the Bible describe people who are to be judged in this way? The answer seems to be that some people Throughout history and even still today, think that death somehow allows them to avoid judgment somehow they can uh elude the authorities through death. You ever wondered why we have such a common occurrence? Of murder and then suicide in our modern culture. Have you ever thought about that? I tried to prepare my messages early, and when I prepared this message, it was before the murder-suicide that we heard of this week in our state. This happens almost every week in our country, doesn't it? You hear another story of someone who is really upset And they go to someplace and they kill a bunch of people and then they turn the gun on themselves and kill themselves. You ever wondered why that is so common in our culture and why it was not common in our culture Many generations ago. They had guns. People still wronged people back then. People still had grievances. But why didn't people go into their homes or their place of employment years ago, at least not very commonly, and shoot the place up and then kill themselves? There might be many answers to this, but I'm going to give you what I think is the primary answer, and that is because In previous generations in this land, even lost people had a fear of God. And they believed, and they had been taught, and they believed that death was not the end, that they were not just some advanced animal, that when they died, that was it. They knew that they would face a judge whose judgment they could not evade. And therefore the idea of killing a bunch of people and killing themselves was not an option for them, was not a way for them to deal with their grievances And make no mistake, though perceptions may change, though our culture may be every day becoming more and more secular, living as if there is no God. There is no judge. The reality has not changed. There is a God to whom we must all give an account. And all those people who have viciously maligned the character of God's people will someday be brought to justice. Now in verse 6 we come to another one of those passages in 1 Peter that causes us to scratch our head because it's a little difficult to understand at first glance. It says, for this cause Was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God? in the spirit. Of course, what disturbs us is this phrase about the gospel being preached to the dead. So once more I will give you three basic understandings that people have had about this phrase. First of all, some people would say, some Bible scholars, that when Peter speaks of the dead In verse 6, he's referring to those who are spiritually dead. And we know the Bible does talk about those who are lost as spiritually dead. This is especially true in the writings of the Apostle Paul. But I think this is very unlikely what Peter is saying because Peter never uses the word dead to refer to those who are lost in either of his books. A second view connects this passage to that difficult passage that we considered several weeks ago in chapter 3 and verse 19. Look at 3. 19 where it says, by which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison. Now those who hold this view believe that there's a connection between chapter 4 and verse 6 and 1 Peter 3. 19. They would say that these are the same beings. And once again, those who take this position would say that Peter is saying that those who reject the gospel will be given a second chance to repent and believe. And as I mentioned when we cover chapter 3 and verse 19, I do not believe for one instant that is what Peter is saying. The Bible does not tell us of a second chance after we have been sent to hell. This is wishful thinking on the part of many. And I understand why they would want to think this way. The horrors of hell. Are disturbing. If it doesn't disturb you, the biblical teaching of an eternal hell, then you haven't thought about it very much. It's a disturbing reality. And I understand that people who have unsaved loved ones, and perhaps those who have died before them, that they love and cherish the idea Of them being in hell forever is unthinkable. And so they seek to find a solution in the scriptures themselves. But this is not what the scripture teaches. This is not what the Bible tells us. Part of the whore of hell Is that there is no hope. There is no way out. There is no second chance. This is why the Bible so earnestly compels people to believe and to come to Christ and to repent before it's too late. And if there is a second chance, then all of that earnestness and all of that sense that today is a day of salvation is unwarranted because there's always a second chance. But even if you look at the context here, the context does not support that interpretation at all. Remember, Peter here is essentially exhorting his persecuted brethren not to abandon their faith due to the opposition and pressure of the world, very similarly like the book of Hebrews. Don't go back. Don't cave in. I know it can be brutal. It can be harsh. It can be difficult, he's saying, but follow the example of our Savior. Do not Turn from the suffering to go back to the old life and renounce your faith in Christ. Well, if they could abandon their faith , and put off suffering on this life and then go to hell and have a second chance. Then all of his exhortation in this book To endure, to persevere, to draw down the grace of God to face your suffering is really unneeded. Because there's another option. The world is always looking for a way that we can have the world and heaven too. But the Bible tells us that that is not possible. The third and only reasonable option is that Peter here is referring to Christians who were already dead. when Peter wrote these words. These early Christians heard the gospel and believed And some of them died for following Christ. We read of early martyrs like Stephen, who was stoned to death. And the other apostles as well. And some of these individuals had already perished when Peter penned these words. Notice what he says in verse 6, for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead. That is those who have died That they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God and the spirits. When he talks about being judged of men in the flesh, There are two ideas about what this means, and there's no way you can prove either one. It could be that they're saying that they would be judged by their persecutors. They would be slandered. They would be brought perhaps before courts of law and found guilty of crimes and imprisoned or exiled or even put to death. They were judged according to men. Or it might be referring to the fact that they died just like everyone else. This is the way of all human flesh. We all die. And there's some evidence that early uh people in the first century would hear of Christians speaking of eternal life. They didn't understand what that meant, and so when a Christian would die or when a Christian would be put to death, they would laugh and mock about it and say, Hey, I thought you all said you were going to live eternally. Well look, he's dead now. And that was part of the way that they derided these early Christians. Yes, Christians do die just like lost people. But that's not the end of us. He says here, but live according to God in the Spirit. Yes, they died just like lost people, but that was not the final verdict. God is the judge of all mankind. The world regards people like Lazarus that we read of in the scriptures and other people as perhaps absolutely worthless. Because they are not important in the eyes of the world. They may not have great wealth, great status in society But man's ultimate judgment of other human beings does not matter. It is God's judgment that matters. And God will vindicate his people. And they will live eternally with him in heaven. He will have the final say The moment a believer dies, they are welcomed home. Because to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. Peter is saying what the scriptures often say to suffering Christians. It will be worth it all when we see Jesus. Do you believe this? This is essential. to really endure and face the suffering that we have in life, to focus our mind on our heavenly home and on the joys that await us. I mentioned earlier some of the changes in modern forms of Christianity. One of the noticeable changes that many have commented on is that preachers and teachers and writers don't focus as much On our future heavenly home because people are more interested in what today? They're interested in the here and now. They're interested in techniques and strategies to get the most out of life here and now. Does the Bible give us insight and wisdom about living here on this fallen planet? It does indeed But the scriptures always point our attention not to the here and now, but to our heavenly home. That is the way that we can truly deal with brutal persecution and suffering and opposition. Because if our focus is just on the here and now and what we experience in this life, and we're not thinking about what's beyond the grave Then in some sense, following Christ may not seem worth it. It may not seem worth the suffering and the discomfort and the ostracism from our families and everything else that goes along with that. But in light of eternity, the suffering that we face for Christ is nothing. Do you believe this? I hope you do. No suffering saint has ever lodged a complaint in heaven. No Christian has ever been disappointed when they went to glory and said, you know, I thought it'd be a little bit more than this. No follower of Christ has ever regretted the decision that they made to trust and follow him and to suffer for him. Paul says the suffering of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. May God help us to latch on to this wonderful promise, to consider the glory and the joy that awaits us as we suffer in the here and now. It is well worth it to follow our Savior. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father. We pray that you would draw our attention away from ourselves, from this world and its allurements. from the distorted sense of reality that we have. I pray, Father, that we would see things through the lens of scripture, through the light of your truth. And that by faith we would live in this life. That we would consider it worthwhile to suffer for Jesus. To do a hardship and difficulty for following him, because that is the way of the Master. That you would use these words to strengthen us and encourage us and to inspire us with the glory that awaits us as your children. And Father, for those who are here this morning who are not your children, who do not have this hope, but instead will face What your word describes as eternal punishment, I pray, Lord, that they would flee for the wrath that comes. And they would forsake all to follow the Savior. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.