If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Psalm 1? Psalm 1. I 'd like to read this to begin with. Blessed is the man. That walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth fruit in his season. His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. The ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous, for the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous But the way of the ungodly shall perish. I thought it would be appropriate for us tonight to look at Psalm 1. It is a wisdom psalm. That is designed to encourage the reader to take the right path in life. It reminds us that ultimately there are only two paths. Two roads that we can take in life. This is a psalm of contrast. We have a description of the blessed man. And a description of the ungodly man. One walks the way of the word, the other walks the way of the world. Our high school and college graduates have accomplished a great deal, and we've honored them tonight. They are at a crossroads in their life. Their life has in large part been a time of preparation thus far. And there's a sense in which you could say it's only now that they will really begin to live. And to reveal who they are and what they believe and what they value. And so I thought it would be important for us tonight to consider the path. That we should follow in life. And I'm going to be addressing my comments primarily to our graduates this evening, but of course there is profit for all of us because all of God's word is profitable. The psalm begins with the word blessed. which is a description of a certain kind of person. Does it mean that everything comes up roses, that they have no problems? But it means that because of their relationship with the Lord, their life is distinctive. It follows a different path and it arrives at a different destination. This psalm is very easy to outline when preachers first begin to prepare messages. They are given passages that are very easy to outline, and this is one of the ones they're given because anybody can outline this. You have first of all a description of the blessed man, and each verse has something different to contribute to this description. First of all, the blessed man is described negatively in verse 1 of what he doesn't do. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. He's described negatively. And then he's described positively in verse 2. But in contrast, he is delighteth in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. And then in verse 3, he's described figuratively, he's compared to a tree. And the main point of comparison there seems to be that of vitality and stability. A great tree, a giant oak by the banks of a river of water is strong and stable. You run into it with your car, it's not going to move. And that is said in contrast to the ungodly who are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. They have no stability. They have no foundation in life. Using a different analogy, the Lord spoke of the foolish man who built his house upon the sand. We have the same truth conveyed in a different image here. In verses 4 and 5, we have description of the godless. First of all, they're described figuratively as the chaff in verse 4. And then they're described negatively in verse 5. You may say, well, in order to be symmetrical, they should be described positively. There's nothing positive to say about them. So that's why it's asymmetrical. And then in conclusion, in verse 6, we have God's response to both kinds of people. The Lord knoweth the way of the righteous. You may say, but I thought the Lord knew everything about everyone he does. This word conveys the idea of he has a relationship. With the godly, with the righteous. But the way of the ungodly shall perish. Which speaks of an eternal state Now this morning, this evening, excuse me, I want us to look at this portrait of the blessed man. I think we understand that this would also include the blessed woman. This particular Hebrew word ashray is on 15 other occasions translated as happy. It is not that this person has been on a quest for happiness. It is that happiness is the byproduct of who they are and of their relationship with God. The root of this word, blessed or happy, I've mentioned it before, is probably a root that means to envy. You may say, I thought envy was a bad thing. It certainly can be. The idea here is that when the world looks at the life of the blessed individual , And they see the stability and the vitality that they possess that is different from what they have, they envy them. When they see their family, when they see the peace in their life, when they see the joy and the sense of purpose that they have, they say, you know, I wish I had something like that in my life. That's the idea here of this blessed individual. And I'm sure that every one of our graduates here wants to be that kind of person How can you be the person described as blessed in this opening psalm? And the answer is you must follow the path that is outlined here. Once you notice first of all in verse 1, if you want God's best for your life, you must reject the world. Now that sounds very negative. It may sound harsh to you, but that's exactly what is being conveyed in verse 1. We have three parts to it that speaks of a progression here. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat. of the scornful. The first thing I want you to notice is that you must reject the counsel of the world. Now, who are the ungodly? We hear that word and we might think of like an extreme sinner, a criminal. But the word simply means a person who does not have God at the center of their life. The fact is that most people live the life of a practical atheist. They may claim to believe in God. I had a flat tire this weekend in my travels to Pennsylvania, and I got to talk to a tow truck driver. And uh he was uh talking to me and I talked to him a little bit about uh you know it's great being a pastor because I always have an opening for witnessing because he asked me, what do you do for a living? And I said, great, I'm a pastor. Let's talk about that. And I started talking to him, and he gave me the same response That I hear, I almost know, I almost like want to finish their sentences. Says, you know, I believe in God, but I'm not the church going type. I mean I'll go to church, don't get me wrong, I'll go to church maybe at Christmas or Easter. And it's not like I'm a wicked person or anything. I'm doing bad stuff. You know, I try to be nice to people and I pray before I go to bed tonight that God would protect me and keep me from dying. And, you know, I'm a religious person, just in my own way. And that's representative of millions of people that you and I rub our shoulders with every day. But God's not at the center of his life. He doesn't have a relationship with God. When I was talking to him about the joy of worship, of coming to church, he could relate to that Enjoy. Enjoy coming to church. He had no relationship with God You must reject the counsel of the world. The Bible says, as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. This word counsel, the Hebrew term has generally the idea of advice or plans. Our young people right now, we talked about their plans for the future. And at at this time period, from the time of high school graduation, college graduation, that five or six year period of time is when most people, most young people make the most significant decisions of their life, what they're going to do, whom they are going to marry, the kind of lifestyle they are going to pursue. Those things all come into focus at that time. And at that time, they are exposed to many influences. They get a lot of advice. They ask a lot of questions, and they make a lot of plans. Now the world is filled with advice. You can get advice from your neighbors, your co-workers, your friends. Advice on how to handle your money and on marriage, on emotional problems, the list goes on and on. But we need to be wary of the fact that the advice of the world, the goal of the world is difference. Then that should be for believers. The world is constantly bombarding people, especially young people. With these false messages. Live for self. Live for things. Live for pleasure. Live for the here and now. Grab a little bit of enjoyment out of life because it's going to be over soon. And every single one of these tenets is false. and does not lead to lasting happiness, but to regret and sorrow. These are all lies that will send you down the wrong road. If you are to follow the path of blessing, you must begin by rejecting the advice of the world. And you must secondly reject the conduct of the world. It says, nor standeth in the way of sinners. Now, this phrase sounds rather awkward to us We think of standing in the way as kind of hindering or preventing something, but that's not what is meant here. The word standing here speaks of a more fixed association. The real key to understanding this phrase is the meaning of the word way. It has reference to a person's lifestyle or behavior. How would a person know whether or not they are walking on the path that leads to destruction or on the path that leads to life, the path of blessing? Well, the scripture says it has to do with your relationship with God and what a person truly believes in their hearts. That raises the question, well, how would you know what a person truly believes? That is really brought out in the way they live. Your conduct, your behavior betrays what you truly value, what you truly believe. You can say that you believe something, but if it's absolutely opposite of the way you live, then it's really not what you believe. We find throughout Scripture in the Old and New Testaments, this is brought out in a variety of ways. that the Lord desires his people to live a distinctive lifestyle style from those who are in the lost world. This is all through the Old Testament. All those regulations, all those civil laws that cause us to scratch our heads about the kind of garments they could wear and what they could eat and and where they could go and how uh all these things were to show that they were be to be distinctive. They were to be holy to the Lord. They were to be different from the pagan people that surrounds them. And when we come to the New Testament, we find the same thing. We find Jesus talking about the foolish man who builds his house upon the sand and the wise man who builds his house upon the rock. And again, in his teaching, he presents this great contrast. You see, the world and the way we tend to think is that lost people and Christian people are pretty much the same I mean, we might go to church and we may have slightly different ways of doing things, but we're pretty much the same. That's not what the Bible teaches from cover to cover. The Bible teaches that we are to be different. It describes us as children of light who have come out of the darkness. In my lifetime, there has been a huge backlash in the Christian community against what is called generally legalism. And the strict standards and convictions of a previous era have been mocked and rejected. By most young people. Indeed, some well-meaning Christians did go too far in prescribing universal standards of behavior that are not found in the Bible. However, the current state of Christianity barely resembles the New Testament description of a follower of Jesus Christ. Our conduct, our behavior, our lifestyle should be distinct and different. Your friends, your co-workers, your neighbors should know there's something different about you and your family. Not that you're odd or strange or antisocial. But that you have different values, you have different goals, you have different passions than they do. This passage is not telling us that we are to isolate ourselves from the world, that we are never to talk to lost people. That's not what Jesus did. He sat down and had meals with lost people. But he was a light and assault to them. He was changing them, not vice versa. God has called us to be salt and light, and we must be different in order to make a difference in the world. We also see here that we must reject the company of the world. It says at the end of verse 1, which synth in the seat of the scornful. Again, this is not suggesting that we can't have any friends or associates who were lost. But we cannot be one of them. We cannot give them the impression And it's so easy to do that you're okay the way you are in your in your sin and in your rebellion against God I accept you, which by inference means God accepts you. No problem. Don't worry about it. It's so easy in our desire to be congenial to give them that impression. There's nothing to worry about. And that would be a false message to give them. Now, who are the scornful in this passage? This is a Hebrew word that's found most often in the book of Proverbs. In the book of Proverbs, you find four different kinds of fool. Starts with those who are naive Who are simpletons, who simply don't know the ways of the world, and they fall into traps, and they're easily seduced and they're easily taken advantage of because they just don't know how things work in the world. But it graduates all the way up to the mocker, the scornful. These are individuals Who mock and ridicule everything that is good and decent in the world. They mock family values and they attack anyone who stands up for righteousness. They reverse things so that what is good is bad and what is bad is good. They are not only apathetic to spiritual things, they are antagonistic to biblical values. These are the elite of the world who always portray themselves as superior. The Bible describes them as proud, unteachable. and agitators. What is the idea here of the seat of the scornful? The idea here is of a settled place where they gather You see, the type of people that you are comfortable with, that you find an affinity with, says a great deal about who you are. Do you find affinity? Do you find a bond with people who love Christ and want to serve Him? Or do you find a bond with people who rebel against that, who mock that, who ridicule that, who think it's strange and odd and wrong? You've heard the expression, birds of a feather flock together. When I was a youth pastor for nine years, so often I had parents come up to me and They had a troubled teen who was making very bad choices. And understandably they were distraught about it. And I would talk to them, and so often they would say this, you know, so-and-so is a really good boy or a really good girl They just always get caught up with the wrong kind of people. They just always seem to get entwined with people who pull them down, who lead them into sin. And after hearing that for about the twelfth time, I said to them, you know, I bet their friends' parents say the same thing. I bet their friends' parents say the same thing. Who you really bond with reveals who you are. Do you delight in being with the people of God? Do you like to come here on the Lord's Day and worship with His people and pray with His people? And praise God with his people, or is this something that you find repulsive you can't wait till the space of your life is over and you can form those relationships that you really want? This reveals who you are. New Testament, we read, love not the world. The world is enticing to all of our flesh. But we must reject its counsel, its device, its conduct, and even its people Dear graduates, your selection of friends the next few years will have a profound influence on the person you become. Proverbs 27 verse 17 says, iron sharpeneth iron, so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend. Some of you are going away to college, your roommates, your friends that you have classes with. Some of you will be forming the closest friendships that you will ever have in the next few years. Choose your friends wisely. They will either sharpen you. And make you more ready to serve the Lord. They will either fan the flames of your heart so that you have a greater passion for God Or they will douse those flames. They will pull you down. They will take your life in a completely different direction. I've seen so many young people that have showed so much promise. And just one friendship, one relationship completely distorted the entire direction and trajectory of their life. Choose friends who will help you become the person that God has called you to be. This is my admonition to you this evening. I have a lot more to say. I'm going to go through these next few points very, very quickly. If you want God's best for your life, you must find your satisfaction in the Word of God. This is the positive description, verse 2. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. The word delight here means to incline towards. It conveys someone's emotional attachment to a person or an object. The scripture says again and again that it's the man who delights greatly in his commandments that is blessed. Someone once said, tell me what a man loves and what a man hates, and I will tell you who he is. You see, the ultimate reason. Why people don't read the Bible, why people don't memorize the Bible or meditate on the Word of God or come to church or listen to sermons is because they don't want to. Might say they don't have time. They may say there's all kinds of hindrances and problems, but the real reason is a heart reason. They don't really want to. You see, we always make time for what we really want to do. Have you ever noticed that? If you really, really, really want to do something, somehow you find time for it. The problem is not our busyness. It's our hearts. Young people, you must feed upon God's word You will never become the person that God intends you to be apart from the Word of God. It is vital to your spiritual growth. It speaks here of his delight and his meditation. It's this reflection and application of the Word of God that really makes a difference. The truth is that most believers are spiritually malnourished. They may read their Bible, they may hear sermons, but they're not really digesting it. They're not taking it in. They're not appropriating it and putting it into practice. And if you want God's best for your life, thirdly, you must find your success God's way. Look with me at verse 3. What a pleasing picture this is. And he shall be. like a tree planted by the rivers of water. That bringeth forth his fruit in his season, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. We have this picture, this comparison of a man or person to a tree. Trees are lasting. There's some trees in the world that scientists believe. are over 4,000 years old. Notice his position here, planted by the rivers of water. It's hard to uproot a mature tree. They have stability. Their roots go deep. Most Hebrew scholars think that the reference to the rivers of water here speaks of an irrigation canal, the idea being that God has placed us in a position where we can thrive spiritually. We have the Word of God. We have is truth. We have many advantages that we can use for our own spiritual good if we will but take advantage of them and make those daily choices. And we read of his productivity, bringeth forth fruit in his season. Oh, it may take time. The spiritual fruit will take time to develop and flourish, but it will come. A lack of fruit is usually an indication that we are not absorbing the water of the Word. Then we read of his permanence, his leaf also shall not wither. You see, the implication here is that even in the life of the blessed person, drought will come, adversity will come, difficulties you must face. But when you have the roots going down deep into God's truth, you will survive and even thrive. In the droughts of life. This is why Charles Spurgeon said that all of the Lord's trees are evergreens. And then we read that whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. This passage is not teaching the health and wealth gospel. It's not saying that if you do things God's way, you will have financial and physical prosperity. No, the prosperity in view here is spiritual fruitfulness. In Joshua 1. 8, we find the only place in the Old Testament where the word success is found. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. But thou shalt meditate therein day and night that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein, for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. I'm sure that every one of our graduates here tonight wants to be successful. It's not wrong to want to be successful in your field, to want to be successful in your relationships. But the most important thing is that you're successful in your relationship with God, that you be a vibrant, stable, serving believer. How we desperately need those in the world today. So how is it that we can be this blessed person? Shut out the world. Let the word of God saturate your soul. And you will be like a mighty tree for your God. You will face storms in life But if you're anchored in the Word, ye will weather the tumults, and ye will bring forth fruit to the glory of God. I encourage all of our graduates to take the blessed path. Let's close in prayer Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it is sufficient. We thank you that it satisfies us and cleanses us, gives us life. Peace. We pray, Father. that all of our young people here tonight who have achieved this milestone of earning a diploma or degree I pray that they would all seek to do your will. They would seek to be that blessed person. directs and guides their life in accordance with your word and becomes a blessing. To many. Oh Father, work in their lives. Protect them from the lies of the world. Help us, Father, to see great fruit. In the next generation. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.