We are continuing our series on the Lord's Prayer this morning, and we come to what is known as the fifth petition. Which simply says, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Some of you know the name of J. Vernon McGee. Give us a radio preacher for many years. He's long since passed away, but his programs are still here, heard all over the world. In one of his sermons, he tells the story of two little girls who attended different churches, and they were comparing notes as it were. And both of their churches, they did do one thing similar, and that is that they both recited the Lord's Prayer every Sunday morning. And as they were talking about it, one girl said, Well, in our church we have trespasses. And the other girl said, Well, in our church, we have debtors. Perhaps a word of explanation is in order. There are two slightly different versions of the Lord's Prayer that are recited in churches. One says, Forgive us our trespasses. Some think it sounds a little more elegant. And then others follow exactly what our text says, and they pray that God would forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Now, whether you use the term trespasses or debts, they are both referring, of course, to our sin. This is the biggest problem we have. This is not something hard for us to relate to this term debt Because we are a nation of debtors. I did some research yesterday. It's not hard to do, of course, with the internet. The average American household is in debt, $258,000. 168 of that is the mortgage, $27,000 in auto loans, $48,000 in student debts, and about $16,000 in credit card debt. That's a big problem. And as big a problem as our financial debt is, our spiritual debt is much more significant. And this is why the final two requests in the Lord's Prayer really deal with this matter of sin. He says, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and then verse 13, and lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from evil. These final petitions are a reminder to us that the Christian life is a struggle against sin. This morning, as we consider this fifth petition, we are only going to look at the first part of it. Forgive us our debts. Lord willing, next week we'll look at the horizontal relationship as we forgive our debtors I want to make some preliminary observations concerning these four simple words before we really get into the message. This prayer, of course. implies and assumes that we are all sinners. It's not just that some people need to pray this prayer, forgive us our debts, but everyone needs to pray this prayer. This is a concept we know well. To be in debt is to owe someone something, to have an obligation to them. The Bible teaches that we are all indebted to God because we are all sinners. The Bible describes sin uh through many different terms. It describes it as missing the mark as stepping over the boundary. It describes it as lawlessness and uncleanness and pollution and a variety of other terms. But perhaps the one that connects with us most in the world we live in today is this term debts. We have a great debt. When you really understand the biblical concept of sin, when you realize that we can sin not only by doing what We should not do what God has forbid us to do, but we sin by not doing what God has called us to do. When you consider that we can sin in our words and our actions and in our thoughts and in our attitudes. In our self-focus, it really is horrifying to think of how great a debt we have. I spoke a moment earlier about our personal debt. You know, we also have a national debt, in case you didn't know. It's about $19 trillion. I have trouble understanding how much that is. It's a lot. I think that is a good way. Of quantifying our debt to God as individuals. If you've ever seen a debt clock before, they have one I think in Times Square and you can see it on the internet and so forth. The last three or four digits of it you can't read because they're spinning so rapidly. And our debt before God is daily increasing, as it were. And just as you and I could never ever imagine paying back setting straight a debt of nineteen trillion dollars so you and I can never pay back our sin debts I told people this, you know, even if today somehow miraculously you started living a perfect life, what about all the sins before today? How are you going to make up for that? See, the plain answer is that if you were $19 trillion in debt, you would have to have some help. You would have to have someone do it for you. There's no way you could pay that debt. And that's the good news of the gospel. The first step to getting out of the sin debt is to recognize that you can't pay it. You can't possibly do it. And God does not just forgive our debt, there had to be a payment for our debts, and that payment was in the Lord Jesus Christ. who died in place of sinners. Second Corinthians 5. 21 says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Because Christ is the perfect Son of God and He lived a perfect life and He died a substitutionary death, He is faithful and just. He is qualified to die in our place so that we as people who are absolutely buried in sin debts can justly be forgiven. Thereby God can retain his integrity as the judge of all the earth because a sufficient sacrifice and payment has been made for our debts. The Bible says in Romans 3, he can be just and the justifier of them that believeth in Jesus. That is the good news of the gospel. This gift of salvation, however, is only for those who repent of their sins and trust in Christ. So the very outset of this message, I want to ask you: have you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ? The prayer that we're examining today is really for Christians. It's a family prayer. It's for the Christian community. And so if if you have never come to Christ and seen that He is the Son of God, that He is the one who died and rose again and you don't trust in him, you cannot begin to get out from under that death. You can't begin to pray this prayer daily and walk in fellowship with God. You have to first of all recognize that your debt is greater than you can ever pay, and therefore you need the Son of God to be your Savior. This is what it means to be a Christian. Christians are those who have taken their sin debt to God knowing that they can never pay it. Now Jesus taught this prayer to his disciples. This is to be a reoccurring prayer for all believers. Forgive us our debts This does not save us, this prayer. It does not keep us saved. But what it does do is it is the means by which God enables us to maintain close fellowship with Him. And that's what I want to explore with you this morning. Christians should pray for forgiveness in order to maintain fellowship with God. And the passage that really brings this out and explains it more fully, the best one, the one that every commentator and every preacher has always turned to when they preach on this petition. is the text that we read together this morning in 1 John. So I would encourage you now to turn with me to 1 John chapter 1. This is right towards the end of your Bibles. Little book of 1 John. Written by the same man who wrote the Gospel of John. I'm going to begin reading where we get it, verse 5. This then is the message Which we have heard of him and declare unto you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. So the idea here is we have a holy God who is absolutely perfect. Well, how can we, as sinful fallen creatures, have fellowship with such a being? Verse 6, if we say we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. Verse 7, but If we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. Verse 9 is our key text. If we confess our sins He , is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. So I want you to see, first of all, that believers must realize that we need God's forgiveness to enjoy fellowship with God. You can't have that sense of walking with the Lord, as it says here, walking in the light, unless you have God's continued forgiveness. Now last week we looked at the fourth petition. Give us this day our daily bread, and that's linked to this one. And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. The idea is what? I want you to notice this. Just as a person is to pray every day For God to supply their needs. Remember that term bread has to do with all of your material and physical needs. Just like you're dependent on God and you should express that dependence in prayer. So every day Christians should be praying for God to forgive them. Do you know why? You know what the implication of that is? Because you fail God every day. If you don't think you do, then you don't understand how the Bible describes sin. And John would say here, you're a liar. You're deceiving yourself. Now, there's something that you might be thinking of that's confusing to you, and it's confused a lot of people. I remember when I was ordained to the gospel ministry in 1998, there was a man who asked me a question. In that council meeting, he said, It says, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness, right? So What happens if you die before you've had a chance to confess the sins that you've committed that day? Does that mean they're not forgiven and you go to hell? That's a good question. You ever thought about that? Let's talk about that for a second. There are some Christians, not many. There are some who get confused about this. And they say we don't have to ask for forgiveness as Christians because we've already been forgiven. We were forgiven at the cross. We were forgiven when we were saved. We don't have to ask for forgiveness. And they say that to ask for forgiveness is really an act of unbelief because you're saying you don't really believe that God forgave you. So how do we solve this problem? Well, we need to understand that there are two different senses of forgiveness. Theologians always like to make divisions. And so there is, first of all, a judicial sense of our forgiveness. Think of the word judge. The Bible teaches That when you repented of your sin and trusted in Christ, that you were saved, that you were justified that you were declared by the judge of all the earth to be not guilty. We sang together this morning, no condemnation now I dread. How could we sing that boldly and with assurance and with joy? Because we believe that we have been forgiven in this sense, this judicial sense. The judge of all the earth has said, not guilty, but righteous in Christ. That is the essence of the gospel. But there's another sense of forgiveness, and that's sometimes called paternal forgiveness or familial forgiveness, and the idea is That our God is not only a judge, but paternal means what? He's also our Father. And so, in order to maintain close fellowship with our Heavenly Father and to walk with Him. We have to maintain, we have to on a regular basis ask the Lord To forgive us. Not because our salvation is resting on us, and if we forget to ask for forgiveness for some sin that just slipped our mind today, that then you know we're going to perish eternally if we would die tonight in our sleep. Not that. But how can we walk in fellowship with God? If we know that we have sinned against him and we have not acknowledged that and we have not sought to ask for his forgiveness. This is the way all relationships work. Let me give you an illustration. Let's say that there's a dad and his son and The dad tells his son one day they go out on this camping trip and he tells his son, I want you to know, son, that I am your father and I love you and that will never change. Nothing you can do will ever sever this relationship because I love you as my son. And that relationship will never change. And the son loves that and just soaks it in. And when he grows up, he starts to do things his own way. And as a teenager, one night When his dad's out of the house, he takes his father's keys there on the nightstand, and he borrows his dad's car and he goes out and he rides around like a maniac and he wraps it around the telephone bowl And his father comes and his father is furious. He says, I can't believe you did this to me. And the son says, but you said that you would always love me. You you you you said that this relationship would would never be like this. Well see the nature of relationships is that when we do something that is sinful and wrong against someone else We feel guilty about it, or at least we should, and they are grieved about it. They are vexed about it because there's been a breakdown in that relationship. And so what that son needs to do is he needs to acknowledge his sin and needs to ask his father forgiveness so that that relationship can be restored. It's the same way in our relationship with our Heavenly Father. The Lord Jesus Christ spoke about this in the upper room the night before he was crucified. Do you remember this? Remember the disciples forgot to get anybody to Wash the disciples their feet. And so Jesus wraps a towel around his waist and takes a basin of water and begins to wash their feet. There's this awkward silence in the upper room. Jesus comes to Peter and Peter says, Lord, I don't want you to wash my feet. Please don't wash my feet. And Jesus says, well, you know, if I don't wash your feet, you have no part with me. And then Peter says, you know, basically, Peter always saying what he thinks, well then wash my whole body. And he says, no, Peter, you don't need a bath is the word he uses there in the Greek text. You only need your feet washed. What do you mean by that? When we are saved, we have been washed by the blood. It's like we've gotten the spiritual bath But as we walk daily through the dusty roads of this world, you know what? Our feet get dirty. And they need to be washed daily. That's the idea. That brings me to the next point. How exactly do we seek this forgiveness? And I want you to see here that believers must realize that we still need to confess our sins in order to enjoy fellowship with God. In verse 8 it says, if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I want to first of all clarify what this means to confess your sin by knocking out some misconceptions that people have. Some people have been brought up in a faith tradition that says that you have to go to some type of priest or some type of spiritual entity and you have to tell them all of your sin and then they will go to God And they will make um they will ask for forgiveness on your behalf, and they may give you some things to do to kind of make up for what you did. That is nowhere taught in the Word of God. The clear implication of this passage and many others is that we go directly to God. Now, does that mean that we never confess anything to anyone? No, that's not true. If you've sinned against someone, you should confess that and talk to them about it. Sometimes it helps when a person is struggling with sin to have someone they're accountable to that they go to and they tell them the brutal honest truth about their failures. Sometimes that can be very helpful But we don't have to go to an earthly mediator who's like a middleman between us and gods. We go directly to God with this confession. He is the only mediator between God and man, says in 1 Timothy 2. 5. This verse also is not saying that confession is something like some magic words that just kind of erase your sin. Sometimes people think that kind of like hocus pocus, you know, and it's gone. All those horrible things I did today, gone. And so th that they think that just saying a simple prayer, dear God, forgive me for all the horrible and wicked and unthoughtful things I did today, Amen. But I'm good now. Walking in fellowship with the Lord, no. No, that's not the idea. These are not magic words. Confession also is not simply admitting that you have messed up, that you're less than perfect. So what exactly are we talking about here? What does this mean? Well the word confess actually means to say the same thing You're saying the same thing that God would say about your sin We like to deceive ourselves about our sin, and we like to deceive others about our sin. We like to minimize our sin. And so we often live in denial about it, or we become defensive about it, and we argue with other people about it And we like to kind of rename it in terms that sound much better, such as indiscretions or inappropriate behavior or poor judgments. You ever hear like an athlete or a politician or something when they've been caught doing something horrible and they have to read a statement that's been prepared by the lawyer? That's the kind of language you will hear. Poor judgments, indiscretion, and so forth. It's kind of nebulous, and it doesn't sound so bad, but you know what? God calls it sin. And when we confess our sin to God, we have to calm, acknowledging how wicked it is and how serious it is. It's so serious that it sent his son Jesus Christ to the cross. We must agree with God. You see, confession, I must secondly add, is one facet of a larger doctrine of repentance. Proverbs 28, 13 says, He that covereth his sin shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. In other words, when we confess our sin to God, it's not like I mentioned earlier, it's not a magic formula to erase our sin. And so, you know, we we go to God in in prayer and and every day we commit the same Same wicked acts, and we just say, well, I don't have to worry about it because I'll say a few words and it's gone. No, when we confess, we are repenting, which means that we are desperately seeking God's grace to conquer the sin and to turn from it. We don't want to keep hiding this and keep practicing this. We want victory. You see, we have to become broken over our sin. You know, the most miserable person in the world is a Christian who is living in the domination of sin, who is living with unrepentant sin in their life, sin that they will not do anything, or that they don't even necessarily desire to have victory over. Why do I say that's the most miserable person in the world? Because they can't really enjoy the pleasures of sin like a lost person. Why? Because a true believer has the Holy Spirit of God living within them, and he will convict them and he will be vexed and be quenched, and so they will know that something is wrong internally because they're continuing in the sinful path. But they also can't enjoy the wonderful, reassuring presence of their Heavenly Father. They can't walk in the light because they're walking in darkness. So they're like in a spiritual no-man 's land. You know, the no-man's land in World War I that was invented. between the trenches of uh of the different forces that they would be fighting and there'd be barbed wire and that land in between was a very horrible place to be. It was no man's land And a believer who's living with unrepentant sin in their life is living in no man's land. They're not enjoying the refuge and the freedom over here, and they're not over here. They're somewhere in between. This is why so many Christians one reason, not the only reason, but one reason why so many Christians Have a miserable existence because they have no sense of God's presence in their life, his comforting presence. In fact, often the idea of God's presence is kind of disturbing to them, just like a little child who has done something wrong hides from his father. So they will hide from their heavenly Father because his presence reminds them that they're not right. And often their father will chasten them, as Hebrews 12 says. And so they begin to think, my father is against me. And so I want to avoid him at all costs. This passage is very instructive about our confession to God as believers. We should confess our sins specifically. Notice our text says. . Sins, plural. . We don't just ask God to forgive me for all my sins today. That's kind of a blanket coverage policy. No. We need to Reflect on our day. We need to remember how we have failed God and we need to ask God's forgiveness specifically for those sins. There's no real repentance in a nebulous confession. We need to confess our moral thoughts and our judgmental spirit and our gossip and our lies. We need to be specific and we need to name it in a way that God names it. And you know what? God even forgives the horrible things that we do. Did you notice the language in this passage, how open-ended it is? Verse 7, at the end, we have this wonderful reassuring promise. The blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Even the really horrible things that appall people. The things that you're incredibly embarrassed about that you wouldn't want anybody in the world to know about. Even that sin can be forgiven through the blood of Christ. And notice what it says at the end of verse 9. It says that he will cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Sometimes people get this thought, this false idea in their minds, you know, Christians don't commit bad sins. They they only commit the little things. They only commit respectable sins, but they don't commit the big sins. I want you to know that Christians commit the big sins too. As a pastor, I know that's the case. And you know what? The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses from all sin. That promise has to be cleaned So what are some implications of this that we should confess our sins to God on a regular basis? This is in the present tense. We keep on confessing. Most of you know the name of Matthew Henry, the most famous Bible commentator of all time He said this, the Christian life is a life of continued repentance, humiliation, and mortification for sin. That sounds really old-fashioned, but you know what? It's biblical. You never get to the place I know that there have been some Christians throughout the history of the church that have been mistaken about this. They think that somehow they can arrive at a plane where they really don't sin anymore. They're living this victorious life and the you know that they don't have any of these problems to worry about But I want you to know that that is not squared with my understanding of the scriptures or my own experience in life There is always an incessant fight and struggle to the death. Now the Holy Spirit of God gives us strength and we can have victory. We can make progress. Do not misunderstand me. You should be making progress and headway and going further on in your Christian life and dying more and more to sin and living more and more for Christ. But you're never going to get to the place where you say, I don't have to ask for forgiveness anymore. You know, I'm pretty much sinless right now, finally arrived. No. If you think you've really arrived and are sinless, then John here says you're a liar and you've got something to confess right there. I think that many Christians become absolutely disillusioned and discouraged about their spiritual state. I don't know how else to describe it, but it's sort of the trap that some people I have spoken to fall in when it comes to like cleaning their house. And that as you know, you house gets a little cluttered and start bringing stuff in and the kids and everything else and the floor gets dirty and You know, you really should clean it, but you got so many other pressing things going on in your life right now. You don't really have time for this. You just kind of put it off and You go another week and and things get more messy and more dirty and and more uh out of place, but you look at it and you're like, you know, that's going to take like three or four hours to get back in sh in shape. I don't have three or four hours. So you put it off and the next week it's even worse. And after a while, it's just horrendous But the idea is it's going to take so much effort and so much work, I just can't even think about doing all of that now. So you just let it go and people become comfortable. living in a certain state. And then finally maybe you have a friend over and they'll say something to you, how do you live like this? How can you live like this? This is horrible. They got to that place one day at a time. And I think there are a lot of people that are like this spiritually, you know. Things start to stack up They fail God in an area that uh that it 's painful, so they don't want to really pray about it or think about it because it's painful for them to think about it. So that they don't deal with the Lord about it and then they they feel dry and they feel cold and they feel distant from God and and then th they commit more and more sin because as you for feel detached from God, you don't seek his face, you don't seek his favor, you don't seek his love as you should, and so you be it becomes a vicious cycle is what I'm saying. And so you just get buried under this huge backlog of sin, and it seems insurmountable. But of course it's not insurmountable. And you know what? God is not sitting up there with a clipboard and all the sins that you have, and he's waiting to put a check by each one. He's more than ready to forgive and to restore that fellowship. This is why we need to do what the Puritan said, and that is keep short accounts with God And that on a daily basis we review our life, we we search our heart, we acknowledge our failure, and we ask God to forgive us, and we ask for His grace. And we go on the next day. That this is this is an essential and a fundamental aspect of the Christian life. But you know what I find that a lot of Christians really fall short of this. Let me ask you this question. When was the last time that you specifically asked God to forgive you for something? Was that today? Was it a week ago, a month ago, a year ago? I think so often in our prayers we just barge into God's presence with our problems and and and and and yet we don't feel close to him. It's because we've got this backlog, we've got this This great cloud, as it were, between us and our Father. He still loves us. He still cares for us. He's still involved in our lives. But we don't really feel that because we've allowed all of this to pile up around us. But the fact is that God delights to forgive. I think a lot of Christians fall into this trap. They think, you know, they think of God like us. You know, if someone failed me, And offended me and sinned against me every single day. You know what? The time would come when they would throw up their hands and say, you know what? I'm done with you. I'm not going to be your friend anymore. I don't want to be around you. I don't want to talk with you. I don't want to be in your company. I don't like you anymore because every single day you fail me. But you know what? God's not like us He delights to forgive. He knows our frame. He remembers that we are dust. And he is more than ready to part. And he is like the prodigal's father. He's waiting to forgive. That brings me to the third point, and that is believers must realize the unchanging ground. Of our fellowship with God. Did you see this here? It says that if we confess our sins, what? He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. The ground of our forgiveness, the ground of our fellowship is not our confession or our repentance. I find that a lot of Christians think of it this way. You know, I I I've got to remember every single way that I failed God, and if I don't, then God's not going to forgive me. Or I've got to use biblical language in my repentance and in my confession. If I come up short in any little way, then he's going to say, denies You didn't say it right. You didn't really weep any tears. You're not really forgiven But the ground of our obedience is not our confession, although we need to confess. It's the character of our God. He's faithful and he's just. Another error that people make is they think that somehow, even though they've asked God to forgive them, that's not enough they've got to kind of earn his forgiveness. I don't know how often I've come to people I've encountered people who want to get involved and want to serve because they're trying to work off some kind of guilt. You know, I really messed up this week, so what can I do around the church? Because it'll make me feel better to be doing some good things No, it's not based on what you can do. It's based on what Christ has done. You can never make up for your sin. You must accept by faith God's forgiveness. What does it mean here when it says that he is faithful? It means that God will be faithful to always fulfill his promises Like this promise here, he's faithful and just to forgive us of all our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You know, the Bible is filled. with all of these pictures of forgiveness, because we we we we need to consider these because we're so quick to disbelieve that he will really forgive us. Says that he has cast all our sins behind his back. Says that he's taken our sins and he's buried them in the depths of the sea. It says that he's taken our sins and he's separated as far as the east is from the west. It says that he has blotted out our sins. It says that he has nailed them to the cross. These are all images to help us understand. They are gone. And he says, I will forgive their iniquity and I will remember their sin no more. And it's that truth, it is that truth that should cause us to draw close to him and to seek his forgiveness because he will forgive us. He promises again and again. And it's rooted not in how good our confession is or how how good our actions are after we confess our sin. It's rooted in who he is. He is faithful. And it also says that he is just This is interesting. You would expect to find something like merciful here, right? And indeed we do serve a merciful God, but the word here in our text is just. How can a just God that demands perfection, forgive people who sin again and again. The answer is the gospel. The answer is Jesus Christ. The only way that God can have fellowship with sinful people like us is through the fact that we have a perfect substitute who died in our place, and his righteousness has been credited to our accounts. Notice how the answer how we are told again and again in this text of The fact that the blood of Christ keeps on cleansing us. That's the idea of the present tense here in verse 7. The blood of Jesus Christ, the Son, cleanses us from all sin. So let me ask you this morning, are you walking in fellowship with the Lord? There is no reason that a believer, a Christian, Needs to be walking in the darkness, separated, detached from his heavenly father. There's no reason that needs to be. You can confess your sin, and he will be faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Now sometimes people have an idol in their life that they cling to and they they grasp and they think it's giving them security, it's giving them joy and significance, and they don't want to lay it down, but I want you to know that that idol will fail you and it is no compensation for the fellowship of your father. You need to repent of that and lay it down, cast it down, and worship only Him. Maybe you're here this morning and you don't know the Lord. You have never been forgiven. And so you cannot begin to ask for daily forgiveness. Well, the same blood that cleanses believers is the same blood that cleanses unbelievers. And you must go to Christ. You must seek the Lord. You must repent of your sin. You must trust in Christ alone as your Savior. The Bible says, as many as received him to them gave ye power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Trust in Christ. Trust in him. And he will forgive you. Let's close in prayer, Father. Thank you for your word. We thank you that it gives hope to sinners like us. Father, how aware we are that we need your forgiveness. How we fall short, how we live such self-focused lives. How we live for our glory, Father, not for yours. But Father, we thank you for the truth that we've Consider this morning, we thank you that we have a God who is faithful and just, a God who delights to forgive and pardon. And so I pray that you would help us to rest in this truth today. Pray that this message would be truly beneficial to someone here. who does not know you, Father, that they would seek the Savior while he may be found. And Father, for others who do know you, but they have come to the place where they believe that you will no longer forgive them and that you're done with them. And therefore they don't bother asking daily for forgiveness. They pray that you would show them. This is not the case. And that you desire to restore fellowship with them. Help them, Father, to seek that today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.