If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Genesis chapter 45? Genesis 45. Many of you have heard the name Cory Tenboom before. She is the famous Christian author of the book The Hiding Place, which chronicles her life During World War II and the horrors of the Ravensbrook concentration camp where she and her sister were located for some time. In this camp, this concentration camp, she watched her sister die a slow, agonizing death After the war, she was going around Germany in evangelistic rallies, sharing her experiences. And one day after speaking to a large crowd in 1947, there was a line of people waiting to speak to her, and she looked down the line and she saw a man. that she recognized as the cruelest prison guard at the concentration camp where she was. And as they came up one by one, finally this man came up to her and he told her that after the war He found faith in Christ and he repented of his sins. And he said to her, He put his hand out and he said, Will you forgive me? And she writes that everything in her being recoiled from forgiving this man who tortured people and was a monster. But she knew what the New Testament taught, and so she said she put forth her hand and she said, I forgive you, brother, with all my heart. I think all of us admire those who forgive others because we instinctively know how difficult it is. Forgiveness often seems to people to be unnatural, unjust, and dishonest. This is what many Christians have told me over the years. Many people think that to forgive is basically to say to the person who wronged you, what you did to me was no big deal. When in fact it was a really big deal. It was painful, disruptive, and costly. And yet the Bible is filled with commands. that we as Christians must forgive. I'm not going to take the time to go through our New Testament and read one after another, but of course you know they are there. Perhaps the most powerful example of forgiveness in the Bible, besides our Lord Jesus Christ, is found in the life of Joseph. Let me try to summarize the first half of his life. The Bible takes up the life of Joseph when he was 17 years old. It was at this time that he had a dream that indicated that someday his family would bow down to him. It seemed to his family that these dreams were nothing more than arrogant ambitions of an egocentric young man, but in fact they were a prophecy from God. One day, when Joseph went out to check on his brothers who were feeding their herds in a distant pasture, his brothers conspired and they grabbed him and they threw him into a pit for a time. They discussed killing him on the spots, but they ended up selling him as a slave to some passing merchants. Those merchants took him to Egypt, where he was purchased by a man named Potiphar, who was the chief executioner. You can imagine that this man was not a soft man. He was a hard and ruthless individual. But Joseph's faithful work impressed this man, and in time he came to oversee everything of his master's affairs. The one problem that he faced and had no solution for was that Potiphar's wife kept trying to seduce him. Joseph steadfastly refused, citing his loyalty both to his master and to God. Finally, she was rejected one too many times, and she accused him of attacking her. And so Fatifer throws him into prison. And after a while, Joseph meets two other prisoners, as you know, a butler and a baker. He interprets their dreams. The butler is restored to his position in the royal court. And although the butler promises to put in a good word for Joseph, he soon forgot all about him. And for about three years, Joseph remained in prison. For all he knew, that would be his home for the rest of his life. But one night Pharaoh had a dream that no one could decipher The butler remembers Joseph and tells Pharaoh, who calls for him to come. Joseph interprets the dream, and one night he goes from being a slave in prison. to being the second highest ruler and the most powerful nation on earth Now I'd like to pick up a story of Joseph at the dramatic scene when he reveals his identity to his brother. Remember, there was a famine in the land, and they must come to Egypt to get grain. And they have several interactions with Joseph. And here in Genesis 45, we have Joseph revealing himself to his brothers. And what we see in this revelation to them is that Joseph has forgiven his brothers. And I want us to look at some essential truths. that empower believers to forgive others. Look with me, please, at Genesis 45. We read, then Joseph could not control himself before all those who stood by him. He cried, Make everyone go out from me. So no one stayed with him when Joseph made himself known to his brothers. And he wept aloud, so that the Egyptians heard it, and the household of Pharaoh heard it, and Joseph said to his brother, I am Joseph. Is my father still alive? But his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed at his presence. So Joseph said to his brothers, Come near to me, please. And they came near and he said, I am your brother Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt. Now do not be distressed or angry with yourself because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life. For the famine has been in the land these two years, and there are yet five years before you five years in which there will be neither ploughing nor harvest, and God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on the earth and to keep alive for you many survivors. So it was not you who sent me here, but God He has made me a father to Pharaoh and lord of all his house and ruler over all the land of Egypt. Now the first truth, again, going back in time in the life of Joseph, I want to mention to you Is that forgiveness can occur even when you've been seriously wronged by others. Joseph was wronged by Potiphar, by Potiphar's wife by the butler who forgot him, but primarily by his brothers. If anyone had a right to be bitter It was Joseph. His life up to this point seemed like a record of tragedy, of bad people doing bad things to him. And now in the sovereign plan of God, he has been exalted to a place of power. And nine years after his promotion, he comes face to face. with his brothers who sold him into slavery. This is the type of scenario that wounded people dream about in their anger-fueled fantasies. He could have interpreted this as God's providence for him to bring about revenge on his brothers. He could have had them executed. He could have had them tortured and slowly and then have them die. He could have had them thrown into a dark dungeon for the rest of their days and no one would have questioned him. But that's not at all what he does. He treats them graciously because he had forgiven them long ago. I want you to consider seven ways that Joseph was wounded by his brothers. Number one, his brothers misjudged him. They viewed him as nothing more than a tattletale when he alerted his father to the sinful actions. They saw his dreams as nothing more than a manifestation of arrogance. But they were actually revelations from God. Don't you hate it when people misjudge you? When they think they know why you did something or said something and they're completely wrong, sometimes it's the opposite of what they think. But so often people judge others with the suspicion that these people are at their core wicked and worthless. Number two, they hated him. The Bible says this in the narrative of Joseph on four occasions his brothers hated him. This was due primarily to their father's favoritism. But perhaps it was also because he had a manifest godliness about him that just really irritated them. Thirdly, they intended to murder him. He was coming to bring them provision when they were out in the fields to do good to them, and they plotted to murder him, and they almost did. Number four, they assaulted him. When he finally arrived, they roughed him up, they stripped off his coat of many colors, and they brutally threw him into a dry cistern. Number five, they showed no compassion to him. The account in Genesis reads that he was crying for help and pleading with them. Not to do this great wickedness, but they mocked him and laughed at him. They enjoyed his distress. Number six, they sold him into slavery. They treated him as if he was a commodity. And they must have assumed that consigning him to a lifetime of hard labor would lead to an early death. and they would never have to hear from him again. And at the time it must have seemed like a great idea because their hands didn't murder him. Somebody else would bring him to a cruel death. And number seven, they never tried to make things right. They could have yielded to the troubled consciences and tried to purchase Joseph out of slavery. Remember, their father Jacob was a wealthy man. But they never sought to undo the wrong that they had done. This is often a sticking point with people. Who have been wrong, they often will say when you mention they must forgive, well, why don't they try to make things right? Why don't they come to me? Why don't they confess their sin to me? Joseph didn't take that approach. Joseph was horribly wronged and painfully wounded. But he overcame this adversity by the grace of God. We have here a beautiful and inspiring picture of forgiveness. Now, I've reminded you of Joseph's history because I don't want anyone to think and draw this conclusion that forgiveness is appropriate for minor sins. But when someone has changed the entire trajectory of your life, obviously you would never forgive in that scenario That's not true because Joseph was sinned against horribly, and yet he forgave, forgave. This doesn't mean that you are saying that the sins that people have committed against you are no big deal. And let me just say here that Christian counselors and scholars will often make a distinction and sometimes using different terminology. I'll say more about this later. But saying that you must forgive does not mean that you should not confront and that that person should not be made aware of the sin that they have caused against you. But the Bible is clear that a Christian never has the prerogative to remain bitter and angry and filled with animosity because of the wrong of this person that they have done to them. Some would say, some scholars would put it this way, you must forgive in your heart. Others would say you must have the attitude and the desire of forgiveness. And some other scholars would, instead of using the term forgiveness, they would use a different word, the word reconciliation. In other words, we must always forgive, but reconciliation is dependent on the repentance of the of the party that's done wrong. Number two Forgiveness occurs when we truly love those who have wronged us. You see, forgiveness is a real test of our love for others. You know, the deepest wounds usually come from those who claim to love us, like family members, like mothers and fathers and brothers and sisters and even children. And it's a sense in which because of that loving relationship that we have, that natural bond, the wounds are even deeper and more painful. In Genesis 42 through 44, the chapters that precede the chapter are in tonight. Joseph is testing his brothers. At first glance, the reader might assume that Joseph is getting his revenge. He speaks harshly to them. He has them thrown into prison. It seems like he's framing them by planting evidence on them. But all of this was actually testing that he's doing. He wants to find out if they have changed Since the day they threw him into that pit. You can forgive in your heart those who have never repented of their sins, but you can't be reconciled. To those who refuse to acknowledge their sin. But what we see here is that Joseph is pursuing reconciliation. Even though he has been hurt so much, because despite the ways that he has been so painfully wounded, he still wants to have a relationship with these brothers. He wants to be reunited, but he wants to discover if they truly repented of their sins. You see, when you truly love someone, you will want what is best for them. And what is best for everyone is that they not get away with their sin, but they come to confess it and forsake it. When Joseph is convinced that this has occurred in Genesis 45, he reveals his identity to them. In the previous chapter, Judah speaks for all of his brothers and reveals a steadfast love for their younger brother Benjamin. They will not leave him in Egypt In fact, Joseph offered to take him's place as a slave. That was completely different from the way they treated Joseph years earlier. And Joseph can tell that God has been at work in their heart and has done a work of repentance and regret for what they did, and they are determined that something like this will never happen again. And when Joseph recognizes this, the scripture says that he weeps. This is the third time in the Joseph narrative that we read this in Genesis 42, verses 21 through 24. Joseph wept because he saw that his brothers were troubled with a guilty conscience. And then in Genesis 43, verses 30 and 31, Joseph wept because he saw his brother Benjamin for the first time in over 20 years. And he sees that his brothers love him. And now this third time in Genesis 45, notice what it says. in verse 2, and he wept aloud, so that the Egyptians heard it, and the household of Pharaoh heard it. This was no quiet weeping. This was a loud explosion of sorrow and joy that God has been at work. And then in verse 3, we have the climax of all of these chapters to this point when he says to them, I am Joseph. And his brothers are so shocked that they cannot speak. So he tries to communicate them with them in a different way. He says, come near to me. Now the text doesn't say this, but I suspect that he took off his Egyptian headdress. And perhaps some other Egyptian royal signs that he had so that they could see his face clearly, and they could see, yes, it actually is Joseph. And then he says, whom you sold into slavery. Now you might think that he's trying to twist the knife on their guilt here, but what he's revealing to them is that he really is Joseph, because only Joseph knew. This fact that they had sold him into slavery. He is confirming his identity. And what is so powerful here is that Joseph, the man who's been horribly wronged, graciously seeks to relieve their fears and their guilt Look with me at verses 5 and 8 through 8. And now do not be distressed. or angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life. For the famine has been in the land these two years, and there are yet five years in which there will be neither ploughing nor And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on the earth to keep alive for you many survivors. So it was not you who sent me here, but God. He has made me a father to Pharaoh and Lord of all his house and ruler over all the land of Egypt. I want you to notice that Joseph, think about this, is demonstrating incredible grace and love to his brothers, and they haven't said a word of apology or repentance yet. What is Joseph doing here? I'm going to point out four things he's doing. Number one, I suspect he sees fear in their eyes, and so he's quickly trying to relieve that tension by speaking kindly and graciously to them. All of these brothers realize that Joseph could easily have them executed on the spot. But he wants to convey to them that he's not seeking revenge, but reconciliation. Number two, Joseph is showing remarkable empathy to them. He says, this is amazing, do not be distressed or angry with yourselves. He puts themself in their shoes and he understands how they would feel and how they were for these twenty years eaten up with guilt and remorse over what they had done, this dark secret. That was a shadow over their whole family. If we're going to forgive people, we have to be able to have empathy. for even those who have wronged us. A researcher named Stephen Sandage did research in which he discovered that the number one predictor of who would find forgiveness was determined by those who could empathize with others I think that Joseph was able to understand how they felt about being rejected by their father. Joseph didn't excuse their sin. But he did, but they could respond this way, he understood, because of their father's favoritism. Number three, Joseph is making it easy for them to reconcile. He's removing all of these obstacles, all of this emotional tension. He's trying to pave a road for them to seek and to feel safe and to be able to truly express their hearts. He is trying to reassure them that he has forgiven them completely. And number four He is treating them the way he would want to be treated if he were in their shoes. How do you want people to treat you when you have wronged them? Well, you want them to be gracious with you. You want them to forgive you quickly. You want them to not linger and just continually remind you of every detail of wrong that you did. You want them to forgive it in a loving manner, and that's exactly what Joseph does. It's been said that the most loving thing you can do for anyone is to forgive them. Number three, this third truth that empowers believers to forgive others is forgiveness occurs when we have learned to trust In our sovereign God. The sovereignty or providence of God in the life of a believer is the primary lesson in the life of Joseph. The truth that God had a purpose and a plan for every circumstance in his life was the foundation that enabled him to endure the storms of life. Did you notice in verses 5 through 8 all the references to God's sovereign work in his life? Three times he speaks of God sending him. He says in verse 5, For God sent me before you to preserve life. And verse 7, God sent me before you to preserve a remnant on the earth. Verse 8, so it was not you that sent me here, but God's But from a secondary standpoint, who was it that sent him to Egypt? It was his brothers when they sold him into slavery. A horrible act. But Joseph is able to interpret it as ultimately the plan of God. These are the words of a man who has meditated on the person and work of God, the sovereignty of God, very deeply. You see, Joseph was not fixated on how his brothers had hurt him, which is what people who are wounded naturally meditate on. No, he was fixated on how God was going to use it to further his great plan of redemption. It is common for people, for Christian people even to struggle with forgiveness. If you focus on what they have done to you instead of what God is doing in you , You will never forgive. If you think about their sin and their wickedness as being outside of what God is in control of And like they are their own independent entity that is hurting you, you will not see things as they truly are. The Bible clearly teaches that God has control over everything that occurs, even the wicked choices of men and women. And he uses their wicked decisions. To accomplish his ultimate purposes. The cross is the most powerful example of this truth In Acts chapter 2 and verse 23, Peter says, this Jesus delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. The Lord turned the hateful actions of Joseph's brothers into the vehicle by which he would save the lives of his chosen people. Now perhaps you would object and say, but I can't see how anything good could come out of the suffering that I am facing. That is the way many people feel. And perhaps you never will in this life. But God's plans are not limited by your perceptions. It is enough for you to know that all things work together for good to though them who love God. When you take your focus off of what others have done to you, and place it on what God is doing in you, it will make all the difference in the world. Now I want you to know that Joseph was not like a super saint that never had any struggles, and one of this odd person that just easily forgave people. He was not a walking mat that people could take advantage of. He had to struggle In his relationship with the Lord to overcome this, I want to invite you to turn back with me to Genesis chapter 41. Genesis chapter 41, and I want to look at verses 51 and 52. Genesis 41. 51 and 52. Joseph called the name of his firstborn Manasseh. For he said, God has made me forget all my hardship and all my father 's house. Verse 52, the name of the second he called Ephraim For God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction. The name of these two boys provides a window into the soul of Joseph. He says, God has made me forget. It doesn't mean that literally Joseph had no knowledge of what his brothers had done to him. But it meant that Joseph decided that he would not focus or meditate on the painful past, but on his present blessings. There is a perverse part of us that when someone has truly hurt us to the very core of our being, that we want to feed on that wrong. We want to replay it in our mind and the words that they said and the things that they did again and again and again and again It's kind of like a man who is thirsting to death on a raft in the South Pacific. He wants to drink the water that surrounds him. the salt water, but if he drinks that water, it will not quench his thirst. It will just make him more thirsty and more dehydrated. And this is what people do who are in the bondage of bitterness. They keep drinking the seawater. And for a split second, it gives them a sense of relief, a sense of feeling better, but it only compounds things and makes them worse and poisons them. We have to turn our minds away and not allow ourselves to indulge and meditate on the wrongs that people have done to us. Every time his mind went back to the pits and the way his brothers mocked him and how they sold him callously into slavery, he remembered how God had been so good to him. and how God brought him out of that prison and how God exalted him. That's what Joseph did. Joseph refused to be a victim of his circumstances. He names his second son, God has made me fruitful. Joseph consciously determined that he would focus on the good that God had brought into his life, not on the pain that others had brought into his life. Number four Forgiveness is essential for the restoration of relationships. Although Joseph was hurt deeply He actually wanted to still have a relationship with his brothers. He never thought, if I can use modern terminology, of canceling them. He never said, my family is toxic. I'm just never going to talk to them or have anything to do with them as long as I live. When he opens up to his brothers here in Genesis 45, he's not trying to get something off his chest He was not seeking to even the score and to have the last word. No, he actually, believe it or not, he wanted to function as a family again. He wants them to come and live with him. He wants to know them and their children. You see, the goal of forgiveness is restoration or reconciliation. Now, this is not always possible. There are two things that must occur for there to be reconciliation of a broken relationship. There must be repentance or confession of sin on the part of those who have wronged you. And often, this includes both parties So often the person who has sinned against may not sin initially, but they often sin later by the way they respond and the things they say and the attitudes they have. Because we're all sinners, most often, when there is a strained relationship, there is some amount of sin on both sides of the equation. And ideally, they both own up. To what they are responsible for, and the other one grants them forgiveness. So if you feel that in this equation you're responsible for 1% Then you need to take 100% ownership of the 1% that you were wrong in. This is the only way there can be reconciliation. And healthy relationships, whether they be relationships in a church family, or whether they be relationships like the husband and wife There will be repeatedly expressions of, I was wrong, will you forgive me? And the other joyfully exclaiming, you are forgiven. This may seem so simple, but it is profound, and it reflects the beauty of the gospel. Let me quickly examine the results of this family reunion. Look with me, please, at Genesis 45 and verse 9. He says, hurry, go up to my father and say to him, thus saith your Says your son Joseph, God has made me Lord of all in Egypt. Come down to me. Do not tarry He wants to relay a message to his father, God hath made me Lord of all Egypt. He wasn't saying, look at what I have done. He's saying, look at what God has done. The reality is that Jacob at this time was in a spiritual slump. And Joseph was trying to remind him of God's promises that were given to him in a dream over 20 years earlier. And God would use Joseph to bring his father back to where he needed to be spiritually. The fact is that God often uses our children to remind us of his goodness and his faithfulness. And then in verses 10 through 13, Joseph offers several incentives for his brothers to move to Egypt with him. And then we have the climax of this reunion in verses 14 and 15. Then he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck and wept, and Benjamin wept upon his neck, and he kissed all his brothers and wept upon them. After that his brothers talked. with him. And I think that is a severe understatement. I suspect that they talked all of that night And into the next day, they had over 20 years to catch up one. I cannot prove it. I would like to think, I would like to believe that it's at this point that his brothers repented and asked for forgiveness and expressed their remorse and their sadness over what they had done to him You can just imagine how satisfying that conversation was. What we have here is a beautiful family reunion. And this should be the goal of every fractured family. This is the kind of affection and forgiveness that also should be apparent in the family of God, the church. So let me now make some concluding applications. I cannot possibly answer all the questions that would come out of this presentation, but I'm going to try to answer a few of them. Let me first of all say that Christians never have an excuse to refuse to forgive. and to harbor bitterness and animosity in their heart towards others, no matter what they have done to them. I think the most common excuse that Christians give is They've never asked for forgiveness. So I don't need to forgive them. A verse that seems to support this position is Luke chapter 17 and verse 3. It says, if your brother sin, rebuke him. And if he repents, forgive him. And so the logic goes, if they don't repent, I don't need to forgive them. But that is not a satisfactory response that encompasses and includes everything the Bible teaches. What if they don't realize they've sinned against you? This is why you must let them know. You must confront them. It uses the term rebuke here, which doesn't mean that you get up in their face and yell at them. It means you make them aware. You really hurt me when you responded to me this way. You really hurt me when you said these words. You really hurt me when you excluded me from this. But what if They do not respond. Or what if they're dead and you can't confront them? Are you just the boil over with anger and bitterness the rest of your life? No. You must forgive them in your heart before God. The word forgiveness means to let go of your natural desire to make them suffer for hurting you. A verse that teaches this responsibility is a verse that counterbalances Luke 17. 3 is Mark 11. 25. And whenever you stand praying, forgive If you have anything against anyone, so that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive your trespasses. Now, as I mentioned earlier, some theologians and some counselors would use different terminology. Some would speak of attitudinal forgiveness, which is always required. and transactional forgiveness when the person repents and you say to them, you are forgiven. Other theologians would say, no, we'll call the first one forgiveness and the second one reconciliation. But they're both talking about the same two aspects. For there to be reconciliation, there must be repentance on the part of the offender. You can't just pretend. that nothing has happened. This does not mean, by the way, when we are mentioned in Luke 17, 3 to rebuke that every single time your feathers are ruffled, you have to make a federal case of it. And go and confront them. The Bible also says love covers a multitude of sin. And the more spiritually mature you are, and the further you go in your Christian life, the less you will have to confront people because you will say, you know, that that that was offensive and that was hurtful But I can get past this and I can continue in a relationship with this person. They're just kind of an outspoken sort of person. That's the way they are. They didn't really mean anything by it. I'm not going to meditate on this and it's not going to break down our relationship. But if it does, and you recognize that it does break down your relationship and you're avoiding them and you're not talking about them and when you see them, the first thing that flashes into your mind, oh, this is that person that said this horrible thing about me, then you have to be honest with yourself and you have to go and talk to them about it and seek reconciliation. So this is what God has called us to do. We are to desire what is best for our brothers and sisters. And we are not just supposed to view this as modern people do today, and that is it's all about how I feel and my mental health. And what makes peace for my heart. And so if that means I have to exclude my whole family or a whole group of people and just have nothing to do with them, then that's what I need to do. No, that is not the Christian response. That is a 21st century Western individualistic philosophical response. But we live in a community of believers. And therefore, we must always seek to have good relationships with one another one another and when we the Bible says according to Matthew 5 when we recognize that we have hurt someone we are responsible to go to them And when we have been hurt by someone and we can't cover it with a multitude of love, then we must go to them. Whether you're the one who has hurt someone or the one who has been hurt, you are to seek reconciliation and forgiveness. This is what the Bible teaches. This is very difficult to do. And let me just say, this is a message that is unique to Christianity. No other religion in the world teaches forgiveness the way Christianity does. And that's because only Christianity has Christ and the cross at its core. And at the core of the gospel message is forgiveness. And that is to be reflected in our lives. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word, for the inspiring example of Joseph. I pray that you would use What has been said here tonight from your word to accomplish your purposes, to bring about healing, reconciliation, and restoration. And I pray, Father, that we would seek to be obedient to this series of commands in Scripture that are difficult to live out. Help us, Father, to be a unified assembly because we are forgiving people. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.