Well good to be with you all this evening. I'm gonna start us off here with a word of prayer. Let's bow our heads. Father, we thank you so much that we can come into your house tonight to hear the word preached. Father, pray that your spirit will be with us, guiding us. In all discernment, all wisdom, all understanding, Lord, as we need your Spirit to help us in these things. Help us wrestle with these truths, Father, and let us delight to be together under the Word this evening. And we ask this in your son 's name. Well, the average household debt in America is $105 ,000. The total household debt in our country is $18. 6 trillion as of the end of the third quarter of this year. See, the idea of debt is so ingrained into our American culture, it's become almost an unavoidable reality. behind many of the major life stages we go through. Ready to go to college? Take on some debt. Ready to buy that first house? Add a six-figure debt on top of that Kids going to college, maybe you take on more debt, maybe you mortgage your house, maybe they tough it out with their own debt. Christmas season puts an average of $1,800 on each credit card in existence. And with the use of buy now pay later plans surging, the forecast for this year's spending on those plans is $20 billion. On buy now, pay later purchases. We are a society that is drowning in debt. This is true of our finances, and it's true of our sin. The sin in our lives is a real moral debt to God, and few have ever opened the balance sheet. Sheet to see it. Much like our finances, day by day we accumulate real moral debt before a righteous God, and this debt has eternal consequences. And the day of reckoning, when our account is called and the balance is due, is going to come and none of us are going to be able to pay it on our own. And not only is this vertical relationship with God impacted, but we work up debt with our fellow brothers and sisters horizontally in our lives. Yes, this is a sin before God, but it has spiritual consequences in our world and in our relationships. You see, we're all sinners who incur a real moral debt before a righteous God. But praise to God, the Christian life is marked by both the receiving of forgiveness, but also the giving of forgiveness. Christians receive forgiveness of our sins in Christ, the debt paid on the cross for our sins. Amen. And yet we've because we've experienced this forgiveness in Christ, we ourselves are commanded to forgive others as we've been forgiven. So my message for us tonight is that because of the real moral sin debt we have , We must pray for forgiveness of our sin to God, and those who received it must give it freely to others. This is the mercy of our Lord. And I want to unpack this proposition in two parts tonight. First, that we must, we need God's forgiveness, and second, we must forgive others. If you 'll turn with me in your Bible to Matthew 6, verse 12. This is the second to last message in the series on the Lord's Prayer. We're in the middle. Of what are three petitions we have of dependence on the Lord that believers have towards the Lord? These are all prayers of the believer towards the Lord in dependence, these last three. Last time we covered the dependence we have on God for his gracious provision of all the things he gives, because he is the giver, he gives by grace, and he gives all things. Tonight we turn to the second of those three petitions, which calls out God the Father for the forgiveness of our debts. the real moral consequence of our sin against an infinitely pure and righteous God. So again, my two points for tonight. We need God's forgiveness and we must forgive others. Let's jump into the first point. So read there in verse 12, and forgive us our debts. Forgive us our debts. Suggest that we have done things that we should not have done. And we left things undone that we should have done. Firstly, as we're coming into this consideration of the verse tonight, we're not forgetting the context. We're in a prayer. This is a prayer that Jesus is giving his disciples. It's a command that we're saying, forgive us. Yet when we pray a command and a prayer, it is a request. It is a request to God, a humble submission to God. Let's look at what this prayer says. First it starts with and. This is linking to the first petition, the one we went over last time. Give us this day our daily bread. It's not enough to simply be in a prayer of dependence for the Lord for our physical needs, the gracious giver, but the prayer continues with this and for the dependence of a different kind, one of a spiritual and moral context. This one is arguably more important than the last one. A restored fellowship with God and others is at the nature of this. The linking here demonstrates a larger complete scope of our dependence on the Lord. He rolls these up over three petitions. Let's get to the main verb. Forgive us. The act of forgiveness is central to the gospel and to the Christian life Not only are we dependent on the gracious goods of God, his physical gifts, we are dependent on the grace of God in forgiveness of our sins. Here the petition from Jesus is for us to ask the Father for forgiveness. The underlying grammar here supports one of the many phrases that's used to describe the relationship we have with God and our need for Him in the grand work of salvation. There is forgiveness, redemption, repentance. All of these acts play a part in the large doctrine of salvation. Yet in the nature of the verse tonight About prayer, it's speaking primarily not about the act of salvation, but of sanctification. Jesus is speaking to believers. Those who have already repented from seeking God and forgiveness, they've experienced the canceling death of the atonement of Christ, like in Colossians when it says, by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with legal demands. He set it aside, nailing it on the cross. So in this context, we're speaking to a very specific kind of forgiveness that applies to a believer's salvation. but our ongoing sanctification and obedience in the Lord. See, there are two central actors when we talk about forgiveness. There's the Pardoner and the Petitioner. It's clear from the context of this prayer that we are the petitioners We're the ones asking, putting these petitions before God, as the one who's being asked to pardon us in forgiveness of these debts. Which we're going to discuss debt in a minute. Yet there's three things we need to know about forgiveness when it comes to God in this petition. First, forgiveness is required from God because all of our sins are a sin against God. Psalm 51, 4, David says, Against you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. Now, if you know what this he's talking about in Psalm 51, it's when this is his repentance with uh Bathsheba and Uriah. Clearly his only sin was not against God, as we would understand the story, yet David acknowledges that the sin is a sin against God. He says a similar thing in 2 Samuel when David said to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. This is after he was accused of killing Uriah. Or the prodigal son, when he returns to his father in Luke 15, he says, Father, I have sinned against heaven and you. All of these are examples that demonstrate that our sin is against God. Even if we sin against each other, they're ultimately against God and his perfect moral standard. Romans 3, we all know the verse very well. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Saying, We sin, we fall short of his moral standard, the glory that is him. Any of the direction of our sin is against that standard which applies to us. And of course we know that the wages of sin is death, meaning that our sin has a very real consequence. There is something being accumulated while we sin. Further down in Romans, Paul goes on to say in chapter 14, so then each of us will give an account of himself to God. The balanced sheet of our sin. Our transgression is against God. Even if we sin against our fellow man, we will give an account of our sins to God, not to man. Our sin is against God. Thus we need forgiveness from our sins from God for every sin we commit. The second thing we need to know about our forgiveness is that the grounds of our petition, our ability to ask for forgiveness to God is on the atoning work of Christ. Just how it saved us from our sins in salvation, it is also the grounds on which we ask now. We know in Hebrews 9, it says, without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sin. In Colossians 1, in whom we have redemption, speaking of Christ, the forgiveness of sins. There's only one ground in which we ask for forgiveness. Before God. It is based on the promise of God and salvation provided by Christ alone. When we pray, forgive us, it's only accepted because of what Christ has done. And 1 John says this in verse 7, but if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his son cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Is he Christ's blood, his sacrifice that allows the dwelling of the Spirit in us, who gives us access to the Father? In Ephesians, for through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. The atoning work of Christ. This is the grounds in which we have access to the Father and can bring this petition to Him, and He can forgive us. Now you may be asking yourself, thinking about this, well, what if an unbeliever asks for forgiveness from God? No. He doesn't receive it. Because either he's asking a God that is not the God of the Bible, or he doesn't believe, and he doesn't want to have forgiveness See, many don't want forgiveness from God because they don't grasp the severity of their debt. This whole idea of asking forgiveness to God is foolish to a fallen world. The idea of debt, the idea of sin, the idea that we have to ask forgiveness from God They usually say when you ask them, well, I'm just I'm just actually not that bad. I don't have any debt. That's like someone standing in a hurricane saying they don't mind the breeze. The only ground for our forgiveness is the grounds of the atoning work of Jesus Christ. The third thing about forgiveness before God is that we need forgiveness, and our need of forgiveness is perpetual in the Christian life because sin is still sin. Now hold out, hear me for a minute. I know where many of you have ran to, but hold on, let me work this out. And considering this verse, many are quick to claim this. In Romans 8. 1. It says, therefore now is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. What they may claim is that We're forgiven in Christ. We don't need to ask again. God gave us forgiveness. There's no condemnation. Well, I'd like to present a couple things about this. First , I would like to present the Lord's Prayer as case number one. I don't know why the Lord would ask us for to ask God for forgiveness if this wasn't something we were supposed to do. Considering the Lord commanded us to pray this way as believers, then it would be done for a reason. Next, also a proper understanding of what that Romans 8:1 verse says prevails over the understanding of Romans. The whole book of Romans, from there to seven to chapter eight, is Paul's thrust to that whole book, is pointing out that the sacrificial death of Christ imparted a new life to the believer. That the penalty of death, that is condemnation, is no longer the reality for a believer. This can be and so the idea that we no longer have this condemnation, yet we're not sinless in this. You just have to go back one chapter to Romans 7 to realize we still wrestle with sin. We do not escape from sin because of all of this. It does not preclude any kind of accountability to God. Because we're saved. Galatians 6 says, do not be seed, God is not mocked. For ever one sows, that he will also reap. We continue to sin. And this matters to God. There's something to this. Sin is still sin. It's still an offense to God, and forgiveness is needed. Not for our redemption, which has been paid in Christ, but for our sanctification, for our calling sin, for being on the same plane in honesty with God to say, yes, that is a sin in which I just did. this continual cleansing of our lives. Coming back to that verse in 1 John, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins. sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. There's an aspect of this that happened once when we came to Christ, but there's a continual need for this in the Christian life as we go forward. We pray for forgiveness because as a Christ follower, we want to be clean. We want to be righteous. We want to walk like Christ walked. We desire this in our heart. This is a prayer, one of confession. That we agree with God about our sin, we want no part in it, and we desire to be cleaned from it. But it's also a prayer of humility, reverence in the reality of our sin before God. It's like praying in repentance, living the gospel daily out in our lives. It comes from a heart of dependence on God. God's grace. We must ask for forgiveness for our sins, even on this side of salvation. So I want to move on to the next part of our clause. It says, forgive us our debts. So it comes at this point without a great surprise that what Paul is talking about here, sorry, what Jesus is talking about is debt is sin. Our sins against God are the record of debt in which we are pleading for God to forgive us. Let's explore this idea of debt a bit more. This word, aphila, in the Greek, is only found one other place in Romans 4 when it's talking about clearly about a debt, about financial debt, what someone is owed. The idea is simply this, that debt that we have here is something that is due to God. It's a duty to God You see, our unmet duty, our unmet obedience to God is a sin. Luke's account of the Lord's Prayer repeats this prayer with a little more direct language when he says, forgive us our sins For we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted to us. So he makes that connection here. The parallel accounts help us understand that this language is really about sin. We also can understand this idea of debt and sin with the parable of the unforgiving servant in chapter 18 of Matthew, who hypocritically was forgiven his debt, but did not forgive the debt of others. Deathir points to this duty to something that is owed to God. The use of this term brings out the implications of sin, the full weight of what sin is against God. So you may be asking, well, why didn't Matthew or Jesus just say sins then? Why did he use debt? It's not just a clever word choice. There's some theological weight behind this. We know that this debt is not talking about financial debts, because the nature of this petition is towards God, and we don't have any financial debt to God. We don't owe him anything And initially, as we look at verses 14 and 15, if you glance down there, you'll see almost a repeat of this exact line in the Lord's Prayer. It's speaking about the moral nature of sin against God and towards man. So it's not financial debt, it's sin debt. Again, if we look at Luke's version, we understand that as well. Debt is a very accurate interpretation or depiction of sin. Jesus wants to use the word death because it has relational implications towards God. Listen to this in Colossians 2 again. And you who were dead in your trespasses and in the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him having forgiven all our trespasses by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands, and he set it aside, nailing it to the cross. Our sin incurs a debt. It is a true duty to God. And there is a record of this debt that we hold. Acts 3. 19 says, Repent, therefore, turn back, that your sins may be blotted out, implying the record of offense. When they had manuscripts, you know, they didn't have erasers, they had to actually ink over it, blot it to cancel it out. In pointing to this record, we can look back through much of the Old Testament and see that God kept a record of offenses. He didn't forget them. The required sacrifice for many of the uh payments for those sins. Leviticus five speaks about a sinner bringing forth a compensation almost to outweigh, to pay for that debt that was held in sin. Again, this idea of a duty that was due to God. All of this again points to the reality that our guilt before God is a true moral guilt that's recorded against God. I like how Francis Schaeffer says this. He says, our guilt is true guilt. When we break God's moral law, we are guilty in the presence of a God who is there. This is not merely psychological guilt. It is a moral guilt in the presence of a morally absolute God. What he's saying there is your sin is not just a feeling when you sin. It's a true moral debt against the God who is there. We are racking up this debt. You're all walking around with balances of sin that God is keeping track of. We all have this debt. Yet if you trust in Christ, He has redeemed you, and your debt is canceled. Yet as you sin, your repentance of that sin is a mark of faithfulness. And the true acknowledgement that your sin has a moral weight and that you trust in Christ and his advocacy to forgive you because he is faithful and just to forgive those who confess their sins. Yet if your debt has not been paid by Christ, the payment of your debt of sin is death. Spiritually, physically, and eternally in conscious torment and the hell of fire. This real debt has real consequence, and the debt will be settled It will be settled. Now we've seen this first part of the petition. God gave us to ask God to forgive our debts. But the verse does not end there. Takes a fascinating turn. What is added is a comparative clause that modifies this forgiveness and helps us understand it and see it in a different light that demonstrates some kind of comparison. This comparison leads us to a powerful conclusion that we must also forgive others. Let's look at the last part of this verse. My second point for tonight, we must also forgive others. As the verse says, we , as we also have forgiven our debtors. So this as word is quite a hinge in this conversation. It's describing a manner of execution. How should we do this? Just as this. This is actually something Jesus does quite often in his teachings. In John 13, he says, I have a new commandment I give to you, that you love one another, just as I have loved you. You also are to love one another. Or Matthew 5. 48, he says, therefore you must be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. It's the way that he makes us work through this teaching. Helps us understand the depth of what he's trying to say. The setup looks like this. Father, forgive us of our sins just like And here's the tough part. Just as we have forgiven others. Ouch. The implications put forth in this clause should sober us. The principle outlined in this last part of the passage is stark. Without mincing words, I like how MacArthur states it, if we have forgiven, we will be forgiven. If we have not forgiven, we will not be forgiven. This is not saying that the forgiveness of others is the basis of our own forgiveness, but to point us to the seriousness of forgiveness as being a demonstration of the regenerative work of Christ in our lives. It's also not a like-for-like, right? It's not not quite as comparative as that, because our forgiveness, I'm sure you can attest to this, is imperfect. But God's forgiveness is perfect. If God forgave us like we forgave others, we should all be scared. Yet the principle is so important in this verse that he actually repeats it below. The restatement of this in verse 14 and 15 come with added clarity and force. You can look down in your scripture. This is the way that Jesus is making sure we understand the reality importance of our own forgiveness to others. He says, if you forgive others their trespass, Your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others their trespass, neither will your Father forgive your trespass. This implication comes as a stern warning to all of us. Forgiveness is the mark of a truly regenerate heart. We all stumble and fail to do this well. We have sinful flesh, and so we need a constant reminder and exhortation to forgive others in our lives. In the Beatitudes, he says, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. This prayer demonstrates the essential nature of forgiveness in the heart of a believer. You might be asking at this point, well, if if I'm harboring unforgiveness, does that mean I'm not saved? That's not what this is about. Your salvation is not a work of your own forgiveness. But the persistent, unrepentant forgiveness is a serious warning sign. That calls one's faith into question and invites divine discipline, not condemnation. Those forgiven much forgive others. Luke says Yet there are five reasons why we are to forgive. First, we should forgive because it follows Christ's example Ephesians 4, he says, be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you. Christ's followers should walk in a way in which he walked. In Luke 23, it says, when he's on the cross, says, Father, forgive them. They do not know what they do. Here he is forgiving people who are killing him. Forgiveness is the mark of Christ. It should be the mark of his believers, his followers. Second, we should forgive because forgiveness frees us from the conscience of guilt. Not only is there an acknowledgement of moral truth when we seek forgiveness, that yes, what I did is a sin before God, unforgiveness is a barrier to God's forgiveness that gives birth to guilt, which affects your health, your well-being, your happiness. You know, there's a saying that I'm going to tweak mine a little bit. It says, unforgiveness is the poison you drink, hoping other people will die. There's no freedom in unforgiveness from God or from man, and that guilt is real. But forgiving frees us from that consciousness. Third, we should forgive because it benefits the fellowship of the saints. We can all understand that unforgiveness is a hindrance to the body of Christ Conflict in the body of Christ is one of the most dangerous things to a church. And the most powerful antidote to that is forgiveness. Not only does it bring reproach on the church from outsiders, it disrupts the unity. You know, nine of Paul's letters deal with conflicts in the church. that need forgiveness. What is needed is Christ-like humility and forgiveness within those members and with us as well. He says in Romans, if possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. Fourth, we should forgive because it delivers us from God's discipline. Wherever there is an unforgiving spirit, there is sin Wherever there is sin, there is chastening. Hebrews 12 says, For the Lord disciplines the one he loves and chastens every son whom he receives. Have you thought about your unforgiveness as bringing on chastening of yourself? This chastening is going to be given to yield the fruit of righteousness, as the author of Hebrews says. Through that process, God will help you find forgiveness. Maybe not the way you wanted it, but you will find it. Yet you should seek to forgive before this happens, to avoid God's chastening. And lastly, and most importantly, we should forgive because, as the verse says, it gives God's forgiveness to us. The central point of verses 14 and 15. That the Father's forgiveness is ours as we forgive others. Is there no sweeter feeling than our heart in our hearts than knowing that God has forgiven you? Even from the sins of the day. Yes, our salvation is glorious, but even to know that He sees and knows and has given you forgiveness. Brothers and sisters, we must forgive others. Without it, our Heavenly Father will not forgive us, not forgive us our sins. And without it we will face the chastening, the guilt, of potentially causing reproach on our Savior and damaging the body of Christ. The pride of unforgiveness is not worth the great cost of these things. So I want to close tonight with just three applications that kind of align to our main points from this sermon. First, then, we need to pray for forgiveness in prayer. I believe the case in the sermon hopefully is clear, but let me submit this to you. All of you who are redeemed by the blood of Christ, it is the same blood that will cleanse you from your sin when you confess it to him. Confession must be an essential part of your prayer. This is why I don't think this Lord's Prayer is actually like a prayer you should repeat. I think it's a pattern. for prayer, because the confession should be part of that pattern. This verse speaks to our great need of forgiveness both from God and confessing sins to others and getting forgiveness. Many of the across sticks you might even pray, like the Acts Prayer or the Pray, all include confession as part of that prayer. Seeking forgiveness from sins is called upon for all believers. Yet I know there's one maybe common problem with this for some of us. Sometimes when we think upon our sin, we come up empty Not because we're sinless, but I think it's because our thoughts of the moment are Christeless. The sure remedy for seeing your own sins is to look at the Savior Look upon his excellencies, his perfect love, his kindness, his sacrifice. His character, his untemptible nature, his never-looking lustily, his never craving for things of this world, stare into the unimaginable, selfless sacrifice of our Lord. the standard bearer of the Christian faith, and ask yourself, can you see a little more of your sin now that you can confess? I believe if you look at the Savior, you'll be able to see your sin, confess it, and rejoice in his forgiveness as well. Or maybe you're on the other side of that pendulum. When you start to confess your sin, you end up becoming so overwhelmed with your sin that it weighs your heart down in unbearable guilt and shame. My friend, your fervor for the Lord's righteousness is good and clear, but do not forsake the words of our Lord and his good promise when it says, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive our sins and to cleanse us. From all unrighteousness. Trust in the Lord that you walk before a gracious God and not on the merit of your penance, but on his promises. My second application. You must truly forgive others. The scripture is clear. The consequences of our unforgiveness is far weightier than the debt caused to you. Unforgiving others means that you release your personal claim on repayment of that debt that's owed by that sin. You surrender your rights to retaliation. You surrender your rights to bitterness and to vengeance. The Lord says, vengeance is mine, I will repay, not you. Jay Adams, very popular Christian counselor, says this, forgiveness is the promise not to raise the issue again to the offender, to others, or to himself. This means brooding over the offense is a violation of forgiveness. It means you don't ever bring it up again to the person who sinned against you. Ever That's forgiveness. It means you don't talk about it to anyone else, even decades later. It means you don't brood upon it or think about it or bring it up. It doesn't mean that forgiving is forgetting, as there's some real concerns with being heard again shortly after a sin may cause you to change your relationship until full reconciliation has occurred. So forgiveness does not mean you're f ignoring sin. Forgiveness does not mean that there are not consequences to people's actions. But the goal of forgiveness, especially in the context of our brotherhood here, is reconciliation. And there are three things needed for reconciliation. Forgiveness, the act that you do or the offended person does, the offender confesses and repents of that sin, and a new relationship begins. Those are the three things. But until reconciliation can begin, each one of you needs to do your part. You need to forgive the debt. That someone has done against you. And the other needs to humbly confess and repent that sin before God and man. But I'll tell you one hard thing about this. Sounds pretty easy. The Bible is clear that forgiveness is required of you far before you feel like forgiving. Your feelings do not override the Word of God. Luke 17 says, pay attention to yourselves. If your brother sins, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him. Period. The command is given with a clear imperative, there is no limit to your forgiveness. Many of us can probably even quote this as Peter talks to Jesus in Matthew 18, he says, How many times do I need to forgive him? Seven times? Jesus says to him, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy-seven times. The command here is not to track how many times that person has offended you, but it's to give and forgive lavishly. Undeservedly, as you have been forgiven. Those forgiven in infinite debt of sin by God must forgive the finite debt done to them by other men And thirdly, the Lord's Prayer is a prayer for those who trust in the Lord. He gives instruction to his followers on how to pray. Yet if you do not know the Lord, I need to present to you now the elephant in the room that has been waiting since maybe the first point of the sermon. The difference between you, if you're an unbeliever here tonight, and the believer sitting in the row next to you Is that our debt of sin before a holy and righteous God has been paid by Jesus Christ on the cross 2,000 years ago? We are free from that debt. Yet you still carry the debt. You still carry the guilt. It might be repressed, but it's still there Day upon day you add to that debt. You might be able to bury it in the recesses of your mind, but just because you don't dwell on it doesn't make it not real. Again, sin 's not a feeling. It's a true moral guilt before God who is there. And the time is coming when you will meet God and that debt will be due. Listen to this account of the judgment of God. Then I saw a great white throne, and him who was seated on it. From its presence, earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, both great and small, standing before the throne, and the books were opened. Again, the count There was another book open, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books, according to what they had done And the sea gave up the dead who were in it, death and Hades gave up the dead that were in them, and they were judged, each one of them according to what they had done. And then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And anyone's name who is not found in the book of life was thrown into the lake of fire. Jesus Christ came to the world to pay the debt of your sin. There's nothing you can do on earth to remove this debt yourself. No amount of good works will even offset the death the debt Even the nicest people you know their whole lives are like a drop of water in an unrelenting desert. They count for nothing. But in Christ it is for by grace you have been saved through faith, and it is not of your own doing, is the gift of God, not a result of works, that none may boast. The Word of God has been presented to you tonight with the forgiveness you need to be saved. If you are thinking about this message in your mind, if the Holy Spirit is working with you, I give you the words of Paul in Romans 10. If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. For everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. Do not delay. Will you call upon the name of the Lord tonight and be saved from your debt of sin? As it goes in Romans, it is the free gift of God is eternal life in Jesus Christ our Lord. We're going to sing a song at the end of this sermon. It's called Jesus Paid It All. Listen to the words of this song. This could be the night you are freed from your debt. Because Jesus can pay it all, and he will for you. As we close, brothers and sisters, we must then pray like this. Forgive us our debts, as we have also forgiven our debtors. We must be a humble people in confession of our sin before a righteous God. We can do this because of the mercy of God on the grounds of Jesus Christ's atonement. That we now live free in the dead of sin, and we acknowledge our sin and we confess it before the Lord, and He is faithful to forgive us. But we must heed the warning. We must forgive others as we have been forgiven. Our Father will not forgive us otherwise. Let us be passionate for unity and peace and reconciliation in the body. Let us follow Christ's example in forgiveness. Let us be obedient to the commands of God. Beyond our own feelings, be quick to forgive, avoiding the chastisement, the guilt, and receiving God's forgiveness. And may he strengthen us to do this. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for the forgiveness we have in Jesus Christ. Father, we are a sinful people in need of your forgiveness. Forgive our thoughts, our deeds, our words that go against your holy word and righteousness. We ask, knowing that Christ intercedes for us, that his word is true, and that he will faithful to cleanse us from our sin before you and sanctify us. And Father, help us to be quick to forgive others with hearts to please you and to show your glory and witness to the world and your mercy in forgiving us. That we would bear forgiveness that is a witness to this world that is so unforgiving, that they might know us by our love and our ability to forgive. And we ask all of this in your son 's name.