It's good to be here this morning. If you would take your Bibles to Gal turn to Galatians chapter five, we're going to be looking at the last of the nine aspects of the fruit of the Spirit in Galatians five, looking at verses. 22 and 23, which list those fruit or aspects of the fruit of the Spirit. In the book of Joshua, I've been reading in Joshua and Judges recently in my devotions. But the book of Joshua is really the story of the nation of Israel coming out of the wilderness and the conquest of the promised land in obedience to what the Lord had promised. After 40 years in the wilderness, they come into the promised land, and the first major conquest in the land was the city of Jericho. And the walls of Jericho archaeologists tell us were 28 feet tall and six feet thick. Pretty formidable walls surrounding that city. And the people of Jericho felt very secure inside the walls. And the Lord worked a great miracle through Joshua and the men of Israel. The Lord told Joshua to take the nation of Israel and the men of Israel to march around the city of Jericho. Every day for six days. And then on the seventh day they were to march around seven times. At the end of the seventh time, they were to blow the trumpets. And the walls fell down, not because of the trumpets, but because of the work of God. And the nation of Israel was able to march in and conquer the land of the city of Jericho and defeat that that city entirely. Archaeologists tell us that the city of Jericho did indeed, the walls did indeed collapse the year that the nation of Israel entered into the Promised Land, 1400. BC. And interestingly, they also described the fact that the walls fell outwards. When normally when a conquering city is coming in and they're ta or a conquering nation is coming in to conquer a city, the walls would fall inward, but remarkably the walls of Jericho fell outwards, again indicating the divine work of God that took place. When the Lord brought the walls of Jericho down, and the city of Jericho was utterly defeated once the walls were down. The Bible tells us in the book of Proverbs that a man without self-control. is like a city whose walls have been broken down. So when we come to this list of the fruit of the Spirit, the final mark of the fruit of the Spirit in the life of a believer is this aspect of Self -control. A person without self-control is like a city whose defensive walls have been destroyed. It is a vital part of a Christian life. We've been talking about the fact that the the as we've gone through the series on the fruit of the Spirit, the very first mention of any characteristic of the fruit of the Spirit in the list of the fruit of the Spirit is love. Talk about love, joy, peace. All of the other aspects that are mentioned in that list of nine characteristics are really outworkings of love. Earlier on in this chapter uh the apostle Paul has been expressing to the Galatian believers that they are not under the law, but they are under love. And love is the the fulfillment of the commandments of God. And so we find here that as we've gone through this, each of these aspects that are mentioned is another way love is demonstrated in the life of a believer. And so self-control is love obeying. That's why the choir sang today, if you love me. Keep my commandments. Because we have been loved by Christ, we are then called and commanded to love the Lord, which looks like obedience to his commandments. So this morning, I'd like us to see that all Christians are called to exhibit Holy Spirit-enabled self-control All Christians are called to exhibit Holy Spirit-enabled self-control. And the reason we are is because all Christians are engaged in a spiritual battle. If you're a believer in Jesus Christ, you are in a battle. A real war is taking place. Sin is waging war against our souls. That's what Paul has been talking about in Galatians 5. He's been explaining that Christ makes the believer free from the law, but this freedom doesn't give him a license to sin Rather, because the Holy Spirit who lives inside of a believer is actually seeking to produce in the believer the fruit of the Spirit. Therefore, the law, I mean the work of the Spirit in the life of a believer is opposed to the works of the flesh. that are in the lives of those who do not know Christ. That's why we read earlier in Galatians 5, verses 16 and 17, he says, But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for they are opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things you want to do. So if you're a born-again believer, you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, Paul tells you that you are in a pitched spiritual battle. The desires of the flesh are opposed to the work of the Spirit in your life. And you are at war within you. The works of the flesh, we already read them this morning. They're listed in verses 19 through 21. They are entirely opposite of the fruit that the Holy Spirit is seeking to produce in your life. He describes them here, though he says the works of the flesh are evident. Means they're not hard to figure out. Sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger Rivalries, dissensions, division, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. Meaning there are others besides this, but this is they're not difficult to understand. We can see them, we understand them. But they are opposed to the work of the Spirit in our lives. In 1 Peter chapter 2. We're told to abstain from the passions of the flesh, these things that are mentioned here, because they wage war against our soul. These things that are mentioned in this list are actually in an active spiritual war against our souls. The desires of the flesh are not something to be coddled, but they're truly something to be destroyed, something that are to be turned away from, that we are to exhibit self-control over. The reality is self-control is a fruit that all Christians must produce. It's not just for the elite Christians. Those ones that are really serious about serving the Lord. No, it is for all Christians because all Christians are in a battle against the flesh, and the flesh is seeking to destroy our souls. Sin is not a minor problem. Notice what he says here at the end of verse 21, where he lists the work or the works of the flesh. He says, I warn you, as I warned you before. That those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. Those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. The idea here of this verse is that those who habitually continue in these fleshly desires, following after the passions of their flesh Rather than, you might say, an isolated lapse or uh a lapse into sin that you soon repent of, but who habitually pursue this, the point is those who continually practice such sins give evidence of having never received the Holy Spirit of God in their lives. They give evidence of the fact that they have not been born again. And as a result, he says, they will not inherit the kingdom of God. Turn with me, if you would, to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. There's another passage of scripture I think that's very important for us to look at. It's going backwards in our Bible. A little bit to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. In this passage of scripture, we have the Apostle Paul again writing to the Corinthian believers. And in verse 9 of 1 Corinthians chapter 6, he says this. Something very similar to what we just read in Galatians chapter 5. Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived. Neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality, nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. Twice he says in this list, those who habitually practice these things will not inherit the kingdom of God. It is opposed to the work of the Spirit. That is in their lives. Do you see yourself in that list? Are there things in your life you say, that could be descriptive of me? Then I would encourage you to consider what he says here. That those who habitually practice this do not, will not inherit the kingdom of God. But the beautiful thing is that Jesus Christ died. To take away these sins. Not only the penalty for these sins, but even the power of these sins in your life. So that you do not have to be enslaved to those sins, so that you do not have to have those sins in your life. That's why he says in the very next verse, verse 11 in 1 Corinthians 6. He says, and such were some of you. Such were some of you, but you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified. in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. The Holy Spirit of God takes away that sin through faith in Jesus Christ. He takes away the guilt by the blood of Jesus Christ. And he transforms us so that that can no longer be characteristic of the believer. Such were some of you, but you are no longer. You've been changed by the Spirit of God through the gospel of Jesus Christ. The salvation that Christ obtained is not only a salvation from the penalty of sin. But it is a salvation from the power of sin in your life. So the point is here, a salvation that does not result in practical holiness is not Christ's salvation. A salvation that Christ gave us transforms us. He has obtained for his people not only forgiveness but power The power of sin has been broken. The chains of sin have been broken. We are now free as we yield to the Holy Spirit. As we walk by the Spirit, we are free and enabled to exhibit the fruit of the Spirit in our lives. But the reality is, sin is not a minor problem. And without Holy Spirit-enabled self-control, we are like a city that has no defensive wall. We are like a city that can easily be overtaken. And the enemy can come in and do with us what he wills. So, what is self-control? The philosopher Socrates praised self-control as the greatest of all virtues. He said that self-control opposed the body in every respect, saying that we should avoid pleasures, desires, pains, and fears to whatever extent possible. Now that's, if you think about that, that is not the biblical definition of self-control. In fact, it is very different than what the Bible means by self-control. His idea of self-control is autonomous self-mastery. I master myself, and I don't even allow my body to enjoy legitimate pleasures. He refused even good pleasures that God had ordained and good desires that God had given as a sign of his goodness. He said, That we are to have complete self-mastery over all of those things. Biblical self-control is the Holy Spirit-produced fruit that comes when a Christian walks by the Spirit. We are called to walk by the Spirit. The idea of self-control is letting the Holy Spirit control our thinking, our actions, and our behavior. It is the power of the Holy Spirit at work in the life of a believer. To know and to do what is right and to do that which pleases the Lord. When a person comes to faith in Jesus Christ, he places himself now under a new master. Before he was under the master of sin and of self and of the world. But now he places himself under a new master. The master is Jesus Christ. And the Holy Spirit comes and lives inside of a believer, enabling that person to walk in obedience to the word of God. Just a few verses earlier in our text in Galatians chapter 5, we read these verses already. He says, Walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. So what does that mean? It means that the believer has that responsibility to walk by the Spirit The believer has the responsibility to walk in step with the Spirit. The idea of walking by the Spirit, it's a metaphor that tells us that it's moment by moment, daily, the mundane The communion with the Holy Spirit in every aspect of life. Walking is just a normal part, especially in the first century. Israel and Galatia and most of the world, even to this day, walking is normal part of life. And he says, walk by the Spirit. It is that continual communion with the Holy Spirit through his word and in prayer that enables you to walk by the Spirit In Colossians chapter 3, it equates being filled with the Spirit with the idea of letting the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Letting the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. Maybe when you read that, you say, what does it mean to let the Word of Christ dwell in me richly? How do I do that? How do I let the Word of Christ dwell in me richly. What is, in fact, the word of Christ? What does it even mean, the word of Christ? Well the word of Christ is essentially, it's the message of the gospel. It is the message that we are sinners, that we have sinned and rebelled against God, but God in love sent his only begotten Son to live a sinless, perfect life and to die a sacrificial death on the cross for us. And that if we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, we are forgiven of our sins. And we are given the Holy Spirit's power to walk in newness of life. So we are called to walk by the Spirit. We are called to let the word of Christ dwell in us richly. So how do we do that? How do we let the word of Christ dwell in us richly? It means that we are to meditate on the truth of the gospel. The gospel isn't just that thing that you At one time in your life you you accept and you believe and you trust in the Lord, and then you go and you forget about it because that's done with It is every day, every moment of every day, remembering the fact that you have been bought with a price, remembering the fact that you are a new creature in Christ Jesus. Remembering the fact that the Holy Spirit lives inside of you. Remembering the love of Christ that has been shown to you on the cross. That's why our choir sang today about the love of Christ. If you love me, well How do we love him? We love him because he first loved us. That's why the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, and we get down to self-control. It is love obeying. Because of his love for us, we love. the Lord. But we can only grow in love for the Lord as we meditate upon what the gospel has done for us. And we live in light of that every day. We are to sing about the gospel, what Christ has done for us. We are to rejoice. We are to praise the Lord. We are to live differently because of the gospel in our lives. Now, there's a paradox here. To be spirit-controlled results in being self-controlled. As we walk by the Spirit, the Holy Spirit produces in us the fruit of self-control. But this implies here that we have an active responsibility To be walking by the Spirit. We have an active responsibility to exercise self-control. Sometimes you hear Christians say, you just need to let go and let God. Or they'll say things something like, if you're striving You're not trusting. And there may be contexts when that could be true, but in this context, it is not true. What did Paul say in 1 Corinthians 9? I think you all probably know 1 Corinthians 9 pretty well. Verses 25 and following, he talks about using illustration of an athlete. He says, every athlete exercises Self-control in all things. So an athlete is self-control in their diet, in their sleep, in their exercise, and who they hang out with because they need to make sure they're having their time right for their exercise. Because every athlete exercises self-control in all things. They do it to receive a perishable wreath. The idea of the Isthmian Games or the Olympic Games where they got a wreath as the winner. We might say a gold medal or a trophy. A perishable trophy, a perishable medal, the honor and the acclaim and the status of being the world's best. He says, all of that is perishable. You may be the world's best today, but you won't be the world's best tomorrow. That will go away. You might have a world record today, but that world record won't stand forever. It's a perishable fame. But he says, we do it to receive an imperishable prize. He said, so I do not run aimlessly. I do not box as one beating the air, but I discipline my body and keep it under control, lest after preaching to others I myself should be disqualified. He's talking about self-control over his bodily desires, his fleshly desires, and he describes himself like an athlete who exercises self-control so that he will win the prize. He describes himself like a boxer. But who is he boxing? Himself. The word here describes him giving himself a black eye, literally has the idea of punching the eye. And he's punching the physical desires. He's fighting against himself. So it doesn't mean we don't strive, let go and let God No, in the power of the Spirit we strive to exercise self-control as we yield to the Lord in our daily lives. Now, maybe you're thinking, Aaron , This just doesn't make sense. Does the Holy Spirit produce this fruit in us? Or do I have to have self-control? And the answer is yes. Yes, the Holy Spirit does it, and you have to have it. It's like the farmer. The farmer tills the ground and he plants the seeds and he weeds and he waters and he fertilizes. In complete dependence upon the Lord. He has to do those things, but he depends upon the Lord to send the rain, to keep the blights away, and to provide the water. Then you say, Well, I irrigate my crop. Great, but where did the water come from? The Lord. You're still in dependence upon the Lord. You're moving water from here to here, but God provided the water. In a similar way, we walk by the Spirit, we have to exercise self-control, but we do so in dependence upon the Spirit. In prayer and in the word. Biblical self-control is the result of a growing faith In 2 Peter chapter 1, there's an interesting passage of scripture where, actually, well, if you have your Bibles, you can turn to 2 Peter. 2 Peter chapter 1 And beginning in verse 3 of 2 Peter. If you know where 2 Peter is, you go towards the back. All depends on how you call the back of the front. It's like the back of the church, or this is the the front of the church, or when you come in here, which one is the back? Similarly, the back of the Bible, I'm talking about towards Revelation. Second Peter is towards Revelation. It's one of the latter books in the Bible. 2 Peter chapter 1, Peter tells us in verse 3, his divine power has granted to us all things. That pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of Him who called us to His own glory and excellence by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control. And self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love. What's amazing in this list here is this is a description of the believer who is saved by grace through faith, and he continues to walk by faith. And as he walks by faith, he is to add to his faith a number of things: virtue, knowledge , self-control. Self-control is what we are to add to our faith. And I want us to see two things about the self-control that comes through a living faith in this passage of Scripture. It helps us to understand how we are to have this self-control in our lives. First of all, self-control comes through faith in what Christ has accomplished for us. It comes in As a result of the faith than what Christ has accomplished for us. Do you notice the things that he said in here about our salvation? This is a pretty glorious passage describing our condition in Christ. He says that Christ has made us. partakers of the divine nature. Have you ever read that before and said, what? What does that mean? Doesn't mean that we become God or that we become little gods, but that God's Spirit lives inside of us. And we have been united with Christ. And the Holy Spirit of God is making us, conforming us to be like Christ. And as a result, the Spirit's power. is at work in us to make us like Christ. He also talks in this passage, he says he's given us all things through Christ. All things. that pertain to life and godliness. He doesn't say, you know, he's given us most things. He's given us everything we need. To walk in holiness. It is up to us then to apply those things to our lives. So self-control comes through faith in what Christ has accomplished for us. We have been made partakers of the divine nature. He has given us all things that pertain to life and godliness. And so often in our Christian life we're tempted to say, you know, I just can't Do whatever. I can't forgive this person. I can't have victory over this sin. That's not true. Living faith says I can in the power of the Spirit because I've been given all things that pertain to life and godliness. I can, because I've been made a partaker of the divine nature. It is now my responsibility to reject a lie, take the shield of faith, and to quench the fiery darts of the wicked one, and to live prayerfully in dependence upon the Spirit and in obedience to what he said. Self-control comes through faith in what Christ has accomplished for us. Secondly, self-control comes through faith in the future reward that Christ has purchased for us. Peter highlights this. He says that we've been given precious and very great promises. Precious and very great promises. And these are ours in Christ Jesus. And they're part of what motivates us to have self-control. Do you remember what we read in 1 Corinthians chapter 9? What does Paul say is the aim? It is an imperishable prize. He runs and he disciplines himself and he exercises self-control in light of an imperishable prize, a prize that cannot be destroyed, that cannot be taken away, and he keeps his eyes fixed on that prize. so that he will have self-control in his life. Paul mentions this in another place in 2 Corinthians chapter 4. He says, so we do not lose heart. Though our outer self, our body, is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. And he says, if I look at the things I have to endure, the temptations I have to resist, the trials I have to go through, they're light. They're momentary. Now, if you read the Apostle Paul, his light momentary afflictions were amazing. But he said, compared to the eternal weight of glory, they're nothing. And so I keep my eyes fixed on the eternal weight of glory. And that enables me to have self-control. We walk by faith as we trust the promises of God and we live in light of that power that's in us. I want us to see quickly this morning five areas where self-control is vitally important. if we are to walk pleasing to the Lord. Firstly, God calls all Christians to exercise self-control over their sexual desires. God 's standard for sex is absolute self-control outside of marriage. In the New Testament, perhaps the most frequent context of this word self-control is in the area of sexual appetites, sexual sin. Unlike Socrates, the Bible teaches that sex is a good gift from God. God is the creator of sex. God designed sex. God designed our sexual bodies. But he also knows that sex is only to be enjoyed within marriage. Where it's safely done and where it pictures then that relationship of Christ and the church. Any activity, sexual activity outside of marriage, is horribly disruptive, and it is condemned by God. I'm going to read to you Hebrews thirteen, verse four. He says, Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled. For God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous. He's very clear about that. God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous. Ephesians 5, he says, but sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness, meaning lust. Must not even be named among you, as is proper among saints. Let there be no filthiness, no foolish talk, nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving. For you may be sure of this that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure or who is covetous, this is an idolater, has no inheritance in the kingdom of God, in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Wow. We see that again. Self-control must be exercised in this area because this is a very dangerous, soul-damning area of our lives. The world around us says that marriage is antiquated and stifling. And they say, live together, test it out, kick the tires a bit, see how it goes. But the Bible says that is sin. And that God's judgment comes upon that sin. God has made sex as a gift to be delighted in within marriage. And therefore, God has forbidden premarital sex and adultery and homosexuality and pornography. Jesus said to lust after a man or a woman is the same as committing adultery with her or him in your heart, and it condemns you to hell. Paul told the Corinthians in 1 Corinthians 6, flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is outside of the body. But the sexually immoral person sins against his own body. And then he says, or do you not know why this is so important? Because your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who lives inside of you. That's why this is so important. You have been bought with a price, so glorify God in your body. Can I ask you, are you fleeing sexual immorality? Are you fleeing from it? Or are you getting as close to it as you can? A little flirting, messaging, meeting up? That is sin. And the Bible calls you to repent of that and to exercise spirit-enabled self-control. When we think about sexual immorality, where does it begin? Begins in the heart. Begins in our thoughts. Jesus said, For from within, out of the heart of man, comes evil thoughts. Sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, and he continues the list. Comes out of the heart The reality is we need to exercise self-control not just over the physical act, but also the heart from where it stems. First, it seems like a harmless thought, just a little fantasy, just a little lust, then it becomes a possibility. And before long it becomes a reality. That old saying is true. Sow a thought, reap an action. Sow an action, reap a habit. Sow a habit, reap a character. Sow a character, reap a destiny. Our thought life is so serious that Jesus warned us saying, You have heard that it was said you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you, That everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his her his heart. If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than your whole body be thrown into hell. What is Jesus saying? Even our thoughts are deadly serious. Even our lustful looks are deadly serious. And he calls us to take drastic actions to keep ourselves sexually pure, even in our minds. It's significant that the New Testament not only commands men to exercise self-control over their lustful thoughts, and that's primarily where we see that as the biggest issue, but it also calls on Christian women to dress with self-control. In 1 Timothy 2, verse 9, it says, women should adorn themselves in respectable apparel with modesty and self-control. It's interesting. Just as men who lust after a woman, a man who lusts after a woman has violated the seventh commandment in his heart. So to a woman who dresses to draw the lustful looks of a man has violated the seventh commandment in her heart. And the Bible condemns both of them. As we enter into the summer season, may I urge you women to exercise self-control in this area, not just for yourselves? But for the sake of your Christian brothers, the testimony of Christ, but also for your soul. This is a vitally important area. God calls all Christians to exercise self-control in the area of sex. But he also calls all Christians to exercise self-control over their temper Probably the second most common area where self-control is mentioned in the Bible is in this area of anger and of our temper. Listen to these two verses out of Proverbs. He says, Whoever is slow to anger Is better than the mighty. And he who rules his spirit than he who takes a city. Are you a person who's quick-tempered? The Bible says the one who has control over his spirit is better than the mighty. Proverbs 25, 28 says, a man without self-control is like a city broken into and left without walls. It's interesting he mentions a man, because this tends to be an area where men struggle a lot with our tempers. And he says, a man who is without self-control is like a city broken into and left without walls. The words self-control literally refer to ruling one's spirit. You can see there's great honor and goodness in self-control, and there's great danger in a violent quick temper. Remember God's word of warning to Cain? Remember Cain in Genesis 4? Cain and Abel had offered sacrifices. Abel's sacrifice was accepted to God. Cain's was not. Cain became angry. What does God tell Cain? At that point. He says, Why are you angry? And why is your face fallen? If you do well, will you not be accepted? If you do what's right, will not will it not accept you? And if you do not do well Sin is crouching at the door and its desire is contrary to you, but you must rule over it. Whoa. He describes anger like a sin of a lion about to pounce on him. And he says, you must have mastery over your anger. And we know that Cain did not have mastery over his anger. And he killed his brother and led him to be condemned by the Lord. Christian, God calls you to follow the example of your Savior. In 1 Peter chapter 2, there's a beautiful passage of scripture that helps us deal with Anger when we've been provoked. And in verses 21 and following, he says, To this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth when he was reviled. He did not revile in return. Our response is that, hey, if you're gonna revile me, you're gonna get it back twice as hard. You punch me, I'm going to punch harder. And he says, Christ, when he was reviled, did not revile again When he suffered, he did not threaten, but he continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. When you've been treated unjustly And we all get treated unjustly. Do you tend to think that you need to bring justice yourself? That's why the Bible says. Do not repay evil with evil. Vengeance is mine. I will repay, says the Lord. What did Christ do? He said, Lord, I'm entrusting myself to you. You will judge righteously And in doing that, he set an example for us. Remember when your Savior was wrongly mistreated and he was mocked and he was beaten unjustly. Unlike us, he had never done anything wrong. So often we say that was unjust, but you know, we had our provocations in there too. But not so with our Savior. He calmly put his trust in God who would judge justly. It's important to remember, you are not God. That's why James tells us, be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath, for the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Christian must exercise self-control over their sexual desires. They must exercise self-control over their temper. God calls all Christians to exercise self-control over their appetites. Well, no, I say appetites. The first thing we think of is usually food, and that is true. It will impact all of our appetites. A Holy Spirit filled believer will have control over his physical appetite for food. And no longer do we live for self-gratification and self-indulgence. And if there's ever a society in the world that is Filled with self-gratification, self-indulgence in the area of food. It is this country that we live in right now. I used to joke when we were in Tanzania that we'd look at people's Facebook and and Americans live to taste some new thing. We just live constantly wanting some new self-gratification in the area of food. The Bible says that Christians are not to have their God as their belly. We live for Christ and we seek to glorify Christ with our bodies. But more specifically, when we think of appetites here, biblically, most often it's referring to alcohol. One of the words translated self-control in our New Testament actually comes from a word that means sober, to be sober-minded. And if you have the King James and you're reading the fruit of the Spirit, the final mark that is called self-control in the ESV is temperance. When we think of temperance, we think of self-control in the area of alcohol. Well, we live in a nation that is filled with drunkenness and drug use. And these things should have no place in the life of a Christian. The Bible commands, do not be drunk with wine or beer, or anything else. Do not be drunk, we could say, but be filled with the Spirit. These things are opposites. You cannot be drunk. and filled with the Spirit. They are complete opposites from one another. They are mutually exclusive. That's why if you think about all the works of the flesh that are mentioned in Galatians chapter 5, they are all Amplified, they are all exacerbated through alcohol and drug use. How many broken marriages, broken friendships, angry rants, sexual immorality, adultery, homosexuality is fueled. By drunkenness and drug use. It's rampant. We must exercise self-control over our appetites, including alcohol. Fourthly, God calls all Christians to exercise self-control over their time. The Bible says, redeem the time. Make the best use of the time, because the days are evil. The days are evil. Problem is we don't really believe that. We see evil out there. If we believed it, we would exercise more self-control in this area and we would redeem the time more carefully. It's so t so fun, so relaxing just sit there and doom scroll on social media. Just Doom scroll on YouTube and watch video after video after video after video and lose two, three, four, five hours to binge watch television shows. And to not redeem the time, not to make the best use of our time in any way. Are we making the best use of our time Consistently when we throw away large chunks of the week in sports and in hobbies and in video games and in entertainments and in mindless entertainments? The fact is, we cannot impact this world for Christ, and we cannot be filled with the Spirit if we are frittering away our time in mindless pursuits that do not help us walk by the Spirit. But instead just fill our mind with worldliness. We are called to walk by the Spirit, and that means that we need to use the make the best use of our time. And lastly, God calls all Christians to exercise self-control over their tongues. When you think about the works of the flesh that are mentioned in Galatians 5, how many of the works of the flesh are associated with the tongue? Things like impurity. It's not just thoughts, but it's words. He even mentions that. Coarse, foolish, impure jestings, joking about things that are sacred before God or are perverted. How many impure things roll off our tongue every week? Things like enmity, strife, fits of anger, dissension, wherever there's there's rebellion, division. These things are all the works of the flesh. that are fueled by the tongue. The Bible says the tongue is not tameable by man. He describes the tongue like a fire that is set on fire by hell itself. And in James 3 he says, no human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil full of deadly poisons. I think all of us could raise our hand and say, we have observed that in our own lives. The tongue has gotten out of control and it vented things that have led to serious damage. So what is the solution? It's not tameable. It's only possible in the life of a believer who is walking by the Spirit. If your tongue continues to get you into trouble, don't deceive yourself and say, I'm filled with the Spirit. Because it's not possible to be filled with the Spirit and having your tongue control out of control. The Holy Spirit will teach you to control your tongue so that you'll speak those things that are pleasing to the Lord. The last thing I want to talk about this this morning is how the Holy Spirit convicts the lost in this area of self-control. Maybe you're here this morning and you do not know Christ as your Savior. And maybe as I'm mentioning these things, you're like, you just feel arrows piercing your heart, and I pray that that's the case. Honestly, as I've been preparing this sermon throughout the week, I've lived in this issue of self-control this week, and it's a very convicting passage of scripture, it's a very convicting truth, and I've had to repent of things in my own life. So when I when I come before you, I I come before you as one who's already been Attacked by the Word of God and laid low by it and had to repent. So I don't do so with pride, but in humility I pray. But when Paul was in prison and he was brought before the Roman governor Felix in Acts chapter 24, Felix comes and Felix's significant other, Drusilla, comes. The Bible says that Paul preached to Felix and Drusilla that morning. And Drusilla was a Jew. And Felix was not. But they were living in adultery. Drusilla was married to someone else, and Felix stole her from her husband. And so what does Paul preach? In Acts 24, it says he reasoned about righteousness, self-control. And coming judgment. This is very similar to what the Bible says the Holy Spirit convicts us of sin, righteousness, and judgment. So maybe you're here this morning and you don't know Christ, and the things I'm saying make you feel scared. That's okay. That's fine. Felix felt that. In fact, the Bible says here that Felix was alarmed He was frightened. Because he realized he was not living righteously. The righteous standard convicted him. He was not living with self-control. And as a result, he would face the coming judgment of God. And he was scared. He was alarmed. What do I do? Don't do what Felix did. He said, Paul, go away. And when it's more convenient, I'll talk to you. He said, I don't want to talk about this. I don't want to think about this. Felix knew he was guilty. Drusilla knew she was guilty. And instead of repenting and trusting in Christ. And having all their sins washed away, and then turning in the power of the Spirit to walk in obedience to the Lord, they said, I don't want to talk about that. I don't want to think about that. Leave me alone. It's interesting. Felix and Drusilla continued living that way. And you probably all know the story of Pompeii and Vesuvius, the explosion. Felix and Drusilla were there, and they died in their sin. in Pompeii when the volcano exploded. And they experienced the coming judgment temporally, but then eternally The Bible calls us, and the Holy Spirit may be convicting this morning saying, you've lived without self-control in these areas of your life. And the solution isn't to say, well, I'm going to do better. No, the solution is to say, I can't. But Jesus Christ died on the cross for me. Jesus Christ took the punishment that my sins deserve. And to come and repent. And by faith, put your your faith in Jesus Christ, what he did on the cross for you, and his resurrection for you. And the Bible says, though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as snow. They'll be gone. And that's available to anyone who calls on the name of the Lord. If you're here this morning, you do not know Christ as your Savior, do not do what Felix did. Don't say, I'm going to think about this another day. No, today is the day of salvation. Repent and trust in Christ today. And he will wash you white as snow. And he will give you the Holy Spirit living inside of you that enables you to walk in the Spirit and to be a transformed person. Christian, you may be here this morning and there's certain things in what we've talked about that have brought conviction in your life. I want to urge you to put to death the desires of the flesh. Walk by the Spirit. Believe what Christ has accomplished for you. And look toward the reward of faith. And so walk by the Spirit day in and day out. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. And by God's grace, have self-control in your life. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. It is alive, it is powerful. I know it in my own heart. I confess it has convicted me So Father, I pray for those who are here this morning who are lost and do not know Christ as their Savior. Oh God, today would you help them to repent and trust in Christ? God, would you do that mighty work through your spirit to make them a new creature in Jesus And God, I pray for those who are believers here this morning who maybe have not been walking in the Spirit in certain areas of their lives. I pray that today likewise they would confess their sins. And then by your grace, they would believe the promises of your word. And they would look toward the reward. That is in Christ. God, I pray that you would help us today to walk in the Spirit and not fulfill the desires of the flesh. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.