Psalm 51. I want to leap look at just a couple verses in this wonderful psalm, which is Psalm of Confession and Repentance. This is in some ways a follow-up message to last Sunday. On February the 19th, 2010 , The highest paid athlete in the world at the time, Tiger Woods, gave a 13-minute confession to a small gathering of family, friends, and a few hand-picked reporters in Florida. In his carefully worded confession, Tiger Woods admitted that he had been unfaithful to his wife. Said that he was deeply sorry and took full responsibility for his actions. Describes his actions as irresponsible, unacceptable, and selfish. He apologized to his wife, his daughter, his wife's family, his mom, his friends, and corporate sponsors. And at the end of the statement, he hugged his mom and left the room without taking any questions from reporters Immediately after this statement, there was an instant debate as to whether or not this was a real confession. Did he really mean it? Did he say enough? Sports writers, talk show hosts, bloggers all weighed in with their opinions. And this raises the whole question. What does authentic confession sound like? How could you tell if you or someone else had truly confessed your wrong? The psalm we're looking at this morning, Psalm 51, was written shortly after David was rebuked by Nathan the prophet. for his sin of adultery and murder. We see here the inextricable connection between confession and repentance. Confession is is like a subset of repentance. You can't really repent without confessing. But repentance is more than just confessing our sin. But it is a vital part. Proverbs 28, 13, a very significant passage says, He that covereth his sin shall not prosper. But whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. In a sense, there's only two paths that we take when it comes to our sin. We either seek to cover it up or we seek to confess it. Now David's initial response to his horrific sin was to cover it up. This is why he had Uriah come home from the battle. This is why he had Uriah murdered. And it seemed for a time like it had worked. He went back. To his duties as normal, only a few people knew about his actions. It seemed as if he had handled the situation, and now he had beautiful Bathsheba as his wife, everything in life seemed good. But the verse that ends that chapter of his sin says, but the things that David had done displeased the Lord. The Lord knew all about it. And the Lord would bring him to the place of repentance. Over time, David became more and more troubled about his actions. We know that he was experiencing many consequences because of his sin. And so after he finally has owned up to his sin and repented of his sin, he writes the psalm and notice He begins in verse 1 by appealing to God's merciful character. Have mercy, he says, upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness. according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies to blot out my transgressions. Notice he uses in these first two verses three verbs. Begging God to take care of his sin. He says, God, blot out my sin. Wash my sin. Cleanse me of my sin. There's an intensity and a desperateness to his plea. And then notice the first word in verse 3 is 4. For I acknowledge my transgression, because now David is going to be given several reasons why he desperately needs God's forgiveness. That's how verses 3 through 6 function in this passage. David reveals that he knows he's really a wicked sinner and that he needs God's forgiveness. This morning I want us to confine our attention to just verses 3 and 4 where he says, For I acknowledge my transgression and my sin is ever before me against thee. Thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. These verses will help us distinguish between true confession and a faulty, man-centered confession of sin. The fact is, it's possible to say a few words and not really confess your sin. We looked at this last week. Pharaoh That wicked man who would not let Israel go said, I've sinned against the Lord your gods. But he was simply trying to stop God's judgment. King Saul said, I have sinned, for I have transgressed against the commandment of the Lord. But his subsequent words and actions revealed that there was no change of hearts. And even Judas Iscariot, who betrayed our Lord, said, I have sinned, and that I have betrayed innocent blood. Matthew 27, 4. But all of these confessions were defective and ineffective. But this morning I want us to consider David's confession. His initial confession is reported in 2 Samuel 12, 13, where he simply says, I have sinned against the Lord's. But here we have an elaboration of that confession. We see here the heart of a broken man, a man who has come to terms with the enormity of his sin. And he sees it as the incredible problem and plague that it is on his soul. And he turns to God for forgiveness. I'm going to speak to you this morning on genuine confession. the essential elements of truly turning from your sin. And I want you to notice three three truths that are found here that helps us to understand genuine confession. First of all, those who truly confess their sin take responsibility for their sin. He says, for I acknowledge my transgression. David does not try to make any excuses for his sin. Just imagine. What David could have said if he was alive today to excuse his own sinful actions. He could have said, well, I have a sexual addiction. Or I live in a very sensual culture. Or he could have said that God made me this way. Or perhaps he would claim that he was never really loved as a child, and so he was trying to fill up this empty void in his life. Or perhaps he could have argued that this is what all kings do. Look around at all the other nations. This is what kings do. How can you hold me responsible for this? We live in an age when people rarely make a full confession. Even those who commit the most offensive of sins often want to claim extenuating circumstances. They always want to cast themselves as a victim rather than a villain. So often we are blind to our own blindness. What are some of the common ways that we excuse our sin? One way is that if we have wronged someone And perhaps we've said something or done something to them that is just not right and sinful in the eyes of God, we will often say, well, you know, you're not perfect either. And you've done some things that have offended me. And we often want to say that what I've done is is really, even though I might confess it, It's really appropriate because you haven't really been responding properly to me. It's a very easy temptation that when you confess your sin to always tack on to the end. But you know, you also haven't really been treating me right either. And it's possible that you may need to confront someone about their sin, but your confession is not the time to do it. You need to own up to your part of the sin. Often we try to excuse our sin by minimizing our sin. We try to couch it in words that make it not seem so bad. We say things like, you know, I may have got angry and used profanity, but at least I didn't punch you in the face. And sometimes another way we do this is by comparing our sins with others. Yes, I lied about that matter, but you know everybody lies. So often we want to say things like this to make our sin less offensive in the eyes of ourselves and others. But notice here that David makes no excuses for his sin. And notice he fully acknowledges his guilt before God. In verse 1, he refers to this as my transgressions. Verse 2, mine iniquity. He says, cleanse me. He says, I'm the problem. He speaks of my sin. And verse 3 he says, I acknowledge, and the I in this sentence is emphatic. And these three verses, there are seven indications of his guilt where in one way or another he takes responsibility for it. This is really the idea of the New Testament word for confess. What does it mean to confess? In the New Testament, the word for confess literally means to say the same things. Well, what does that mean? It means that you say what God says about your sin. You agree with God. You, in a sense, just echo what God has said about your actions. You use the same words. In verses 1 and 2, David uses three different words for sin. He first of all refers to it as a transgression. This word has the picture of it of stepping over a boundary, violating a boundary. Let's suppose this morning that you woke up. To the sound of a power saw and of the hammering of nails, and finally you got up and you looked out your window, and there was your neighbor building a shed on your property. I mean, it it was partially on his, but it was also on your property. So you get dressed and you go out there and you say, listen, I I don't know if you realize this or not, but The property boundary is right here, and you're 10 feet over that boundary with this building. And he says, yeah, I know. you would probably be really, really upset. That's the idea of this word transgression. It's not an innocent mistake. It's a willful act. David refers to this in verse 2 as iniquity. This speaks of something that is warped, twisted, or crooked. If you want to see an illustration of this, go to Lowe 's or Home Depot sometime and go to the lumber bend. You know what you'll see there at the lumber bend? You'll see all these guys with like two by fours and they're holding them out like this. And they're looking right down. They want to see how warped that is, how crooked it is. And they'll put one back and they'll pull another one out and they'll put another one back. And then finally They'll get one that's acceptable to them. Because they don't want a warped piece of lumber. What we see in this word is that our problem is not so much what we say or what we do. Our problem is with who we are. We are warped. We are twisted. We are not straight. Our sense of integrity, our moral compass is skewed. We have all been twisted by the fall. And this is what David confesses to And then there's the most generic word for sin, the word sin here, which literally means to miss the mark. The picture is of an archer shooting at a target and he misses the target. He comes short of that. The scriptures tell us that we have all sinned and come short of the glory of God's. We have all failed to achieve what God has called us to do. You ever feel like a failure? I see a lot of books and things written to date intended to convince people that they're not a failure. I'm going to give you some hard truth. We're all failures. Okay? We all come short. Did you know that? You are not the employee that you should be. You may be better than everyone else down there where you work, but you're still not perfect. You are not the spouse that you should be. You are not the parent that you should be. You have messed up a few times. We are all failures. We are all rebels. We are all morally misshapen individuals You may say, Pastor, this is not very uplifting. Perhaps. But it's the truth. Until we face the truth, we can never come to the good news. We can never have the hope of forgiveness in the gospel. When we confess our sins, we must learn to be brutally honest like David was in this Psalm. He doesn't cloak his sin and carefully chosen language. He doesn't refer to it as inappropriate behavior or lapse in judgment or mistaken course of action. No, he calls sin. And so must we. I want you to notice that he also does not seek to evade the conviction of his conscience. This is worthy of A sermon in and of itself. He says, I acknowledge my transgressions. The word acknowledge is simply the word for know. He says, I know my transgressions. This was not just an academic or theological conviction. This is something he was living with. There are two other psalms that were written after David's confession. And in these Psalms, David reveals something of his internal struggle that he was facing. I'm going to read something to you from Psalm 32. Verse, I'm again reading at verse 3. He says, when I kept silence. That is, when he did not confess his sin immediately, my bones whacked old through my roaring all the day long, for day and night thy hand was heavy upon me, my moisture is turned into the Drought of summer. I acknowledged my sin unto thee, and my iniquities I have not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. And David, writing, looking back, would say, Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. And in Psalm 38. He cries out and he says, O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. for thine anger the arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore. There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger. Neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin, for my iniquities are gone over my head as a heavy burden. They are too heavy for me. My wounds think and are corrupt because of my foolishness. I am troubled. I am bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long. For my loins are filled with a loathsome disease, and there is no soundness in my flesh. I am feeble and sore broken. I have roared by reason of this quietness of my heart. This is a man in misery. This is a man who knew he was not right with God. It was like God's hand of judgment was resting heavily upon him. Now, often our perspective today is that guilt is a bad thing. I'm afraid that much counseling and even many sermons are designed to quiet the conscience. And it is certainly true that a troubled conscience can create many problems. And the human conscience is not infallible. Some people have a callous conscience. They can do the most wicked and cruel things, and they're not troubled by it at all. And then there are other people. That'll do things that are not even sinful, and they are greatly plagued by guilt. But generally, our conscience is true to our own understanding of what is right and wrong. And we silence our conscience to our own peril. David says, my sins are ever before me. David was haunted, I think, by what he has done. Day and night he saw the noble face of Uriah, the Hittite that he had murdered. Every time he saw Bathsheba, he saw Uriah's wife, even that little baby. that died reminded him of his horrible transgression. I know that memories can be precious, but they can also be disturbing. But God can even use these painful recollections to keep us broken and humble and fearful of going astray. I'm going to throw something out and I'm going to let you think about it. One of the things that I have discovered that is very interesting, there's a big disconnect between the way preachers used to give counsel about this and the way preachers give counsel about this today. If someone comes to any preacher or any pastor today and talks about the fact that they have a troubled conscience, usually of something they did in the past. Almost always. The advice will be, well, you need to stop focusing on that. Never think about that sin. Remember God has forgiven you and you need to move on, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth unto those things which are before. And there's a lot of truth to that. But the interesting thing is that when you read preachers of the Reform era or the Puritan era or even the Great Awakening, through the 1800s and so forth, they will say, it's good to think about how you have failed God. in the past because it reminds you of how much you have forgiven and it keeps you humble. Isn't it interesting? the perspective and the change of times. David is still, even though he has been forgiven, he is still very sensitive to the fact that he has failed God. And it is that failure that keeps him humble and broken before the Lord So we must learn to take responsibility for sin. And secondly, those who truly confess their sin recognize that they have sinned against God. Now there's a very interesting statement. You ever thought about this? Look at verse 4. David says, against thee, thee only have I sinned. And done this evil in thy sight. Now how can David say that? How can we explain that? Didn't David sin against Bathsheba? Didn't he sin against Uriah, whom he had murdered? And what about Joab, his captain, who had to carry out these orders? And what about his family? And what about the whole kingdom? Well then how can he say, against thee and thee only have I sinned? Now Bible scholars have answered this question primarily in two ways. One is to say that David is saying that his sin against God was so horrible that in comparison his sin against others was as nothing. And that explanation is possible. But I tend to like the second explanation. And that is that there is very much a sense that David sinned only against God when we really consider the meaning of sin. Yes, we may hurt and wrong and fail other people, and there's a sense in which that is sinful. But what makes something sinful is that it's committed against God ultimately and primarily. What is it that makes sin sin? How do we determine what is right or wrong? Now, for most people in the world, these are the questions they ask. Does it harm other people? Is it socially acceptable if I do this will everyone say, what in the world are you doing and be upset with me? Alright, if they are, then I can't do that. Or is it illegal? So in the minds of most people, if it doesn't harm other people, if it's socially acceptable and it's not illegal, then it's fine to do. The only problem is that all these common definitions of what is wrong are subjective and are always changing. So how does the Bible define sin? Well, first of all, sin is a violation of God's law. What makes something wrong, can you accept this, is that God says that it's wrong. 1 John 3 and verse 4 says that sin is the transgression of the law. You see, the moral law of God is a reflection of his very character. And so to sin against God is not to sin against some regulation or some abstract rule. It's to sin against a person. It's a hostile attack against his very nature. Just stop and think for a moment of how many laws David violated And this whole scenario, he di violated the first commandment by placing himself before God He violated the fifth commandment by dishonoring his father and the scandalous sin. He violated the sixth commandment that says, Thou shalt not kill by having Uriah, the husband of Bathsheba, essentially murdered. He broke the seventh commandment, thou shalt not commit adultery, and the eighth by stealing another man's wife, and the ninth by trying to cover up and lie about his sin, and the tenth by coveting what was not rightfully his. All sin is a violation of God 's law, and it's also a personal offense. I want you to turn with me, if you are able, to the book of 2 Samuel that gives us the historic record of This sin, 2 Samuel chapter 12. This is when the prophet Nathan comes and rebukes him. And I want you to notice exactly what is said. 2 Samuel chapter 12 and verse 7. This is the dramatic point where Nathan said to David, Thou art the man. 2 Samuel 12, 7. Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I anointed thee over Israel, and I delivered thee out of the hand of Saul. And I gave thee thy master's house and thy master's wives into thy bosom, and gave thee the house of Israel and of Judah. If it had not been too little, I would moreover have given thee such and such things. Wherefore hast thou despised the commandment of the Lord to do evil in his sight. Thou hast killed Uriah the Hittite with the sword, and hast taken his wife to be thy wife, and hast slain him with the sword of the children of Amnon. Notice here in verse 9 that Nathan explains that this was a personal sin against God. It was an indication that he has despised not only the commandment of the Lord, but the Lord Himself. And we see that he says that this was done in thy sight. The sordid tail is a reminder of the principle, be sure your sins will find you out. When we sin and cover it up, we are living like a practical atheist. We are in a sense professing with our actions that we don't believe that God really sees. Or that he will really hold us accountable for what we have done. I preach this message to you this morning, not because I'm trying to get at someone, or I've heard some tale or something like this. I'm not aware of anything nefarious going on. But the fact of the matter is that in every church, in every church, there are people who are hiding serious sin. And somehow they have come to believe the lie that they can evade God's judgment and correction. But this is all delusion. As I mentioned to you earlier, Proverbs 28, 13 says, he that covereth his sin shall not prosper. But whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. This is a universal principle. God 's path of mercy, of restoration, is the path of confession. But there's a third point that I want to bring out about the marks of authentic confession. And that is those who truly confess their sin recognize that they deserve whatever correction God requires. Turn back with me if you're able to Psalm 51 and verse 4. David says, Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest and be clear when thou judgest. What is David saying here? He is saying, Lord, I deserve Whatever correction you bring into my life. Now it's important for me to make a distinction with you, and it is a distinction with a difference. When you as a child of God commit sin and God brings correction into your life, that correction is not The punishment for your sin. Why do I say that? Because the punishment for your sin, if you're truly a child of God, was paid for at the cross. And the fact is, whatever correction, whatever difficulties God brings into your life do not adequately pay for the sin that you have committed. Sometimes I hear it actually quite frequently that Christians will say, well, you know, God's punishing me for what I have done. Not if you're a Christian, he's not. That's not his punishment. That's his loving correction. And so the first subpoint I would have under this is that God's correction is less than you deserve. You remember when Nathan the prophet told David that parable about this shepherd, this very wealthy man who had huge flocks of sheep, but he steals a man's pet lamb and takes him to himself. Nathan knew that would touch the heart of David because David was a shepherd. He had an emotional attachment to those sheep And that's why David said, The man that has done this thing shall surely die. And Nathan says, Thou art the man. You see, what David truly deserved was to be put to death. for his sins of adultery and murder. That's what he deserved. But David was forgiven But he still had to live with some very dire consequences. Now when we were back in 2 Samuel chapter 12, I didn't read the rest of those verses. But Nathan the prophet, after he says, you are forgiven, he said this, but the sword will not leave your house Just as David was immoral, just as David was violent in covering up his indiscretion and sin. So in the rest of his life that he lived, he would see in his family immorality and violence. He would see it again and again and again. Those were the consequences of his sin. See, often Christians, I think, get this confused. They think that if God has forgiven them, then there should be no consequences for their sin. But this is not the case. We still have this principle, that whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. Many people struggle with this truth, and it really becomes an indication as to whether or not you have truly from your heart Confessed your sin and turn from your sin. Or whether you're just trying to avoid and minimize the consequences of your sin. I remember many years ago. Before I became a pastor here, I was serving as a youth pastor, and also I was teaching at the Christian school connected to that ministry. And uh I taught a number of courses and uh including history, and uh uh I was teaching high school history and I gave this exam. And there were two girls who were really good friends who sat next to each other. And I remember when I was grading the exam, I was looking at their tests, and they were nearly identical. In fact, even when they had crazy wrong answers, the other one had the same crazy wrong answer And I kept going through, and I saw this, and I saw this, and it was indisputable that they were cheating. And so I brought them into my office, and I held up their papers. And I said, you guys were sharing answers. It's obvious that you were cheating. And they started to cry And they said that they were wrong and everything, and you know, they they they they were very sorry for what they had done and and everything and they asked for forgiveness and everything and And this was really good. And I thanked them for that and everything. And I read some scripture verses to them and everything. And I said, however, the policy of the school is that you get a zero for that test. And all of a sudden their countenance changed and they got angry and they said, We said we were sorry. We said we wouldn't do it again. You mean we're going to get a zero? And they stormed out of my office. You see, that wasn't real confession. That wasn't real forgiveness. When you are really broken over your sin, you accept whatever consequences come from your sin because you recognize You deserve more than that. You recognize that you need God's correction. David now was fully forgiven. He says in Psalm 32, blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. David was forgiven, but he still had to face some very serious consequences for his sin. His infant son would die. Immorality and violence would plague his family. He would lose two sons, and the glory of his kingdom would be tarnished forever. But this was not God's punishing David. This was God 's gracious correction. of this servant of the Lord. Sometimes we need this correction And one of the ways that we show that we accept what God has brought into our life as the consequences of our sin Is that we do not get angry, we do not say this is unfair, but we accept the consequences as from the Lord's. The Puritans used to use this term of kissing the rod, the rod of correction, rather than cursing the rod that God brings to correct us. We kiss the rod, we accept it as from the Lord. Now the last two Sundays I preached on repentance And it's true to some degree that every time you hear a sermon, you either respond in faith Or you respond in unbelief. You either become softer and more broken, or you become harder. But I think this is even more so the case when sermons of repentance or confession are preached. You will either yield to what has been said, and the Spirit of God will point his finger at certain areas in your life, and you will repent. And that includes confession. Or your heart will become hardened. You will become more set in your sin, more determined than ever to silence your conscience to silence the truth of God's word and to continue on in your path of sin. I often think of this verse in Proverbs 29. 1. I remember once I preached. In a high school chapel, going back to when I was teaching in a Christian school. The verse says this : He that being often reproved hardeneth his neck. Shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy. And I would take a light bulb and I would put it in a bag And then I would slam that down on the floor and it would shatter into thousands of little shards. And I would say this is what happens when we day after day, week after week, month after month say, no God, I will not confess, I will not repent. I will not turn from your sin. I will not yield to the convicting power of the Holy Spirit If we continue on that course, someday we are going to be broken, and no one's going to be able to put us back together. God's judgment will be severe to those who harden their heart. And when you come and you hear The preaching of the word when scripture texts are brought out that reveal the serious nature of sin and the importance of daily confessing it and turning from it. We become all the more responsible for responding to the truth. One of the lies that I mentioned earlier that so often keeps Christians, good Christians. From repenting of their sin is the idea that it will cost too much. It might cost me my marriage. It would cost me the respect of my children. It would cost me the respect of my brothers and sisters at the church. And so I cannot own up to my sin. I cannot really acknowledge my transgressions. I just have to continue on in the miserable, apathetic Christian state that I exist in. Remember a story I read of a famous evangelist named Marsh who was preaching about a hundred years ago, and there was a man who was under the preaching of the word. And this evangelist had a sermon where he talked about the importance of confessing and forsaking your sin and that God cannot bless you. If you live with unconfessed sin in your life, and this young man was greatly convicted, he worked for a shipbuilder. This man was very antagonistic to the gospel, and this young man had even witnessed to him. But he was also at home building a boat for himself. This was a big operation he worked for, and so he knew that to really build this ship effectively he needed to use copper nails because they wouldn't rust. They would last so much longer. And so daily he would take a handful of copper nails and take them home with him. And in that place there were thousands and tens of thousands of copper nails everywhere. And so he thought to himself, they'll never ever miss these. It doesn't matter. It's not worth that much money. This is just a small thing. And he quieted his conscience in this way. But that night he became greatly convicted, but he came up to the evangelist afterwards and he says, I don't know how I can do this. I've even witnessed to this man, and what he always says is that Christians are hypocrites. If I go to him now and say, sir, I've been stealing these copper nails from you, he's going to say, aha, I told you this was right. All Christians are hypocrites. But the evangelist told him, You must go and make it right. And so he did. He went and he owned up to his sin and he offered to pay for the nails that he had stolen. And the man said, really? He says, you know, all of my life I've thought that Christians were hypocrites, but I've never had anyone come to me and confess that they had stolen from me. Maybe there is something to the gospel that would compel a man to embarrass himself and humble himself in this way. So often we believe the lies of Satan that to confess our sin is just too costly, but it's not nearly as costly as continuing in your sin. May God help us to respond to his truth. Let's close in prayer. Father, we are all sinful people. We all come short of your glory. We all seek naturally to cover and hide our sin. But Father, it is not hidden from you. I pray that you would help us to see the necessity of turning from our sin, acknowledging it before you and perhaps before others I pray, Lord, that you would use these words for your glory. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.