Let's begin with a word of prayer this evening. Father, we thank you for your abundant grace to us each and every day, Lord, and we pray now as we come before your word. As this instruction of Christ to us on how to pray would challenge our hearts, stir our spirits, Father, and make us dependent on you. And we ask all of this in your Son's name. So on a cool day in October, the Lord reminded thousands of men of their dependence on him. The date of that was October 29, 1929, to be exact, the day of the New York Stock Exchange, which would send the nation tumbling into the Great Depression. Prior to that providential mourning, wealthy men carried themselves around in smug confidence in the booming economy that surrounded them. Just six years prior to this, Jay Gresham Mason wrote Christianity and Liberalism, decrying the waning faith of the nation and the rising growth of liberal theology. See, the sentiment in this booming economy was one of independence, success, and man-made futures. And the thoughts of God and his provision were nowhere to be found. Yet on that day the towers of wealth collapsed. And man was sharply reminded of his true dependence and that he is not in control. Fast forward about a hundred years later, and I asked the same question, have we learned that lesson ourselves? In our extreme wealth, we have become too reliant on ourselves. Our hearts have grown cold and fat and has robbed God of his gratitude For his gracious provision to us every single day. If we fail to acknowledge the giver His grace and his generosity in our lives every day, we are very likely to have a faith that grows cold and orthodox, knowing the truth yet living as practical atheists throughout our day. My proposition for you tonight is one of urgency. Because our hearts are prone to sinful self-reliance, we must pray to him with genuine gratitude. But it raises the question, what is genuine gratitude? Especially when it comes to praying to the Lord. I believe this line in the Lord's Prayer that we're going to cover tonight is going to show us three truths that can help us develop this genuine gratitude and turn from our sinful self-reliance. And they are these. That genuine gratitude acknowledges that God is the giver. And genuine gratitude acknowledges that God gives by his daily grace. And genuine gratitude acknowledges that God gives generously to us. If you haven't already, please turn with me in your Bible to Matthew 6. 11. As we start into the next petition of the Lord's Prayer. So before we get into the full honor the message tonight, It would be good to do a brief summary of where we are in the Lord's Prayer. This is the fifth message in my series on the Lord's Prayer. And if you're just joining us for that, I'll give you a quick breakdown of where we are. The Lord's Prayer itself is broken into two parts, with three petitions in each part, and it ranges from Matthew 6, 9 to 13. The first three petitions are about God, his sovereign glory, his reign, his purposes, in other words, who God is. The second three petitions reflect our lowly dependence on God, on man, his needs, categorically who we are before God. In the first set of messages that I've already delivered, we've explored these three petitions on God's glory. Hallowed be thy name. This petition is one that says for God's names to be revered, that he be given glory in all of creation because he is the one true God. That this provides an intimacy and an order to our prayers where God is first. Your kingdom come. I reviewed that the power of the kingdom is in three facets of that kingdom. First, that it's Christ's kingdom, that part of the kingdom has come, and part we still wait for. And your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. We answered the question of what is God's will? Why do we pray for it? How do we submit to it? I share with you the example of Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane in his humble submission to God's will. That when we pray, we might be conformed to the revealed will of God in the perfect way, it's done in heaven. So now this series and the message and the prayer take a noted shift in subject. The your pronouns get replaced by our pronouns. as we shift from the glory of God and glorifying Him to our dependence upon Him. It's not just a topical shift. But it's one of a logical progression. You see, if we are praying for the glory of God and submission to God, the next thing would likely be our dependence upon his glory in submission. It's a logical connection. Each of the petitions that will follow in the rest of the series focus on some aspect of dependence we have on God. The dependence we have is our place before a holy and just creator. So as we set the stage for this message and those to come, these three petitions are prayers of dependence. The first petition, give us this day our daily bread, demonstrates the dependence we have of Him in our gratitude, or hopefully convicting us of our lack of gratitude As I mentioned in my proposition, because our hearts are prone to sinful self-reliance, we must pray with genuine gratitude. See, it's our self-reliance because our hearts are prone to grand independence. We think that we're hot stuff We're the ones providing for ourselves. In turn, we turn to worship ourselves as the providers rather than God Making idols out of ourselves rather than worshiping the true God in gratitude for his provision. So I want to exhort us all to godly genuine gratitude and dependence from this passage tonight. And again, these three truths about genuine gratitude, that genuine gratitude acknowledges God is the giver, and that genuine gratitude acknowledges God's daily grace. And genuine gratitude acknowledges that God gives generously. So let's turn to our first truth tonight: that genuine gratitude acknowledges God as the giver. Look at Matthew 6, 11 for me. Give us this day our daily bread. One simple verse We start with give us. The first point that's worthy of our attention tonight from this verse is the petition offered up by Jesus draws a distinct definition around who is the giver and who is the recipient. Give here in our first truth is the verb of the verse. See, in this petition, Jesus is modeling for us that our request is simply a full dependence. Give us. It's unencumbered in the Greek. It's very simple. You give us. There's a Greek lesson for you. It's pretty simple. It forms the request to God. God is the giver, we are the recipient. We'll get into the nature of the timing and of the bread as we get into our next points, but most we must meditate on now is the reflection of the That God is the giver. In James 1. 17 it says, every good gift and perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights. with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. God is the giver of perfect gifts. But you see, but that's not all. God is the giver of life, Acts 17. He is the giver of wisdom, James 1. 5 He's the giver of grace, 1 Peter 5, the giver of the Holy Spirit, Luke 11, giver of salvation, Ephesians 2, giver of peace 1 Thessalonians 2, giver of strength, Psalm 29. He's the giver of all things. 1 Timothy 6, 17. It's a matter of intellectual honesty. You can trace back any provision in your life to the reality that God is the provider. Sure, you bought the bread, but who gave you the ability to earn it? Who protected you? Who watered the wheat? Who covered the processing grace? Who gave you intelligence? It's a matter of honesty to acknowledge that God is the giver. Now that doesn't mean for any minute that God does not use our labor connected with our work to provide. There's an important providential connection between God's provision and our labor. We know from 2 Thessalonians he says, For even when we were with you, we would give you this command, if anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat. God uses our work, uses our labor And he uses it for provision in many cases. But this is part of his working out of grace to us. It does not mitigate the fact that he is still the giver of all that provision. Yet another danger in this is that with our obedience and labor and our hard Protestant work ethic, It can be the very means to wealth that diminishes our reliance on the Lord. So many of us, when we hear that, think of the rich young ruler. who sought the kingdom yet his wealth became an idol and prevented him from entering the kingdom. But this problem has plagued Christians through all time. Even the theologian Cyprian of Carthage, who started his life as a wealthy lawyer in the age in the 400s, said this about the wealthy of his time. He says their property held them in chains, chains which shackled their courage and choked their faith and hampered their judgment and throttled their souls. They think of themselves as owners, where it is they who are rather owned, enslaved as they are to their own property. They are not the masters of their money, but its slaves. See, yes, we labor, but our labor and our wealth must acknowledge God, and those fruits must be pleasing to him and honor him with it. It is a fight to not be ensnared. By our wealth. Because you see, this kind of labor and this kind of work must drive us towards God and not drive us away from the acknowledgement that God is the giver. So it comes back to the simple question. Do you recognize God as the giver in your life? Robert Murray McShane was a man whose life was marked with neediness. In 1839, McShane fell very ill with heart challenges, and he had to depart from his pastorate at St. Peter's in Dundee. He was weak, sorrowful, regretful that he had to leave, but he was powerless about it. He 's had to leave. Yet he interceded for his congregation. McSheen's diary entries from this time describe not only his physical sufferings, but also his deep spiritual concern for his flock. which expressed through sustained prayer while he was away from them, knowing that God was the giver and he was needy. So after a long period of being gone for many months, when he returned to the church at Dundee, the congregation was in the midst of a revival. Still weak in his own strength, McShane took the pulpit of a full St. Peter's people were sitting on the stairs. There was nowhere to even sit. And he remarked, how it was not by man's power, man's might, but the power of God that did this work. You see, McShane's prayers knew that God was the giver. So how do you acknowledge the giver? Genuine gratitude flows from acknowledging the giver. See, many of us pray, thank you, Lord, for this and for that. Many times they're just receipts for things we've already received. But where is the acknowledgement to the giver before we get the gifts? How does your prayer life reflect a dependence on the giver for every need even before those needs arise? Additionally, how does your speech acknowledge the giver? How can I drove to work today become God graciously guided me safely to work Instead of I recovered from the illness, God restored my health. Instead of, hey, I handled that problem, boss, God gave me wisdom to solve it. The challenge is to direct our hearts and our speech to give glory to God as the giver, to acknowledge Him that He is the Giver in every situation, but out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. Do your words reflect the heart belief that God is the Giver? As you meditate on your words this week, acknowledge the Giver. It's the foundation of genuine gratitude. So now as we've seen That give us this day our daily bread is a call to acknowledge the giver, the sovereign God, the one who provides for all of our needs. We need to turn to the second truth in this verse. That the giver gives, but not on the merit of the recipient, but by his daily grace. My second point for tonight. Genuine gratitude acknowledges that God gives daily grace. Let's look back at our verse Give us this day our daily bread. So here's the question. Do we really operate as people who are daily dependent on God? Well, if you've ever been to BJ 's or Costco, you know that Americans are in the business of stocking up. We can stock up food for months, even years. We can stockpile gold, we can buy land, we can buy guns, we can buy ammo and more ammo. We can stock up and we can build independent fortresses where neither God nor man can penetrate. We don't have to depend on anyone for months. See, but that's not the kind of spiritual life and the kind of heart that Jesus is demonstrating in this line of the Lord's Prayer He says this day. You see the grand implication for this is you are praying this prayer for this day and again the next day. And again, the next day, again and again, praying for it every day because you have a day-by-day dependence on the grace of God to provide for you. The gratitude of the Christian is exemplified in a daily moment-by-moment dependence on the grace of God. As a note, this is the first time in the Lord's Prayer that we get any indication of maybe how often we should pray the Lord's Prayer. This word for this day is a very common word, simply means today or this day in the Greek. It could be concluded here that this is we should pray the Lord's Prayer every day Which should be true, it would be great. Yet the time frame in this sentence, this day, is descriptive, not prescriptive. We have many other verses in the New Testament and the Old Testament that speak to praying being many different frequencies. 1 Thessalonians 5 says, pray without ceasing. Ephesians 6, praying at all times in the Spirit. There's even set-aside times, like in Luke 5. 16, when it says, But he, meaning the Lord, would withdraw to desolate places to pray. There are prayers for the morning and there's prayers for morning. There's prayers for the evening and prayers for joy. The Bible places no limitation on the amount of prayer or the schedule for it, but that we have a humble heart. As we come to the Lord. Yet the frequency of prayer is not the point of this day in the scripture, in this verse. The use of this day Is amplified by what it doesn't say. It doesn't say today and tomorrow. Doesn't say this week. Doesn't say this month, but today. The immediate, present grace of our Lord right now in my life This prayer reflects the heart of a Christian that's rooted in the daily, continual grace of our Lord for each and every moment of our lives. And that's really the challenge for us when we consider this day. The central issue is a matter of the daily acknowledgement of his grace. God gives to us by grace, not by merit, but how entitled we feel each day when it's all by grace given by God. Do you act like someone who earned grace each day? See, earning and grace are intention. They're opposite of each other. Grace is totally unmerited favor, something you didn't earn. So how can you hold to a belief that you earn something that you have no basis for, yet alone deserve it every day? Oh, but I know, I know even in my own heart. We do. We expect God to deliver for us. Somewhere in the prideful corners of our heart, we work hard, we do the right thing, we murmur to ourselves that we earned it. And God needs to deliver. We must repent of a sin that implicitly expects the Lord to give to them every day. And beg for a heart that acknowledges the kind of daily dependence on his grace that we need. Everyone in this room would agree that they got here today by grace. But how many of us pray and live that theology? You see, we don't have to look very far in the scriptures to get an idea of this. We can just look back into the Exodus for the Israelites to see an example of living by the daily grace of God. The Israelites were chief complainers, and they were complaining about the lack of food, and it comes about this in Exodus 16, when really what they were doing was doubting God as a giver. It's better that we should stay in Egypt, they would say. At least we could provide for ourselves then. This is what it says in Exodus 16. Then the Lord said to Moses, Behold, I'm about to rain bread from heaven for you, and the people shall go out and gather a day's portion every day. that I might test them whether they will walk in my law or not. You see, God had put the Israelites in a place where they could collect bread for that day, that daily dependence. They had to depend on God for every day for that bread. How about yourself? Can you imagine not having a refrigerator? No food? You have to walk into your yard every morning and pick up all the food. But you could pick up all that you could eat, but no more than just for that day. That's living by the daily grace of God. I mean again they could gather all they could eat for that day, as much as they wanted. It was a daily abundance. This is what happened. In verse 18 it says, But when they measured it with an omer, whoever gathered much had nothing left over, whoever gathered little had no lack. Each of them gathered as much as he could eat. And Moses said to them, Let no one leave any of it over till the morning. But they didn't listen to Moses. Some left part of it to the morning, and it bred worms and stank. And Moses was angry with them. Morning by morning they gathered it as much as he could eat, but when the sun grew hot it melted They just couldn't do it. They couldn't live by the daily grace of God. It was too much for them. And I fear that is too much for us as well. Outside the grace of God. So how do we live in the daily grace of God? I'm in no way saying that planning and preparing and storing up food and provisions is unwise or godly. If the Lord has blessed you with that kind of means and wisdom, praise Him for that. But with this is a matter of the heart, of genuine gratitude, to acknowledge that you are living in the daily dependence of God. Praise the Lord if He's provided you with a stocked shelf. But it doesn't mean you can go in front of that shelf every morning and thank him for it. That sounds silly to you, my friend. That's the problem. It's acknowledging his grace. So many of our needs are met by grace every day. He deserves gratitude from them from our hearts. See, the times and the reasons for gratitude are abundant in our life. They're everywhere. But let me challenge you with this. Find something in your day that you know is a prize provision that maybe even tonight you're thinking of that you don't have gratitude for. For some of you, maybe it's that first cup of coffee in the morning. Hmm. And you probably need coffee right now, I can tell. You know, you wrap your hands around that cup, the smell, but then stop and thank God for the grace for that cup of coffee. Give thanks then even for that simplest thing to draw your heart to gratitude for that grace. How about every time you start your car? And we just expect that to work, don't we? That's of grace. His praise, it deserves this grace of gratitude every time that car starts, and even praise him if it doesn't that day. These little things can help us to train our minds to be thoughtful about God's grace to us as he gives to us for this daily grace. So now we've talked about the giver, we've talked about the grace, and how this should magnify our gratitude to the Lord. We have one last truth to cover. God is the giver who gives by grace, but what does he give us? He gives us everything. The third point, genuine gratitude acknowledges that God gives generously. Coming back to our verse, give us this day our daily bread. Spoiler alert, this part is not about bread all alone. See, the adjective for this verse in the daily is a very rare adjective. Epiusius, it's used nowhere else in the Bible. Of course, scholars love when something is used nowhere else in the Bible It's been a point of great scholarship and conversation all through church history. What in the world is daily bread? One possible solution is that it's for the day in question, in a sense daily. This is where what Tyndale did in his 1525 Bible, which gave us the daily bread we have now, it can mean for today or the coming day. It's probably a callback to that story of manna in the wilderness. It could also mean necessary bread. That's necessary for survival. Proverbs 38 says, feed me with the food that is needful for me. In a sense, what's necessary. You know, we've discovered a A manuscript in 1925 that includes this word, again it's very rare, on an account for daily rations, almost like a grocery list of a shipping manifesto. So this necessary or essential bread is could it what it might mean? It could also mean for the coming day, for like tomorrow Which is currently a favorite translation by some people, they've noted it. That kind of says bread for tomorrow, same thing. Dia Carson loves that translation. Yet any way we look at it, these definitions point to one thing. That the petitioner must trust God to provide needs as they arise, not necessarily in advance. And that brings us to the bread. Some of the early church fathers would not believe that Christ would pray for something as basic as bread. Fathers like Trillian, Cyprian, Augustine thought this had to be a reference to the invisible bread of the Word of God. Or the Lord's Supper. Jerome in his Vulgate translated it super substantial, thinking it was like the Holy Communion is what he was talking about. But Calvin summarized all these church fathers well when he said, this is exceedingly absurd. Yet bread in the scriptures does not always point to simply bread. It can be a variety of different things. In Genesis 3. 19 we have this. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread. You will return to the ground, for out of it you are taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. So even this use of bread is a broader definition for all of our basic needs. Or Matthew 4, where it says, Man shall not live by bread alone, but every word that comes from the mouth of God. See, even in this, men have argued that this bread speaks to a manner of all physical needs that we have and provisions. In a sense, man does not live by physical provisions alone, but by the word of God. So this bread can really stand for everything in our physical needs. So it's not surprising that the reformers, mostly Luther, concluded that the bread ranges for all things in our physical life Good food, a spouse, a home, health, weather, etc. So the connection of these terms brings forth a reality. The scope of our petition. is the great giver of God giving us in grace our daily, our next present, every physical need. So when we pray for our daily bread, we're not just praying for food for that day. No, we are. We're praying for union in our marriages. Safety for our children, protection for our homes, stable jobs, advantageous weather, anything else that God provides to us physically in this world You see, from the simplest figure, it encapsulates all of our physical needs. It's an argument from the lesser to the greater. But here, bread also serves as a great analogy for us. Because bread by itself, when it's made, does not last very long. Our current bread has lots of preservatives that can last a strangely long amount of time. But our time frame for bread is much shorter. This is God's design. By implication, your every need, you should pray, should be focusing on our hearts on a daily rhythm of dependence on God's generosity. Because he provides everything. God is not only the giver, giving by grace, but he gives so generous generously. He graciously gives you all the needs you have in this world. That's generous. That's a truth that should turn our hearts to a genuine gratitude for God. Some of us have so much abundance in this world. We have no needs. And we all but forget to pray for daily bread. We've got everything we need. We don't need God to give us generously. Sure, he could help us with this or with that. But in our ignorance, we think, I've got the rest covered, God. The emphasis here is on the petition of what. God is the giver, he's the who, grace is the how, and the what is everything we need in life. But how many of us really believe that? How impotent this prayer is in our hearts because we deny the giver, deny the grace. And we cross our smug arms in sinful self-reliance in the face of his great generosity to us. You don't pray for daily bread because you got it covered. You don't pray for daily bread because your sin and your wealth have blinded you to the gratitude of God. How hard is this for us as wealthy Americans? Brothers, we have to fight this with all of our heart. Do not let the Lord's generosity blind us and make us worshipers of self Genuine gratitude declares that the daily generosity of our Lord should never escape our lips and our hearts as we live the Christian life. So many of you know that our family is an adoptive family. Jacob and Lucy were in an orphanage when we adopted them. You know, an orphanage is a nice place, but it's still an orphanage. Yet one of the issues that comes from being in an orphan in this environment is something called food anxiety. So you can probably understand where this comes in. It comes from not being in control of food or having access to food. This is kind of how they operate. Kids in this environment have no idea of when they're going to be fed or what they're going to be fed. And even for Jacob, he wasn't even allowed to feed himself. He had to be fed by someone. So you can imagine if you lived your life like this, what would this do to you? What develops are behaviors, such as hiding food, eating very rapidly, or unexplained anxiety at different times of day. Jacob experienced some of this, but even after being placed in a new home, the fear and anxiety remained for many months. What about you? Do you act like an orphan or a child of God? See, orphans like this operate in daily fear, anxiety, seeking to control all of their needs. Hoarding, not trusting, and being independent of everyone. They're fatherless, with no provider, no safety, no trust. Christian, you are in the family of God. God, your Father, is the great provider. He knows what you need every day. He's been providing it every day. You don't need to be anxious. You don't need to be fearful or overly self-reliant What he says in Matthew 7. Or which one of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent? If you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give you good things to those who ask him? God the Father has an abundance of provision for your daily needs if you will only ask him. But we must ask with the heart. Of genuine gratitude that acknowledges the daily generosity of our Lord in all of our physical provisions. And He gives generously. Give us this day our daily bread. It's a prayer of genuine gratitude to God, the giver, his grace, and his generosity in meeting all of our our needs. I want to close tonight with four questions for you. How dependent are you on the Lord? Have you stored up for yourself so much treasure that you say to your soul, relax, eat, drink, and be merry? The problem with this disposition is the same one that Jesus calls out in Luke 16. You are ignorant of your true dependence on the Lord. Christian, open your eyes to the every waking moment dependence on the Lord. Do you believe you could be gone in a moment? Do you just assume your food and your home will be there when you get back tonight? I don't say that to drive fear. Fear is the absence of the Lord, but to drive an acknowledgement of our dependence on him. In the echo of Paul, dependence leads to reliance, reliance to hope, and to a hope to a life everlasting. cultivating genuine gratitude in your dependence on the Lord, as the Lord has commanded us to pray for our daily needs. Deeply. Recount every physical blessing you have that the Lord has provided. The ones that have touched your life and give glory to the Lord for it. Show him how dependent you are in your prayer. Second, are your prayers prayers of contentment? Ask yourself this. If God gave you what you asked for in prayer, would it glorify him? Would it advance his kingdom? Or would it accomplish his will on earth? If not, why are you asking it? Praying for our daily bread is praying for our need, not our greed. In this prayer, we have to wrestle with the truth that commitment is trusting God. rather than having your life go to plan or getting all of our desires met. See Protestant Protestantism in a good way has made us all diligent savers, money planners, thinking about the future, and God has blessed us many of us in that provision. But contentment is a matter of stewarding that blessing. That the provision of God does not take the place of God in your life. Praying for our daily bread means that you'll be content with his response. We need to strive for contentment in our lives based on what the Lord provides. Not more than I need, not everything I want, but be content with daily bread. Thirdly, have you partaken of the bread of life? If you're here tonight and you do not know the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, this prayer, all I've gone through, is not for you. You're living by God's grace now, but that time will end. And so I must point you to a different bread for a moment. In the Gospel of John, Jesus Christ fed five thousand, and many were astonished with this sign, so much so that they wanted more. Give us more of this bread, they would say. This is what Jesus says, John 6. Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. But I said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. My friend, if you are striving for the bread of this world, I ask you to seek the bread of life. Like bread, everything in this world will perish, it will die, it will rot. Your possessions, your body, your home, none of it will endure this life to the next. And your soul will thirst, like Lazarus in the fiery torment of God's wrath, for those who do not believe in him. Repent of your sin and trust Jesus Christ, the bread of life, and be saved. But lastly, what will be on your table this Thanksgiving? It is providential that I would be doing a Lord's prayer for the daily bread sermon right before Thanksgiving. I've been reading about the pilgrims and the Mayflower Voyage, personally, just for interest. What's clear about their lives is that Thanksgiving was not the only day they got together and gave thanks to the Lord for their daily bread. It was a way of life for them. But we have a different situation with our Thanksgivings. When you were around that table with pounds and pounds and pounds of food, rejoicing in all the good things, don't turn it into a prosperity gospel picnic. Yes, let's give thanks to God, Jesus Christ in name and witness to your relatives and your family and friends that do not know him. But let our gratitude extend beyond the surface of that table. Let it go beyond the prosperity and blessings you have received. Is there not gratitude in your suffering in this past year? Is there not dependence that gives thanks to God for every little thing you might have gotten, even if it's not impressive? What power is the witness in our lives of our gratitude is for the health, wealth, and prosperity of the American dream that everybody else is trying for? I challenge you to put godly gratitude from the heart of a dependent soldier of Christ on that table on Thanksgiving Praise him, praise him, tell of his excellent greatness. Yes, but pray with gratitude for the giver, the grace, and the generosity, but do not neglect his mercies and difficulties. dependence and unanswered prayer, and you're yielding to the will of his will in your life. Like the song says, you are always good, only good to me. Let that be your gratitude, this Thanksgiving Because our hearts are prone to sinful self-reliance, we must pray to him with genuine gratitude. May the Lord help us by his grace. Let's close in prayer. Father, you are the giver and you give generously by grace. Help us to have hearts that acknowledge your provision in everything in our lives, from the good even to the things that are hard. even when our daily bread is not what we desired. Help us to be content. Help us to have humble hearts of genuine gratitude. That we might be a witness of your abundant grace in a world that denies you. Protect our hearts from the snare of wealth and help us depend on you through it all, our Lord, our Savior, Jesus Christ. Christ. And we ask this in your son's name. Amen.