Come to the very end of our study of Philippians. the story of a little girl that was given two dollars by her father. He told her that she could spend one dollar on anything that she wanted. But that the other dollar had to go into the offering plate on Sunday. So the girl went running down the street and one of the dollars flew out of her hand and before she could grasp it it went down a storm drain. And she said, well Lord, there goes your dollar. Children are often much more transparent Than we are as adults when it comes to our feelings about money and other things. The Bible teaches from cover to cover that the way we use and spend our money is not insignificant. In fact, it's very, very important. Jesus said, where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. You want to know what you treasure? Well, how do you spend your money? That would be a very good indication. Just as joy, peace, and contentment are evidences of the Spirit's transformation of a life. So too is a person's use of money. You might come here this morning and say, oh no. A sermon about money. You know, last week we were talking about contentment and people People are are fine with like spiritual topics like that, but money seems so unspiritual. But the fact of the matter is that's simply not true The Bible addresses this issue of money in one way or another in something like 800 verses in the Bible. It's a very, very significant topic. The Lord Jesus Christ spoke about it all the times, and it's found in many of his parables. Now I realize that this is a delicate matter to talk about, but it is very significant. Many years ago, I heard a preacher once say something that really struck me and I've never forgotten, and that he said, for most people, when they give money to the Lord They are in essence giving a portion of their life. Have you ever thought about that? You work and you earn money. And in a sense, those hours that you give your employer are like you're giving your employer a portion of your life. Those 40 hours or those 50 hours whatever you have given to your employer and he in turn has given you some money for your services. And so that money represents a portion of your life. And so when you put money in the offering plate, you are giving, as it were, a condensed form of your very life right there. And that kind of sheds light on how important it is. Now preaching on giving is a delicate matter, and this is true for several reasons. One reason, of course, is that money is a very personal matter. It's one of those topics that you don't generally bring up, at least not in a personal way, in a conversation with a person. You just don't talk about their money matters. It's private. It's none of your business. But another reason that I'm kind of hesitant to talk about money is because so many preachers have abused the Bible's teaching about money. And even good evangelical conservative preachers sometimes I think emphasize it and preach about it too much. Maybe their ministry or their churches and in uh crisis mode and they can't pay their bills and so they preach about it but then not enough comes in so they preach about it again and they're always preaching about money and if there's anything That visitors hate when they visit a church is to hear the preacher preach about money. They've done surveys of this sort of thing. So if you're visiting here this morning, my apologies And I look back in my records just for your information. And in about 14 years of ministry here, I think I preached on giving specifically about seven times. So you can't look at that and say this is something that I thump on all the time. So why am I preaching about this this morning? Well it's not because leadership of the church has told me, you know, pastors, offerings are a little bit low or giving to missions is low or whatever, so it's time for you to bring out one of those sermons on giving. No, no, it's not that. I'm preaching on giving because that's what Paul addresses here in the paragraph that we're coming to in the book of Philippians. You may recall that verses 10 through 20 are in essence a postscript to a letter. Paul has completed saying really what he wants to say in the doctrinal portion of this letter, and now he is thanking them for sending him a gift while he was in prison. Now Paul does this in a very discreet way. I've mentioned to you before that all throughout his ministry he was very careful lest anyone think that he was in the ministry for the money Paul does not want them to think that somehow he is relying on them and depending on their gift. But on the other hand, he wants them to know that he's genuinely glad and grateful for their gift. There's a way in which you can receive a gift from someone that makes them feel obligated that they're going to have to give again next month and again the next month. And there are many ministries, unfortunately, that operate this way. And they constantly say, we couldn't do this if it wasn't for your gift. That's not the approach the Apostle Paul took. He said, No, I'm not dependent on you. I'm dependent on God. And in verses 11 through 13, where we have been the last two Sundays, we have this classic expression of contentment. And it's found in the context of him saying, listen. I appreciate your gift, but I want you to know I'm not relying on you. I'm relying on God. And he always has met my needs. And I have learned whether I am doing well and I have a full bank account and things are going great. I've learned to be content living that way, but then when things are bad and I'm in prison and I have no money and I don't know where my next meal is coming from, I've learned to be content with that situation as well. Now he begins in verse 14 in this section by thanking them lest they get the impression that in his statements of contentment that he didn't he's not thankful or grateful at all for their sacrifice Now what is interesting in verses 14 through 19 that we read together this morning is that if you look very carefully, he does not really use the word thank you. He says thank you without saying thank you. Now why is that? Well, in their culture, when you were good friends, you didn't say thank you in a direct way. To do so would convey the impression that this was nothing more than a financial arrangement rather than an intimate friendship. Just like a young lady who might get a diamond ring for Christmas from the young man who wants to marry her, she probably does not send him a little thank you note. Thanks for the diamond. I really appreciate it. It's not appropriate. And so Paul graciously thanks them without actually saying the words. Now I wanted to ask you an important question. Why is it that God has seemed fit to preserve this record of a thank you know? I mean, does that seem kind of mundane and unimportant? And personal? What's the profit in God having this in his word, this thank you note? I believe that what we have preserved here is a powerful example of how believers should give to advance the gospel. In Paul's thank you, we are going to see a number of reasons why Christians should give generously to the advance of the gospel, whether that is in our own community or even more importantly in our missionary work around the world. We have just been reminded this morning, as I've told you about Rodney and Lynn Myers, that we are in a battle. And that the people who are on the front lines desperately need our help and our support. We have Seth and Amy Myers. Report to us this Thursday and Seth stood up here behind this pulpit and wept and thanks for what we have done for him and his family. And the special offering that we took up for them and the notes and the gifts that we have sent to them. And this is perfect timing really for The message that we consider this morning. I wanted you to notice in our text four reasons why we should give joyfully. to the advance of the gospel. The first reason is this, because when we give generously to advance the gospel , We are encouraging those who are serving the Lord. Look at verse 14. Paul says, notwithstanding ye have well done that you did communicate with my affliction. Paul begins by saying to them, to this church that he had planted some ten years earlier, well done. This says volumes, I'm sure, to them. Paul is speaking to them like a proud parent. He was their spiritual father. He went there, remember that day by the sides of that river and there was a little Bible study there, and he went and he preached. Christ and the Lord opened the heart of this businesswoman Lydia, and then there was the Philippian jailer and the woman who was possessed by a demon, and these people came to Christ and they formed the nucleus of a little church. And a church was planted in this pagan territory. And Paul taught them and ministered to them and gave of himself to them. And now they are giving back to him. He says to them, well done. You know, studies have shown that words of appreciation can make tremendous difference in a person. And this is exactly what the Lord is doing. Notice what he says about this gift that they had sent by the hand of Epaphroditus. It may be somewhat veiled to you because he says you did communicate with my affliction. What does that mean? Well, the word communicate is a word that is normally translated as fellowship. And it's one of the most significant themes in the book of Philippians. In chapter 1 and verse 5, he speaks of the fellowship of the gospel. And chapter 2 and verse 1, he speaks of the fellowship of the Spirit. And chapter 3 and verse 10, he talks about the fellowship of suffering. And here he is in essence talking about their fellowship in the ministry. By sending this gift to Paul, they were demonstrating in a very tangible way that they were partners with him in the ministry. They weren't just saying, Paul, we're praying for you. Hope things work out while you're in prison. They sent a messenger hundreds of miles with their sacrificial offerings to minister to his needs. And Paul says that this in essence was them partnering with him and helping him in his affliction. That word affliction has the idea of being crushed by pressure. Those who are on the front lines of ministry and places like Tanzania or South Africa, who are in areas that are not so hospitable to the gospel so often under the spiritual warfare that they're involved in and the pressures of daily life, they are being crushed. They are in affliction. And that's the way it was with Paul. But their gift came and encouraged him and strengthened him. And that's what our giving can do as well to those who are suffering for the sake of the gospel. They in a sense were helping to bear his burden. Paul says in Galatians 6 that we are to bear one another's burdens. That is, when we see a brother or sister and they are way down with a heavy weight, we get on the other end and we help them to lift off that burden so it's not so heavy and it doesn't crush them And that's what these believers were doing for Paul, and this is what we must do. Remember, Paul was in prison. He was ostracized by many of the believers at Rome. He was cut off from many of his friends, and he had no means to provide for his own needs. He couldn't make tents there in prison. The church at Philippi rallied to help him in a very meaningful way. And it was a symbol of their Friendship and their care and their concern for Him. Their gifts spoke volumes that said, Paul, we care about you. We're with you in your suffering. We will not abandon you. God will bring you through this. And when we sacrificially give to missionaries who are in need, like we have in recent months, I want to suggest to you that it carries the same meaning to them. I know they have shared that with me. You know, there are some things that I wish were different in our church. Some things that perhaps we don't do very well. Things that sometimes discourage me, but I want you to know this One of the great highlights of this last year has been the way we rallied around these missionaries in crisis. Rodney and Lynn Myers earlier, we took up an offering This past summer and we we gave something like $7 ,000 to them and that was a huge encouragement to them. And then for Seth and Amy Myers we took up an offering in recent days in December and we we gathered over $8,000 for them. And we truly minister to them and their need, and I want to say to you, as your pastor, well done. That's exactly what God would have us do as we see here in this passage of Scripture. And I hope that we can continue to give like this and be an encouragement to those who are advancing the gospel. But there is another reason we have in our text that we should give generously to advance the gospel, and that is because we are investing in a cause that will count for eternity. Look with me, please, at verses 15 and 16. Paul writes, now ye Philippians know also Then in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only. For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity, not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your accounts The church of Philippi, he says here, was outstanding in the way they supported him. This was from the very beginning. When he says here in verse 15, you know that in the beginning of the gospel, he's saying, When I first took the gospel there, From the very beginning, you folks have been supporting me and generously giving to me. This is something that started right away in this ministry. And then when he left, when that church was planted and he went over to Thessalonica, they may have thought, well, we don't have to support him anymore, he's gone. But they sent messengers to take a gift to him at Thessalonica. And to continue his ministry there, and he says here, it wasn't a one-time gift. He says once and again, which is an expression that means it happened repeatedly. Repeatedly, they sent messengers with gifts to support and sustain the Apostle Paul. And this was a wonderful thing. And it wasn't the only time that they gave. We know from other passages of scripture they supported Paul when he was ministering in Athens and in Corinth. And he says in one passage that he felt almost as if he was robbing other churches. And that is the church that Philippi continued to give to him, even when other churches did not. Where was his sending church, the church of Antioch? This large established church. We don't know. What about the church of Jerusalem? What about all the other churches that he had planted? From our knowledge, it doesn't seem that any of them were Supporting him on a regular basis, except for the church at Philippi. They didn't wait around and say, well, what are the other churches doing? What's everybody else doing? No, they took the initiative And they met the need by the grace of God. But I want you to focus on verse 17. He says, not because I desire a gift , But I desire fruit that it may abound to your account. He says, now I want you to know the reason why I'm so excited and why I'm so glad is not because you sent me some cash. It's not the money. It's what it represents. And it's not so much what it's done for me, it's what it represents that God has done for you in your hearts. It is fruit. And what's interesting is he uses some commercial terminology here. The word fruit is a technical term that refers to compound interests. Do you know about the miracle of compound interest and how things can grow exponentially? I read this thing the other day and I said that can't be right. But after doing some computations, I believe it is. I hope no one proves me wrong afterwards. Maybe they will. I don't know. I'm not a mathematician But if you take a penny and you double it every day for just a month, 31 days. So you start out with one penny, then you have two pennies, then you have four pennies, you have eight pennies, and so forth. You know how much money you'll have at the end of the month after 31 days? You say maybe $1,000? Maybe $100,000? Maybe maybe a million dollars? How about over $21 million? Things exponentially grow and no matter how much you think it's going to be high, it always exceeds what you think it's going to be And that's the kind of language that Paul is using here. He's saying that your giving will bring incredible returns. He's saying the small amount of money that maybe you have sacrificially given In light of eternity will be greatly multiplied. We see this principle all throughout Scripture. Remember The feeding of the 5,000, that little boy who surrendered his lunch, five loaves and two fishes, the Lord broke it. And miraculously multiplied it so that it fed this vast multitude of probably something like 15,000 people, and they had 12 baskets of leftovers. God takes our meager resources when we joyfully give them to Him and He multiplies them exponentially. That's what this verse is saying. Now this is not, by the way, a quick-rich scheme. It's not saying that if you give God a little bit of money, he's going to give you a whole lot of money. Contrary to what prosperity gospel people would say. But I want you to know that what Paul is saying here is not unique to him. This is exactly what Jesus taught. Do you know what he said in the Sermon on the Mount? Some amazing words about our giving in Matthew chapter 6. Listen to these words. Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth. You may say, why not, Lord? Where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. Whatever treasure you lay up on this earth is going to either be stolen. We just heard a report about that. Or it's going to decay, or it's going to rust away, it's going to fall apart. That's the nature of things of this earth, right? But, in contrast, lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal, for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also You see, we can't say to the Lord, Lord, I am fully yielded to you. I believe what your word teaches, but just don't touch my money. Because Jesus said if you're his follower, you're going to lay up treasures in heaven. It really becomes a test of our faith. So what kind of investments are you making? Some of you here I know are on fixed incomes. You have meager resources. And I think about what our Lord's comments about the widow who gave those two mites. A woman who was living in absolute abject poverty. But she gave something. And the Lord said to those wealthy Pharisees that she gave more than all of them put together. When we give, when we give, God takes the meager amount that we give, and God multiplies it. This is a wonderful passage for us to consider. Would you notice with me thirdly? There's a third reason why we should give generously. Because when we give generously to advance the gospel, we are offering up a sacrifice that is well pleasing to God. Look at verse 18. Paul writes, but I have all and abound I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you. An odor of sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. Paul uses another term from the financial world. He employs a term for receipts that would be stamped paid in full. He once again does not want them to think that he expects more from them in the future. He says, listen, I'm good. You have been so generous to me. He's not saying, you know, that was good, but I really could use a little bit more. He's delighted with their gift, but he is not dependent on their gift. But what I really want you to see in this verse is the striking way that Paul describes their gift. describes it in the language of a sacrifice, an odor of sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. If you know your Bible well, you know that you find this kind of language all throughout the pages of Scripture. We first read about it in Genesis chapter 8, right after the flood. Noah offered a sacrifice to God, and it said, and the Lord smelled a sweet savor. And it's an expression that indicates that that sacrifice was pleasing to God. It was accepted by him. We read something similar in Exodus chapter 29, verse 18. It is a burnt offering unto the Lord. It is a sweet savor. And throughout the books of Exodus and Leviticus, you would find this kind of language again and again and again in reference to the sacrifices. But this language is not unique to the Old Testament. If you turn back with me just a few pages to Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 2, I want you to notice what it says there. It says, and walk, Ephesians 5, 2, and walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us. and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor The ultimate sacrifice that was accepted by God was the sacrifice of his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. All of those Old Testament sacrifices were a foreshadowing of the ultimate sacrifice. But here we find in Ephesians chapter 4, not that we in any way contribute to our salvation or to our atonement. But when we sacrificially give, it is something that is well pleasing to God. Like an aroma arising up, perhaps from a fine meal. It pleases the senses. This reminds us of some wonderful things. It reminds us that our sacrificial giving is a tangible demonstration that we have given ourselves to God as a living sacrifice. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and verse 5, where Paul is writing about giving there and this gift that he was gathering for the the church at Jerusalem that was experiencing a famine. He says of those Gentile churches that they first gave of themselves And then they gave to the work of the Lord. You see, when we present ourselves as a living sacrifice and we put our all on the altar as we sing about it. That includes our wallets. We give the Lord everything. And that is something that is well pleasing to God. This illustration reminds us that giving is an essential part of worship. When we gather for worship, we worship the Lord in many different ways. Sometimes you'll hear me make reference to this. We worship the Lord when we prepare our hearts and we come here with a spirit that's ready to worship. We are expectant. We are eager to hear the word of God and to worship our great Creator. And we worship the Lord by the way we sing. We worship the Lord by the way we give attention to his word. We worship the Lord by the way we silently pray to him. During our prayer time or even throughout the service, we worship the Lord and serve the Lord as we minister to those around us. And we worship the Lord when we put money in the offering plate, when we give from our hearts. Not as a matter of duty, not as a matter of something that we have to do, not viewing it as somehow a Christian tax But putting it joyfully, eagerly, that the work of the gospel may go forwards. Now you know what people always want to know when it comes to the matter of giving? You know the question they always want to ask me? How much Isn't that right? They don't like all this vague generalities you're talking about. Just tell me what the bottom line is What's the percentage? I'll write the check. Just tell me how much. Well, instantly when a person asks that question, they're asking the wrong question. The Bible says that man should, in 2 Corinthians chapter 9, that you should not give grudgingly or of necessity. But God loves a cheerful giver. It's not like you're paying some bill that you complain about and mumble about as you write out the check. I have to pay it. I don't want to pay it. They're asking way too much, but I guess it's what I have to do. That's not the kind of giving that glorifies God. The Lord speaks of our relationship to him as a relationship of love. Man, I hope. That when your anniversary comes around or your wife's birthday or Christmas, you don't get out your checkbook and say, all right, how much? How much do I have to write? Okay? How much will it take for you to be satisfied and won't complain about it? Alright? Just tell me what it is and I'll write it out. Okay? I want to be square with you She would not appreciate that. She would probably say, you don't have to give anything. That's not what our relationship is about. And our relationship with the Lord shouldn't be that way. We don't have a mercenary relationship with him. Let me remind you, in essence, in answer to this question, how much should I give? The language here is a language of what? It's a language of a sacrifice. Okay. So if our giving is such that it's not a sacrifice at all, in other words, it's money that we would never miss. We d we don't miss at all. I don't even know that it's gone. It hasn't changed one bit about my life, then we're not giving enough. Let me read to you the words of C. S. Lewis. He said, I'm afraid the only safe rule for giving is to give more than we can spare. In other words, if our expenditures on comfort, luxuries, amusements, etc. is up to the standard common among those with the same income with our own, We are probably giving away too little. There ought to be things we should like to do, but cannot, because our giving excludes them. Now I know that's true for many of you. I don't know what you give, but I feel certain There are people here that you could live in a larger house and you could drive a nicer car and you might be able to purchase more land. If you did not give sacrificially in the way that you do to the work of God. And I want you to know that that's exactly the kind of giving that the Apostle Paul is talking about. I'm reminded of this pioneer missionary of a century ago, Bill Borden, who was the heir to the Borden Dairy fortune. He felt God's call on him to be a missionary of the gospel, and indeed he wanted to reach Muslims with the gospel. He went to Egypt and Tragically died of spinal meningitis. But before he went, when he was in seminary, all of his friends knew that this guy was loaded. He had hundreds of thousands of dollars at his disposal. And at that time automobiles were just becoming commonplace. And he went to this car show and his friends were with him and they said, Bill, why don't you buy a car? It'd be great. And he said to them, I can't afford it. And they laughed and they said, What do you mean you can't afford it? You're the sole heir to the board and dairyports and you have a gazillion dollars. You could buy this car and not even miss the money. He said it's not true. And he wouldn't buy those luxuries. And they found after he died, as they went through his records, that he had given hundreds of thousands of dollars To missionaries around the world. The reason why he couldn't afford it is because he'd given it away for the advancement of the gospel. Christians should give generously to advance the gospel because when we do so we encourage those who are serving the Lord and because we are investing in a cause that will count for eternity, and because we are offering a sacrifice that is well pleasing to God. And finally Because we are certain to receive all that we need. We come to this wonderful promise in verse 19. But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. This is one of the great promises of the Bible It's often used, unfortunately, by proponents of the prosperity gospel to teach that if you send them your money, that God will give you even more. If you turn on your television Sunday morning and watch the Health and Wealth Gospel false teachers, you will see them appealing. To many elderly people who are on fixed incomes who cannot afford to give much at all, and they're sending in their $10 and their $20, and that guy is living in some huge mansion and driving a Rolls-Royce And someday those charlatans will face the judgment of gods. This verse says nothing to support that kind of deception. This verse does not say that God will supply all your greed, by the way, but that he will supply all your needs. And it's a truth that is often found in Scripture in Matthew chapter 6 and verse 33, very familiar verse. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. What are all the things in that context? Food and clothing. Okay? Not a Rolls-Royce. Luke chapter 6 and verse 38, Jesus said, Give, and it shall be given unto you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over. In 2 Corinthians 9 and verse 6, Paul says, He which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly. He that soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. I'm almost hesitant to read these verses because they've been so abused by false teachers But it's important for you to understand that the blessings that are spoken of here are not primarily physical. I mean, if you think about it, why would God, in one verse, in that same passage, exhort us to lay up treasures in heaven? But then say that if we seek God first, He's going to give us all kinds of earthly treasures that are going to rust and decay and fall apart. Why would he promise that if you follow him, he will give you money, which he says in 1 Timothy chapter 6 is a snare and a great temptation to people? So when he talks about these blessings and so forth, it's not primarily talking about physical things. But I think it does answer a very significant objection that people have, and that perhaps has gone through your mind this morning. And that is, people often find themselves in reduced circumstances and they say, I can't give anything. to the advancement of the gospel because if I do, I will not have the wherewithal to meet my basic needs. And so what does Paul say here? Well my God shall supply all of your needs. Don't you worry about that. My father, he says, in essence, owns the cattle of a thousand hills. The wealth in every mind. It says, according to his riches and glory, you're not going to exhaust him. Our father can cover any debts. And God is debtor to no man. Let me remind you that most of the people in this church at Philippi were not rich. We know that the Roman Empire at this time, and this was a Roman city, was populated with a very high percentage of slaves. Undoubtedly, many of the people in this early assembly were slaves. They had very meager resources. But Paul writes to them and says, God will supply your needs. And God gave, and they blessed. Some of you may be familiar with the English hymn writer Francis Ridley Habergall She was an English woman, grew up in the Victorian era in England, and she wrote some wonderful hymns. Like who is on the Lord's side, and like a river glorious. And our most famous hymn written in 1874, Take My Life and Let It Be That hymn instantly became famous and began to show up in hymn books all over the world. And she found her own hymn to be a great challenge to her. She lived a very comfortable, we would say, upper middle class Standard of living in Victorian, Victoria, England. And one day the words that she had penned, take my silver And my gold, not a might would I withhold, came to convict her with great power. Like many women, she had a weakness for jewelry. And she had a wonderful jewelry box And most of her disposable income over the years had gone to purchase beautiful pieces of jewelry that she treasured and she kept in there. She had over 50 items. But in 1878, she wrote to a friend about a decision that she had recently made about those jewels. She said, the Lord has shown me another little step. And of course I've taken it with extreme delight. She says, take my silver and my gold now means shipping off all of my ornaments or my jewelry to the church missionary house. including a jewel cabinet that is really fit for a countess. And then she says, I don't think I ever packed a box with such pleasure. And the next year she died. Now let me ask you, do you think she regretted making that sacrifice? I don't think so. She indeed was laying up treasures in heaven. And I think that when she met her Lord, she found that it was a sacrifice well pleasing. to him. Let's have every head bowed and every eye closed. God doesn't just want control over our half on Sunday. God doesn't want to just have control of your conduct throughout the week. But he wants your all He wants you to lay it all on the altar. He wants you indeed to be a living sacrifice. And that includes parting with our treasures. I'm told of the average evangelical Christian in America Spends more money on pet supplies than they do on missions I'd like to think that's not true. I'd certainly like to think that we have different priorities here. But the Lord knows. The question is, are we truly giving to advance the gospel? Are we giving in a way that brings glory to God? Father, I pray that you would help us to give in such a way that would be a sweet-smelling savor to you And Father, I pray that for those who are here that are not followers of Christ That have never been born again. I pray that they would understand that no amount of money that they can give would please you. That they must first accept the supreme sacrifice that our Lord has paid for their sin on the cross. I pray that you'd help them to see Not the labors of their hands can fulfill the law's demands. Help them, Father, to come. And be saved and be changed. And then, Father, they can give and serve in a way that's pleasing to you. Help us, Father. to respond in faith to what we have heard and to give in a way that reflects our eternal values. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.