Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 4? We have been away from this book for a few weeks, and so I am ready to get back into our study of 1 Peter, 1 Peter chapter 4. One of the greatest Baptist preachers of the first half of the 20th century was a man named George Washington Truett. He was born in North Carolina in 1867, and at the age of 19, he became a follower of Christ. Shortly after he was saved, he gave a testimony in his local church, but he was so nervous that he ended up running out the back door. He ended up turning to education, becoming a school teacher, and he was a very popular school teacher for several years. In 1889, he moved with his young family to Texas, and there he became the member of the Wainwright Baptist Church. And one Sunday He filled the pulpit for the pastor. And the people in that Baptist church were amazed at his preaching gift. He really touched their hearts with his preaching. And in a short time after that, they ordained him to the gospel ministry, essentially against his objections. He said he wasn't sure that's what God had for him, and they said, well, we're sure. And they ordained him to the gospel ministry in a few years. He was the pastor of the largest church in America, the First Baptist Church of Dallas, Texas. The Bible teaches that God gives spiritual gifts to his people. This truth is concisely stated in 1 Peter chapter 4. Verses 10 and 11. Look with me there, please. 1 Peter 4, 10 and 11. As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. If any man speak, let him speak as of the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth. That God in all things might be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Now I want to remind you of the context in which this mention of spiritual gifts is found. This little section begins in verse 7. Look with me at verse 7. It says, But the end of all things is at hand. Be therefore sober and watch unto prayer. He's saying here that believers are to live in light of the return of Christ. And then he's going to give four ways in which that practically should be lived out. First of all, we should give ourselves carefully and fervently to prayer, he says in verse 7. And then he says, secondly, in verse 8, that we should love one another. Above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves. And then he gives an example of that love and action, verse 9. He says that we should be hospitable to one another, use hospitality one to another without grudging. And then the fourth way in which we should live in light of Christ's return is that we should use our spiritual gifts to minister to one another. And that's what he covers in verses 10 through 11. Now, this is one of four passages in the New Testament that addresses the issue of spiritual gifts. And it's rather easy to remember because you just have to remember the numbers 12 and 4. You have, first of all, Romans chapter 12, which tells us about spiritual gifts, 1 Corinthians chapter 12. And then you have Ephesians chapter 4 and 1 Peter chapter 4. Now there are a lot of misconceptions about spiritual gifts. that are around in the minds of people today. And so before we get into this text, I want to clear away some misconception misconceptions that people have First of all, there are some people who overemphasize spiritual gifts to the degree where that becomes like the whole point of the Christian life. We have a whole movement. along that line called the charismatic movement. The word charismatic comes from one of the words for gifts. In fact it's the word used in our text here today, charisma is the word. And they've taken that so that what is really, really important about Christian worship and Christian service and the Christian life, it's all about using your spiritual gifts and often spectacular spiritual gifts. That's not what the Bible teaches. There are many other misconceptions. Some people confuse a natural talent with a spiritual gift, but they are not the same thing. Lost people have natural talents. But only Christians have spiritual gifts. Some Christians equate a great deal of spiritual giftedness with spiritual maturity. They hear some one And they see how gifted this person is, and they think that person must be incredibly godly. But that's not necessarily the case. A person can be very gifted and yet a very weak Christian. Other Christians think that only a few rare individuals are given spiritual gifts, but the Bible clearly teaches in our text this morning and in other passages that every believer has at least one spiritual gift. Another misconception that people have is that you should only serve in the area in which you are gifted. But this is simply not true. We are to serve the Lord wherever there is a need. You don't have to have a spiritual gift. to sweep a floor. I don't see that as one of the listings in the New Testament. And the fact of the matter is God has commanded us to do many things That are also listed as gifts. The Bible tells us that we are to give financially. That doesn't mean that only those with the gift of giving should give. We should all give. The Bible speaks of the gift of the evangelist. That doesn't mean that only evangelists share the gospel. We are all to share the gospel. The Bible speaks of the gift of mercy. That does not mean that if you do not have that gift, that you are not obligated to show mercy to anyone. Some people think that. But we have been all called to show mercy. And then there are some believers who think of spiritual gifts as something that is used for self-fulfillment. But our text here and in many others tells us that is not the case. Spiritual gifts are given so that we might serve one another in the body of Christ. I wonder if you know your spiritual gift and if you are using your God-given gift to minister to others. This is an important part. of functioning in the body of Christ as a whole. Christians should use their spiritual gifts to serve one another. And I want us to, in verses 10 and 11, find three truths that we must understand to use them properly. First of all, I want you to notice that we should understand the nature of our spiritual gifts. Look at verse 10, for it says, as every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. We see here that spiritual gifts are given to every believer. Look at this first phrase that says, as every man Of course, the term man here does not just refer to men, but also to women, to all Christian people. This is really an incredible thing. The Bible teaches that the moment that you were saved, whether you recognize it or not, you were given a spiritual gift that you did not have the moment before you were. converted. Now, I wonder if you realize this. This is a wonderful blessing. Sometimes you will hear public service announcements about the fact that the state is holding various sums of money and gifts that people have not claimed. And they give a number or something you can call in to check to see if there's something there waiting for you It's just possible that your spiritual gift is like that, that you have a gift that you have never exercised, that you have never used, but you've had for some time. It is God's intention that you put that gift to work. 1 Corinthians 12, 7 says, but the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit with all that is for him to use Now, I believe that every Christian has been given at least one spiritual gift. It does seem That some have been given more than one. If you study the life of the Apostle Paul, it would seem that he had virtually every spiritual gift that is listed. I think it's very much like natural talents, right? Do you know some people that seem to be gifted in just about every area imaginable? Have you met people like that? Perhaps you envy them or resent them, you know, whatever it is, whatever they try, they're good at it. You know Maybe you've been playing a sport for years and years, and you've developed a certain amount of skill at that sport, and then you play with them, it's their first time, and they beat you. Because they're just naturally talented in that area. Or maybe it's some other skillful endeavor that you're involved in. And you know, people who are good uh at art and good at music and good at athletics and good at mathematics, and it seems like every single area they are gifted at that. And you you have one little area that you have some facility in. It's sort of like that, I believe, with spiritual gifts as well. Now, I want to mention that spiritual gifts come in varying degrees just like natural talents. We have many people here who have musical ability, but it's at different levels. You might be able to plunk out a tune on the piano. But you can't compose a symphony like Mozart did when he was a boy. You see, there's one thing to have musical talent, and then there's musical talents The same phenomenon is found in the area of spiritual gifts. You might have the ability given by God to effectively teach a Sunday school class. But you can't hold an audience on the radio of three million people with your Bible teaching. Spiritual gifts come in different shapes and sizes. And spiritual gifts are graciously given. There are two different Greek words that are used in the New Testament to refer to spiritual gifts. One could be rendered spirituals and emphasizes the fact that that spiritual gifts are given to us by the Holy Spirit. But that's not the term that's used here in 1 Peter chapter 4. The word that's used here comes from the Greek word for grace. The giving of our spiritual gifts was an act of grace. It's not that God looked at us and said, you know, that person is a really good person. I think I'm going to give them A wonderful spiritual gift. No, you did nothing to deserve or to earn or to merit your spiritual gift. Now there are two implications of this. First of all, you did nothing to earn this ability You can pick this out of the text yourself clearly because it's mentioned as a gift. The gift by definition is something that you have not earned So you should never think that a Christian with an extraordinary spiritual gift is somehow loved by God more than you are. That simply is not true. God does not play favorites. But the fact that our spiritual gifts have been graciously given should keep us from becoming proud of our spiritual gifts. You did nothing to earn your spiritual gift, and therefore you have nothing to boast in it. And so that should keep us humble in this regard. Thirdly, under this heading, I would say that spiritual gifts are given to be used in ministry to others. Notice what it says at the end of verse 10. Even so minister the same one to another. This is one of those one-another commands in Scripture. The same gift that God has given to you, He has given to you that you would minister to your brother and sister in Christ. It's not for your own personal joy and use. Your gift is not given to exalt yourself, it is to minister to others. Now, there are three primary ways I think that we fail to obey this command. First of all, We might never use our gift to minister to others. We may be like the servant in our Lord's parable who buried and hid his gift, his talent in the ground. And that servant was condemned by our Lord. Have you ever received, have you ever taken the time To really give a special gift to someone who meant a lot to you. And so you did research and you looked for the very finest thing of this type of gift and you chose it. And it's beautiful and exquisite, and you wrapped it up and you put all this thought into it, and you thought for certain that they are just going to be blown away by this gift because you put so much time and energy and effort into it. And you gave them this gift, and they look at it and they say, oh, that's nice. And they set it over there. And they never ever use it. We've probably all had that experience. You feel a little slided, a little hurt by that because it was really something that you put a lot of time and effort into. You ever thought about what an insult it is to Lord when he has given us a gift and we never use it to be a blessing to others? There's a second way that we might fail to serve one another. We might use our gifts not to help others, but to exalt ourselves. How does this manifest itself? Well can manifest itself by serving the Lord under only under certain circumstances. There are a lot of Christians sometimes who want to serve the Lord and they have a burden to serve the Lord, but it's got to be exactly like this. And if that opportunity does not present itself, then they're not going to serve the Lord. You can't really serve the Lord that way. It doesn't work that way. God is not open to negotiations with us. All right? It's not like you're working Going to get a job and you have an interview and your employer says, you know, I'd really like you to work, you know, 50 hours a week, and you say, well, I'll tell you what, I work 45. The Lord doesn't negotiate. If he has called you to serve him, then you need to serve him. And it may not be exactly in the way you want or to the degree that you would like in a given field, in a given time, but you've got to start somewhere. This is something that we have a problem with in the area of being a pastor. I know many men. who feel that God has called them to preach, but they're not in the ministry. And sometimes it's because they say, well, I want to serve the Lord But I'm not at all willing to leave my family and my my home area, not their immediate family, of course. But they're not willing to go wherever the Lord might send them. I will serve the Lord, but it's got to be like right here. And so if a church opens up within 20 minutes of this radius, I'm really open to pastoring that church, but I'm not going outside of that radius. Well, what if that's not where the Lord wants you to serve Him? And you know, sometimes serving the Lord is not what people think it's going to be. It's very, very discouraging. I'm going to tell you a little secret here. Just about every pastor wants to be the pastor of a large growing church. Alright? Very few men that I know would say, you know what I'm really looking for is a small group of kind of disgruntled people. You know, about 15 or 20 of them, and every Sunday I'm going to come and preach to them, and they're going to be looking at me with kind of anger and a sour look on their face. That's what I'm looking for. Nobody wants that. And so we have a lot of pastors who are very, very discouraged because they have small numbers of people. And it really does affect a pastor because he he he he puts his heart into it and he preaches the word and then it seems like nobody comes to hear and he does that week after week after week and a lot of men will get out of the ministry and quits because it's discouraging. But you know what? It's God's will for most pastors to be faithful in tending a little flock. That's the size of most churches. Did you know that? Most churches in America are 50 or less. That's the way most churches are. So that's God's calling for most pastors. And so we have to be content to minister. And one of the things that we have to guard against is: can we serve the Lord even in discouraging circumstances? Or Are we really looking to be thought well of by our peers and by others? But the main thing I want to bring out of this text in verse 10 is this. We are responsible to God for the gifts that He has given to us. We are called here, look at verse 10. We're called as good stewards Of the manifold grace of God. Now, this word steward is not a term we use much today. It refers to a student, a servant who is a manager. I think probably the best biblical illustration we have of this would be Joseph in Potiphar's house. Joseph was a servant. He was a slave, but he was a manager. He ran everything in that household. He was very gifted in that. But he didn't own anything. God has given us, as it were, a spiritual gift, but it doesn't really belong to us. It's on loan. It really belongs to Him. He's just letting us borrow it. And so we don't have the right to say, you know what, this is nice, but I don't think I'm ever going to use this. You're a steward. What's expected of a steward? Well, 1 Corinthians 4 2 says, moreover, it's required of a steward that a man be found faithful. The steward has the freedom to make many decisions, but he is not the owner. He has a great responsibility. So what gifts have you been given? Are you faithful in serving the Lord with those gifts? Perhaps you've been given great gifts. Very effective gifts in several different areas. The Bible says this to whomsoever much is given, of him shall much be required. The more gifted you are, the more responsibility you have. The sir second thing I want to bring out of our text is that we must understand the two major types of spiritual gifts. Look with me at verse 11. He says, if any man speak Let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth. Now at the very end of verse 10, Peter talks about the manifold grace of God. It's a beautiful word. I think probably the best picture of this would be like of a rainbow where you have all the different colors there, the different hues. God 's grace comes in many different So they're all beautiful. They're all given by God graciously. They all magnify the grace of God. But there's a sense in which no two Christian people are gifted exactly the same way. Like a fingerprint, we're all unique. But you could take all of these different gifts And you can divide them into two larger categories. And that's what Peter does in verse 11. If you were to go through the list of spiritual gifts in the New Testament, you would come up with about 20 spiritual gifts. Now, some of those, I believe, as most Christian scholars have believed from the very beginning, that they are not in use today. They are foundational. For instance , The gift of apostleship. I do not believe that there are any apostles alive today. When I go by a church and it has a sign out there and it says apostle so-and-so, you know what? I'm never going to visit that church. Now, why why am I so dogmatic about that? Because the Bible says that one of the qualifications of an apostle is that they have seen the Lord physically. Okay? So when John the last apostle died off, there was no more gift of apostleship. And we could go through many other uh gifts that were given for the foundation of the church that are no longer effectively used today. However, there are many gifts still in use today. And they can be divided into speaking gifts and service gifts, or perhaps to be a little more precise, verbal gifts and manual gifts. Okay, so let's look at the first of these. Speaking gifts. He says, if any man or any person speak , There are many of the spiritual gifts that involve speaking that are still in use today, such as preaching and teaching and exhortation and evangelism, and some Bible scholars would include singing. Christian songs since it is a type of instruction. Now these gifts tend to be more public. In fact, if I were to ask you Think of a spiritual gift. I would imagine that the vast majority of you, the first thing that would pop into your mind would be a speaking gift. Those are the most prominent. Those are the ones that seem to be used of God in a great way, perhaps in our mind. And so that's where we tend to think. These tend to be the kind of gifts that people admire and envy. But notice that this type of gift is given with a very specific instruction. Look with me at verse 11. If any man speak. Let him speak. How? As the oracles of God. Now, we don't use this term oracle very much today. It's simply in the Greek text, let him speak as the word of God. This wording is often used in the Old and New Testaments to describe what God has said. So what does it mean that we are to speak that if a person is a Sunday school teacher or a preacher or an evangelist? or missionaries sharing the gospel that we're to speak as of the oracles of God. I want to make some implications from this phrase. First of all, it does not mean that when a preacher or Bible teacher speaks, that everything they say is inspired. Sometimes people make that mistake. That's not at all, of course, what the Bible's teaching. Only the Word of God is the Word of God. But what we do see from this, and the overriding implication of this, is that if you are gifted in teaching or preaching the word, you should be very careful. That you're only saying what God has said. This truth has shaped my approach to preaching ministry. The primary New Testament word for preaching is a word that refers to a herald. There's another term that we don't use today. A herald was kind of like what we had several hundred years ago in our colonies when there was a town crier. You know what a town crier is? There was a man with a big booming voice, and he would go to the town square and he would make public announcements. They did not have microphones. The people would gather and he would make an announcement. This is what the king says. And he would read this message so that everyone was informed. That's the primary word the Bible uses to describe a preacher. Now there are many implications in that. The town crier was not to give his interpretation of what he thought the king meant by this message. He wasn't supposed to embellish it with a personal story Or say how he really felt about it. He would just simply say, this is what the king said. And so this is how people should preach and teach the word of God. This is why I do not fill my sermons with stories. There is a place where you can legitimately use a story to further the point that you're trying to make. But a preacher or teacher has to be careful with that. You know why? Because it's very easy for that to degenerate into being an entertainer. Did you know that people love stories? Everyone does. Everyone likes stories. When I'm preaching up here. And I'm preaching away and I'm saying this word means this and this phrase means this and look at how this works with this. I can see the eyelids begin to droop. And these blank stares and everything. But you know what? If I start telling the story, all of a sudden people like start waking up. And they're they're listening. We like stories. But what would a school teacher be like if he said, you know, if I want to be really popular as a teacher, I'm just going to tell stories all day Would he be really a responsible instructor and giving them the information that they needed to learn? No, he would not. There's a real danger for preachers and teachers to say what their audience wants to hear. We all like to be light. We all want to be received. But there's a lot of explanation that is needed in the Word of God. This is one reason why I don't also pepper my sermons with a lot of personal stories and illustrations. People eat that up. They love to hear you tell about your kids or when you were growing up or your favorite dog or something. I'm not kidding. This is human nature. A member, a preacher. I saw a little clip he had on the internet and he was talking about that if he really wants to grab his people's attention, he talks about his dog. Because he will have them in the palm of his hand. People love personal stories. But you know what? Personal stories are never going to help you grow spiritually. It's not the Word of God. I don't delve into the realm of politics. I have not been called to be a political pundit, but a preacher of the Word of God. This is why I try very hard not to share my own personal opinions. Because my opinions are far from infallible, but God's word is always true. This is why in my approach to preaching, I'm always turning your attention to what the text says, to what God says, to what this word means, to how this fits together with what comes before it and what comes after it. Because it's the word of God that changes people's lives. It's not stories. It's not politics. It's not personal anecdotes. Those things may be interesting. They may grip your attention. They may even cause you to cry, but they're never going to change your heart. And this is why the pastors of this church spend much of our time studying the Word, because we are preaching the Word of God. Being a preacher is a marvelous calling, but it's a weighty responsibility. This is why James says, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. Let me put that in a modern paraphrase, my own wording. Don't be too eager to preach or teach the Bible because you will be held. to a higher level of judgment. Sometimes people enter into the ministry in much too casual a fashion They have not counted the thought cost or considered what they're actually doing. But this text also tells us that God gives serving gifts or manual gifts, the word that's translated minister here is the origin of our English word deacon. This was the term used of our Lord Jesus Christ when he said in Mark 10, 45, for even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. This word was originally used to describe the servant who waited on tables. But here it's being used to describe any nonverbal spiritual gift. Well, what would this include? Well, this would include like the gift of hospitality mentioned in verse 9. It says. . use . hospitality one to another. Some people truly enjoy hosting people in their homes. And others find it a difficult shore. That doesn't mean, by the way, oh, okay, well, if I find a difficult shore, then I never have to do that. No. Because God has called us to be hospitable to one another. But it does mean that some people thrive in that area. They're so skilled. They put people at ease. They're able to really effectively minister people this way. We have The example of the of another service gift would be the gift of giving. And virtually every church, there are people who provide essential financial support of that ministry. They give generously, sacrificially, and joyfully. And this is truly a gift. Others have the gift of helps. These are people who serve behind the scenes. They might take people to doctors' appointments or to provide meals for people. They're not up front, but they are doing necessary tasks. They're ministering to the body of Christ. Another example would be the gift of administration. God has given some people an incredible ability to organize and lead others. This is a very necessary gift in the local church. But notice just as those who have a speaking gift were given an admonition, So those who have a service gift are given an admonition. Notice what it says here in verse 11. Let him do it as of the ability which God giveth. These gifts do not function automatically. They still need God 's grace. And we need to always remember that. This is one of the dangers that we have. If we are skilled in one area, if we are truly gifted in one area, our danger is that we'll rely on that giftedness to carry us through. And you know what sometimes God will allow us to do? He will allow us to fall flat on our face and fail in an endeavor of serving the Lord because we weren't depending on the Lord. We weren't coming to him and begging for his grace and for his strength and for his wisdom. We just went out automatically and did it Because that's what we do. And we're gifted in this area, so we don't have to sweat it. We don't have to worry about it. We don't have to cry out to God for his help. We just go and do it. And sometimes God allows us to fail miserably. So that we learn we can do nothing apart from Him. The third thing I want you to notice in our text, this morning is found at the end of verse 11, and that is that we must understand the ultimate purpose of our spiritual gift Peter concludes this verse with one of the beautiful doxologies of the New Testament. It indicates that he is concluding. the section of the book. And starting in verse 12, he's beginning the final section of the book. This is a wonderful doxology in that it glorifies specifically Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion. forever and ever. Again, a clear and unmistakable reference to the deity of Christ, that He is worthy of our worship. So why has God given us these gifts? Well, earlier in verse 10, the reason was given that we might serve one another. And that is absolutely true. They weren't given for ourselves. They were given to be used in the body of Christ. By the way, this is one of the reasons why It's very important for Christians to gather with a body of believers and worship. Because there are some gifts That do not function very well at all if you're not part of a church. It's becoming more and more popular for people to stay at home. and not go to church. I saw this survey just uh the other day about uh people who claim to be evangelicals in America and That is, they say they believe in the gospel, they believe that Jesus is the only way of salvation, but more than half of them saying going to church isn't really that important. It's not important to go to church. You know, you can stay at home and read your Bible, listen to a sermon on the internet. It's fine. Doesn't matter. You're getting fed and everything else. Yes. But you cannot exercise your spiritual gift at home on your couch. Let's say God's given you the gift of teaching. You're going to teach a Sunday school lesson to your wife there? Are you maybe you have uh God's given you a beautiful voice to sing? You're going to sing a solo there in your living room? That's really going to build up the body of Christ, isn't it? There's nobody there The Lord intends that the church function as a body. Paul, remember, uses that analogy in 1 Corinthians chapter 12 in his discussion of spiritual gifts. Part of the reason why we gather here is so that we can minister one to another. We can minister to the body collectively. That's why he's given us these gifts. But the ultimate reason is not even that we would minister to one another, but it's that we would bring glory to God. So, how is God glorified in the exercise of our spiritual gifts? I want to conclude by suggesting three ways. First of all, God is glorified and we serve by the grace of God. I've mentioned you the word for gift here is a word that comes from grace. At the end of verse 10, Peter speaks of the manifold grace of God. God is glorified. When weak people do amazing things by the grace of God. Because then people know it wasn't that person 's incredible ability, but it was the grace of God at work through them. I wonder if you've ever had that experience. I know some of you have because you've shared it with me. Where you were called to serve the Lord in some endeavor, and frankly, it seemed beyond your ability. It seemed overwhelming to you, the task set before you. But you cried out to God, you depended on his grace, and God gave you the ability The supernatural ability to do what God had called you to do. And when people came to congratulate you, honestly from the depths of your heart, you could say, it wasn't me. It was God that was doing that. I'm a weak person. I could never do this in my own strength. God is glorified when weak people do incredible things. By his grace. But secondly, God is glorified when we serve one another together. I mentioned earlier that passage in 1 Corinthians 12. We're not going to look at it. It's a very interesting portion of God's Word. It has a listing of gifts at the beginning and end of the chapter, and it talks about the analogy of the body and how the body all functions together. There's even a uh some some irony and some humor, I think, in that picture, different parts of the body, like the eye talking to the feet and so forth. And the point there is that we have to function as a whole. In other words, our focus is not, hey, I want to use my spiritual gift. Everyone, clear the way, make room for me, because I'm a very gifted individual. No, we look at the body of Christ and we say, where is there a need? Where can I fit in and use my gift to minister here? And how can this all work together? Sometimes there's some Paul in that analogy in 1 Corinthians 12 talks about parts of our body that are honorable, like Your eye. Eye is one of the most amazing things. When you consider the human eye and how intricate it is and how much emotion it conveys. and how beautiful it is and how functional it is. The eye gets a lot of press. But there's other parts of her body that are not as beautiful that people don't see but are really necessary. He talks about your feet, you know. Most people are probably Not that enamored with their feet. And they don't want to show off their feet, you know? Most people like to sort of keep their feet hidden And people's feet can look very interestingly. Put it that way. It's the unsung hero of the body, you might say, because it takes us everywhere we need to go. But the eye, he says, can't say to the feet, you know, I don't need you. Because the eye can't get around unless the feet take the eye where it needs to go. And the point is there's this interdependence in the body of Christ. We all need the gifts of other people. I cannot minister to you effectively here today without numerous other individuals who have made this possible. We have a sound system back there. And the best sound system is when you never even realize that a person has a sound system. But if they were to cut me off, you would be able to know that it's not functioning. We have people that have done all sorts of things throughout the week this week that you have no knowledge of to make You're coming in here today comfortable and beautiful and functional. They've given up their time, their talents, their energy to minister to you, even though you don't even know who they are. We all need one another. What we have to be careful of is that we don't become discontent with the gift that God has given to us. And so we say, well, you know, the only things that really matter are a few people who have very prominent public gifts. And so I'm not going to use my gift because I don't have what they have. No, if God has given you truly a spiritual gift, you need to use that. And it is needed in the body of Christ. It's looking at Dave Larson down here in the front, and we've talked about this before, how many times in the history of our church when there was a need, we needed a certain kind of a talented individual. We were missing that, that very shortly after that, God would bring somebody in with exactly that gift, and they fit in. And helped us function as a body. That has happened over and over again in the providence of God. God is glorified when we serve together and when we're not saying, well, why does that person get more attention than me? No, when we function with the areas that God has given us and we're content to serve in that area. If it's behind the scenes, or whether it is upfront. And thirdly, God is glorified through our spiritual gifts when we serve for God's applause. and not our own. This is alluded to several times in this passage. We're told in verse 10 that we're only stewards of these gifts. They don't belong to us and essentially they're only on loan. And the argument in verse 11 is that we are to serve with the purpose of bringing him glory. This is often tested when you step out to serve the Lord. So often you will encounter difficulties that you didn't anticipate. Can you faithfully serve the Lord when you receive no appreciation from the body of Christ? That's difficult. It's even harder when you faithfully serve the Lord and you receive criticism from the body of Christ. That becomes a real test. I'm just I'm a person will say to me many times they've come up to me, I'm just trying to serve the Lord by giving my time and my energy, and this is the grief that I'm getting from this. I can think of several times when I had individuals fill in for a Sunday school class. And they were so fired up about it. I'm so excited about teaching this material, and I've never had this opportunity before, and they get up there and they teach. And then they receive negative feedback from people and they come and they say, I had no idea it would be like this. I was just trying to serve the Lord, and here I'm being criticized by the body. Well, it becomes a test. Are we serving for the approval of men? or for the approval of God. Whenever I think about this, I think of the story In the late 1800s, there was an American tourist that went over to London. And at that time when any American went to London They went to hear the great preachers. That seems weird to us today, but those were like some of the major tourist attractions, if you were. And this man went in the morning to hear Joseph Parker preach at the city temple. He was very flamboyant and eloquent and original. And when this man walked out, he said, What a great preacher. And in the evening he went to the Metropolitan Tabernacle to hear Charles Spurgeon. And when he came out, he said, what a great God. That should be the response that people have when we serve Not that they're thinking about our giftedness, but they're thinking about the God who has given us that gift. That is why we've been given gifts, and that is what we've been called to do in his service. Let's close in a word of prayer. Our Father, we thank you that you are God who graciously gives to us abilities. That we would not have otherwise. We thank you, Father, that we can use these to minister to our brother and sister in Christ and to bring you glory. I pray that you would help us. To all be willing to use our abilities for you. Help us to function together as a body of believers. And Father, for those here today who do not have a spiritual gift because they do not know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray that today. They would seek the Lord. There's something that was said in a hymn or in one of my remarks that would lodge in their hearts and in their minds. And bring them, Father, to the place of repentance, that they might see the glory of Christ. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.