Many years ago in the early to mid-20th century, there was a famous Presbyterian pastor. in the Pittsburgh area by the name of Clarence McCartney. He wrote many books, many of a biographical nature on various characters in the Bible. And he said in a lecture he gave in 1944 that every man's life contains sufficient material for a great novel. Every human life is indeed fascinating, but some are more remarkable than others. And this is certainly the case with a man that we encounter. In the closing chapters of the book of Genesis. I'm speaking, of course, of Joseph. This morning I would like to begin a brief study of his remarkable life. That I suspect most of you know pretty well. His is one of the great stories of the Bible that children invariably are taught in Sunday school or in their Christian homes His life has all the makings of a great story. You have family drama, deception, betrayal, disappointment, sexual temptation, and great suffering. You have a classic rags to riches story. Joseph goes from the prison to the palace, from the pit to the prime minister's office. We see in the life of Joseph an inspiring picture of godly endurance against many odds. And we read in his life story one of the great reunion scenes in scriptural history. We also find in him one of the most beautiful and compelling examples of forgiveness that is found in the Bible. And everyone likes a happy ending. And Joseph's story has a wonderful and instructive ending. But we're not going to study the life of Joseph because it's entertaining or intriguing, but because it's the word of God, and all of God's word is profitable for us. This morning the message might feel a little bit different because we're not looking at one specific passage of Scripture and we're trying to cover and bring a lot of background materials to the forefront. rather than just digging into one little section like we normally do. Instead, I want us to get the big picture, the view from 30,000 feet. I'm going to eventually narrow our focus this morning to Joseph's family and make some concluding applications that will hopefully be helpful to us. But let me begin this morning by asking you about your family background. The fact is we all have a history. No one comes out of nothing. You were not found underneath a rock. You were born into a family, and you have a legacy, you have traditions. You have been influenced by your background, whether you want to be or not. Some of you Come from strong Christian homes. Your mother and father had a strong Christian marriage and were both committed followers to Christ. What a blessing this is. What an advantage. This is a blessing that is my experience. But some of you come from a completely different background. You come from a broken home where the name of Christ was only used as a curse word. Your home life was characterized by conflict, addiction, and self-inflicted poverty. And there are others of you. who came from a Christian home that appeared to be ideal, but was actually dysfunctional and hypocritical. The later was more like Joseph's experience, but by the grace of God. He became a man of God. And so this morning I want to speak to you on God's grace at work. In a broken family. And I want to begin by introducing us to the life of Joseph because I don't want to assume that everyone here knows all about his background, because his life story really begins. In Genesis 37, when he's 17 years old. But his life didn't really start then. There were many events that had an impact on him. Before that opening chapter. And so we're going to begin this morning by looking at Joseph's place in biblical history. And under this heading, I want us first to look at Joseph among the giants. Joseph was the offspring of the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac. And Jacob. Sometimes people mistakenly include Joseph as one of the patriarchs, but he's not, technically. He is not one of the founding fathers, but he is a direct descendant and the finest representative of that family. So let's talk about the patriarchs for a second. Abraham was graciously called out of a pagan land called Ur of the Chaldees. God made a covenant with him that would forever change the world. But much of Abraham's story was about the promise of a son that would miraculously come. And fulfill God's promise to him. And Isaac was the provision of that promise. Of the patriarchs, we know the least about Isaac. We read about him unstopping some wells. We read about him, of course, finding a bride through the help of Abraham's servants. And we read about, of course, Abraham being prepared to offer him up as a sacrifice on Mount Moriah, but God intervened. And we need to always remember that Isaac was not a little boy. He was a grown man. He was able to resist his father, but he was so devoted to doing the will of God. that he allowed himself to be bound and put on that altar. And so he should be given some credit for that. Now, Isaac's son Jacob was a bold and interesting character. We would say today he was a big personality. And Jacob, we see a man who wrestled with God and was finally broken. Jacob's life reveals God's purpose of spiritual transformation in the lives of his children. So if we were going to summarize the patriarchs, we could put it this way. In Abraham, we have a revelation of the promise of God. In Isaac, the provision of God. In Jacob, the purpose of God. And now in Joseph's life, we have a great picture of the providence of God. Joseph's life has been called the supreme biblical illustration of Romans 8. 28. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according illustration to his purpose. And we will be exploring this theme in the weeks ahead. But let me quickly turn to the godly character of this young man. Abraham was a great man of faith. But he lied and at times responded in unbelief. His son Isaac followed his father's example of faith, but also his example of deception. Jacob's very name reveals the fact that he was a deceptive character. But we see none of this in the life of Joseph, and every crisis that he faced. Joseph responds in faith. G. Campbell Morgan, the great expositor, said Joseph had Abraham's dignity and capacity, Isaac's purity and power of self-devotion, Jacob's cleverness and buoyancy and tenacity. In other words, Joseph had all the excellencies of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob without their weaknesses. This is not to say that Joseph was perfect, but the Bible makes no negative comment about his character. This is why he has been called the most Christ-like man. in the Old Testament. But now under this heading I want to look at Joseph in the book of Genesis. The book of Genesis has been divided up by many scholars into two parts. In the first eleven chapters, you have what is called primeval history. The key events, of course, there are creation, the fall of mankind, and the flood that came as judgment. And then in chapter 12, you have almost a new beginning, almost like a new beginning of mankind with a man by the name of Abraham that God calls out of a pagan land. And so in verses in chapters 12 through 50, you have not primeval history, but patriarchal history. The story of God's works through Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, this family of the covenants. Now, I mentioned to you earlier that the life of Joseph kind of officially begins in its biblical portrayal. in Genesis chapter 37. So I would encourage you to turn with me to Genesis 37 verse 1 We read here, and Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger in the land of Canaan. These are the generations of Jacob, Joseph being seventeen years old. And I will stop reading there. That is our introduction really to him officially. And what this is indicating is that Joseph is the most significant part of the continuing story of God's work in this chosen family. Joseph's life takes up about 28 %. of the book of Genesis more than anyone else, more than Abraham or Isaac or Jacob, Joseph's life Takes up a large portion of Scripture because it 's very instructive for us. He is the main character in chapters 37 through 50. It may surprise you to know that the Bible records more words spoken by Joseph than any other Old Testament person. But how does his life function in the history of redemption? Remember that I mentioned that Joseph is not technically a patriarch. Well, his life serves as a bridge from the patriarchs to the forming of the nation of Israel. This explains why his death is mentioned in the last few verses of Genesis. and the first few verses of the book of Exodus, because he is the transitional figure that connects both books and continues the narrative of God's great work of redemption. God would use Joseph's position of power to move his people from the land of Canaan into Egypt. Now, have you ever wondered why God did that? I mean, when you think of Egypt, you don't think of a wonderful Christian land. It was the epitome and the symbol of the world. So why did God want to lead this 70-some group of people from Canaan, the promised land, the land given to their forefather Abraham. and have them relocate in Egypt, it doesn't seem to make any sense because indeed it was the epitome of paganism. Well, the answer is this, that it becomes clear in the chapters previous to the life of Joseph, and even in his life story. that the sons of Jacob were very tempted to intermarry with the Canaanites and to adopt their gods and to in time be completely absorbed by their pagan culture But we read in the story of Joseph that the Egyptians despised the Hebrews because they were shepherds. They were herdsmen. In fact, they kind of segregated them in their own region called Goshen. The point being there was no intermarrying taking place. Because they were so lowly regarded. And so theologians and scholars Sometimes refer to this to Egypt as an incubator for the infant people of God until they would grow into a nation. some 430 years later, and then God would move them back to the promised land. You see, Joseph's story is critical to the narrative of God's plan of redemption. Because from the descendants of Abraham, we know would come the Messiah. But the people of God had to grow up into a nation, and that could only take place in the region of Egypt. Now Joseph is also presented, I think, in Scripture, as a type of Christ. The famous writer A. W. Pink lists 101 ways. that Joseph is a type of Christ. Another writer claims to have discovered over 400 parallels between Joseph and Christ. I'm not sure that I have the imaginative ability to do that. However, I do believe that there are parallels there. Consider these seven things, and we'll be noting this throughout our study. Both of them were especially beloved by their fathers. Both were hated and rejected by their own people. Both were betrayed for money. Both were falsely accused. Both were punished for crimes they did not commit. And both saved their people from death. And both Joseph and Jesus were exalted to a powerful throne. Now I want us As we transition to the second part of the sermon out to look at Joseph's family backgrounds. In order to understand Joseph , And his life story that begins at the age of 17, we have to look through the lens of the life of Jacob where Joseph had a part. And I want to make two points under this heading. First of all, I want to talk about Joseph's family legacy. In a very true sense of the word, Joseph was born into the greatest family in the world at this time. If you were to look at things from a spiritual perspective, and you were to look at all the peoples of the world that were scattered over the world and primitive cultures all around, There was no family that was more advantageous for you to be born into than the family that Joseph was born into. And two. Let's talk about some of the advantages he enjoyed. First of all, he was born into a large family. He never lacked for companions because he had all those brothers and one sister. He was never lonely. He was always surrounded by family. And by the way, how Jacob was envied by people in the land because every father wanted to have some sons to do the work and continue their legacy. And Jacob had twelve sons. A symbol of fullness and blessing. Everyone knew of this man, Jacob. Joseph was also born into a wealthy family Abraham built up a fortune that was passed on to his children and grandchildren. Unlike many other people in the land of Canaan, Joseph never worried about famine or starvation. Because he was born into a wealthy family. Thirdly, Joseph was born as the favorite son. Because he was the son of Rachel, Jacob's favorite wife. He had a special status among his brethren. Therefore, we read in the opening chapters of his life about that famous coat of many colors that was given to him by his father. But most significantly, Joseph was born into a family with a great spiritual heritage. When people asked him as he went through the community what family he was from, he would say, I am from the family of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Nobody could top that. This was the one family on the earth that God had established an immutable covenant with. His forefathers had received visions from God and were especially blessed. And as he was growing up, even from his youngest years and his earliest memories he would have been told by his father of how God appeared to his great grandfather Abraham and called him out of Ur the Chaldees. And how God appeared to his grandfather Isaac. And yes, how God had appeared to his own father Jacob. And undoubtedly he told him the story. of that angelic visitors that came from that ladder, as it were, that went to heaven. You know, these are all stories That Christian parents tell their children and that children for generations have loved to hear, well, imagine if this was your family's story. You were the direct descendant of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and those incredible visions and the intervention of God was part of your family legacy. He'd heard about how that they were different from the people. They worshiped the one true God, Jehovah, and they didn't build houses like others. They lived in tents because they were strangers and pilgrims. They were different. This was their heritage. And Joseph would have witnessed his father. building altars as every time they relocated to a new region , we read that his father built an altar. So Joseph had wonderful advantages, a large, prosperous home, and an incredible spiritual heritage. But that doesn't tell the whole story. Because Joseph also had a dysfunctional family. Despite their great advantages, Joseph's family can only be described as dysfunctional. His father had essentially four wives, two primary wives who were sisters, and two servant wives. And the biblical record is clear, there was great contention in that household between them. Sometimes people say That polygamy was okay in the Old Testament. And they will point out that there were great men of God who had multiple wives, and they will make the statement that God does not clearly condemn it. However, let me remind you that when God created the family, he created Adam and Eve. And the biblical record is clear that that is to serve as a model of what the family should be, one man and one woman. It is true that we read of leading Old Testament figures like Abraham and Jacob and David and especially Solomon having more than one wife. But this they learned not from biblical revelation, but from the pagan environment in which they lived. And the Bible faithfully records in all of these situations the serious problems that this marriage arrangement created. And of course, the whole idea of multiple wives is a distortion of God's plan for the family and his intention. That the husband-wife relationship mirror and reflect Christ's relationship with his church. But not only was there conflict between the wives in Joseph's experience, but also between Jacob and the Jesus. and his father-in-law, Joseph's grandfather Laban, and also between Joseph and his brothers, wherever you went in this family, there was tension and drama. That's not a very good environment to grow up in. But that was his life. Now, before we begin in earnest looking at his life story, which Lord willing will do next week, I want us to consider the major events that shaped his life. His birth is recorded in Genesis chapter 30. And it's it's uh we're not going to take the time to look at it, but it was an even then an atmosphere of turmoil and tension. The birth of children was like a competition among the wives who desperately wanted the favor of their husband. And it was also took place in the context of the tension between Jacob and his father-in-law Laban. But I want us to look at four events. From Joseph's childhood, that obviously had an impact, things that he would never forget. Turn with me first of all to Genesis chapter 31, please. Genesis chapter 31. I want to begin. I just want to read verse 3 here in this chapter. Genesis 31. And verse 3 here at the beginning. And the Lord said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy fathers and to thy kindred, and I will be with thee. God is calling him to go back to Canaan. And finally we read that they prepare to leave. Look with me, I'll pick up the reading of this narrative in verse 19. And Jacob went to shear his sheep, and Rachel had stolen the images that were her father's. These were teraphimes. These were little idols And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian in that he told him not that he fled. And so he fled with all that he had, and he rose up and passed over the river and set his face toward the Mount Gilead. And it was told Jacob on the third day that Jacob was fled. So we see here a very interesting family dynamic. So the first major event was when the family left. Laban and his household. And we read about this long-involved story. Look with me, and we'll pick up the narrative again in verse 23. And he took his brethren with him and pursued after him, that his Laban pursued after him. Seven days' journey, and they overtook him. in the Mount Gilead. And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night and said unto him, Take heed that thou speak not to Jacob, either good or bad. Then Laban overtook Jacob Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the mount, and Laban with his brethren pitched in the mount of Gilead, and Laban said to Jacob, What hast thou done that thou hast stolen away unawares to me and carried away my daughters as captives, taken with the sword? Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly and steal away from me, and didst not tell me that I might have sent thee away with mirth and with songs, with tabret and with harp Hast thou not suffered me to kiss my sons and my daughters, that thou hast now done foolishly in so doing? It is in the power of my hand to do you hurt. But the God of your fathers spake unto me yesterday night, saying, Take heed that thou speak not to Jacob, either good or bad. And now thou wouldst need be gone because thou soared longest after thy father's house yet. Wherefore hast thou stolen my gods? And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was afraid, for I said, Peradventure thou wouldest take by force thy daughters from me. With whomsoever thou findest the gods, let him not live before our brethren discern thou what is in in thine with me, and take it to thee. For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them. And Laban went into Jacob's tent and into Leah's tent and into the two maidservants' tents, but he found them not And when he went out of Leah's tent and entered into Rachel's tent, now Rachel had taken the images and put them in the camel's furniture, and sat upon them, and Laban searched all the tent, but found them not. And she said to her father, Let it not despise my lord that I cannot rise up before thee, for the custom of women is upon me. And he searched, but found not the images. So, what we find in this narrative of them fleeing secretly in the night away from their own family, Laban, his grandfather. Finally, he tracks them down in hot pursuit, and he is very upset about the way they have left But obviously one of the things he's most upset about is that these little terrafim have been stolen, these good luck charms. And so what we see here is that Joseph's life is far from ideal. He has these deep divisions within his family, and his own mother is an idolater. She is willing to risk her life. To have these little idols with her, which she thinks will bring her good luck and favor with the gods. And then we see a portrait of Jacob here, verse 36, and Jacob was wroth and chowed with Laban and Jacob answered and said to Laban, What is my trespass? What is my sin that thou hast so hotly pursued after me? Whereas thou hast searched all my stuff. What hast thou found of all thy household stuff? Set it here before my brethren and thy brethren, that they may judge betwixt us both. This twenty years have I been with thee. Thy ewes and thy she-goats have not cast their young, and the rams of thy flock have I not eaten. That which was torn of beast I brought not unto thee, I bear the loss of it. Of my hands dost thou require it, whether stolen by day or stolen by night. Thus I was in the day of the drought consumed me and the frost by night, and my sleep departed from my eyes. For this I have been twenty years in thy house. I serve thee fourteen years for thy two daughters, and six years for thy cattle, and thou hast changed. my wages ten times. Except the God of my father, the God of Abraham, the fear of Isaac had been upon with me. Surely thou hast sent me away now empty. God has seen my affliction and the labor of my hands and rebuked thee yesterday nights These are the words of an angry, frustrated, and wronged man. Working for his father-in-law was a difficult lot. By the way, I don't have time to develop this, but why is it that God sent Jacob to this place under the employ of Laban for 20 years. I would put it this way, I heard this many years ago. Jacob had a bachelor's degree in deception, but Laban had a PhD. And so God was giving Jacob a taste of his own medicine for twenty years. You know what it You want to know what it's like to be cheated and betrayed and be tricked again and again and again? I'm going to let you have your fill of it for 20 years. And that's exactly what he experienced there. Now just imagine the impact that this had on Joseph. Scholars say he would have been about six or seven years old. I think he would have seen this very loud confrontation between these men, between his grandfather and his father. And there's real anger, and there's raised voices, and there's threats, and there's accusations. And young Joseph is soaking all of this in. Now the next major event in Joseph's life takes place in just the very next chapter, and that is Concerning Jacob's fear that his brother Esau is coming to kill him. We read this passage earlier, chapter 32, verse 1. And Jacob went on his way. And the angels of God met him. And when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's host. And he called the name of the place Mahanaim. And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the land of Seir, the country of Edom. And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my lord Esau. Thy servant Jacob saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban and stayed there until now. And then we read in verse 6, and the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy brother Esau, and he also cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men with him. Now what do you think Jacob thought about that? He did what we tend to do. He assumed the worst. My brother, my hot-headed brother Esau is still angry about my trickery 20 years ago. And he's coming with 400 men, and they are going to wipe us out. They are going to annihilate all of us. And so he is stricken with panic. He turns to God in prayer, implores him to help. And then he devises a scheme. T for self-preservation. How would you like this? Alright, he has this large family, right? Divides them up into these different groups. Those who are expendable, he puts in the first group. You see, everyone knew exactly where they rated in the This family. Alright, all of you kids, you guys go up there. And who did he have as we read right close to him? The ones in the very, very back, were Rachel And Joseph. You want to know why his brothers hated him so much? Because they could never forget this event when their father was willing to sacrifice their lives. To save his favorite wife and son, so that as they were being killed by Esau's men , the back group would have a chance to escape and flee for their lives. As so often happens, however, Jacob's Fears were unfounded. Look with me at the next chapter, chapter 33. I'm skipping over wonderful things about his wrestling with the angel and God revealing himself to him and touching his thigh. But we're not studying the life of Jacob, we're studying the life of Joseph. Look with me at chapter 33, verse 4. It says, and Esau ran to meet him and embraced him and fell on his neck and kissed him, and they wept. And he lifted up his eyes and saw the women and the children and said, Who are those with thee? And he said, The children which God hath graciously given to thy servant. Then the handmaids came near, they and their children, and they bowed themselves, and Leah also with her children came near. and bowed themselves and after came Joseph Nir and Rachel and they bowed themselves. So we know that Joseph was there because his name is mentioned. He witnessed this. So just imagine the traumatic experience that Joseph has been through so far. First of all, he and his family left in the middle of the night to flee from Laban And then Laban caught up with them, and for all he knew, that might be the end. And now his whole family is panic stricken again because he's heard that Uncle Esau is going to come and kill them all. But it doesn't happen. Esau comes and hugs and embraces his brother Then we move to the third influential event in Joseph's life, and we read of Jacob moving his family to Shechem. And there he remained for ten years. Now God wanted him to go back to Bethel. God wanted him to go back to the promised land, but he got detoured. He found some nice pasture land. He said, I'm going to settle down here. And his decision to do that was disastrous. In Genesis 34, Joseph's sister Dinah is raped, and his older brothers through deception Killed the man who committed this crime and then murdered all the men in the city and took their valuables. And the Bible is clear: if it was not for the protection, the intervention of God, the people of the land would have slaughtered Jacob and his sons. So Joseph would have been aware of all this turmoil that was going on, and the fact that once more his family just escaped annihilation. And then the fourth major event was that shortly after their return To the promised land, Joseph's mother, Rachel dies. This was the fourth major event in his young life. He would have been 13 or 14 years old. What a blow this must have been to him. His mother, I think, in many ways sheltered him and protected him from the rage of his older brothers. But now she was gone. That barrier, that buffer was was removed, and now Jacob, I think, began to be bullied and mistreated. By his brothers. So, what did Jacob observe in his family growing up? He witnessed deception, distrust, anger, and fear He experienced the trauma of running for his life on more than one occasion. He saw the power of idolatry. in the life of his mother and the passive inactivity of his father Jacob, who failed to protect his own daughter and correct his violent sons. In Joseph's family, there was incest, rape, murder, jealousy, and always deception. And they were the people of God. But Joseph also witnessed the faithfulness of God to his covenant people. The Lord protected his family from his crooked grandfather Laban and his once vengeful uncle Esau. And the people of the land who wanted to wipe them out. You see, God was faithful even when his people were not. Now I want to make some concluding applications this morning. Three brief points. The first thing I want us to note from the childhood of Joseph is this that God often uses our children to accomplish his purposes in our lives. We see this because in the opening narrative of Joseph's life, it talks about this as being the generations of Jacob. And the point of the matter is that really we need to understand the life of Joseph is a subset in a sense of what God was doing in the life of Jacob. Jacob is one of those individuals who comes to the right place in his relationship with God when he's about 130. But he took a really, really long time to get at the right place. God had to use many different tools. and his toolbox of sanctification to transform this naturally fearful and deceptive man. And one of the primary tools that he used was his son Joseph. We see the same thing in the life of Abraham. God 's work, God's promise to Abraham was all about a son that would come. And how God tested him in regards to that son, first of all, in reference to his birth when Abraham was a very, very old man, and then in reference to giving him up as a sacrifice, what a what a test that was God was using Isaac to stretch and strengthen the faith of Abraham, and God would use Joseph in the same way in the life of his father. Jacob. I would submit to you that when the Lord's rescue of Joseph in fulfillment of his promise was a major catalyst in the growth and development of Jacob when he saw that God's promises are true. that his plan is being worked out despite all of our failures, despite all of these obstacles, God is still at work in our family. He is still fulfilling his covenant with his people. And I think that most parents here would give testimony to the fact that God has used your children To mold you and shape you spiritually. Has that not happened? In many different ways. Have you not seen your own sins Repeated and echoed in the life of your children? When you see their rebellion, their selfishness. Their hardness of heart, their temper, and you say to yourself, I know where that came from. When you see their own giving in to various temptations that you have struggled with , is it not a painful reminder of the ugliness of your own sin that is God using your children to chip away at you. And is there anything that sends us to our knees more often and more earnestly than serious problems in the life of our children? And we feel helpless to correct them when our children get older and you can no longer just send them to the room. And you know that God has to do a work in their heart, and you're helpless to bring that about, and so you go to your knees. How many people here have been sent to your knees because of the problems with your children? But on the other hand, how many times have you seen God's answer to prayer in the life of your children? And you've seen God work in your children and God bring back your children or God restore your children or God strengthen your children or God protect your children or heal your children. And your faith is strengthened and you're encouraged because God's promises are true. And how many times, I wonder if there's any parents here that would say, I know there are, who would say that you've been challenged even by your children. You've seen them step out by faith, and it's been a rebuke to you because you haven't followed the Lord even in that area. You've seen your own kids step out and surrender to do something for the Lord or trust the Lord with a situation that's that that's very unsettling to you. And yet they seem perfectly at peace, and it's a rebuke to you. And I know there are many parents that have drawn closer to the Lord because you have Learn some things even from God's dealing in the life of your children. I suspect that was true with Jacob and Joseph. That when he saw the spiritual maturity and wisdom and his steadfast hope and trust in God, how that rallied his own weak faith to follow God more fully. God uses our children to work in our own lives. Secondly My second application is this, our own negative experiences in life do not excuse our spiritual problems. And when I say this, I am not at all minimizing the painful experiences that some of you have faced. I am not just dismissing that. Some of you faced horrible things in your childhood that can never be erased from your memory But how many people I have known who have allowed trauma that they've experienced at some time in their past to define who they are And every day of their life they remind themselves that they are a victim and that it wasn't fair and they didn't deserve that, and that person was a hypocrite. And they live with a sense of bitterness, a sense of resignation, perhaps a sense of cynicism. Because of some problem, some difficulty that they experienced in their childhood or in the past. There's so many people like that who can't seem to get past some disaster that occurred in their family. And again, I don't minimize what you have faced, but it must not define who you are. It must not be an excuse for you to refuse to follow the Lord any further. Joseph walked with God despite The bullying of his brothers, despite the horrible trauma that he experienced as a child. Despite the early death of his mother, Joseph walked with God. And you and I can walk with God. The third thing I want to bring from the story of Joseph's childhood is that God's grace can overcome Any problem that results from your dysfunctional background. God 's grace can overcome any problem How do you explain the life of Joseph? Why didn't he turn out like his brothers? He had the same father, the same life experiences, he shared the same covenant promises. But Joseph's life is radically different. It can only be explained by the grace of God. And by the grace of God, Joseph never thought of himself as a victim. He never carried the baggage of bitterness, and he never stopped believing that God was good. and worthy of his trust, even when all hope seemed to be extinguished. What about you? You come from a less than perfect family. Do you ever think that because of your background, because of the trauma, the disappointment, the hypocrisy that you have witnessed up close, that somehow you are doomed to a mediocre Christian experience I think there are many people who think that way. I want you to know that is a lie of Satan. It does not have to be that way. If you are a child of God, God's grace can overcome the most messed up family background imaginable. Because where sin abounds, grace did much more abound The real defining factor of your life is not the family you come from, but the family that you are part of now. Are you a part of the family of God? What is really significant about every human being Is not the family you were born into because you had absolutely nothing to say with that. It's not the family that you were born into, but whether or not you have been born again. That is the defining criteria of your life. The Bible says, but as many as received him To them gave you power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. I trust that you have been born again. Because these wonderful promises of God working all things for good, working all things together for good, of God providentially leading in your life, are only for those who are His children. And what a wonderful thing it is to see God work out his purposes in your life. But that can only happen when you know the Lord is your Savior. I encourage you to seek Him today, even as the ladies Sung today. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Draw to him while he is near. May you do that today. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you. Thank you for your word Thank you for the many ways that it teaches us and instructs us. I pray that you would help us to be like Joseph. To follow you fully, to not allow our problems and issues And difficulties to find who we are, but instead the grace of God. I pray that you would use your word, Father To speak to hearts this morning. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen