Keep your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to Genesis chapter 37? Genesis 37 The life of Joseph, I've said several times, is one of the great stories of the Bible. In fact, I read This week, a remarkable testament to the power of this story. There was once a chaplain in a state prison who would go in weekly to minister to the inmates. But he was not a preacher. So he took in recordings of a series of sermons on the life of Joseph. And each week he would play a new sermon for the inmates to listen to. And each week the prisoners would be captivated by the story. There was once a man who was part of that Bible study group that when his release date finally came, he went to the warden and asked if he could stay on a little bit longer. Because he wanted to know how the story would end. One of the most interesting aspects of Joseph's story is of course the way he with by the grace of God was able to overcome great difficulties. There are some real lows in the story. And some incredible highs, and that's one of the reasons why we like it so much. And I have to warn you at the beginning this morning that we're at one of the low points in the story. Last week we considered verses 12 through 22 of this chapter. Let me quickly summarize the content there. Joseph. faithfully follows his father's instructions and travels some 50 miles to Shechem to the grazing land that the family owned. to check on his brothers. And when he got there, they weren't there, but a man happened to be walking by and says he heard that they were going to Dothan. And so Joseph goes the extra mile and travels to Dothan, and as they see him coming in the distance, they plot to murder him, but his older brother Reuben convinces them not to kill him immediately but to throw him into a pit. And Ruben's plan is to come back later and rescue him and bring him home. But while Reuben was away, as we know, Joseph is sold into slavery. This was not Reuben's plan. This was not Joseph's plan, certainly, but it was God's plan. God would providentially use the bitter hatred of his brothers. the absence of Reuben and the timing of a caravan of merchants to send Joseph to Egypt. And it was in Egypt, of course, that Joseph would in time become exalted and become a savior to his brothers. There's a interesting comment that Joseph makes when he has this conversation with the man in the field who directs him to Dothan. The man asks him, What are you looking for? And he says, I seek my brethren. And there are some who have seen in that expression kind of a wonderful story and picture of the way the Savior seeks lost sinners and the way the whole story of Joseph in a sense deals with Joseph's interaction with his brothers up until the very last chapter of this book. Now the reason why this story is found at the end of Joseph is because Joseph serves as a bridge figure, a transition from a family, a covenant people who were but an extended family to them gr their growth into a mighty nation. in Egypt over some 430 years. This is the big picture. This is the narrative of redemption that we find in the story of Joseph. But along this larger narrative, there are many other lessons for us to learn. And this morning, we're going to consider the age of question of where is God when tragedy strikes? This is a question that often comes up in public discourse when there is some great tragedy like 9-11 or some great earthquake or tsunami. that sweeps thousands of people into eternity. People ask, where was God? There's a growing number of people in the Western world and in the United States who would describe themselves as agnostic or atheist. And if you were to talk to them, you would find a large number of them would say that the reason why they believe that there is no God is Because of all the suffering and tragedy in the world. Many times I have heard that. When people tell me that they're an atheist, my next question is always: so why are you an atheist? I want to know. And often they will say, because look at the world, look at all the suffering, look at all the tragedy, look at all the death in Mayhem. How could there be a God? And of course, they're coming from a very humanistic and wrong premise. But in fact, their very question actually points to the existence of God. The fact that they long and desire for a world where there is peace and justice and order reflects the God who made them. You see, animals aren't concerned about terrorism and racism and warfare, but those who are made in the image of God Long for a king to reign in righteousness, and that king will come. But I'm straying from my point for a moment. The reality is that even good Christian people struggle to make sense of tragedy of the dark chapters of our lives. Often It seems when we most desire the presence of God, he seems to be absent. That is what many people have told me. And in this chapter of Genesis 37, it seems like God is silence. As we've been reading through this chapter together as a congregation, you may have noticed there is no reference to God in this chapter. It doesn't say that God did this or God said this or God appeared in this way. There's nothing like that. It's just a simple narrative of what's happening in this family. It seems as if God is silent, but actually God is providentially at work, as it were, behind the scenes. The fact is that God is not unaware and unconcerned. He is very aware of what is happening to Joseph. In fact, he is sovereignly using the dark forces in Joseph's life to save his people from the world. You see, it's only when we see the big picture that we can see what God is doing. The fact is, as we will see, God has not failed Joseph or his family. He is working all things together for their good and for his glory. And he does the same thing in the lives of his children today. And today at this section that we're looking at in the life of Joseph, let me remind you that Joseph at this point doesn't see the big picture. He doesn't know why his brothers have treated him this way and why he's been sold into slavery and what will happen to him when he finally reaches that great symbol of the world. What is going to happen to him? He doesn't know. We know because we know the rest of the story. But imagine how difficult it must have been For Joseph to trust in the promises of God, in the God that revealed himself to his forefathers, and a faith that now he has claimed as his own. What I want us to see this morning is that God is sovereign in the suffering that we face. First of all, I want you to notice that God is sovereign over the brutal violence that we might experience in our lives. This is what is found in verses 23 to 28, the passage that we read together this morning. Look with me at verses 23 and 28. and twenty-four. And it came to pass when Joseph was come unto his brethren, that they stripped Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colors that was on him, and they took him and cast him into a pit. And the pit was empty, there was no water in it. The first thing that Joseph's brothers did, as they had plenty of time to repair, is he was coming from a distance. is that they stripped that robe from off his body. And just so the reader remembers the significance of that coat, The author includes this description, his coat of many colors. Yes, it wasn't just any coat, it was that coat. The robe is a symbol that dominates Genesis chapter 37. We first read of it in verse 3. Look with me there. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children. Because he was the son of his old age, and he made him a coat of many colors. This robe was symbolic of their father's favoritism towards Joseph. Every day it spoke volumes to them. It proclaimed that Joseph was loved and they were not. And now in verse 23, we see that the symbol of love has become the focal point of envy. The brothers hated that coat. And in one moment their pent-up rage was unleashed on that beautiful garment. We will encounter this robe one more time at the end of this chapter. when they take that robe and they dip it in blood to deceive their father. Now the Hebrew word that's translated stripped in verse 23 is used in Leviticus to describe the skinning of an animal. This conveys the violence of their actions. After they tore the coat off his body, they cast him into a pit. They didn't gently lower him down, they just threw him in there. And the Hebrew word that's used is a word that's used for like the disposal of a corpse. They just dumped his body in there. And this, of course, would signify and suggest the violence of the act and the ultimate intention of his brother. In their minds, he was as good as dead And now look with me at verse 25. And they sat down to eat breadth. This one phrase reveals the callousness and the hardness of their hearts. Here they have just violently assaulted their own flesh and blood And now they're going to sit down and enjoy a meal together. There are people Who are like that in the world. There are people who can do great acts of violence and go home and get a good night of sleep and not have their conscience trouble them at all. But that's not really the case with these brothers. They're bad, they're hardened, but they're not quite at that point. How do I know that? Because a little bit later, we're going to find out something about the discussion that they had. By the way, many scholars think that the food that they were enjoying there while he is right there at the pit, and the idea is they were with earshot, they they were enjoying a meal right there and and he can hear everything that's going on up above him, is that Joseph may have brought that food for them. It's very likely that he had a pack animal with them. Because they'd been gone for some time. He's replenishing their supplies. And on this pack animal, there was all kinds of foodstuffs for all of these hungry young men. And so he brings this fresh food to them. And they assault him and they take that food and they enjoy this lunch together. He came to obey his father and to be a blessing to his brothers. And this is how they thanked him. Now we know that this was a traumatic event for Joseph. Because if we turn ahead to another chapter, we'll find out a little commentary on this. Turn with me to Genesis 42. And verse 21, Genesis 42, and verse 21. This is in the context when Joseph is a ruler and he's testing their hearts and the brothers are speaking amongst themselves and they say in Genesis 42, 21 And they said one to another, We are very guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul when he besought us, and we would not hear. Therefore is this distress come upon us. The idea is that they were eating right at the lip of that pit so that he could even see them because it says they saw the distress of his soul. They heard the terror in his voice. We're not told what he said But I suspect he called them by name from the pit. Simeon, Levi, Judah, save me. I'm your brother. Why are you doing this? Don't let me die in this pit. But at that moment, they were more controlled by peer pressure and a mob mentality. You know, if it was probably just one of them, they might have rescued him. But no one wanted to appear to be weak. And so they probably to strengthen their resolve would mock him and laugh at him and maybe even say how good the food was and how delicious it was, even as he was down there without any provision. And while they were eating, a caravan of merchants passes by. Look with me. At the remainder of verse 25, and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and behold, a company of Ishmaelites came from Gilead with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh. going to carry it down to Egypt. And when Judah said unto his brethren, What prophet is it if we slay our brother and conceal his blood, come, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites. And let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother, our flesh, and his brethren were content. Now, this passing caravan was no coincidence. It was the providence of God. We know historically that there was a major trade route between the ancient city of Damascus and Egypt. And on that trade well, it passes right by Dothan, where the brothers are at this point. Now I want to quickly comment on one um matter that may have caught your attention. You'll notice that in verse 25 it refers to these merchants as Ishmaelites, and then in verse 28 they are called Midianites. Is this a discrepancy? No, it is not. The term Ishmaelites over time had become a general designation for all traders, regardless of their ethnicity. We do this in the English language as well What do we often call tissue? We call it Kleenex. Well that's a brand name. It's not the item itself, but often we we we have taken something that's specific and we've made it broad, and that's the way it was with the Ishmaelites. Alright, because so many Ishmaelites were traitors, every traitor became known by the term Ishmaelites. But later in verse 28, we're told of their ethnicity that they were actually Midianites. So just so you know how the fact that there is no discrepancy there, that's the explanation for it. Now it's Judah who suggests they sell Joseph to these traveling merchants. Judah is the fourthborn. We know that Reuben, the firstborn, was away. The second and thirdborn, Simeon and Levi, had lost the respect of their brothers due to their murderous schemes. perhaps two years earlier at Shechem. And so Judah is the one who steps forward in the absence of Reuben to be the leaders of the brothers. And he argues that it was advantageous for them to sell Joseph rather than killing him and shedding his blood. He says we really don't want to be guilty of murdering our own flesh and blood. And he uses the idea of shedding blood here because in the Hebrew culture especially, the whole idea of murder was that blood was shed. And he says, let's not do that. So there's some kind of plausible deniability. So that if their father would someday ask him, Did you kill your brother? They would say, No, we didn't lay a hand on him We didn't shed his blood, Dad. We didn't do that. Then of course there's also the advantage of they're going to get a little bit of money out of it. 20 shekels of silver, not a great amount of money, but they would get something out of it. Often wondered what they did with that money. Did they really enjoy it? Or did every time they looked at those 20 shekels, they were so troubled by it? It was a reminder of Joseph. that they ended up throwing it away into the desert sand, much as Judas did with those 30 pieces of silver when he tossed them into the temple courtyards. I don't know. But what we do know is that this was a brutal act, a very callous act They sold him for twenty pieces of silver, which was the going rate for a male slave under the age of twenty. Some have suggested that they could have gotten more money for him. But the shrewd traders could tell they were very eager to sell. And so they were able to get a low price for him, and they were probably able to more than double their money when they took him to Egypt. Just imagine for a moment. Let's step out of this Bible story. Let's remember that Joseph was a real person, just like you and I, and let's think about the trauma and the suffering that he experienced on this day in his life. He was brutally assaulted by his own brothers. They violently tossed him into a pit with the expectation that that dry cistern would become his tomb. He is spared only to become a slave. He was most likely chained and led behind a camel, and the trip from Doth into Egypt would be about 250 miles. That's a long, arduous, difficult journey, a long time for him to think about how his life had changed in an instance. And all of this because he was obedient to the will of his father. It must have seemed like his life was completely out of control, but God was in control. His unjust suffering was all part of God 's grand design. God is sovereign even over the violence that we face. This is something that is very, very difficult for people. to grasp. It doesn't mean that God approved of what the brothers did. It doesn't mean that he was instigating it. No, he let them follow through with their own violent plans. Doesn't mean that God is putting a stamp of approval on the violent actions that people do to us and to our loved ones. But God is in control. That is what the scripture teaches. And that should not be something that causes us great anxiety and great distress. It should be something that comforts us Because if God is in control of everything except for people who do bad things , then there's very little that we can take comfort in. But the fact is that God is in control even of the violent actions of others. Secondly, I want you to notice with me that God is sovereign over the heartless actions of others. That we experience in our lives. Look with me at verse 29. And Reuben returned unto the pit, and behold, Joseph was not in the pit, and he rent his clothes. And he returned unto his brother and said, The child is not, and I, whither shall I go? And they took Joseph's coat and killed a kid of goats and dipped the coat in the blood. And they sent the coat of many colors, and they brought it to their father, and said, This have we found. Know now whether it be thy son's coat or not. And he knew it, and he said, It is my son's coat. An evil beast hath devoured him. Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces. I'm not going to comment very much on these opening verses about Reuben. Remember, Reuben had earlier convinced his brothers not to murder Joseph on the spot. And he told them to put him into a dry pit. And his plan, the writer says, was later to come back and rescue him. But he was probably away tending to the flock. And when he has come back after a period of time, he looks into the pit, and to his horror it is empty. Joseph is not there. And Reuben expresses his anguish of soul by rending his clothes. This was a sign of mourning and expressed his belief that Joseph was as good as dead. Notice in verse 30 that Reuben refers to Joseph as a child. We know he was 17 years old. He was a young man. But Reuben is thinking, my kid brother will never survive in Egypt. The brutal way the slaves are treated, the way they they they work. brutally in the hot sun day after day. He's too young. He's too soft. He'll never be able to survive. He's as good as dead And notice what he says, he says, Whither shall I go Let me put it in language we would understand today. He says something like this, how can I ever go home and face my father with this news? and say to him, your youngest son, your younger son Joseph is dead is as good as dead. He couldn't imagine that scenario. He couldn't imagine going. He knew it would be incredibly difficult. I've often wondered how long a journey it must have been back from Jothan to Hebron. Every step he took with reluctance, knowing this is not going to go well. This is going to be devastating for our father. Reuben, the oldest son, knew very well How his father responded when his beloved wife Rachel died. He never wanted to see something like that again. And now he knows it's going to be repeated. And he keeps thinking, if only I wasn't away when that caravan came by, if only I would have been there, I could have kept this from happening. Perhaps the other brothers who were blinded to their own father's grief because of the rage they had for Joseph on their way back are now beginning to think, yeah, this is going to be a bad situation. How are we going to deal with this? They return really to the original plan. If you look with me at verse 20, they said to themselves, Come now, therefore, let us slay him And cast him into some pit, and we will say some evil beast hath devoured him. And we will see what will become of his dreams. Now look with me at verse 31. And they took Joseph's coat and killed a kid of goats and dipped the coat in blood. And they sent the coat of many colors, and they brought it to their father. This have we found. Know now whether it be thy son's coat or not. The robe they hated so much was torn off of Joseph and now becomes a useful prop. They take that mangled coat and they dip it in goat's blood and carried it back. to Hebron as a means of deceiving their father. They all played a part in this deception and were like actors on a stage They rehearsed the story carefully. They presented the bloody coat like they didn't know who it belonged to. There was only one coat like this. Everyone knew whose coat it was, but they acted like they they just wanted him to verify like someone identifying a body. It was quite a performance. And Jacob reaches the conclusion that they want him to reach, and that is that somewhere along his journey Joseph has been attacked by a wild animal that has torn him apart and killed him, and all that remains are the tatter pieces of his coat. Now let me ask you something. Why does Moses, the writer of this narrative, include the detail that the brothers dipped his garment in goat's blood? Why does he specify the animal? Have you ever thought about that? The answer is because the writer is drawing the reader's memory back. To what happened in the situation with Isaac. Remember, he put on goat skins to deceive his father in saying that he was in fact Esau. And so Moses is reminding the careful reader, remember the dad who is now being cruelly deceived by his own children was the one who deceived his father using a similar ruse. The Bible teaches that whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. So often the sins that we allow to dominate our lives do not remain with us. We pass them on to our children in one way or another, through our example, through our own weakness. I think every parent who's have children that have grown up has has seen their own besetting sins look back at them in some respects. It's God's way of reminding us of how fallen we are. And how dear is the price for our failure to really mortify our sins of the flesh. Jacob was the deceiver, and now he is deceived. But you know what? God is even sovereign over the heartless, deceptive actions of others. And thirdly, God is sovereign over the intense sorrow that we experience. Look with me at verses 34 and 35. And Jacob rent his clothes. and put sackcloth upon his loins, and mourned for his son many days, and all his sons and all his daughters Rose up to comfort him, but he refused to be comforted. And he said, For I will go down into the grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him. Jacob's reaction of sorrow was very predictable. In verse 34, there are three aspects of his grief that are mentioned. First of all, he tore his clothing. This was fitting since he assumes an animal has torn his son apart, and his own family is now like the tatters of that garment. Secondly, he puts on sackcloth. That is, he puts on a dark, rough clothing that signaled to everyone that he was officially grieving. We don't do this very much in our culture anymore. We don't put on sackcloth, but if you were to go back a hundred years ago in our nation and someone like really, really important in a town or in a village or in some community died, everyone would be wearing black. And they would say that all of the black fabric that was in that community was sold. Because it was all being used to demonstrate in a communal way the sorrow of the community And then we read that he mourns many days. It's not simply saying that he was sad for a long time. This is talking about an official period of mourning that included many different expressions. of sorrow that were appropriate to their culture. In the Old Testament times, a parent would publicly mourn over their child for one week. But here we read that Jacob mourned for many days. The idea is this, that after the weekended of official mourning Joseph kept on mourning. He kept on the sackcloth. He kept doing everything that he had been doing for the last seven days. And finally , His sons and daughters come to comfort him, as if to say, Dad, what are you doing? You know, the uh the one week of traditional mourning is over. Why do you continue to mourn? You're making people in our in our little community in our extended family wondering what's going on. How should they respond? This is confusing to people, Dad. You need to stop this. You need to go back to some degree of normalcy. But Jacob will have none of it. He is profoundly broken by grief. And he refuses to be comforted. He refuses to take their advice. His prolonged agony must have troubled the brothers. Perhaps Reuben was even saying to them, guys, this is why I didn't want you to kill him. You see, you see what's happened to our father? You see what you've done to him with your deception and your hatred? His whole family is filled with sorrow. The brothers are saddled with hiding a dark secret. Think about it, Joseph is certainly sorrowful. What he must have thought about as he traveled those 250 miles by foot to Egypt He must have been thinking about what was playing out at home. He grieved over his sinful brothers and over the sorrow that his father would feel. He's distressed at this, and his own future seemed bleak and hopeless. And I think his brothers were becoming more uneasy every day as they realized The profound sorrow that they brought into their father's life. And they couldn't seem to get Joseph's pathetic cries out of their heads. And Jacob, of course, was worst of all. In verse 35, he says, I will go down into the grave for my son mourning. This expresses some real determination on his part to spend the rest of his days mourning the death of his son. I want to be very careful here. The loss of a child, the loss of a close loved one is an incredible blow. But sometimes people will mount, as it were, a silence um fight against God that they will not ever return to normal. They never will give up their mourning. And he used to determined to live like this in the state of sorrow until the day he dies because it's like a silent protest of God. How dare you take my idol away? As I mentioned to you in an earlier message, one of the reasons why God removed Joseph From Jacob's life for a time was because he had made him his ultimate treasure, his ultimate hope for the future. And so God said, All right, you're going to set him before me. I'm going to take him away from you. And we see in his sorrow and expression that indeed Joseph was an idol to him. The Hebrew word that is translated grave in verse 35 is the word sheol. It can refer to nothing more than the grave, as indeed it might here. But it can also refer to the place of departed wicked spirits. It's sometimes translated in the Old Testament as hell. Can't be dogmatic about this, but perhaps Jacob is interpreting this disaster in reference to Joseph as the judgment of God upon his wicked past about his own deception of his father, and he feels as if he is a doomed man. He assumes that God is finished with him, and that his future will be nothing will fill with nothing but sorrow and regret and judgments. But you know what? Jacob was wrong. Because God is sovereign and God is not finished working in the life of the stubborn man. And God 's going to open his eyes, and Jacob could never believe it now, but his best days were yet ahead of him. Even though he is right now ready to just go down to the grave in sorrow. What a wonderful picture this is of God's amazing grace. Now I want to make some concluding applications. The first thing is this. We must remember That God is sovereign in our suffering. This is a very difficult lesson to preach. It's even more difficult to live. Some of you have been horribly wronged by others. Some of you have been violently assaulted in ways that I certainly have not. And it's hard to grasp God's wicked purpose in these things. Not that God is wicked, excuse me, but the wicked things that people do to see that God has a purpose in that. But the scriptures clearly teach this. The Bible says that his kingdom rules over all. There are no exceptions. And you don't want there to be any exceptions. God uses the wrath of men to praise him, but the remainder of wrath does he restrain. And even in this, God was restraining. the wrath of his brothers, who if they were to have their full intention, would have murdered him right there on that spot. Some of you have been callously treated like Joseph. People have turned. A deaf ear to your cries for mercy. People have been unjust and unfair. We see that his brothers enjoyed his distress and his discomfort, and some of you have experienced circumstances like that in your own life. But what we see is that even when people treat us horribly, God is still in control. Some of you have been deceived and selfishly treated by others. You have been horribly wrong, like Jacob was by his own family. But you know what? God is still in control. Some of you have experienced the loss of a loved one and you just want to quit on life. But I want you to know that God still has a plan for you even after the death of your loved one. That's why you're still here. And it could be, it just could be, that as with Jacob, your best years are still ahead of you, and that God is going to show you incredible manifestations of his grace. Our God is sovereign. He delights to turn our days of mourning into days of joy. My second application is this. We must remember that God 's purpose in our suffering is often unknown to us. Think of Joseph as he made that long journey to Egypt. How did he process what had happened to him? First, he must have just been in shock. But this journey would have taken more than a week, perhaps a couple weeks. He would have had a lot of time to think and to ponder and reflect How could he make sense out of God's plan for his life? How his life had completely changed in a moment of time. He went from being the favored son of a wealthy man. To a slave who was destined probably for a few hard years of labor and then painful death. But you know what? Joseph never stopped trusting in God, even though he couldn't see the big picture. It's easy for us to be unsympathetic to Joseph in a sense because we know the end of the story. But remember, Joseph at this point didn't know the end of the story. He didn't know God's plan to exalt him in Egypt. And to save his brothers from famine, he didn't know all of that. For him, life seemed like an inscrutable mystery, like God was not in control, like God had failed him. But Joseph never turned away from God. He never stopped trusting him. What a beautiful example this is for us. What we see here, and I will comment on this in the weeks to come, is that Joseph had a faith of his own. He had a faith of his own. This is something that every parent looks to see in their children, you know, your children generally naturally want to be compliant and they sort of go along with the program, especially when they're really young. But when they come of age and they begin to think for themselves and trying to make sense out of the world. And they have the influence of their peers and of the world that begins to attract their attention. It is then that you find out, do they have a faith of their own? Or do they just have mom and dad's hand me down that will never withstand the test of life? Because you ultimately can't give your faith as a legacy to your children. They have to take it for themselves. And Joseph, Joseph had a faith, as we'll see in days to come. He had something that was real, that would withstand the most difficult test. imaginable. And I love the last verse of this chapter, this dismal chapter where Joseph goes from being the favored son to a slave in Egypt. We have this Clue. And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh and captain of the guard. And the writer here is signaling to us, there's more to come. This is not the end of the story. God is doing something and God has a place for this young man. You've often heard me say that what defines who you are is not what happens to you. It's how you choose to interpret what happens to you. That makes all the difference in your life. You must view the difficulties of your life, the ups and the downs through the lens of Scripture. We so often interpret the Bible by our experiences. And when something really bad or tragedy happens to our life, we say to ourselves, well, I I guess it just didn't work out for me like it did for somebody else in the Scripture. Not true. We have to interpret our experiences by the Bible. Look at our life through that lens, and then we can make sense of it. William Cooper, the great hymn writer of There is a Fountain Filled with Blood, and many others said, Trust not the Lord by feeble sense, but trust him for his grace. Behind a frowning providence, he hides a smiling face God 's providence is often compared to a tapestry where there are many types of threads. Some of them are light and bright and beautiful, and some of them are dark and coarse. And God weaves those different threads into the fabric of our lives to make the beautiful design. But we are like, from our perspective, looking at it from the back. where it looks like it's all disorganized and doesn't make any sense because that's our view of our life But if we could see it from God's perspective, we would see a beautiful plan and design. But finally, I want us to notice that we must recognize in Joseph's suffering a faint reflection of our Savior's suffering for us. There are at least four different ways that we see parallels here in this passage. Joseph was betrayed because of the envy, it says, and hatred. that his brothers had for him. It mentions their envy in verse 11 of this chapter. And in Matthew 27 and verse 18 it says, For he that is Pilate knew that for envy They had delivered him. That is, the religious leaders had betrayed and delivered up Jesus to the Roman officials because they envied him. And they hated him just like Joseph's brothers hated him. Secondly, Joseph was beaten and mocked and his robe removed, just like our Savior. Thirdly, Joseph was sold for 20 pieces of silver, and Jesus was betrayed for 30 pieces of silver. And fourth, Joseph was rejected by his brothers. And so was Jesus. In John chapter 1, verses 11 and 12, it says, He came unto his own. And his own received him not, but as many as received him, to them gave ye power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. You know, in Western literature, whenever the hero of a story is presented, he's gen uh generally is not the one who does any suffering. He's the one who delivers people from oppression and suffering. But in the great story of redemption our hero, our savior, our rescuer, who's one who suffers. And one of the reasons he suffers is so that he can sympathize with us who suffer. What a wonderful Savior we have. He didn't just save us from the glories of heaven, not having to experience any of the suffering and difficulties and sorrows that we face in this life, no, but he came. He took on human flesh and he lived here for 33 years. And therefore, he is indeed our sympathetic high priest. He is touched with the feelings of our infirmity. This is a Savior that is worthy of our trust. This is a savior who is worthy of our adoration. Let's close in prayer this morning. Our Father, we thank you that you have provided a great Savior, one much greater than Joseph. We thank you, Father, that He has come to rescue us from the world, to save us from ourselves and from our sin that so vexes our souls. Father, I think of those who are here in this gathering today who were yet lost in their sins. who are still somehow trusting and clinging to their own righteousness, who still think that they're good enough, they've done enough to gain your eternal favor. I pray that you would show them. The foolishness of this presumption. Help them, Father, to cast themselves wholly upon Christ, who has saved us and redeemed us by his blood. We thank you, Father, for your word that is sufficient to meet all of our needs. I pray that you would take what is said today and use it, Father, in our hearts for those who are sorrowing, for those who are suffering, Father, I pray that they would find comfort and help and guidance from your word. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.