Turn your Bibles, please, to Genesis chapter 41. Genesis chapter 41. Oliver Wendell Holmes is best known as a poet, but he was also a doctor. And as such, he was very interested in the use of ether. In order to know how his patients felt under its influence, he once had a dose administered to him. As he was going under in a dreamy state, a profound thought came to him. He believed that he had suddenly grasped the key to all the mysteries of the universe. But when he regained consciousness, he was unable to remember what that insight was. And because he thought This was so important. He had the ether given to him again. At this time, he had a stenographer right by his bedside. to write down this earth-shaking insight. And as the ether was administered, sure enough, just before passing out, the insight reappeared. And he mumbled the words, and the stenographer took them down, and he went to sleep peacefully, confident that he had succeeded. Upon awakening he turned eagerly to the stenographer and asked her to read what he had uttered. And this is what she read. The entire universe is permeated with a strong odor of turpentine. Dreams are funny things. They have been described as a cartoon-like story of one's inner feelings. And our dreams often reflect what is occupying our minds. The most common emotion that's expressed in our dreams is anxiety. Of course, everyone dreams, but we don't remember most of our dreams. Most people dream, I'm told, between an average of four to seven times a night And if you add it up, the average person will dream about six years of their life. Dreams can be so real and vivid. All of us have had the experience of waking up and for a moment wondering, did that really happen? Is that true? The most common dreams are dreams of flying , dreams of falling, and dreams of public humiliation. People are fascinated by dreams and always have been. And this morning we're going to consider a king's dream that would forever change the life of a man named Joseph. Genesis chapter 41 is the great hinge in the life of Joseph. It is the turning point That the reader has been longing to see. Everything recorded so far in his life has gone from bad to worse. We read that he was hated by his brothers and sold into slavery. He was falsely accused and cast into prison. And the final insult was that he was forgotten by the man who could have secured his immediate release. From a worldly perspective, one might say that Joseph was very unlucky. But in fact, all these painful events were providentially preparing Joseph for his day of exaltation. You see, Joseph was not unfortunate. In fact, he was blessed all through these years by the presence of the Lord. And now he is about to experience the favor of God in a way he could not have fully imagined. In one 24-hour period, Joseph went From the prison to the palace, from the darkness to the lights, he went from obscurity to notoriety in one giant step of exaltation. And this promotion was not by chance, but all part of God's providential plan to save his people both physically and spiritually. Now, this chapter is not teaching us that if we are faithful to God, he will make all of our dreams come true. That would be a wrong interpretation. There is, unfortunately, a false gospel known as the prosperity gospel. Is one of America's most shameful exports. It's gone all over the world. And it twists God's word to teach That God wants all people to be healthy and wealthy and powerful and beautiful. But that is not the message of the Bible, and it's not the message of this chapter as well. Jesus said, in the world you will have tribulation. And the apostles taught that we must, through much tribulation, enter into the kingdom of God. You should not leave this church this morning thinking if I'm faithful to God, he will promote me to a powerful position of untold wealth. That was God's plan for Joseph, but it's very, very unlikely that is his plan for you However, God does have a good plan for your life. I want us to consider how God delights to exalt his faithful servant. And I want us to look at three points that come out of the first part of this chapter. The first thing I want you to notice is this is that God uses delays. to prepare his faithful servants for promotion. Look with me at the last verse of chapter 40, verse 23 And then the first verse of chapter 41. It says, yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph? But forgot him. And verse chapter 41. And it came to pass at the end of two full years that Pharaoh dreamed, and behold , He stood by the river. There's just a little bit of empty space in my Bible between verse 23 and chapter 41, verse 1, but there were two years. That we have no knowledge of what exactly transpired in the life of Joseph. Last week I mentioned three factors that made the setback so painful for Joseph. Number one. Because Joseph had gone out of his way to help this man that would forget him. He really went the extra mile to minister to him and to help him. Number two, because he shared his heart with this man. He said in desperation, please remember me and put in a word for me to Pharaoh that I might be released, because I am here unjustly. And thirdly, because Joseph's expectations were shattered by the butler's neglect of his request. As I mentioned last week, I believe that Joseph had worked out in his mind that this cupbearer was his ticket out of that dungeon. And you know what? He was right But it was not in the timely manner that he expected. He would have to wait another two years. I think that those two years were the most difficult two years of Joseph's life. I think they were more painful than when he was Assaulted by his brothers and sold into slavery. I think they were more difficult than even his early years in Potiphar's household when he was faithfully doing his best to serve his master. And I suspect they were even more discouraging than when he was falsely accused and thrown into prison. Because it seemed now as if his best hope of release was gone forever Joseph would need to wait a total of 13 years before this ordeal was finally over. And that raises the question of why did God make Joseph wait those 13 years? And why does God make us wait? I don't know about you, but I don't like to wait. I'm an impatient person. If you don't believe me, ask my family. I don't like to waste. I'm a pretty intense person, and I like to get things done, and I don't like to sit around and waste time. But God sometimes makes us wait. So why are some reasons that God makes us wait? Number one, because the Lord is not in a hurry. to accomplish his purpose in our lives. 2 Peter 3 and verse 8 says that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. God has everything on schedule, and He is not anxious about getting everything done. Everything's right on time. And God is never hurried or rushed by our demands. He is never late. He is never early. He is right in sync with his divine plan. Now, notice how verse 1 emphasizes the fact that it was only after two full years. In other words, The writer here is saying, I'm just not rounding things off. It wasn't like about two years. It was two full years of waiting. Apparently these dreams that we're going to read about came right after Pharaoh's birthday, or some would say his anniversary, because remember That was when the butler was forgiven and released. And so perhaps that's what this is the measurement by. My point is that Joseph's exaltation took place exactly when God wanted it to occur. Another reason that God makes us wait is because he's still refining our character. For 11 years God had been preparing, refining, and molding Joseph's character, but he still needed two more years to work on him. A. W. Tozer said it's doubtful whether God can bless a man greatly until he has hurt a man deeply. Joseph needed another two years of testing in the crucible of that dungeon to prepare him for his life's calling. We read about this truth often in Scripture. The book of James opens with these words, My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing that the trying of your faith worketh patience or endurance. But let patience have her perfect work that you may be perfect and entire wanting nothing. God seeks to develop spiritual stamina in our lives. Through the difficult delays that we encounter. He wants us to have some tenacity in our service for Him. Waiting on the Lord causes us to relinquish our own timetable and yield to his schedule. But there's a third reason that God makes us wait, and that is that God is still preparing us for future ministry. We are all a work in progress. We all have much to learn. Joseph still had some learns, some lessons to learn in that prison. He had to learn to deal with disappointments. The disappointment that the butler had forgotten him. He had to learn to be faithful in serving the Lord, even when it seemed that there was no payoff to being faithful. This is one of the way God tests us. Sometimes He will put us in a position of ministry, a position of service in a local church or somewhere else. And it doesn't turn out the way we thought it would. And we thought that it would be very uh fulfilling and and people would be coming up and saying, Oh, that's a great job. Man, we're so glad that you're doing this. This is wonderful. Perhaps a teaching of Sunday school class or something. But you know what? You can go years without one word of appreciation in ministry. And that's not what you expected to happen. God is testing Joseph to see, will Joseph stay faithful even when there's no real hope that he's going to be released? Will he stay with what God has given him to do and continue to minister unselfishly to those prisoners? And then, of course, there was the lesson that he needed to learn to forgive those who had selfishly neglected his request. This is one of the great lessons of Joseph's life that we're going to get into in weeks to come. This is kind of a foreshadowing of it. What is clear is that Joseph is not harboring bitterness towards this man that could have got him released two years earlier. You know, what what do you say to someone like that? Sorry about those two years in the dungeon. You know, I'm sorry, slipped my mind. It's not a small thing. But Joseph is learning to forgive people who have wronged him. Perhaps Joseph felt that those two years were an absolute waste. But they were not. You see, God is very efficient. He doesn't waste time in our lives. I've talked to many people over the years. And sometimes they'll relate their testimony. They'll say, you know, those seven years at that place, or those seven years when I was , that was a complete waste of time. I just, I just threw my wife away. There was nothing that that that's positive that came from that That's not true. God never wastes the experiences of our life. But it's hard to wait. I've already told you that I'm an impatient man. One of the things that I had to learn in reference to this was becoming a senior pastor. When I graduated from seminary, I was 28 or 29 and uh been in school for nine years, undergrad and grad school, it's a long time And I was chomping at the bit. I was ready to go. I wanted to be a pastor, and the Lord didn't open up any doors for me to be a senior pastor. And so I came back to my home church and taught in the Christian school and worked eventually as a youth pastor there. But the longer I was there, the more I wanted to. And and and I was praying every day, Lord, would you open something up for me? Would you would you help me? I I want to be a pastor. I'm ready to be a pastor. All of my peers that were my age, that went to seminary with me, they were all pastoral churches, at least it seemed that way. And it was a difficult time to wait, but the Lord finally opened up the door, and when I was 34 years old, I came here. But I can look back And I can say the Lord knew exactly what I was doing because I would not have been an effective pastor at all if I had started when I was 28. I still had a lot of lessons to learn. In those six years before I came here, and I've still had to learn a lot since then as well. God uses delays. to prepare us for his calling on our lives. Secondly, God creates opportunities that leads to his faithful servants promotion. Look with me at verse 2. And behold, there came out of the river seven well-favored kine and fat-fleshed, and they fed in a meadow. And behold, seven other kines came out after them of the river, ill-favored and lean-fleshed. and stood by the other kind upon the brink of the river, and the ill-favored and the lean flesh kind did eat of the seven well-favored and fat kind. So Pharaoh awoke. And he slept and dreamed the second time, and behold, seven ears of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good, and behold, seven thin ears, and blasted with the east wind sprung up after them, and the seven thin ears devoured the seventh rank and full ears, and Pharaoh awoke, and behold it was a dream And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled, and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt and all the wise men thereof, and Pharaoh told them his dream, but there was none that could interpret them unto Pharaoh. Pharaoh has a dream. Perhaps we might better call it a nightmare. In this dream, Pharaoh is standing by the banks of the Nile River. And he sees seven fat cows come up out of the river. The word kind here is a reference to cows, and we know historically that that And in very hot seasons when there were many insects that cows would submerge themselves in the river to escape the heat and the insects. So this is a very, this dream is very true to life up to this point. But then seven skinny cows came out of the river and devoured the seven fat cows. And this dream was so shocking that the king Becomes wide awake. We've all had that happen, right? You have a disturbing dream, and the next thing you know, you're wide awake because it was a disturbing dream. But then he goes back to sleep and he has a similar dream. In this dream, seven ears full of grain are eaten by seven ears that are thin because they have been blighted by an east wind. And this is something that again is very common to the land of Egypt. Obviously, both dreams are parallel, and Pharaoh has enough sense to know that they are probably pointing to some sort of bad news. And so he's anxious to get the interpretation. Now, we know that the Egyptians placed great value on the interpretation of dreams. And the dreams of kings were considered very significant. In fact, he had there in his royal court men whose primary duty was to interpret dreams I'm told that you can go to the Cairo Museum today, and they have two ancient writings there, which are manuals. For these types of men to interpret dreams, it was a very important part of their culture But these men fail to interpret his dream. Imagine how frustrated Pharaoh must have been. The only reason he keeps these guys on staff was for a situation just like this. And they can't help him. This is a powerful reminder, by the way, of the sovereignty of God. Proverbs 21 and verse 1 says, The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord, and as the rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he will. God is in absolute control of the most powerful man in the world at this time. And let me tell you, he is still in control of every powerful leader throughout the world. And he can even use dreams to accomplish his purposes. We see that God is also in control of how our memories work. We remember by association. And so when Pharaoh shares his his dilemma of not being able to understand this dream, his cup bearer right there at his side all of a sudden has a eureka moment, remembers, oh, I know a man who can interpret this dream. His name is Joseph. And he is in prison. And so with this dream, the butler is able to remember and secure his release. Look with me now at verse 9. And the chief butler Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember my faults this day. Pharaoh was wroth with his servant and put me in ward and the captain of the guard's house, both me and the chief baker, and we dreamed a dream, and one night And I and he, and we dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his dream. And there was with us a young man, a Hebrew servant of the captain of the guard, and we told him, and he interpreted to us our dreams To each man according to his dream he did interpret, and it came to pass as he interpreted to us, so it was. Me he restored unto mine office. And now And he him he had hanged, referring of course to the baker. Now, when the butler says that he remembers his faults, he is not confessing that he sinned in not mentioning this earlier. He's referring to whatever perceived fault there was that had him cast into prison. My point is the butler is still, I think, not really concerned for Joseph. But he sees here an opportunity to be the hero by bringing forward a man who can help the king. And Pharaoh does not hesitate for a moment to send for Joseph because he's desperate. Look with me at verse 14. Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon, and he shaved himself and changed his raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh. The verbs in this verse speak of rapid action that transpired one after another. What an amazing experience this must have been for Joseph. Perhaps he was asleep. When all of a sudden one of the royal officials barges in, grabs him, and says, You're going to the palace. You can just imagine Joseph asking, what's going on? What has changed? He doesn't understand, but he's quickly taken there. But before he's presented before the king, he has to be made presentable. And so he has his beard shaved and probably his head as well, and he has a white linen garment put on him. The Egyptians were unlike most of the ancient peoples in that they disliked beards. A bearded man was in their estimation uncivilized. My apologies to all of our bearded men that are here this morning. What a shocking development this must have been. God used the agitated dream. of a monarch and the selfish recollection of a butler to bring Joseph out of the prison and into the palace. And Joseph would never go back to that dungeon again. God can deliver his people whenever he wants and however he wants. And thirdly, I want you to notice that God uses the testimony Of his faithful servants to secure their promotion. Look with me at verse 15. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there is none that can interpret it. And I have heard say of thee that thou canst interpret a dream to interpret it. Now I want you, I want to point out several ways. That Joseph is going to bring glory to God through his interaction with Pharaoh. Look carefully at Joseph's response in verse 16. And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me. God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace. Notice first of all that Joseph humbly refuses to take any credit for what God enables him to do. He says, Not me. It's not me, Pharaoh. I don't have some incredible gift. It's God working through me. It's amazing to think that Joseph is, in a sense, correcting the king of the most powerful nation in the world. Pharaoh was considered a god by his people. But he is relying on a slave to answer his most vexing problems. There is a very interesting contrast here between A slave who is speaking for God, and a man who is regarded by his people as a God who's desperately looking for answers. Secondly, notice that Joseph boldly ascribes all credit to God. He says, in essence, not me, it's God. Now let's consider the implications of this statement. The Egyptians, like many people in the world, consider themselves to be superior to all other peoples and therefore to have the most powerful gods. But Joseph states by implication that the God he serves can do something that the Egyptians' gods are unable to accomplish. Joseph was bold to speak so freely of his God, even in this pagan environment. I want you to notice how often Joseph speaks of God in this encounter with Pharaoh. He says, first of all, in verse 16, essentially, not me, it is God. In verse 25, he says, God hath showed Pharaoh what he is about to do. And in verse 28, he says essentially the same words. And then again in verse 32, he says The thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass. Joseph was not ashamed. to speak for God. And here he is talking to the most powerful man in the world at this time in the splendor of the palace. And he is being a witness for God. This is an amazing thing. Do we tend to be more willing to share the gospel with someone who's considered of a lower status than us or of someone who's a higher status than us. In other words, are you more likely to share the gospel with a custodian that cleans your office or with your custodian who can fire you? You know the answer to that question, right? Now you should share the gospel with both of them. Don't get me wrong. But my point is, Joseph here is bold enough when he first comes before this man who's revered as a god and you can just imagine in your mind the incredible setup there in the palace and the throne that he's on and the opulence and the wealth and the splendor that is there. And Joseph is just there boldly speaking the truth. Chuck Olson, of course, who used to work in the White House with President Nixon, writes in one of his books how that when they would bring in people who who who wanted to meet with the president, but they they had a beef to bring with him. They were upset. They were political adversaries of the president. He would bring them in and he would show give them a tour of the White House and he would show them all of these historic things and all these things that speak of status and power. and authority, and then he would bring them in to the Oval Office. And he said that so often the intensity of their criticism and their arguments would just disappear. Because they were now in the Oval Office. And what they were saying out in the lobby an hour earlier, all of a sudden they'd just forgotten. And he notes how that people were cowled by the power of authority. Joseph's not like that. He's the same man here in the palace that he was in the prison or in Potiphar's house. What a tremendous testimony this is. And notice that Joseph is confident that God will work through him. He says, God shall give an answer of peace. Joseph's not being arrogant, but he's confident that the Lord will not fail him now. Joseph was truly a man of faith. Joseph's not intimidated by the power and splendor of the world. We know something as I mentioned of this power and splendor because in 1922 The discovery of King Tut's tomb revealed to the world uh a grave of a of a king that was virtually undisturbed and Everyone here can perhaps picture in your mind the spectacular death mass of King Tutankhamun that was discovered. That is 24 pounds of solid gold. So I imagine that when Joseph came before this throne, there was like gold everywhere. And it was shining and glistening, and all of his attendants were dressed. and beautiful attire. This was an intimidating place. But Joseph is not afraid to speak for God. Now in verses 17 through 24, Pharaoh tells Joseph his dream. I'm not going to read those verses because it's virtually identical with what's recorded earlier in the chapter. But I want you to notice Joseph's response beginning in verse 25. It says, and Joseph said unto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh is one. God hath showed Pharaoh what he is about to do. The seven good kind are seven years. And the seven good years are seven years. The dream is one. And the seven thin and ill-favored kind that came up after them were seven years. And the seven empty ears Blasted with the east wind shall be seven years of famine. This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh. What God is about to do, He showeth unto Pharaoh. Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt. For there shall arise after them seven years of famine, and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt. And the famine shall consume the land, and the plenty shall not be known in the land by reason of that famine following, for it shall be very grievous. And for that dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice. It is because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass. So Joseph tells Pharaoh these things. First of all, this is not two dreams, but one dream in two parts. There are two periods of seven years referred to in the dream. Seven years of prosperity will be followed by seven years of famine. But the years of famine will be so bad that the seven years of prosperity will be forgotten. And he says the dream has been doubled to show that it will certainly and quickly come to pass. But Joseph doesn't just give Pharaoh a huge problem. He gives them a solution. Every employer loves the guy who comes with a problem, but also a solution, not just the problem, and say, hey, you figure it out. That's not what Joseph does. Look with me at verse 33. Now therefore, let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise and set him over the land of Egypt. Joseph doesn't realize it. I don't think it occurs to him at all, but he is writing his own job description in the way he characterizes the type of man that must run this operation. Then look with me at verses 34 and following. Let Pharaoh do this and let him appoint officers over the land and take up the fifth part or 20%. Abishap in the seven plenteous years and let them gather all the food of those good years that come and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh And let them keep food in the cities, and that food shall be for store the land against the seven years of famine which shall be in the land of Egypt, and the land that the land perish not through famine. This is an amazing thing. Joseph here is a testimony, I think, to Pharaoh by being helpful to him. He is being a blessing to him. Just as he was a blessing. To Potiphar and a blessing to the manager of the prison. Joseph is now being a blessing to Pharaoh. Wherever he goes, he is a help to people. And it's amazing people analyze this. You may have heard of acrostic about when you're making plans and proposals, an acrostic called SMART. And Joseph's plan fits that. First of all, it's specific. Second, it's measurable. Third, it's action-oriented. Fourth, it's realistic. And fifth, it's within a definite time frame. In a very concise way, he has a broad understanding of how this catastrophe can be averted. And then look at Pharaoh's response, verse 37. A thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of all his servants, that is, all those people in the royal courts. And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as this is a man in whom the Spirit of God is? And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, For as much as God hath showed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art. We see here that Joseph was a witness for God through the wisdom of his words. Joseph surrounded himself with the brightest and the best of the kingdom. Because every ruler, no matter how wise and intelligent he is, needs experts. He needs people with knowledge and wisdom. But Joseph comes and eclipses all of the wise men of the king. His words are filled with wisdom, insight. and integrity. It's very interesting if you look at this conversation that Joseph has with Pharaoh, you discover this pattern. Joseph begins this conversation by saying, Pharaoh, it's not me. It's God. And the conversation concludes with Pharaoh saying, You know what, Joseph? You're right. It's not you, it's God And that's exactly what Joseph wanted Pharaoh to see. He was a witness for the one true God Through his wisdom and through his testimony. Now look with me at the final verse we're going to look at this morning in this passage, verse 40. He says, Pharaoh says, Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled. Only in the throne will I be greater than thou. With these words, Pharaoh fulfills the dream that God gave to Joseph some 13 years earlier. He says, thou shalt be over my house. This is the third time that Joseph has been made the overseer of someone's house. He was the overseer remember of Potiphar's house He was the overseer of that prison, and now he is the overseer of all of Egypt, the most powerful nation in the world. This is an interesting fulfillment of what we read in Proverbs 29 and verse 22. It says, Seest thou a man diligent in his business? He shall stand before kings. But I think we need to realize that we are not saying that Joseph somehow earned this position. That Joseph somehow, because of his diligence and hard work, you know, earned God's favor, and so God put him into this position. This was not an easy position that he was in. There was a great responsibility. And a great deal of weight resting on his shoulders, the whole survival of the people of Israel depended on his ability to do his job well. But what we need to understand is that God does delight to exalt his faithful servants. And we need to always remember if indeed God does that for us, if God puts us in a position of leadership, whether it be at work or whether it be in ministry or wherever it is. that this has come graciously from God, not because you're better than other people, or more talented, or more gifted, or God likes you better than other people. But God in his wisdom has put you there so that you might fulfill his purposes. Psalm 75, verses 6 and 7 say this. Promotion cometh neither from the east, nor from the west, nor from the south, but God is the judge. He putteth down one and setteth up another. When we really get a hold of this, it will make a big difference into how we respond to our own success and the success of others. What often happens like in an office or a place where someone gets promoted. What do all of his peers say and do? That guy? He got promoted! Isn't that what you hear at every office environment and every job that you've ever had? There's often envy and jealousy when someone's promoted. And sometimes the person is promoted thinks to themselves, I am better than all those other people. That's why I am promoted. Both of those responses are wrong. And should not be the way that we respond when others are promoted or when we are promoted, because it is all God's sovereign will And God has promoted us not, as we see here, to serve ourselves. Joseph wasn't thinking, finally I get my own nice palace to live in. No, Joseph was still all about serving and helping and ministering to others. God delights to promote his faithful servants. Now, I want to make two concluding applications this morning. First of all, we must always look for opportunities to be a witness for God. In every circumstance that you encounter in your life, there is a unique opportunity to be a witness for God. I mean, just think about it. If you were in Joseph's shoes. It would have been very easy for you to find ready excuses why you could not be a witness for the Lord in Potiphar's household. They're not Hebrew. They're not from my culture. They wouldn't understand. They're going to belittle my God because the land that I come from, the land of Canaan, and they would say, Oh, by the way, how many followers does your God have? About 70. It would be very easy for Joseph just to keep his mouth shut for 13 years. That's not what he does. He was a witness for the one true God in Potiphar's household. He was a witness for God in that prison, in his actions and in his words, and he was a witness for God in Pharaoh 's palace. In every season of life and every place you go, there is an opportunity for you to be a witness. There's never a bad time to be a witness. If you're a stay-at-home mom with small children, there is an opportunity for you to develop relationships with other moms of small children. And be a witness to them. And someday when you're older and your children are grown, that connection won't be there. So you have to take advantage of it now. If you've just started a new job, there's an opportunity for you, especially if in your previous job you haven't always been the most consistent witness for the Lord, there's an opportunity for you to get a good start. And to be a good witness for Christ in that new location. If you have cancer , There is a unique opportunity to be a witness for God to the doctors and nurses and other healthcare professionals that you would never ever meet. But in the providence of God, you're going to see them every day. And now you have an opportunity, not in an obnoxious way, but in a very natural way to say God is in control. M my my life is in his hands. I am trusting in him. That's why I have peace in my heart. And when you just say things like that, there will be doors of opportunity that will open for you to share the good news of the gospel. But finally, I want you to notice that we should see in Joseph suffering and exaltation. a picture of our Savior's humiliation and exaltation. I don't know if you were thinking about that, but as soon as I came to this chapter. That's what came to my mind. This is exactly what we find in the life of our Lord. And and the most concise statement of this is found in Philippians chapter 2 where it says, who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God. but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess. That Jesus Christ is Lord for the glory of God the Father. Joseph's life reminds us of our Lord's own humiliation. in the sin-cursed earth and his ultimate exaltation through his resurrection and his ascension and his session at the right hand of his father. This is a wonderful reminder to us of the glory of our Savior and the glory of the cross. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father. We thank you for your word. We thank you that in all the scriptures we are reminded of our Savior. We thank you for giving us a Savior who would come and would suffer and die for people like us. And we thank you that through his atoning work we can be saved. I pray, Father, for those here this morning under the sound of my voice. who have never been born again, who have a form of godliness, but deny the power thereof. Lord, I pray that you would speak to their hearts in an unmistakable way. And they would see their need of a great Savior that could pardon their iniquity and who has been exalted to your right hand. A Savior who is Lord over all. I pray, Father, that you would help someone to seek Him today in our assembly, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.