Philippians chapter four. In August of eighteen fifty-four, there was a cholera outbreak in London, England. Charles Furgeon had just become the pastor of the Metropolitan Tabernacle five months earlier. He was only 20 years old. And right at the outset of his ministry, there was this great crisis in London that he had to deal with. He found himself, he says, working day and night, visiting the sick, the dying. And there were a number of people in his congregation. Who passed away. It was very discouraging and fearful. One day as he was walking to an appointment in London at the height of This outbreak, he passed the shoemaker's shop, and he saw on the window a handwritten sign with the text of Psalm 91, verses 9 through 10. It said, Because thou hast made the Lord, which is my refuge, even the most high, thy habitation, there shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling. The 20-year-old Spurgeon took this as God's message to him. Years later, he would write of this incident. He says, the effect upon my heart was immediate. Faith appropriated the passage as her own. I felt secure, refreshed, girt with immortality. I went on with my visitation of the dying in a calm and peaceful spirit. I felt no fear of evil, and I suffered no harm. God 's word can give peace to our hearts like nothing else. This evening I want us to consider a very familiar passage of Scripture that many of you have learned by heart. Philippians chapter 4, verses 6 and 7. Be careful for nothing. But in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. What I have to say tonight is not novel or sensational, but I hope it will be practical. If I were to condense our text into one statement, it would be stop worrying and pray. That's important for you to remember that the man who wrote these words was not writing from theory, but from revelation and experience. At the time of this writing, the Apostle Paul was in prison. If any man had good reason to worry, it was the Apostle Paul. We read in chapter 1 that there was personal conflict that he had with some of the believers there That could have created much anxiety in his heart. We think of the Apostle Paul as this great man who's unassailable. Well, there were believers at this time Who thought he was a wannabe apostle, that he really didn't have the credentials, and he really wasn't that great. And they spoke against him. That can create a lot of anxiety in a pastor's heart. Paul could have been worried about his possible execution. He was essentially on death row. He talks in chapter 1, verses 20 and 21. About magnifying God, whether in his life or in his death. And Paul could have worried about his great financial need. In chapter 4, at the end of this epistle, he talks about that need. How God had taught him to go and to live and to praise him with nothing or with prosperity, and he was confident that God would supply his needs. You see, Paul had serious problems that could have consumed him with worry, but instead he writes an epistle to the church at Philippi. in which he continually exhorts them to rejoice in the Lord. What was Paul's secret? Well, let's examine this passage carefully. It's important for you to know at the outset that this term translated in the King James Version as careful. would be what we would consider anxiety today. The original Greek word literally means to pull apart. It was used in the ancient world to describe a form of torture in which a person would have their arms and legs tied to two different horses, and then at a command the whip was cracked. And the horses would nearly pull that person apart. It was a horrible form of torture that inflicted great pain upon the victim. And so it served as an appropriate word for the suffering. Anxiety. Anxiety is not so much caused by your circumstances, but by the way you interpret your circumstances. Our text this morning, let me say at the outset, does not forbid planning or preparation. It does not promote a laid-back attitude that is oblivious to the problems of life. The Bible never calls Christians to escapeism, to live in a fantasy world. However, these verses do prohibit The anxiety that distracts us from doing what God has called us to do. Christians should not live in the bondage of what-ifs. That keep us sullen and fearful and afraid to do God's will No, God has called us to live by the power of His Holy Spirit. And if we yield to His enabling power, we will produce the inevitable harvest of love, joy, and peace. So let me ask you this evening, what are you worried about? That may seem like a cruel question to ask Currently living in a situation that is unlike any situation that any of us have ever faced in our lifetimes. We are facing a global pandemic. Rarely do disasters affect the whole population of the earth at once. Usually they're confined to some region, some country, perhaps just a city Sometimes they may involve an entire continent, but almost always, especially as Americans, disasters on a great scale are something that happens somewhere else. But that's not the case with the coronavirus. It is in every country in the world. It is in every continent. Much of the world tonight is shut up at home confined from their normal human interactions. About 1. 3 million people have now been Infected by the coronavirus. About 70,000 people have died worldwide as of the beginning of the service. Nearly a thousand people a day are dying in our country for three consecutive days. That has been the case. And the authorities have told us we should expect that to get worse in the days ahead this week. Over 10 million Americans have applied for unemployment in just the last two weeks. Many economists are predicting another Great Depression. Our unemployment rate jumped in two weeks from 3. 4% to 4. 5%. And the worst is yet to come Perhaps you have already started playing the what-if game. What if I lose my job? What if I can't pay my mortgage? What if I can't feed my family? What if I contract COVID-19? So how do we cope with these nagging thoughts? The answers are found in Paul's timeless instructions to the church at Philippi. So I'm going to speak to you tonight briefly on God's advice for worried Christians. The first thing I want you to see with me from verse 6 is that we can stop being anxious by taking our worries to the Lord in prayer. We see here the replacement concept. The Bible doesn't just tell us to stop doing things. It always tells us what to do in place of those things. Instead of worrying, instead of being anxious and consumed with fear, we are to take our burdens to the Lord in prayer. Now make no mistake about it. What we find here in verse 6 when it says, be careful for nothing, is a command. This is not a suggestion. This is not a helpful hint. This is a command. This is God's will for us. I wonder what you think about that. About a century ago, the great Baptist preacher, Alexander McLaren, preached a sermon on this verse entitled, How to Obey an Impossible Injunction. And I think that was a great sermon title. Because if you speak to someone who has the reputation of being a worrier, and you tell them to stop worrying, It seems impossible to them. It's like saying to them, stop breathing. It's not going to happen. Unless you provide another channel for that nervous energy. And this is exactly what Paul does. I want you to notice the symmetry in this verse. In the first line, he says, stop worrying. That's the negative part of the instruction. But then he gives the positive instruction. Instead, we should go to God in prayer. Someone put it this way. The way to be anxious about nothing is to be prayerful about everything. Perhaps you would say, I've tried that. It doesn't work Well, have you followed the specific instructions that Paul provides in these verses? I want you to notice that Paul recommends three types of prayer. In this verse. And they each provide an important distinction. First of all, he uses a general term for prayer. He says, But in everything by prayer I think that Paul here is calling on believers to worship God when we are tempted to worry, when we focus our minds on the greatness and goodness and faithfulness of God. Our problems will often shrink in comparison. Worship invariably drives out worry. This is where we must begin to combat our anxiety. We must turn our minds to the greatness and goodness of God. We must make God our vision, and only then will we see our problems in the real perspective. Second type of prayer here is supplication. We come before God as a supplicant expressing our needs. We must humble ourselves and demonstrate that we are dependent on Him. Certainly, this is something the coronavirus has done to all the experts in the world. We feel helpless. We feel weak. We feel unable to stop something that's invisible to us And indeed, God intends that this humble us because we so quickly think that we are in control of everything. So often the things we worry about the most are situations that we cannot change or control. It is God's desire that these perplexing circumstances humble us so that we come before Him like a desperate beggar. Psalm 50, verse 15 says, Call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. And then thirdly, we find requests. These are our specific petitions. We should not pray general, nebulous prayers. No, we should ask the Lord to do specific things. We should pour out our hearts to Him. We should ask the Lord to bring glory to himself in specific ways through this pandemic. We should pray that souls would be saved. We should pray by name for loved ones that they would be saved, and co-workers and neighbors that we encounter perhaps on our walks in our neighborhoods. We should pray for their salvation. We need to look at the big picture and pray for the glory of God, but we must also pray with a more microscopic focus at the people that surround us and what occurs in our daily lives. But Paul also speaks here about the attitude through which we should pray. All of this prayer is to be done with thanksgiving. Now, why does Paul mention this detail? Because the spirit in which we pray makes all the difference in the world. If you come to God with all your problems in prayer and focus your problems Focus on your problems instead of the Lord, you know what? You will find no relief. When people tell me that they've tried to pray about their problems and it doesn't help at all. I always think this is what they're doing. They're not thinking about the greatness, the power. They're not looking to God. They're meditating on all their problems. And it actually makes them feel worse. But when you come to our great and good God and you remember with the spirit of thanksgiving all that He has done for you and all that He has provided for you. And all the blessings that you enjoy in life, it changes everything. It puts things in a proper perspective. Our worries no longer seem so overwhelming. Counting your blessings is a great anecdote to the poison of anxiety. It reminds you that there is more to the universe than this overwhelming problem that has distorted your perspective. Let me make a real practical suggestion here to some of our people tonight. Stop watching 24-hour coverage of this virus. The people that I've contacted, that I've had contact with that are the most anxious and most discouraged are people who have this on their televisions all day long. You must stop doing that. You're getting a distorted perspective of the world. It's important that we are informed. So you might want to look at what's going on in the world once a day. The rest of the day you should go through your daily life, praising God, thanking Him. What a beautiful day the Lord has given us today, an exceptional day. It's a demonstration of his goodness to us and something to be thankful for. We have to fill our minds with truth. And with positive things, especially when the world's message today is entirely negative. We are not afraid to face the realities and the facts, but we must look at all of the facts. And the reality is that God has treated all of us better than we deserve, and he has blessed us abundantly, and the sun shines on the righteous and the unrighteous. And the same God, who has been faithful to us in the past, will continue to be faithful to us in the future. I'm sure all of you can recall circumstances that have been, that have seemed hopeless to you, and yet God has brought you through. This week I've been reading some sermons by pastors in previous centuries who faced plagues and pestilence. This has happened many times in the history of the world. It used to be a lot more common. Some of these writings were from the third century, others from the twentieth century, and centuries in between. And many of them faced situations that were much more dire than what we are encountering today. But God was faithful to them, and he will be faithful to us. Now I need to answer one interpretive question that may have entered your mind concerning the last phrase in verse 6. Excuse me, I'm in uh verse uh well no yeah, the end of verse six where he says, um let your request be made known unto God. Now at face value, that might imply that God doesn't know your need or the situation that you are facing. And so you might rightly ask yourself, why do I need to make my needs known to God? Doesn't he know all about my problems? Isn't he omniscient? That he knows all? Of course he does. In fact, when Jesus taught about this problem of anxiety in the Sermon on the Mount, he said, your heavenly Father knows that you have need of these things. So what exactly is Paul saying if he does not mean that we need to inform God about our struggles? Well, I think he is saying that we must commit our problems to the Lord Committing our problems to God. In 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 7 it says, Casting all your care or your anxieties upon him, for he careth for you. And Peter there is echoing the Psalms. In Psalm 37 and verse 5 it says, Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. In Psalm 55 and verse 22, it says, Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. This is what it comes down to with our anxieties. Do we trust the Lord enough to give him our problems? Have you given the Lord your financial worries? Have you placed your fear that your parents may die of this pandemic at the Lord's feet? Let me ask you, why do we fail to do this? I think sometimes it's because we don't really want to give our problems to the Lord. We want to hold on to our problem and try to solve the issue ourselves. We want to devise a scheme where we can control and fix the problem. But so often God puts us in situations where we cannot possibly do that. This, of course, is not the path to peace. And perhaps you would say, but giving my words the Lord seems almost impossible to do. I mean, it doesn't seem like it really works for me. Well, I want you to know that it's impossible to do apart from the grace of God. Indeed, Paul offers a promise in verse 7 that's to serve as an incentive so that we would do this. Look with me at verse 7. And the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. This verse seems like a dream to someone whose soul is troubled by anxiety. So that brings me to the second point I want to bring out of our text this evening, and that is we can stop being anxious by trusting. In God's promise of peace. This is a remarkable incentive That we could experience a profound peace, the peace of God. This is the only place in the New Testament where we find this expression, the peace of God. What does this mean? It simply means the peace that God possesses. Did you know that God is the most peaceful being in the universe? He never worries or frets. The Lord is not in heaven right now wringing his hands and wondering what will happen next with the coronavirus. No, my friends, he sees the beginning from the end. He is the eternal, omnipotent God of creation. How could anything worry him? This is the peace that he offers to us, perfect peace. This is very similar to what Jesus said to his disciples in the upper room the night before his crucifixion. In John chapter 14 and verse 27, he says Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. Notice how Jesus describes this peace that he's offering as my peace. This was the peace the disciples had witnessed and marveled over many times. Even though he was despised and rejected of men, Jesus was a man at peace. Even though Jesus knew that his hour would come when he would die a horrific, shameful death, he lived a life of peace. Do you recall the time when Jesus fell asleep in the back of the boat? even though they were caught in a horrible storm on the Sea of Galilee, and he got up, and at their desperate request he said, Peace be still. This is the kind of peace that is available to all of Christ's followers, the peace of God. Notice how this piece is further described in verse 7. It's described here as the peace that passes all understanding. Now there is a debate among scholars about the precise meaning of this phrase. Some scholars believe that it's saying that the peace that God gives is far superior to the peace that comes by means of human reasoning and understanding. The point being that all your planning and scheming is to no avail. Take your burden to the Lord and leave it there. This is certainly true. But I don't think that's what Paul is saying in verse 7. What Paul is saying here is that when you really experience the peace of God during an anxious circumstance, it will absolutely amaze you. It will surpass your understanding. Has that ever happened to you? Have you ever been in the middle of a real crisis? And you prayed to God about the matter, and God gave you a supernatural peace? Maybe you had a situation that was so vexing your soul that you could hardly sleep and you could hardly eat for days. You were just a mess. But you took your problem to the Lord. You poured out your heart. You laid it at his feet, and God brought peace to your soul. And you were dumbfounded by what God did in your heart. I know that this is true. It's happened in my life, and I've heard many testimonies from other believers. who have shared similar things with me. Now at the end of verse 7, the peace of God is personified as a soldier that marches around the perimeter of our hearts like a soldier on high alert. When Paul wrote these words, he was chained to a Roman soldier. And the people he wrote to in Philippi saw Roman soldiers every day, so they could identify with this imagery. Paul is saying that the peace of God will guard your heart from all those distressing thoughts. Now I want you to notice very carefully what verse 7 does not promise. It does not say that if you take your worries to God, he will remove all the issues that you are anxious about. I think this is often how we understand this verse. That if we have some great burden, we take it to the Lord, and then God promises that He's going to fix that problem, and it'll work out just the way we want. That is not what Paul is saying here. God does sometimes remove the cause of our care, but most often he simply gives his people peace in the storm. Now perhaps you would say in reference to what we've covered so far that this has not worked for you. Let me just say that there are only two possible explanations for this. Number one, you haven't really cast your burden upon the Lord. You haven't really entrusted him with your worry. Or perhaps if you did this two days ago, you have now picked up the burden yourself and you're trying to carry it again. You can try it your own way. We're all prone to do this, but it will never give you the promised peace that's mentioned in this passage. Whenever I think of worry and anxiety, I think of that great passage in Isaiah chapter 26, verses 3 and 4. Just listen to this promise. It's very much in line with what we have here in Philippians 4. It says, thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. Whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee. Trust ye in the Lord forever. For in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength. In the Hebrew text, it doesn't read perfect peace, it reads peace, peace. And it's double there for emphasis. Indeed, it is rightly translated, perfect peace, complete peace. And when it speaks here of everlasting strength, the Hebrew text actually reads, the rock of ages. It really comes down this matter of worry and anxiety to are we going to trust in the Lord? Are we going to rest in him and his promises, or are we going to respond in unbelief that will lead to more fear and anxiety? It all comes down to a matter of trust. And as I am fond of saying, the reason why we don't trust God more is because we don't know Him very well. The better we know him, the closer we walk with him, the more we will trust in him, and the more we will be able to cast our cares at his feet. But there's another reason that this promise may not seem to work for you. And that is found in the last phrase of verse 7. He will keep or guard our hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. This is one of Paul's favorite expressions. For the believer's union with Christ. In other words, Paul is saying that this promise is only valid to those who are in Christ, that is those who have come to trust in Him as their personal Lord and Savior. You see, all the instructions that we've examined tonight are only for born-again believers. You must be at peace with God before you can experience the peace of God. How could you possibly be at rest if you knew that the wrath of God was abiding on you? Augustine famously said, man is restless until he finds his rest in God. And that is true. Let me ask you this evening, are you at rest? Do you know that the Lord is your Savior? One of the prayers I have concerning this pandemic is that the Lord will use this crisis to draw many people to salvation. And I've heard stories of the Lord doing exactly that. And I hope to hear many more of these in days ahead. Some of these will be people who have professed to know the Lord, but this crisis has brought out that they really did not have a faith that was built on the solid rock the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. And other people have for much of their life had no time for God. But now the Lord has shattered their idols. He has knocked out the worthless props that they have been relying upon. And he is turning their gaze to Christ, who is their only hope of salvation and peace. And this is what we must pray. We must pray that God would use this global pandemic to bring a global revival to the world. There would be, even as multitudes perish, there would be a great harvest of souls. And we as Christian people are one of the means that God uses for this. And one of the most effective testimonies we can have Is that we should not be gripped with distracting cares and anxiety like people who do not know the Lord. Now I know that this is a struggle for some of you more than others. The fact is there there is very much a sense in which our personalities play into this. There's some people that that just don't worry. I know people like this. They're just really laid back. You know, if they were on the Titanic and it was going down, they would not be very anxious or concerned. Because it's just their personality. There are other people that every little thing becomes a disaster. Alright? They're very dramatic. They're very anxious. Every day they have to struggle and fight to give thanks to the Lord because they're anxious about these things. So for some of you, obeying this text will seem much more difficult than others. But God's grace is sufficient to meet all of our needs as believers. And God desires that every single one of us, now and in the days ahead, exhibit a peace that surpasses all understanding. A calm, a serenity in the face of crisis that turns people's attention to the Lord. So that they will come to us and say, Why are you so calm? What is your secret? Why is it that you still are joyful and so and so filled with hope even in despondent times? And you can turn them to the answer, which is your relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. This is an important thing for us to do. It not only improves our own mental state, our own sense of stability, it will not only improve the atmosphere of our families. as we're confined at home, but it will help us to be a more effective testimony in the days ahead When everyone around us is is is losing their grip and their fearful and they're anxious We should be the ones who are joyful and peaceful and are calm because we are resting in Christ. May God help us to appropriate His grace and to take to heart the message of these verses that promise That if we stop worrying and give our problems to the Lord, we can enjoy a peace that passes all understanding. Let's close in prayer tonight. Father, we come before you as needy people. Indeed, there is much for us to be concerned about. But we rest on thee. And in thy name we go. I pray, Lord, that you would use these words tonight. to strengthen and bring peace to your people. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.