Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to Genesis chapter 37? For those of you who may be joining us here. Having not been here the last few weeks, we started recently a study of the life of Joseph You've probably heard the expression before, the devil is in the details. This common saying indicates that general proposals often gain broad support. But when you get into the details, you find that people have strong disagreements. The source of this Modern proverb is credited to architect Ludwig von Deru. It's actually a very modern saying. It's only been around since the 1990s, and linguists believe That Mr. Van Delerue simply modified an ancient German proverb that says not that the devil's in the details. But that God is in the details. This morning, as we continue our study of the life of Joseph, I want you to understand That God is providentially in control of all the details of our lives. If we could grasp that incredible truth, I think it would change a great deal. I think it would transform the way we respond in many cases to disappointments and difficulties and disadvantages that we experience in life. The story of Joseph is acknowledged by all to be a great story. But the Bible has not put this at the end of Genesis to entertain us and to provide a wonderful story for our children. It is here to instruct us. So let me remind you that the story of Joseph is intended to explain how God moved his covenant people out of Canaan. And into the land of Egypt for some 430 years. Here the descendants of Abraham would grow from a large family into a mighty nation. And in God's providence, he would bring his people out of Egypt and return them to the promised land. Joseph's life serves as an essential link in God's great plan of redemption. And nearly every preacher, every scholar from the very beginning of the church until now recognizes that the primary lesson from the life of Joseph involves the providence of God. In fact, his life has been called an illustration of Romans 8. 28, and we know that all things work together for good to them who love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Now last week we noted at the beginning paragraph of chapter 37 of the intense hatred That Joseph's brothers had for him. In fact, we see it rising from one degree to another. Look at this refrain. If you'll notice in verse 4, It says of chapter 37, and when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him. And verse 5, and Joseph dreamed a dream and told it to his brethren, and they hated him yet the more. Verse 8. And his brethren said unto him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us, or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams and for his words And then in verse 11, the concluding verse of this paragraph, it says, and his brethren envied him. And this speaks of a hateful envy. But his father observed the same. There's a kind of envy that says, you know, I'd like to have what that person has. And then there's a kind of envy that says, I'd like to destroy and take away what that person has. And that's the kind of envy that Joseph's brothers had for him. And this refrain is to announce to the reader something bad is about to happen. That kind of hatred that just keeps getting ratcheted up is going to spill over into violence, and that's what you have. in the remainder of this chapter. Now in verses 12 through 35 we have eight brief scenes That are described to us in graphic yet concise detail. Initially, I'd hope to cover all of this But I've decided for our purposes to only look at the first four scenes that concludes in verse 22, which means we're not going to get to the end of this section. So I'm going to kind of leave you in suspense, but I want you to know that you have my permission to read the rest of the chapter and find out what happens. Now I think that probably most of us here would agree that God is a sovereign God. I think that we who have walked with the Lord for a number of years can look back over our lives and we can see, we can somehow trace Some of the threads that God has done in our lives. Not that we understand everything, but there's some things we can look back on and say, you know, I think I know what God was doing there in my life. at that point in my life. But I think we often struggle with two things in reference to this. Number one, I think we we might not think that that God's involved in the details of our lives. We maybe think of him as being in charge of the big picture, the big events, but not so much the everyday monotonous things that occur. And I think we really struggle when it comes to the things that are very negative, very painful, very difficult for us. It's very difficult some times for us to think that God orchestrated that event because that was so difficult, that was so painful And yet, if we believe that God is in control of everything and all the details, it has to include even the dark chapters of our lives. So this morning, I want us to trace this difficult doctrine as found in the story of Joseph. And recognize that what was true in Joseph's life concerning God's control was also true of our life. God is providentially in control of the details. of our lives. I want to show you first of all what this includes. Number one, God's providential control includes The poor decisions of worried parents. Look with me at verses 12 through 14. And his brethren went to feed their father's flock in Shechem. And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the flock in Shechem? Come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said to him, Here am I. And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren. and well with thy flocks, and bring me word again. So he sent him out of the Vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. This is the setting of this next event in the life of Joseph. Jacob is a wealthy man with large herds of animals. The arid climate of Canaan Does not allow a man with large herds to just remain in one area because if they would the animals would devour all the vegetation and then they would starve. You have to keep moving looking for suitable pasture. And so that's what Joseph's brethren are doing. They have gone a considerable distance to Shechem. And after Jacob has made this decision to send them and their flocks to Shechem, he begins, I think, to second-guess himself. Jacob was I mean yes, Jacob was a warrior. If there's anything we can see in his life, it's that, that situation. And I know that There are some worriers here this morning, one of which happens to be in the pulpit. So you understand what it is when you make a decision, and then you say to yourself, I wonder if that was the right decision. And he begins to think about that. Perhaps they've been away longer than expected. Let's remember he couldn't send them a text to see how they were doing. Okay? They were a long ways away. There was no means of communication. And so he finally makes the decision. I'm going to find out what's going on with them. And he sends His very competent and capable younger son Joseph to check on him. And when he sent Joseph out that day, little did he know That he would not see his beloved son again for over 20 years. Now there were two good reasons for Jacob to be worried about his sons. Number one , He may have been worried that they would get in trouble again. Earlier in this chapter, we read of Joseph bringing his father an evil report about the conduct of his brothers. They were known to get in trouble. What exactly they did earlier, we don't know. The Bible doesn't say. All kinds of speculation. But they got in trouble. And perhaps he's thinking, maybe they've gotten themselves in trouble again. I better check on this. But I think it's more likely, secondly, that Joseph is worried about the residence of Shechem That they might have sought revenge on his sons. Two years earlier, we read of a horrible event that occurred in Shechem in Genesis chapter 34. They had at least one sister. Another passage indicates sisters plural, so there probably was other sisters that are not named in the biblical record. But we do know the name of one sister, and her name was Dinah. And Dinah went out to socialize, to get to know the people. She went to the local village of Shechem, and there a guy saw her, he liked her, and he raped her. And her brothers were furious. And I'm not going to go into the whole story, but they killed the young man responsible, and then they went beyond that, however, and they went and they slew, they killed every man in the village, and they took all their stuff all their animals, all their goods, all their jewelry. They looted the place. And Jacob said, You have made my name to stink among the people. Notice he wasn't so much disturbed about their sin as he was his reputation. And if it would not have been for God 's protecting hand, they would have been wiped out. And now, two years later, Jacob is sending them back to that same area. And so he's worried that his own sons might be slaughtered. Now Shechem was a long ways away. It was at least fifty miles from Hebron. This was no simple errand that he sent Joseph on. It would have taken him at least a three-day journey. Remember, he would have been going by foot. Some scholars say it would have taken him more like four or five days. This was a long trip for him. And let me ask you, do you think Joseph was aware of the potential danger of this mission? I think he was. I think he knew that his brothers were really, really angry at him. But notice what he says in verse 13. When he's given this mission, he says. Here am I. He is expressing prompt and complete obedience. Joseph was eager to please his father, and in this respect, he typifies Christ. Who was sent by his father on a far more difficult mission? Once again, here we see a contrast between the obedience of Joseph and the disobedience of his brothers. Now let me ask you a question. Do you think Jacob was making a wise decision and sending Joseph? I mean, just consider the animosity that I read about, read to you just a few moments ago in the earlier part of this chapter. I mean, four times it talks about hatred and envy. May I suggest to you that Jacob's decision to send his son was a horrible decision. He was putting his vulnerable son in real danger. He should have known better. I think this is one reason why at the end of this chapter that Jacob is inconsolable when they come back with his coat of many colors and tatters, trying to convince him that that that Joseph has been attacked and devoured by some animal The reason why he was so inconsolable was first it was his beloved son, but second, I think he was blaming himself. I never should have sent Joseph on this dangerous mission. But God would use Jacob's foolish decision to accomplish his redemptive purpose. Secondly, God's providential control includes chance meetings with other people. Look with me at verses 15 through 17. And a certain man found him, and behold, he was wandering in the field, and the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou? And he said, I seek my brother, and tell me I pray thee. Where they feed their flocks. And the man said, They are departed hence, for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren and found them in Dothan. When Joseph arrived at Shechem, his brother and their flocks were not there. And so he begins to look around. And the providence of God, a man sees him and asks Joseph what he's looking for. Joseph explains and tells him That he heard them talking about where they would go next. They were going to Dothan, which was another 15 miles away. Let me comment briefly on Joseph's character. We see here that Joseph goes the extra mile. He could have returned home and told his dad, you know, they're fine. I heard that they went on to Dothan, I'm sure they'll be back in good order. Nothing to worry about. But he didn't do that. He went an additional 15 miles to find his brother. He was determined to finish the mission that his father had sent him to do. Now, I want you to notice and consider the chain of events that occurs in this incidental meeting. If this man, first of all, was not within earshot of the brothers, he would have never been able to tell Joseph where they went. All right? He just happened To be close by and hear them talking out loud about their plans. He overheard them. Doesn't say that they talked to him. He overheard them, and therefore he was able to give that information to Joseph. Secondly, if this man was not still in the area, he would not have been able to pass on this information He just happened to be in the right place at the right time. And if this man did not take the initiative and ask Joseph what he was looking for, presumably Joseph would have returned home. My point is that one break in this chain of providential occurrences and the whole story changes forever. The whole trajectory of his life. Was greatly influenced by this chance meeting with a man whose name is not given, who said, Yeah, I heard your brothers talking, and they said they were taking their flocks to Dophan. And that, of course, is where everything would change in Joseph's life. Have you ever looked back over your life and traced random occurrences? chance meetings and things and how they changed and directed the course of your life. I'm sure you can give testimony to that. Some of you could give testimony and how you met your spouse that way. conversation with someone, they introduce you to someone, or you were sent to a different place to work sometime. But but but one little thing changed the entire course of your life. I can think of this in my own life in many respects. I remember in the fall of 1999, 20 years ago. I was at my home church serving as a youth pastor there, and uh that summer the Lord had really laid on my heart that it was time for me To become a senior pastor, and I began to pray that God would lead me to a church, to a place where I could go and preach. The problem was is that uh because of some situations with my son, it wasn't uh an easy situation that we could remove ourselves from because of his specialized education and so forth. And so my wife and I were praying about that, and I remember out in the parking lot, a man in our church who had friends at this church said to me, Hey, you know, I heard the other day That Calvary Baptist Church in Taylorsville is now without a pastor. He said, I think you would make a good pastor at that little church there. And I remember going home and telling my wife, and we prayed about it, we decided we weren't going to do anything, we weren't going to call anybody, we weren't going to write any letters, we weren't going to send any resumes, we were going to do nothing except pray about it. And in a few months, I got a phone call from a guy named Dave Scheif. And he said, Why don't you come over here? We we need someone to fill the pulpit for a week or two. And one thing led to another. And the Lord brought me here. So this conversation that I had for 30 seconds out in the parking lot directed the course of my life. And many of you can give similar testimony to that because God's providential control includes our chance meetings with other people. Thirdly, God's providential control includes the wicked plans of sinful people. Look with me at verses 18 and following. says of his brothers, and when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh. Come now, therefore, and let us slay him and cast him into some pit. And we will say some evil beasts that devoured him, and we will see what will become of his dreams. The area of Dothan is flat pasture land. There are virtually no trees there. Some of you have been out to the Midwest. and beyond, and you have traveled on roads over flat land where the scenery doesn't change for hours. It's just a straight road. And there's flat land on both sides. And it might be very monotonous and difficult to you. I hope I'm not offending people. who come from that part of the country. I much prefer the rolling hills of Maryland myself. But one of the things that diff that's different about that and our landscape here is you can see for many miles Because there's no mountains, there's no trees to obscure your view, and everything's flattened so you can see things that are many miles away. That's the way it is there in Dothan, where Joseph's brothers had brought the flocks, and I say all that to say this: they had plenty of time to talk as they saw him coming in the distance. As they are tending their animals, they see a figure coming to them. At first, they can't discern who it is, but in a short time they all recognize that it's their kid brother Joseph. Perhaps he had a distinctive gate that gave him away, or maybe it was his coat, his coat of many colors that was uh just shining in the sunlight, and they all knew there's only one coat like that. That 's got to be Joseph. It stood out in the muted landscape, and it gave them ample time to talk about what they would do when he arrived. And I want you to notice their very first idea was murder. They did not need to embolden one another. And hashed together some elaborate plan, everyone was thinking the same thing. Let's just kill him. This is the perfect opportunity for us. The Hebrew term that's translated slave in these verses is used back in Genesis chapter 4 and verse 8. To describe Cain's murder of his brother Abel. Some commentators think that the the writer is intentionally trying to cause the reader to think back to that first incident of murder in the history of mankind. Brother killing brother. And now The same thing, that same hatred, is residing in the hearts of Joseph's brothers. What a horrible reminder this is of the depravity of man. How often there is intense hatred between those who are even related, those who have a history together, those who have grown up. in the same household, and yet there can be so much hatred and envy and murderous intention, even as we see reflected In this passage. Here they conspire to murder their own flesh and blood. How could they sink so low? Well, this is the Great disease of the human soul, the depravity of man. Sometimes you'll hear people say, you know There's certain things that a lot of people are not capable of. That guy or that girl, that person could never ever hurt anyone. But I think the reason why we often think that way is we minimize the darkness of the human heart. Given the right circumstances, given the right opportunities, the right provocation, any fallen human being can come to this place. Now I want you to notice one other explanation for this. And let's remember that two years earlier in Genesis 34, what some of his brothers did Especially Levi and Simeon when they went into that village and killed those men and took their stuff was nothing less than murder. That was not justice. When they killed individuals who were not at all involved in that crime against their sister. That was murder. And the fact of the matter is, once a person has broken over a hurdle in their lives, It's much easier to cross over that barrier again. People who have been immoral are much more likely to be immoral again. People who have committed murder are much more likely to murder again because they have already crossed that threshold. The more we sin, the easier it becomes to sin, even very serious sins like murder. I want you to notice that they seem to be obsessed with Joseph's dreams in this encounter. Did you notice that when we read this together? They said, Behold, this dreamer cometh, verse 19. And then at the end they say, and we shall see, verse 20, what will become of his dreams? Verse. Why were they so obsessed with his dreams if they believed that his dreams were just The creation of his own imaginative mind. That doesn't make any sense, does it? May I suggest to you the reason why they are so intent on destroying his dreams. is because down in the depths of their heart they know that his dreams were from God. And they were angry at that. And this day people put great stock in people's dreams And God did reveal Himself in dreams, especially before there was the printed word of God. Remember, Joseph had no Bible. And so it would not be easy for them just to dismiss his dreams as not coming from God when he was so certain that what they were. It's amazing to think that they thought that they could somehow thwart God's sovereign purpose, that they could derail his plan for Joseph's life. They believed that they could do this. But in fact, their hatred and their murderous plot was actually the fulfillment of God's plan for saving themselves. And their own family. This, of course, does not excuse their hatred and their violence. It was a sin that would haunt them for much of the rest of their lives. But our sovereign God can use even the wrath of men to praise him. Would you notice with me fourthly that God's providential control includes The failure of our good intentions. Look with me at verses 21 and 22. And Reuben heard it. And he delivered him out of their hands and said, Let us not kill him. And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood. But cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him, that he might rid him out of their hands to deliver him to his father again. And here the writer Moses is giving us a little explanation and commentary on why Reuben said this. Now Reuben is the oldest, the firstborn, and therefore he has status among his brothers. Verse 12 makes it clear here. Excuse me, verse 22 makes it clear here that Reuben saves his life. It says he delivered him out of his hands. The implication being is that if Reuben had not done this, they would have killed Joseph right there and then. He issues a command, let us not kill him. Now, why did Reuben do this? It may be that he was trying to regain his father's love and confidence. You may recall that Reuben had an incestuous relationship with one of his father's servant wives. He brought dishonor upon his father, and perhaps he was hoping to redeem himself. Or it could be that as the firstborn Reuben knew that he would be held responsible by his father if anything happened to his younger brother. And he he did not want to see his father crushed with sorrow like he saw him inconsolable at the death of his wife Rachel. He never wanted to witness anything like that again. And he knew that if his brothers carried through with their plan and killed Joseph, that's exactly the way his father would be. And so he rises to the occasion. He shows some leadership and says, We are not going to kill our own brother. It could indeed be that Reuben was not as violent, as wicked as some of his brothers were. He couldn't believe how serious they were about murdering their own brother. And so he becomes, as it were, the adult in the group and says, We're not going to kill him. He tells them instead to cast Joseph into a dry pit. The implication being we'll just let him starve to death and perish from exposure down there, but we can say that we did not kill him with our own hands. That's the way he sold it to his brothers. But his plan was he was going to sneak back and get Joseph out of there and rescue him out of that pit. That was his plan, but his plan, his good intention did not work out For some reason, Reuben went away at this point in the story. He may have had to tend to something in the flocks. We're not told what it was. But while he was away His brothers came up with a twist on their plan, and that is, of course, they sold their brother to traveling merchants who would take him to Egypt. And when Reuben returns from his responsibilities, he makes a disturbing discovery. Look with me. in verses 29 and 30 of this chapter. And Reuben returned unto the pit, and behold, Joseph was not in the pit. And he rent his clothes, and he returned unto his brethren and said, The child is not and I whither shall I go. Completely distraught, he says, What am I going to do now? How am I going to explain this to my father? He is completely upset by what has transpired. I think for many years to come, he would say to himself, if only I didn't leave Joseph alone with my brothers. Oh, I should have known that they are so wicked that they would have done something. I should never have gone on that errand. I should have remained there and protected my brother. But God's providence includes even the failure of Reuben's good plan. And through the failure of Reuben's plan, Joseph would save his big brother in days to come. It's so easy to live our lives with great regrets and to look back and say, if only I had done this differently, if only I had taken a different course, if only I had not gone that direction, things would work out so much better in my life. And perhaps to some degree that may indeed have been the case. And this, of course, does not excuse our sin or our wicked motives or actions. But we need to rest. In the truth that even in our failure, even when we make decisions that turn out to be disastrous, God is yet in control. The providence of God is never defeated. It includes everything: the poor decisions of worried parents, our random meetings with strangers, the wicked plans of sinful people, and the failure of our good intentions. And now I would like to conclude with some applications. I'd like first of all to address our Christian fathers. And my application from this passage comes from this man Jacob. And my application is this Be actively engaged with your children. Let me ask you a question. How is it That Jacob, who dearly loved his son Joseph, would put him in such a dangerous situation with his brothers Why would he send him on a mission to check on his brothers when it's clear in this passage that his brothers hated him to the extent that they were prepared to murder him? The only answer that I can find is that he was oblivious to what was going on in their hearts. The biblical record is clear that Jacob was a passive father. He was never proactive with his children. Consider this evidence. When his daughter Dinah came of age and went out into the world to socialize with the pagan daughters of Canaan, he did nothing to protect her or restrict her. And when she was raped, he did nothing to vindicate her honor. And when his sons tricked and murdered the residents of Shechem He doesn't seem to be troubled by their sin, but only concerned for his reputation and safety in the community. And when his son Reuben was involved in an incestuous relationship, he did nothing to correct the problem. And so we should not be surprised that when his older sons were filled with hatred towards their younger brother Joseph, Jacob was asleep at the switch. This is a big problem. I wish I could say that this is a very unique and strange and rare circumstance that we find here in the life of Jacob. But I'm afraid that this is the most common situation in Christian homes where dads are not really involved that much in the lives of their children. And what I mean is in knowing where they are spiritually, where their hearts are. I think so often Dads have delegated that to the moms. Moms are much more relational, they'll say. She's good at doing that sort of thing. It's my job to bring home the bacon and work hard and take him to sporting events and Things like that, but it's her job to really deal with all the emotional problems and things and l and talk to them about that. Or perhaps they say, well, you know, maybe I can just kind of delegate that to the youth pastor or to the church or to the Sunday school teacher. I mean that's what their job is. They're supposed to talk to my kids about these important things. But so often, dads, I want you to know that it's our responsibility to do that. I've talked to many, many young people over the years who have got themselves And great spiritual difficulties. And I've heard from so many of them. You know, my dad never talked to me about anything of importance in my life. He's never talked to me about spiritual matters. He's never asked me insignificant questions. And the the the opinion that they have always from that is that he just doesn't care. He doesn't have any concern about my life, and so often they rebel and they go their own way. Dad, you need To talk to your children about the things that are most important to them that are going to shape their lives for decades to come. You need to listen to them and find out where their heart is. So often parents all of a sudden have some disaster occur in their family and they say to themselves, How did that happen? Well, it didn't happen overnight. You were not aware of what they were thinking and what they were doing and how they were being influenced and what the how they were interpreting the world in which they live. Let me ask you, dads, do you know your children's fears and dreams and ambitions and weaknesses? They have all of those things. Do you know about their walk with God? Do you know if they ever read their Bible or pray? Have you ever shared with them how God has been faithful to you and how He's led you each step of the way? Dads, I want you to know something that if you are not talking to your parents, they are getting advice from other places. Nature abhors a vacuum and they will look for direction. They will look for models. They will look for information. And it won't be from you, and it may be to their spiritual disaster. So Dad, we must not be like Jacob. We must not be detached and passive and uninvolved. We have to be proactive and involved. We have to set aside times where we plan to talk about our kids, talk to them, and probe them and find out how we can minister more effectively to them. Secondly, my second application is this. Christians must never think that the sinful acts of others have ruined God's plan for your life. Joseph is treated horribly by his brothers in this chapter. The hatred that he experienced was undoubtedly traumatic. And the worst was yet to come. Just imagine what he was thinking as they threw him down into that pit and were speaking of leaving him there to die. We know how the story ends, at least I suspect you do. It would have been very easy for Joseph to have spent the rest of his life nursing bitterness towards his brothers. He could have gone every day of his life thinking if it only was wasn't if If my brothers were not so hateful and filled with wrath, how different my life would be. But that's not the track that Joseph took. He could have given in to despair, but instead he trusted God. How many Christians I've met in my life who live their life in the past tense. If you talk to them for any length of time, you will find they start bringing up some events, or perhaps a series of events that happened long ago that in their minds have ruined their lives. And they've been upset, obsessed, angry, and bitter about it for decades And if you ask them about why they always seem to be so negative, so critical, and everything else, they turn back to this and said, it's because that happened to me. Well, Joseph's had some really bad things happen to him, and he wasn't like that. So often we think in our minds, I have a right. to be this way. I have a right to be so negative and cynical and bitter because of what people did to me in hate Joseph could have taken that excuse, but he did not. It's so easy to live your life in the shadow of someone else's sin. To live and think to yourself, if only that had not happened, if only I did not have that event happen in my childhood, if only I had had a strong Christian family that I came from. You need to stop living with the idea that your past was somehow a horrible mistake. And you must see the hand of God in every detail. And finally, I'm going to conclude with this application. Christians should see in Joseph's obedience a faint reminder of our Savior's obedience to his Father. Joseph's character shines through in this narrative. He knew that his brothers hated him. He knew that this journey would be difficult and dangerous, but he went. Because his father wanted him to go. But a greater than Joseph would come. Jesus said, through the voice of the psalmist, I delight to do thy will, O my God, yea thy law is within my He said in John 8, 29, Now always do those things that please him. And even in the agony of the garden, when the realization of what would happen the next day came upon him in great measure. He said, Not my will, but thine be done. Jesus willingly went to the cross, even though it was the most difficult assignment that any father has ever given to a son. Paul puts it this way, he was obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. In other words, Jesus didn't just die. He died in the most painful and degrading way imaginable And he died in this degrading way, that he might redeem even the most degraded members of society. So let me ask you this morning, have you found redemption in Christ? Have you put your hope in Christ alone? Or are you still clinging to the fact that you can do this yourself, that you can be a good person, that you can come to church and you can try to do what's right and you can Try to read your Bible and try to live this Christian life thing that you've heard about. Or are you saying, no, I can't do it? I'm trusting only in Christ who died in my place. My friend, that is your only hope. You must flee from any sense that you can save yourself. And it wouldn't be until these brothers came to the place that they were humbled and at the point of starvation. It's only then that they were saved by their younger brother Joseph. And Christ only saves us when we come to desperation, to the place where we believe and know that we can't save ourselves. May God bring you to that place today. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it's always true, that it's always sufficient and relevant in exactly what we need to hear. I pray that you would help us to heed what we have heard today. I pray that we would search the scriptures to see if these things are so, and that we would respond in faith to the gospel. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.