It's important to understand the coming of the Holy Spirit upon an individual is not necessarily a mark of spiritual maturity. Maybe you were thinking about that or questioning that when we read about Samson, right? Samson is not exactly a great giant of spiritual maturity, is he? There's no Christian parent that says, you know, I want my son to grow up to be a little Samson. If you do, you probably don't know the story very well But the scriptures are clear that things are different in the New Testament after the day of Pentecost The Holy Spirit and the way he deals with individuals is different. Every believer is indwelt by the Spirit of God. This is why Paul would say in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, what know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own? And the Holy Spirit still empowers believers to do God's will. Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 18 says, be filled with the spirits. So how does this event in life of Gideon apply to us who live in the New Testament era? Well, I think Gideon was facing what seemed like an impossible situation, and the Spirit of God came upon him and empowered him to do what was beyond his own ability. And this is often what the Spirit of God does for us. God delights to strengthen the weak. When we feel completely unable to do what God has given us to do, that is when we are to look to God for help. And cry out to him and say, Lord, I can't do this. I don't know how to do this. I don't have the wisdom to do this. I don't have the skills to do this. And when we're weak, then he is able to come in and empower us. People often ask, what are the conditions for being filled with the spirits? Filling of the Spirit is not something that the individual believer has continually all the time. But the primary condition for being filled with the Spirit is you have to recognize that you desperately need the filling of the Spirit. You have to recognize your own weakness, your own inability. And so the reason why we don't plead for God to strengthen us and empower us to do what He's called us to do is because we don't think we need to. And so we go in our own strength and we come up short and we fail so often. God delights to fill an empty vessel. And we see that this often is manifested in the way we speak. Do you recognize the power of words? It's really an amazing thing to consider, isn't it? How much of what happens in our lives is dictated by the words that we say to others? And the words that they say to us. It changes the entire course of our life. How many people's lives, the entire compass of their life, has been changed because of one comment that a person made to them. And that can be for good or for bad. It could be one comment that was so painful and so hurtful that they they they responded so poorly to it that they never recovered from it. Or it could be something that was said encouragingly. I think of this great preacher of the past who was not sure what he wanted to do with his life. He was graduating from high school. And one of the Sunday school teachers said to him, it's just an aside comment one day as he told him he was going off to college and he was studying, I forget what it was, but he mentioned this field and His Sunday school teacher said, oh really? He says, I'm kind of surprised. He said, I always thought, as I've watched you grow up, the Lord had his hand on you and was going to make you a preacher. And just a little comment like that changed the entire course. He began to think and pray about that, changed the entire course of his life, and he became the greatest preacher of his generation. Our words are so important. And here, in the case of Gideon rallying these people, in the case of these other individuals we looked at, it was their words. When it says they were clothed with the Spirit, it was their words that God empowered to accomplish his purposes. This is something, of course, that is very applicable to anyone who preaches or teaches the Word of God. I don't want to be personal about this, but there have been many, many, many times when I have felt like I couldn't get up and preach. before the people of God because I just felt too weak. I felt too distracted, and things didn't seem to be coming together. And You don't know what you're going to do. And it's at times like that that you have to call out to God and ask him to fill with your spirit. I want you to know that I never get up here and preach. without first praying that God would fill me with his spirit and give me the words to say. Because I know that if I get up here and I depend on my studying, I depend on my training. And so forth, nothing of any significance is going to be accomplished. Because it has to be the Spirit of God working. Not that that means we don't need to study or we don't need to work or we don't need to prepare. But we have to sense our weakness and our need. And when we come to the Lord in our emptiness, it's then that he fills us. If we were more aware of our weakness and of the forces that are rayed against us, we would all be more effective and more earnest in our prayer time. But because the powers of darkness are hidden from our eyes, and because we blindly go on in our own strength, We often do not think about our need for God to fill us and to empower us to do His will. Now we see that Gideon blows the trumpet here. Sounds the trumpet for the people to come. I wonder how long it's been since they've heard the trumpet. This is the sofar that the Hebrews would blow. It was part of their worship. It was also part of their military because in their minds the two were combined. Their fighting was a sacred task. We read that first of all there were people of his own neighborhood, his own clan that come and gather around him, and then they send out messengers to the four northernmost tribes, and they also come to join him. We can see here that Israel at this time is not fully united. It's like divided regionally, so it's not like it went out to all 12 tribes But God was working through this man. Why did these people come? This man Gideon? Because people sensed that the Spirit of God was working through him. And the fact is that just one spirit-filled individual can change the course of history This was true with Martin Luther in Germany and John Knox in Scotland and George Whitfield and John Wesley in England and Jonathan Edwards in the Great Awakening in our own country. Spirit of God working through one individual can do a tremendous amount of work for the Lord. And this is what we see in the life of Gideon. Now the next point I want to bring to your attention is that the Lord graciously encourages weak people by strengthening their faith. And this is perhaps the most famous incident in the life of Gideon. Look with me at verses 36 and following. Gideon said unto God , If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said Behold, I will put a fleece of wool in the floor, and if the dew be on the fleece only, and if it be dry upon all the earth beside it, then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said And it was so, for he rose up early in the morning and thrust the fleece together, and wringed the dew out of the fleece a bowl full of water. And Gideon said unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak but this once. Let me prove, I pray thee, but this once with the fleece. Let it now be dry only upon the fleece. And upon all the ground let there be dew. And God did so that night, for it was dry upon the fleece only, and there was dew on all the ground. Now I wonder what you make of this incident. It's rather fascinating, isn't it? When I was a kid, I was always heard preachers preach from this. And they would talk about discovering the will of God. And this was always held up as exhibit A of how not to discover the will of God. And that is by putting out a fleece. And we still use that expression even in our Christian culture. Someone speaks of putting out a fleece. I could give you many illustrations of this. I had a friend in college, and this is not a suggestion, young people. I had a friend in college. He had a crush on this girl. And he decided that one morning he got up, that he he was trying to decide if he should propose to or not. And so he prayed and he said, Lord. If she is the one for me, let her wear a red dress this morning when she meets me for breakfast. And lo and behold, that morning she came and she was wearing a red dress. And in his mind he had confirmation that this was the one. And I remember him telling me that story, and I remember wondering if this was such a good idea. This is not a good way of seeking to discover the will of God. But I want you to know that this passage is not really about finding the will of God. Because Gideon already knew what the will of God was. That is why when we use this as an analogy to try and discover what God wants us to do, it really doesn't fit. Because God has been crystal clear to Gideon what he should do. If you'll look back with me, remember we read these verses. The first time the angel of the Lord came to him in chapter 6 in verse 14, it says, The Lord looked upon him and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites. Have not I sent And if he didn't get it that time, verse 16. And the Lord said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man. We have a two-fold promise. And you know what? The Lord even gave him a sign. So the Lord has made abundantly clear, this is your purpose, Gideon. It is to deliver my people from the Midianites. Now I wonder how you would understand how we should understand this. Do you think that Gideon is behaving as a wicked man here, or do you think His actions are commendable. Now it might interest you to know that the commentaries, commentators are divided on this. Some of them say he's not doing anything sinful or wrong. After all, the Lord Hears his cry and gives him this twofold sign. There are others who say that this is a horrible example of unbelief And when a preacher comes to this and looks and sees there's evidence for both, he's kind of torn as to what he should do. I think Gideon was not faultless in the request, but I am not going to be quick to cast stones at him, because I've never gone up against 135,000 men before. Let me give you some reasons why I think he was not faultless. Number one, the Lord has already told Gideon what he's going to do through him in verses 14 and 16 in this chapter. And we know that Gideon understood this message. Why? Well, look at the last phrase in verses 36 and 37. It says, as thou hast said. Message received. He knows that God has promised him you're going to defeat the Midianites. So why in the world would Gideon ask for a sign? He's already asked earlier for a sign. When God consumed that sacrifice, well, it's possible that Gideon got this idea from the influence of pagan peoples. They were very superstitious. They were constantly looking for signs. If you were to study ancient history, you'd find that with when the kings went out to war out to war and they were wondering if they were going to be victorious or if they could really uh should should engage the enemy, they were constantly They have these supposed holy men around them when they're asking them for signs. And they're doing all kinds of strange things like looking at the intestines of animals. And trying to discern the will of the gods. So it's possible that Gideon being influenced by the pagan oppressors around them has gotten used to doing this sort of thing. It's also, I think, wrong because Gideon's request was an attempt to test God. If you look with me at verse 39, the word prove there. He says, let not thine anger be hot against me. I will speak with us once. Let me prove. The word prove there means to test. And ironically, it's the same Hebrew word that God used earlier in this book for the testing of his people in chapter 2 and chapter 3. And it was a direct violation of the law of God because in Deuteronomy chapter 6 and verse 16 it says, ye shall not tempt or test the Lord your God. And this is a verse, if you know your Bibles well, that Jesus quoted in the wilderness temptation. In Exodus chapter 17, it says, the children of Israel tempted God by saying, Give us water. And Moses said to them, Why do you test the Lord? So the very language here. And fourthly, you may have noticed this. Gideon must have known he was doing something wrong because he says in verse 39, let not an anger be hot against me. Don't consume me, Lord. So Gideon 's not a great example for us to follow here. I don't think as some do that he was faultless. However, I perfectly understand why he responded the way he did. He had lived all of his life as an oppressed people, and the children of Israel felt that the Midianites were just unconquerable. You know, we develop patterns in our thinking. And if all of your life you're told, well, you can't defeat the Midianites, they're way too powerful for us. Oh, well, we we could never Get an armed resistance against them. They're just way too much. We never ever have a chance. If you've heard that sort of thing all of your life It kind of has a powerful impact upon you. And it could be in other areas of your life spiritually One of the reasons why Christians often are defeated in certain areas in their life is because they have absolutely convinced themselves that they can't have victory in that area, even though the Bible says that you can. But they've convinced themselves that they just can't. And they choose to believe their experience rather than the Word of God. Now, initially here, Gideon is going to rally 32,000 men until in the next chapter God's going to whittle that down to 300. But even if he had 32,000, he's going up against 135,000 soldiers He still did not have much of a chance, and undoubtedly they had superior weapons and generals because they were a fighting people, and the children of Israel were not. They had not engaged the enemy for some time, they had been living as a subjugated people. And perhaps when the spirit of the Lord came upon him and he had those trumpets blown, he felt all right about this battle. You can understand this, but as the days went on And they had to wait for the message to go out, for the tribes to respond, for the people to get their gear and come up and gather and assemble. It's many, many days. And you know what it's like when you're doing something that you're very worried about, very concerned about, and you have to wait And you have to wait, and you have to wait. Sometimes your resolve goes right out the door. And I think that's what happened with Gideon. And so Gideon begs God for some sign. As I mentioned to you earlier, this is not the first time Gideon's done this. He did this earlier in this chapter. It's not that Gideon is refusing to go to battle. It is that he wants reassurance that God will go with him into battle. And so he puts out this fleece. I would put it this way, Gideon is not a man of unbelief. He is a man of weak faith. He is not saying, Lord, I'm not going out. I'm telling you right now, I am not going out there, putting my neck on the line and the lives of my men. I'm not going yet. He is not at that place. But he's shaking in his boots at the prospect of going up against a multitude of people that they have never defeated before. Now, if you had never read this story before, I wonder what you would think about this. I wonder what you would think about how the Lord would answer his request. Perhaps you would assume, if you didn't hear this in Sunday school when you were a little kid and everything, you would assume the Lord would rebuke him. And said, Gideon, I told you that I would go with you and that you would be victorious and that you would deliver my people from the Midianites. So why are you asking for a sign? That is unbelief. But that's not the way the Lord responds. So he puts out this fleece of wool. And he wants there to be dew or moisture on the fleece only, but for the ground to be dry. And the Lord answers that prayer, as you well know. But you know, fleece is absorbent. And this is what you would expect. You would expect the moisture to be collected there. So perhaps the next morning when Gideon saw that, initially he thanked the Lord and praised the Lord for this, but then he said, wait a minute. Isn't this the way things work naturally anyway? That the moisture goes to the fleece, and maybe this isn't really a miracle, maybe this isn't really a sign. And his his face did not seem to be buttressed at all. And so he has the audacity to ask God again. And this is why he says, let not that anger be hot against me. He says, just do it this once. And amazingly the Lord does. This time the ground was to be moist and the fleece would be dry, which would be a natural course. And the Lord gives him this sign. So why did the Lord do this? I think the best answer is Psalm 103 and verse 14, for he knoweth our frame, he remembereth that we are dust. This passage is not intended to encourage us to follow the example of Gideon, but to consider the example of God. We see here the patience of God, the compassion of the Lord, the long-suffering of the Lord, as he condescends to this man's faulty faith. And gives him a sign. This is like an adult man getting down to help a little child And to talk softly to them face to face. This is what the Lord has done. Has the Lord ever given you some encouragement that he is with you even when you have not been living a stellar Christian life? Has not the Lord at some time answered a prayer that was a huge concern for you, even though you were not a paragon of virtue? This is not to excuse our sin. But it's to reveal to us that we serve a gracious God who is full of compassion. God delights to use weak, frail people to do the impossible. It has always been this way. God uses the mighty things of the world, I mean the weak things of the world to confound the mighty. That's his methodology. That's why if God uses you in a great way to serve him, you should not be proud because by definition you're a weak person And so our weakness does not disqualify us. In fact, it qualifies us. So what is it That God wants you to do, but it seems to you to be an impossible task. I think so often we play it safe. We give in to our fears and we stop short. refuse to obey and we say, Lord, I can't do that. I can't witness to that person. I can't teach that class. I can't step up and do that. I don't have the wherewithal. I don't have that skill set. I don't have the ability to do that. And I wonder how often we rob ourselves of the blessing of really being used of God in ways that we have never imagined before. I've talked to so many people, Sunday school teachers, preachers, missionaries, and others who have talked about at times they just they came to a crisis in their life and they said, Lord, I can't do this. I'm not any good at this. I'm not like some other people who have all kinds of talents and abilities. And I'm a fearful person. But they move forward by faith. Although they may be trembling, they still walk forward, and God empowered them and enabled them to do far beyond what they ever imagined. I think there are unfortunately a lot of Christians who don't even know what that's like because they've never taken that step of faith. They just stayed back and say, it's not for me. It's not what I can do. But my admonition to you is when you step out by faith. Even though you're weak and you feel unable to do it and God does something through you, then you know it's the Lord. And he receives the glory. Hudson Taylor was once complimented by a famous missionary on the impact of the China Inland Mission. And Hudson Taylor says, it seemed to me that God looked over the whole world to find a man who was weak enough to do his work. And when at last he found me, he said, he is weak enough he'll do. All God's giants have been weak men who did great things for God because they counted on his being with them. And I think that is true. I hope you'll consider that tonight. Let's close in prayer. Father, we are weak people. We are fearful people. We often feel that the host against us far outnumbers our resources. We are so often like Gideon struggling to believe and to walk forward by faith. I pray that you would help us tonight to see again that you delight to use weak people, that you empower them by their spirit, by your spirit And you give them strength to believe. And you use their feeble efforts to accomplish your purposes. Help us, Father, to be a people who step out by faith And do not hide in the shadows, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen