Give your Bibles, please, would you join me in John chapter 3? John chapter 3. Looking today at a very familiar portion of God's Word Ernest Gordon wrote a famous book entitled Miracle on the River Kwai in 1975. It recounts some of his experiences during World War II. There was a group of Scottish prisoners of war. that were forced to labor and build a railroad in Burma by the Japanese It was miserable work. It was hot and humid and rugged. And these men were worked to complete exhaustion. Every time they moved from one location to another in their work, all of the tools were counted at the checkpoints. When they came to a particular location where everything was counted, there was one shovel that was missing. The Japanese officer became enraged. And he demanded that the missing shovel be produced, or else people would die. And no one stepped forward, so he pulled out his gun and was about to start shooting people when a man stepped forward. And the officer killed him. When it was over, and they moved to the next checkpoint. And they counted the shovels, they realized that they had miscounted, that there never was a missing shovel. And so this man was not guilty. He instead gave his life so that others could live. Jesus said in John 15, verse 13, Greater love hath no man than this. That someone lay down his life for his friends. These were not sentimental words. Jesus, within 24 hours of saying this, would die on an old rugged cross. This morning we come to perhaps the most well-known verse in the Bible, John 3, 16. And I suspect that most of you here have memorized it. We're going to give it a try because we're going to say it together And you may have memorized it in a different version. That's all right. There's not that much difference. Just say it the way you know it, okay? So say it with me. John 3. 16 For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Very good. You see, you do know that verse. Very good. Martin Luther called this the gospel in miniature This verse is the convergence of three great theme or four great themes in this book. You have love You have the only begotten Son, you have belief, and you have eternal life. It's like the confluence of four streams that creates a mighty river. There is no verse in the Bible exactly like this. Although I generally plan to cover several verses or a paragraph At a time in the study, because this verse is so famous and so monumental and so filled with truth, we're just going to look at this one verse today. Let me remind you of the context. Jesus is speaking to a Jewish religious leader named Nicodemus. This man comes to Jesus. Jesus tells him he needs to be born again. The man doesn't understand. Jesus gives him various illustrations, including one from the Old Testament. In verse 14, we read And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. This refers back to Numbers 21, when the children of Israel were Speaking against God and Moses and God sent judgment on them in the form of vipers that would bite them and they would die And so they repented of their complaining. Moses cried out to God. God instructed Moses to set up a bronze serpent that when people looked at it, they would be healed. from eternal from death. And just as the bronze serpent was lifted up, so Jesus would be lifted up upon a cross so that everyone who looked to him in saving faith would be saved from eternal death. And so in verse 15 we read that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. Now I want you to notice That verse 16 begins with the word for, which means it's a word of explanation. John now is going to explain A very important thing. He is going to explain the motive for the incarnation or the death of Christ. Why must he be lifted up? Why was he sent? And the answer is God's amazing love. Now I have to tell you that this verse is a challenge to preach because we know it so well, we've heard it so often. that it's become commonplace. It's so familiar that it no longer amazes us. And of course, the love of God is often sentimentalized and even abused in our culture so that The statement that God loves you doesn't register anything spectacular to us. In fact, perhaps most people would think, well, that's great, because I love myself too. But it really is an amazing thing if you understand what this means So I want to preach this morning from John 3. 16 on this truth that the cross is the supreme demonstration of God's love for sinners. And I want you to notice that our verse has three parts to it. First of all, for God so loved the world. That's the first part. That he gave his only begotten Son. That's the second part. That whosoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. That's the third part. So my sermon today is going to have three points to it, because there's three parts to this verse. The first is this, the love of God is demonstrated in the reach of his love. It extends to the whole world. For God so love the world. Let me first of all say this is a reference to the Father's love, because it's the Father who gave his son. Now, sometimes people mistakenly think of God the Father as that his disposition is that of wrath, but that God the Son is that of love. But that, of course, is not true. What we see here is that the Father sent his son because he loved the world. And the love of the Son is a perfect reflection of the love of the Father. Okay? So you must never think of those two as kind of being in competition with one another. That's simply not true. We have this little word so that speaks of the measure of his love. It magnifies the love. It's used there to explain, in this way, his love is being made known. And then the word for love is a Greek word that most of you, if not all of you, know. It's that word agape. This is the first time it's used in this gospel. It'll be used 35 more times. John loves to use this word. He also uses it 31 times in the book of 1 John. This is why he is known as the Apostle of Love. But you should not think that that means that John was just this very quiet, reserved fellow. He is described in the Gospels as one of the sons of thunder He wanted to call down fire from heaven on the Samaritans. So he was a passionate, emotional person. And he was known as the apostle of love. It is John who says in his gospel, by this shall all men know that you're my disciples, if you have love one for another. It is John who says that God is love. It is John that says again and again that we are to love one another. And so we should not be surprised that it's John who writes this incredible verse. Now, you you may have always thought, and I hate I hate to go into this because I don't want you to think it's less important of a verse. But this very likely are not the words of Christ. But the reflections of John writing many years later. Notice he speaks of Christ's death in the past tense. He speaks of that he gave his only son. He gave. It was in the past. In other words, I don't think Jesus is saying these words to Nicodemus. It could be wrong, but most scholars would say this is the reflection of John. on this event. And we find this sort of thing throughout the Gospel of John. So, Agape Love Is what the Father, what motivated the Father to send his son. It is a selfless sacrificial love that gives. What is meant, let's talk about the recipients of this love. He loved the world. What should we take from the world? Well, let me first of all dispel what I consider to be some false notions. Number one, this verse is not saying that God loves planet Earth. Some environmentalists have used this verse to preserve our planet's ecosystem. Christians are not in favor of trashing the planet, but that's not what the Lord is communicating here. That's not what this word ever means when it's used in Scripture. Secondly, this verse is not saying that God loves only the world of the elect. I do think that this verse is saying that God loves the whole world. Now, there's more to be said in Scripture about that I do believe that God has a special love for his people, and there are other passages in this gospel that we will see that. This is not everything that the Bible has to say about salvation, but this thing is absolutely true. And it's very important that we not read one portion of Scripture into another portion of Scripture or let our theology dull what the Scriptures are saying here. This is not an exclusive offer. It's a universal offer. Let me quote from a very respected theologian of the past. He writes John has employed the universal term whosoever, both to invite all indiscriminately to partake of life, and to cut off every excuse from unbelievers. Such is the import of the term world. For though nothing will be found in the world that is worth the favor of God , Yet he shows himself to be reconciled to the whole world when he invites all men, without exception, to the faith of Christ, which is nothing else than an entrance into life. These are the words of John Calvin. So when the Bible says that God loves the world, it's referring to all of humanity. We have here a revelation of his general love for all of mankind. And what's really astounding about this is that John often uses this term world in his writings. It's the the Greek word cosmos. We have uh English words of course that come from that. He uses it 186 times, and every sign he uses that term in his writings It expresses hostility and antagonism. Perhaps the verse that most encapsulates this idea is 1 John 5. 19, where it says. . The whole world lies . in wickedness. So the greatness of God's love is demonstrated by the fact that He loves a world That primarily ignores him and rejects him. What is our natural response to people who reject us and hurt us? We want to hurt them back. That's our natural response. I was listening to a translation of a speech by President Zelensky of Ukraine. And he was saying that when Russia hits us, we hit back a little bit harder. And he said that's the way Ukrainians are. And I said, You ever talk to your radio? I talked to my radio. I said, no, that's the way everyone is. That's the way we are. Someone hits me, I want to hit them just a little bit harder back. The world rejected the sun But that did not invalidate the love of the Father for that wicked world. It's also demonstrated by the fact that God loves all types of people. Now Nicodemus, whom Jesus met with that night, was taught That God loved the Jewish people, his chosen people, but he didn't love the Gentiles. And so the pious Jewish rabbis would pray and their prayers, we have written records of this. They would say, Lord, I thank you that you did not make me a Gentile. So he was taught that God loves the Jews, but he hates the Gentiles. But here Jesus reveals the heart of God and says that God loves the Jews all of humanity. God's love is not provincial. It is supernatural. People tend to be tribal in their affiliations. We naturally like people who are like us. who think like us, who look like us, who talk like us , maybe have the same nationality as us. We tend to identify with them. And people who are very different from us, we tend to just naturally avoid them. Because we are tribal in our view of individuals. We see this in so many ways. But God is not like that. God's love is so amazing that it extends to all the world. Secondly, the love of God is demonstrated in the giving of his son. It says that he gave his only son The love of God you see is not a sentimental feeling, but it's the very nature of God to give The giving of the Son here includes both his incarnation, that is the totality of his life, sending him to earth, and specifically the reason for why he was sent, and that is to die for sinners like us. Now I'd like to mention several factors that demonstrate how costly it was for the father to send his son Number one , consider this. The Father knew his son from all eternity. We can't imagine that. Can't imagine a relationship that long. You can go back as far as you want. The Father and the Son existed. And they had perfect communion. God loved his son, and his son loved his father. I knew my father for 55 years. That's the age I was when he died. Three years ago Some of you perhaps have had your father longer than that. And a long, close relationship establishes very, very strong ties. But imagine a perfect relationship that stretches back for eternity. And that's what the father was willing to give the son. And notice this, the Father sent his beloved son to a sin -cursed planet. We read in John 1. 11, he came unto his own, and his own received him not. We read in Isaiah 53 that he was despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Parents try very hard to keep their kids from unpleasant and dangerous circumstances. We don't want them to go certain places because that's dangerous. It's not safe We recently had a mission team to the Dominican Republic. Just imagine if Pastor Nathan decided he wanted to take our youth to Gaza and we were going to pass out relief goods there. I think the sign-up list would be very brief. I think parents would say, are you crazy? Do you know how dangerous it is there? You know how many relief workers have been killed? We wouldn't do it. By the way, he hasn't suggested it. But think of this. The Father sent his son into a world where he knew that people would reject him and that ultimately he would be murdered. And the Father sent his only son, his only unique son, his only begotten son. I actually like the translation only begotten. I think it brings out the richness of the Greek text. There's a sense, of course, and we all are sons and daughters of God. But there's only one only begotten Son. The only one And he sent him his beloved son. You ever find it fascinating that when God the Father speaks from heaven He only ever talks about his son. In the New Testament, you read him saying, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased, and this is my beloved son, hear him. He wants the whole world to know this is my beloved son. And yet he gave that beloved son to come to this earth and to die. Now all children will eventually die But the Father knew exactly how his beloved son would die. We read in verse 14 that the Son of Man must be lifted up. Not he might be lifted up, could be lifted up. No, he must be lifted up. This is part of the plan of God, and it must be accomplished if sinful people like us are to be saved. You see, the father knew exactly what would transpire. He knew that he would be rejected. He knew that he would be mocked and beaten, that there would be a conspiracy to murder him among the religious leaders. and that eventually he would be nailed to a Roman cross and lifted up for all to see. The Father knew That his beloved son would die the most shameful and degrading death imaginable. And yet he sent him to die because that's the only way that we could live. That is the breadth of the Father's love for us. He sent his beloved Son to die for sinners like us. This is the consistent teaching of Scripture, Romans 5. 8. But God shows his love for us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. What's striking about that phrase is it says, while we were still sinners, he died for us. It may be pointing to the people in the crowds that were hurling abuse and mockery at Jesus as he hung on that cross. And yet at the same time he was dying for their sins. We sang this morning Ashamed I hear my mocking voice cry out among the scoffers. There's a sense in that crowd that assembled around the cross. or that was walking by that busy thoroughfare that all of us were represented by their response, by their reaction. And yet, even then, Jesus was dying for those people. 1 John 4. 10 says, and this is love, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. So the amazing love of God is demonstrated by the reach of his love. It extends to the whole world. And by the giving or the cost of his love, the giving of his son. And finally, we see his love demonstrated by the effect of his love, that is, the salvation of sinners. Look with me at the last phrase in verse 16, that whosoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. In the Greek text, this is a purpose false. This is the reason of the purpose that he came. Notice this open invitation. Whosoever. This is something that we're going to see again and again in the Gospel of John, and we find it in other books of the Bible as well. In fact, we find it at the very end, an invitation to come. It says in verse chapter 4 and verse 14, Jesus speaking to the woman at the well says, Whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never thirst again. In John 5 and verse 24 , we have these words where Jesus says, Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. In John chapter 6 and verse 40, we read this again, for this is the will of my Father that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life. Notice everyone mentioned there. And there are others like that in this book. Just as everyone who looked to the servant of the wilderness was healed, so everyone who looks to Christ in faith will be saved. There was once a famous Puritan preacher named Richard Baxter. He lived in the 17th century. And he said he preferred to have the word whosoever in this text than if his own name was in there. Because if it said Richard Baxter in the text, he would have assumed that it's another Richard Baxter because it was a rather common name. But when you say the word whosoever, that's all inclusive. And then we have the clear condition for salvation. It is simply to believe. This salvation, this verse does not teach universalism. That is that everyone will be saved. No, not everyone will believe And what must they believe? They must believe in him. They must believe that Jesus is who he claimed to be, the Son of God, God in flesh. The one who rose on the third day. They must believe the Bible's description and account of who Jesus is, not something they've made up. And they must trust in him alone. It's not just mental sense. It's not just saying, yeah, I suppose that happened. It is relying in Christ and his death in your place. as the only hope you have a redemption. So what are the benefits of believing There are two mentioned right at the end of verse 16. Do you see them? The first one is stated negatively, shall not perish. The word perish simply means to die. Now Christian people obviously die But they don't die eternally, they don't die spiritually. If you put your faith and trust in Christ You will not perish. You will not die eternally. That is, you will not be someday condemned to hell or the lake of fire. You will not perish. Notice at the end of this famous verse, we have only two destinies for every person. Not three, not four, two. There's eternal life or eternal death. There's heaven or there's hell. But there's no third, there's no purgatory, there's no in-between. I've run into a lot of people over the years and I think their numbers are growing who will simply say, well, I just think that when you die, you know that's the end of it. That's the end of the ride. There's no more. There's no life after death. That's just the end. Well, that's based on wishful thinking by a lot of people. It's not based on the revelation of God. And just because you believe something or you want to believe something does not make it true. Then there are other people who strongly object. They don't mind the talk about heaven and eternal life. They like that. But they don't like any talk about perishing or hell. That's That's obnoxious. That's disturbing. And they will say often something like this. I don't believe that a God of love would send anyone to hell. And that's like the big argument, the stumper. that no one can answer. He's a God of love, after all. Well guess what? The very same chapter that speaks of God's amazing love also speaks of condemnation. and perishing. Look with me two verses later at verse 18. Whoever believes in him is not condemned. But whoever does not believe is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. Something very similar to it at the last verse of this chapter, verse 36. Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son shall not see light. But the wrath of God remains on him. So you can't, the Bible's not a buffet. You can't just go and take what you want and leave the rest behind. You can't go to this chapter and say, I love this talk about the love of God, about Him sending His Son to die for sinners. I love this. But I don't like the part about perishing and condemnation. Let's just say that that doesn't exist. Wait a minute. They're in the same passage. You can't have one without the other. So what is the positive blessing of believing in a crucified Savior? It's described here as eternal life. This is another one of John's favorite terms. He uses it 17 times in this gospel. I wonder if you understand what it means. Let me go through just a few of the nuances of this word. First of all, it refers to a higher quality of life Not just an ending life, but a higher quality of life in the truest sense of the term. Doesn't mean that Christians don't have any problems. It doesn't mean that we don't die. It doesn't mean that we never are sad. But it does mean that our life is the best life that a person can live. The world tries very hard to convince people otherwise. Especially young people. It tells them that, you know, maybe being religious, maybe going to church, maybe that's a noble thing, maybe the right thing, but it's certainly not a fun thing. And certainly not where joy and gladness will reside. And so a lot of young people go out and they plunge headfirst into the world. And try all of its diversions and distractions and vices. And after a few decades, they came up and they say, it didn't pan out the way I thought it would. I'm miserable. I'm filled with regrets. I have shame for things that I have done, for bad choices that I have made. The world said this is the path of joy, and it's not Following Christ and living for Him in light of eternity is the best way to live. Secondly, eternal life is the instantaneous experience of being right with God. We don't expect We don't enjoy the fullness of it until the end of our lives when we go into eternity, but we can experience some of the blessing now. the experience of being right with God because the moment you believe you are justified, you are forgiven. And so you can enjoy that communion and that fellowship with God right now. Thirdly, of course, eternal life is a relationship that will last forever. Jesus says in John 10, 28, I give them eternal life, and they will never perish. If you really have eternal life, you will never lose it. You are kept by the mighty hands of the Father and the nailed-pierced hands of the Son. And fourthly, eternal life is all about knowing God through Christ. You see, eternal life is not like a package or commodity that you're given. With all these goodies in it. It is a relationship with God that includes within that relationship all of these blessings. So let me ask you, do you have a relationship with God through Jesus Christ? That's what it means to be saved. Sometimes people talk about heaven, the lack of pain, and the end of suffering, and a reunion with loved ones who have gone before, and yes, those things are true. But that's not what makes heaven heaven. I suspect that there are many people who claim to be Christians. who would be glad to go to heaven and enjoy many blessings even if Christ was not there. But the essence of eternal life is a relationship with Christ. And so if you don't have a relationship with Christ, guess what? You don't have eternal life. Or the blessings that come with it. Now I'd like to turn some final points of application. Number one No other religion has anything like the beautiful message of the gospel. Pluralism teaches us that all faiths, all religions are basically saying the same thing That is absolutely false. Islam does not speak of the love of God in this way. The idea of Jesus dying on the cross is anathema to them. Any true Muslim will stop you and say, that's not true. Jesus didn't die on the cross. Hinduism and Buddhism do not teach a personal God. They do not teach that you can have a relationship with God. And so the idea of God loving individuals is just completely foreign and strange to them. There is no other verse or any statement like this in any of the other so-called sacred texts. It's not in the Quran. or the Bhagavad Gita or anything else, there's nothing like this beautiful verse that tells us and reveals to us the love of God for fallen people like us. We have a unique message, a message that the world must hear if they are to be saved. Number two, we must not distort this verse to indicate that we are somehow worthy of his love. Now follow me on this. I've heard a lot of contemporary preachers say things like, the reason why God sent his son is because you are so valuable. You're such a precious treasure that he couldn't live without you. He wanted you in his heaven. And so he sent his beloved son because you are so valuable and significant. My friend, that's reversing things. Jesus Came to this earth sent by the Father not because we are lovable or because we are lovely, but because he is the expression of the love of God. Do we understand that? This verse is not here to prop up our self-esteem, to make us feel better about ourselves. It's not to turn us and say, yeah, I really am a very important person. And I should love myself a whole lot more. No, focus on the love of God for you. It's sort of like this. Young our parents with young children will understand this illustration and maybe some of some of you will remember these days. But often small children will attach their affections to some stuffed animal or to a blanket. And they need that for security. And they love it and they hold it and they sleep with it and they drool over it. And it starts to look disgusting. And you might be tempted to say, oh This germ-infested thing, I'm just going to throw it away. But no parent here would do that. You know why? Because you're going to pay for it that night when they can't go to sleep So even though it has no real value, you couldn't put it up for sale in your yard sale that old chewed up Ratty looking stuff animal. Nobody's going to give you a quarter for it. But you'll drive 20 miles to go and get it. When you leave it behind because your child has set for some inexplicable reason their affections upon it We're kind of like that old chewed up stinking stuffed animal. And we're saying, I really am important. Look how this human being holds me all the time and doesn't go anywhere without me. It has nothing to do with you. It has to do with for some inexplicable reason that child has attached their affections to you. And you Should be glad that God has loved us this way. So this is not for helping us feel better about ourselves. Thirdly, Christians should be the most loving people in the world. We have been saved and redeemed by our Heavenly Father, and the Bible tells us that we are to become more like Him. We become more like our Savior. And so we should be loving people. This does not mean that we condone people's sin or we support them in activities that will lead to their eternal destruction. We should not do that. We must stand for what is right. But we must also be loving. And we must also remember that Jesus, who is the perfect representative of his Father, was a friend of sinners, and that the religious establishment was horrified and could not understand why he ate with sinners and talked with them and gave him his time, the lowest members of society. The people who were marginalized and excluded, he reached out to them And so we should be known for our love because we are representing our Father who is love. And finally, everyone here will either experience eternal death or eternal life. There's no third way. There's no middle ground. Refusing to believe in hell will not make it go away. So let me ask you, why will you persist in unbelief and perish eternally? The Bible is filled with great promises. And one of the reasons we love this verse is because it has this great promise. Whoever believes in him will not perish, but have eternal life. That's a promise from God. And he always keeps his promises. This verse transcends all cultures. and ethnicities and languages. Wherever the gospel has gone forth to the ends of the earth and this verse has been translated into language that the people can understand and they read this verse, it instantly connects with them. Wow. God loves me this much. This is the glorious gospel that we have been sent to proclaim. And may God help us to be faithful. Let me close by just saying if you're here this morning and you Have never put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I would urge you to do so today because this promise Is still good. It is not expired. Whoever believes in him will not perish, but have eternal life. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for the old, old story of the gospel that has been proclaimed now for nearly 2,000 years. I pray that we would never grow weary of it. And I pray, Father, for those here who may have never have accepted it. I pray that today Would be their day of salvation. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen