Give your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to the passage we read? Ephesians chapter 6. We will return to John, Lord willing, next Sunday. But today is Father's Day. And after much debate in my mind, I decided to preach a Father's Day message. I haven't done so for four years and eager to go on in John, but thought that this would be appropriate today. My mom and dad had a great marriage and they rarely had any tension between them. But sometimes I would see a little bit of tension when we would travel out of town. And we would get lost. Now I know our young people find this hard to believe, but there was a time before smartphones and GPS technology and it used to be that everyone had a large variety of maps in their gloved compartments. And you would take these out and unfold them until they were size of a poster board. And you would try to read the tiny, tiny print on there. And sometimes when you were out of state and far from what you knew, it would be very easy to turn around and get lost. And that happened a few times in my childhood. And always the same thing would occur. My mom would suggest that we would stop and ask someone for directions. And my father would always say, I know exactly where I am. And we would drive around for a while longer until we realized that we were driving in circles. And then my frustrated father would finally ask some stranger, sometimes we would get good directions, sometimes we would remain lost. The point is, I think it's often difficult for men to ask for help or to admit that they need instructions. But in our scripture today we have instructions given to fathers Decided to preach on this because we do have many fathers in our church and we have many men who are becoming fathers for the first time this year. I told you before that 2025 is going to be known as the year of the baby, because we have so many babies being born this year. And so I thought we would return to this. And the good news is that the instructions that the Bible gives to Father is very brief and very simple. In fact, there are only two verses in the New Testament that are specifically given to fathers. One is Ephesians 6. 4 that we're looking at today. The other is Colossians 3. 21. Now there are other passages that you can take principles from, but the point of that passage was not to give instruction to fathers. Now that may raise a question to your mind, why is it that God has not given us more instruction on being a father? I mean, if you go on Amazon and you look up books on Christian fatherhood, you will scroll for some time because there are hundreds of them God gives us two verses. Why so little instruction? Let me give you two answers. Number one, you might not like this, but the Bible is a God-centered book, not a man-centered book. God did not write the Bible so that we would have a better life on planet Earth. It's not about Life hacks to a better life. It's about knowing God and walking with Him. To be sure, the Bible has wonderful information about parenting and finances and relationships. And they're true and helpful, but that is not the point of the Bible. And the second reason we have very little instruction is because If our relationship with God is right, we know Him, and we're walking under the control of the Holy Spirit There isn't that much that you need to know about parenting. Being a father or being a mother or marriage. You do what God says, you walk by the Spirit, and 99% of your problems will go away in regards to those areas. Now the book of Ephesians is one of Paul's Great Epistles. It is a book that speaks of what God the Father is doing through his son in the church. The first half of the book gives us doctrine. The second half of the book speaks of our response, our duties, our obligations to this truth. And in Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 18, we come to a significant verse that invites you to look at Ephesians 5, 18, and do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with wine. the spirits. And then he is going to show the consequences or the results of being filled with the Spirit. Look with me at verse 19, addressing one another in Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks always for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. This is the personal avenue. You will have a spirit of worship, a heart of gratitude if you are controlled by the Spirit of God. And then starting in verse 21 He's going to go down through into chapter six and talk about the consequences of being spirit-filled in the home. And he's going to address the husband and the wife and the children and the parents and the servants and the masters. Because in these new t in these Roman homes There were often servants. Now, this morning we are just looking at one little verse. Romans, not Romans, Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 4. Very easy to outline because it has something you should not do and something that you should do. Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. We see here that Christian homes should be different than the homes of lost people. The world should see in our families that something is different about us. That there's a harmony, there's a peace, there is a love that is not present in your typical home, that's present in a Christian home. Now I want you to notice the train here in chapter 6. We have children are dressed first, they have to obey their parents in the Lord, for this is right. And then their honor, their father and their mother. The first commandment with promise. This is a quotation, of course, from the Ten Commandments, which is the fifth commandment in this case. And then the promise that it may go well with you may it live long in the land. And then he addresses Now, some commentators, some scholars think that when he says fathers, he's referring to both the father and the mother. But I tend to think that's not what he's saying because he could have said the word parents, that's up in verse 1. He could have said father and mother, that's also in verse 1. But instead he just says fathers. Now, of course, mothers are heavily involved and absolutely vital to parenting as well. Do not misunderstand me. But the person who's responsible for the children and their upbringing before the Lord is the father because he is the head of the household. Now, your role as a father in the household, men, is absolutely vital. We live in a society that tells us in many ways that it's not. This is one of the consequences of feminism, that father 's not really necessary. And so about half of our American households today do not have a father residing there involved in the lives of his children. And the results are very apparent in our society today. God 's way is best A mother and a father. Now every time I preach on Mother's Day or Father's Day, I'm always aware that at least half of my audience Is not directly addressed, right? Less than half of you here are fathers today. And so you might think This message has absolutely nothing to do with me. I can sit back and catch up on my rest. I hope that you will not do that. I want you to know that parenting, Christian parenting. is essentially discipleship. All right? It's intimate discipleship. You are discipling as a parent your children. in the intimacy of a father -uh-son or a mother-daughter relationship, a parent-child relationship. which is a little different than most of our discipling relationships, but still what is being taught, what is being modeled, what is being mentored is Christian discipleship And so my point is that so much of what I'm going to say today is applicable in how we interact with others, whether you're a father or not. And the scriptures tell us that all of God's word is profitable. All of us, all of it has relevance for us. including Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 4. So I'm going to preach to you on God's instructions for Christian fathers. And they're just two instructions. The first command is this fathers, you must not provoke your children to anger. Let's talk about this command for a little while. Let me be clear. This is not saying, dads, you must never ever make your children angry because your job is to keep them happy. Alright? The fact is, your children's anger may not be justified. You could, as a parent Deal with them justly and fairly and lovingly, and they're still angry and pouting and frustrated with you. It's possible for a child to have a rebellious and stubborn spirit, and yet your treatment of them could be exactly right. However, this command is given because it's very easy for a father in a position of authority And the idea here is to continually frustrate them and anger them throughout their childhood. And so this is a very common problem and pitfall that fathers must be aware of. Now I want to talk to you for a moment about the cultural context in which this was received. This was written to the churches in the area of Ephesus. Which was a Roman colony. These were Gentile people primarily. And in the Greco-Roman world, this is hard for us to imagine. Fathers had absolute authority over their children. When the child was born, the mother would come and lay the baby down at the father's feet. And if he picked up the child and embraced it, they would keep the child. If he didn't pick up the child, the child was discarded and died. Children were considered to be property. The father could do whatever he wanted with his children. He could sell them into slavery. He could horribly beat them. He could put them in change. and chains, he could even kill them. And most people in that culture would not think he did anything wrong, and the law would never come knocking on his door because he was the father. He had absolute unquestioned authority over them. And so just imagine if that was your cultural context and you received this letter from the Apostle Paul and he says, Fathers, you must not provoke your children. to anger. It would seem very radical. It would seem incredibly soft. It would be so out of step with their culture. We read these instructions given to husbands and wives and children and parents and they They're familiar to us and they don't sound strange to us because our Western culture has still been greatly impacted by this teaching. And it still in some way is a part of our heritage and our culture. So the sermon is going to have a lot of application in it today because I have a very tiny text to expound. So I want to begin by talking about ten ways that fathers can provoke their children to anger. Ten ways. That fathers can anger their children unnecessarily. Number one, by severity. By issuing a very harsh punishment for the slightest infraction. And not allowing your children to age and circumstances. to influence how you deal with them. One of the things that's very frustrating to a child is when they can never appeal or explain the situation to their parents. Martin Lloyd Jones, the great preacher in London, said it is a thoroughly bad parent who will not take any circumstance into consideration at all, or who will not listen to any conceivable explanation. So fathers, don't be severe in the punishment of your children. A second way. to provoke them to anger is by partiality. That is by showing favoritism to one child who perhaps gets away with things that other children do not We see in the life of Joseph the horrible consequences that can come from that. So fathers, do not show partiality, do not show favoritism. Children have a keen sense of justice. And they pick up on these things very quickly. A third way that you can provoke your children to wrath is by inconsistency, by arbitrarily handling discipline. One day this infraction Brings very swift and severe punishment, and the next day nothing happens Your discipline of your children should not be proportional to when you're having a bad day It must be consistent. I knew a family years ago when I was a youth pastor, they would go periodically to a parenting conference, and when they would come back They would put in place all of these safeguards and all of these rules, and they would last for about two weeks and then they would go back to the way they were. And the children as teenagers in my youth group would tell me how much they hated that. They knew a conference was coming, they knew what was going to happen, the parents were going to be all serious and they're going to put all these things in place and then they would all go away in a few weeks. Don't be inconsistent, parents. Don't keep changing the rules. Don't punish on how you're feeling. Be consistent. Number four, another way to provoke them to anger is by hypocrisy. Do as I say, not as I do. That never works. Dad, you must model the type of behavior you want them to have in their lives. Because more is caught than taught. You want your children to be honest, then you must be honest. You want them to be humble, then you must be humble. You want them to be loving, then you must show yourself to be loving. You can't expect from them what you excuse in yourself. Do not be a hypocrite. Number five, by negativity, by always being negative Always pointing out the flaw in what they did and what they said. And never balancing that out with commendation or words of encouragement. I've talked to many adults over the years that have told me that their fathers never said anything positive to them about anything they ever did in their life. It was just always negativity, criticism, never anything positive. So parents you do need to correct. You do need to address situations But dads, you must be positive and encouraging with your children. Another way to provoke your children to anger is by not spending any time with them. Children need times with their dads. And dads, this is going to require you to make sacrifices because most dads who have children are working really long hours. And they come home and they're tired, and their weekends are full, perhaps, of different hobbies that they would like to pursue. But dads, if you're going to really minister to your children, you might have to put some of your hobbies on hold for a few years. Because your children desperately need your time. There was a great English lawyer in the 19th century That was very famous and had a spectacular career. He was a very busy man. There was this man who wrote, did research on his life and wrote a biography, and like many people today, he actually kept a journal where he would write some comment, like one sentence, for every day of his life. And on a particular date, this famous dad wrote, This was a wasted day. I spent the day fishing with my son. And his son, writing years later in his diary, said, on that date, this was the best day of my life. To go fishing with my father. Dads, don't fail to spend time with your children You're not going to get to the end of your life and say, I wish I spent more time at the office, or I wish I spent more time on my hobbies. But you might very well say, I wish I spent more time with my children. Number seven, I'm going to get a little controversial here, taking a risk here. Do not smother your children. What I mean by that is don't wrap your children in bubble wrap. Lest they ever get injured or ever face anything that would be difficult or hard or involve any amount of suffering or disappointments. This is very popular in parenting today. We have all kinds of terms for it, like helicopter parenting. You swoop down and rescue them from any potential problem. I want you to know that this type of parenting is not rooted in Scripture. It's actually a Western civilization thing. It's not that way in the East. It's not that way in Africa. It's that way in Europe and in America. Your children make horrible idols. You must not make them the center of your life, or you're going to be an unhappy person. Even if your children turn out greats. They're not perfect. Don't make them your idols. Can I say something else that's hazardous perhaps to me? God gave in the family a husband and a wife And they are meant to balance each other out. And sometimes we live in a society where Boys are not allowed to do anything that might be dangerous or risky or adventurous. And moms worry. I can remember growing up and I would ask if I could do something, and the mom would say, Oh, I don't know about that. And invariably my dad said, he'll be fine. I did things ten times more dangerous than that when I was a boy. Dads, sometimes you need to step in and say that. He'll be fine. Let him go. Number eight, you anger your children a great deal by failing to ever admit that you were wrong. I've had many adults tell me in my office, my dad never admitted he was wrong about anything. Saw it as a sign of weakness. It is not a sign of weakness. It is a sign of strength and security. If you want to anger your children, then never admit to them that you've made a mistake and that you've been wrong in the way you have dealt with them. Number nine, by refusing to forgive them, your children are humans and they will make wrong choices. And when they admit to what they did was wrong and they ask for forgiveness, you must grant them forgiveness. And that means that you will refuse to continue to bring up their past failings against them like a weapon. Every time you're frustrated with them. This is not the way God deals with you. He forgives you, and you must forgive your children. And then number 10, by having unreasonable expectations for your children You must never excuse your children's sin, but you must not forget that they are children and they will do foolish things. They will make messes, they will break things, they will forget things. The great British painter, Benjamin West Tells the story that when he was a little boy and his mom had left their home for a little while, he decided that he was going to paint the portrait of his sister. And he did. But he got paint all over the floor. And he was worried about what his mom would say. And when she came home, she saw his little painting. And she said, Why that is a painting of your sister Sally. And she kissed him on the cheek and she didn't say anything about the mess he had made. And he said, that was the day. When I decided that I would be a painter. And it's all due to the reaction of my mom So why is it a big deal that fathers not provoke their children to anger? Let me show you. Turn, please, two chapters earlier to Ephesians chapter 4. And verse twenty-six, please. It says, Be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your anger. And that last word in the verse, anger, is the same word here in Ephesians 6, 4. Sometimes rendered wrath, it speaks of a settled anger, not a brief flare-up, but a settled disposition. You know what we call that? We call that bitterness. And then verse twenty-seven says, and give no opportunity to the devil. The idea is if you have this settled anger, this bitterness in your heart, you have given a pathway for Satan to come into your life and wreak havoc. Idea of that word opportunity is kind of like a beachhead where the enemy can come in and invade Or it's like having a foothold and a handhold so that a man could climb over a wall and get into the city. You've given him an opportunity to attack and to come in. This is what happens when a person has a heart that is characterized by being bitter. That bitterness in their heart will lead to a thousand other spiritual diseases like immorality and rebellion and depression and outburst of anger and relational dysfunction and a host of other problems because their heart has been poisoned with bitterness And do you know who people tend to be most bitter at in their lives? The number one answer that people give in counseling? It's their father. This is why the Bible says to dads, provoke not your children to wrath. But now we must move to the positive aspect of this. You must bring your children to spiritual maturity. That is your job, dads. That's what God has given you to do, to bring them to spiritual maturity. And notice our text mentions two ways. It says here in chapter 6 and verse 4, bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. Now, first of all, he says you must discipline your children. Now the Greek word that's translated discipline here is a very broad word. It has the idea of child training, and it can have different nuance of meaning. I think our translators have done the right thing in translating it as discipline here. Why do I say that? Well, think about this. Paul has just said, provoke not your children to anger. And so a person might take from that admonition, well, I guess I shouldn't discipline them at all because that's going to make them angry. So then he says, no. You are to bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. He corrects that natural wrong response. Now, let me hasten to say that when it says discipline, it doesn't just mean punishment. That's part of it, but that's not the main part of it This is referring to training and structure and mentorship, showing them how to live their lives. Now let me talk about this for a second. Now I mentioned earlier that this message of not provoking your children to anger was completely counter-cultural in the Roman world when this was written. It would have shocked the readers I want you to know that the biblical instruction about disciplining your child is countercultural to us in 21st century America. More and more parenting experts advocate that you virtually use no discipline at all with your children. Certainly no corporal punishment. A generation or so ago, Dr. Benjamin Spock told parents not to spank their children, and millions listened to him And so today the American Academy of Pediatricians says that spanking is child abuse. And they would say that statistical studies show that it does not work. And there are many young Christian parents that I have spoken to who also have come to believe this. But I want you to know that God's word and stance has not changed. When you statistically, not that we're relying on science to verify it, but when you statistically tease out those who use biblical discipline from those who just beat their kids. Guess what? The people who use biblical discipline, their children turn out so much better than those who do not discipline their children at all. So those who have conducted these studies have conflated these two things together to give the impression that if you ever spank your child, they're going to turn out horrible. Because it's abuse. That is absolutely false. Let me be clear. Parents should not spank their children when they're angry and frustrated and out of control. It should be done in a loving, measured, and prayerful manner. And when it's done this way, it works. If you have more questions about this, you can talk to me or Pastor Aaron about it. I have entire books on this that show the biblical method of discipline. But I want you to also know something that's very important. Most of a parent's discipline should not be corporal punishment. The vast majority of it should be verbal. Not that you yell at your children, but you talk to your children. You address them. You explain to them why it's wrong. You correct them. And that brings me to the second part. You not only must discipline, but you must instruct your children. This refers to verbal instruction. I read a survey recently that 25% of people said that they never once had a meaningful conversation with their father. That's a very sad thing. I think a lot of dads kind of delegate that to the mom. The kid comes and asks an important life question, go talk to your mom. No, dads, you must take the time to talk with each of your children about important issues of life. And this may happen late at night. It may cost you some sleep. But you must do it. You must listen to your children and understand their fears, their insecurities, and their goals. Because all of your children will be difference. One size does not fit all. And you have to get to know as a parent the heart of each of your children. So that you can custom make the way you train them, you discipline them, and you instruct them. If you want to know what that sounds like, read the first nine chapters. of the book of Proverbs. There you have a father seeking to reach the heart of his son, and he continually says, Hear me, O my son. And so you must foster a relationship with your children where they naturally want to talk to you because they know that you're willing to listen and to give them good advice. But then we come to the last three words of our text. Bring them up. It says, in the discipline and instruction, look at this, of the Lord. What does that mean? Well, first of all, the Lord there is a reference to Christ. And what it means is that this is what makes Christian parenting absolutely different from every other kind of parenting. And it gets down to what is your goal Parents, what do you want from your children? You may say, I would like them to behave in a way that does not embarrass me. That's a pretty low bar. I hope you have higher aims than that. We've all seen children who are holding their parents hostage. Have you seen that before? The grocery store, toy store, child is laying on the floor screaming and kicking, and the parent is offering different things to them if they'll get off the floor. The roles have been completely reversed. Embarrassing. I always I always resist, but I always want to go up and say, I know how to fix that. Once I had one of my children ask me, Dad, did I ever do that? And I said, only once. Only once. God is not advocating simple behaviorism or moralism here Your goal as a parent should be that your children grow up to be strong, vibrant servants of the Lord. Can I put it this way? They would go far beyond where you've gone in your life. That should be your goal. Not that they would be happy and financially secure, that's not a bad thing, but if that is only your goal, then you're no better than any lost parents. Now this phrase of the Lord grammatically can be understood several different ways. It could mean the discipline and instruction that is about the Lord. But I don't think that's it. It could mean that you should discipline and warn them in light of the Lord's return, like you have to give an account and answer to him. That's true, but I don't think that's what Paul is saying here. The idea here is that you should discipline and warn them the truth that comes from the Lord. That is that the truth of God is administered through you as a father. So let me ask you, dads, how does God discipline and mold your children's character? You know how he does it? He does it primarily through you. You are his agent. He instructs them and he warns them through you, through your words that are based in his word You are God's representative in the life of your children. And many people have come to believe that a lot of the way a person thinks about God instinctively Is based on how they have thought about their father and how he has dealt with them. So if a person, in other words, has an absent father who's never there They might be inclined to think that God's never there for them. If they have a father who was unloving and harsh, they tend to think that God is like that. If they have a father who is very sentimental and would never correct them, they tend to assume that God is like that. So you see, men, our role as a father is of absolute vital importance. So how should you treat your children? A simple answer would be you should treat them the way God has treated you. And how does God treat you? Is he patient? Yes. Is he loving? Always. Is he gracious? Of course. Is he firm? Yes, he is. Does he correct? Oh yeah, he corrects. This is how you must deal with your children. You must not be severe or soft. You must not be detached or doting. You must be balanced. You must be spirit-led, and you must bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. And one final thing, you can only do this when you truly know the Lord. These instructions are given to Christian fathers who are controlled by the Spirit of God. If you don't know the Lord, You cannot possibly bring your children to spiritual maturity. You can't treat them the way God has treated you because you don't even know God. I remember when I years ago was studying and I realized that God doesn't have any instructions for a couple who's unsaved, or for a mom who's unsaved, or a father who's unsaved, about how to be a parent or how to conduct their married life because all of the instructions given in Scripture are for believing people. And so often People in the world, they want to get some wisdom, some life advice from Scripture and from Christians. And they want to bring it back and use it to maybe make some sense out of the mess of their family, but it can't be done. You have to know the Lord You can't have a Christian family without being Christian. And so My admonition to you is not get saved and then you'll have a wonderful home. I'm not saying that at all. But I'm saying that your primary concern should be to know the Lord. Because you can never be the parent you need to be if you don't know the Lord. Dwight L. Moody was the most famous evangelist of the 19th century. He was a big man, powerful man. Preached all over the world. Once in the 1870s he went to England on a preaching campaign, was there for many months, and he fell in love with the English lawns. And so he decided when he returned to his home in Northfield, Massachusetts, That he was going to have sod put down in his yard and have a beautiful yard, and so he paid for this But the very next day after this was done, his sons rode their horses all over that sod and tore it all up. ruined the work that had been done. And their father, Mr. Moody, was furious. He gave the boys a whipping they would never forget. And he sent them to their beds that night. And the boys were crying in their beds. And they heard the sound of their father coming up the stairs. And he came up to them with tears in his eyes. He said, I was wrong in the way I disciplined you. Will you forgive me? And the boys who grew up to become men of God themselves would write that they never forgot his humility. And the fact that he admitted that he was overly severe in the way he punished them Dads, God wants us to be humble in our dealings with our children. May God help us to be so. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it provides all that we need to live a life of godliness, including how we can be The fathers that you have called us to be. I pray that you would use these words for your purposes and for those Father who are here, who are yet lost in their sins, trusting in their own righteousness. Living life on their own terms, I pray that they would see that they cannot possibly obey these instructions. And that they would be burdened over their load of sin and they would come to trust in you. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.