I would encourage you, please, to turn with me to Ephesians chapter 6. I want to preach a message in line with this occasion about being a Christian parent. One of the most famous biographies in the 19th century was written by a literary man named Boswell about Samuel Johnson. And this individual in his writings often referred to a special day in his childhood. when he spent the whole day fishing with his father. Now, at this time period in England, Parents generally didn't spend much time with their children, especially wealthy parents. They would send their children to boarding schools. They might even have servants in the house that would take care of the children, and they would see them perhaps at a meal. or before they went to bed. But there was unfortunately very little interaction often between parents and children. And so for this young man to have his father for a whole day was a treat that he would never forget. He said that his father spoke to him about many important lessons he had learned in his life And he could never forget those conversations and just the fun that they had fishing that day, just the two of them. Some historian in years to come wanted to see if his father had a different perspective on this. And at that time period, a lot of times people would keep journals of every day of their life. And so they traced the the the date from one man's journal looking back at his childhood and they went to his father's journal to look up that exact date And they found that the father put this in summary of his day. He said, gone fishing today with my son, a day wasted. Spending time with your children, however, is never a waste. And it's impossible to really be an effective parent without taking time to spend with your children. It's very, very easy. to become so involved as a father or as a mother in a career and the pressing obligations that you face in life. that you pass up opportunity after opportunity to spend time with your children. Parenting is one of the most difficult tasks that anyone faces. I have found as a pastor in talking to parents that there are two things that are very prominent in the way parents respond. Number one, they're very defensive about their parenting. In other words, they don't want anybody to ever tell them that they're not doing they're doing anything less than a sterling job as a parents. But when they really speak from their hearts, and it's not you being critical, then when they speak from their hearts, they will often admit that they're far from the parent that they should be And they're well aware that they come up short. Raising children is a great responsibility. It has eternal ramifications. It's truly an exercise of faith, and it's one of the ways that God works in our lives. Parroting As a Christian really involves discipling your children. Hopefully, in time, they will come to trust in Christ and you will disciple them and you will show them what it means. to be a Christian and to follow the Lord. And I have often said, I I I uh in no way am saying that parents should uh should not reach out beyond their families and be a witness for Christ and see many people discipled through their lifetime But having said that, if the only people that you ever really disciple and they grow up to be strong, mature serving believers. If your children grow up that way and that's the only thing you ever accomplish, you've accomplished a great deal. But you know, the Lord also uses us not only to decipher our children, but he uses our children to disciple us. Did you know that? Because as you bring up your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, it stretches your faith. It puts you in awkward situations. It makes you feel vulnerable. It makes you face sometimes your own sinful past because you see replicated in your children your own sinful tendencies. And it looks so much more ugly often in your children than it does in you. God uses our children to disciple us, not just when they're little, but even as they become mature adults. that relationship doesn't end and we still learn from our interactions with our children. So tonight we dedicated two children, and I pray that these parents would bring up their children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Most of you know that that is biblical language. It's found here. In Ephesians chapter 6. I begin reading at verse 1. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor thy father and mother. Which is the first commandment with promise, that it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest live long on the earth. Verse 4. And ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. There is that language. Now, what exactly does it mean to bring up your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord? The instructions here are both brief and simple. That is, they're simple to understand. But not necessarily simple to do. I want to point out also That it says, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath. This of course is not saying that fathers do all the parenting You'll notice in verse 1 it addresses the parents. Children, obey your parents in the Lord's. And of course, it often is the case, and has been mainly the case throughout history in every culture in the world, that mothers spend more time with their children than fathers and do more parenting than fathers do. That's the general norm. So why does he say fathers? Provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. It's because the fathers are responsible. Now, if you were to consult commentaries on this passage, you would find, however, that in that instruction to fathers, both parents are included. It's not just fathers that have to be careful that they provoke not their children to wrath. It's not just fathers that are to bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. No, this is addressed to both parents. But the father is responsible as the head of the home to do this. So I want to look briefly tonight on God's instructions for Christian parents. And the first thing that I would say is this, you must recognize that you are responsible for your children. This is a very weighty responsibility. Many, many times, I have seen young families visit this church And I will perhaps visit them at their homes or talk to them out in the lobby, and they'll say something like this, you know, I really, to be honest with you, I haven't been in church in many, many years. But I decided to come back to church. And I asked them, why have you come to church? What is it that brought you back? And they said, well, recently, you know, we became parents. And I started to realize the grave responsibility that I have, and that I have to teach this child values and right and wrong and a worldview and the purpose of life, and I realized But I can't do that apart from God's. And so on more than one occasion, we have had families visit here. Because they had become parents and seen them come to Christ. Becoming a parent Is kind of like a wake-up call. If the parents hadn't already realized that they had entered adulthood , that's the final wake-up call. You are now responsible for this child. You are the main person, not your parents, not society, not a teacher somewhere. You are the one who is responsible for this little life. And that's a very heavy thing. So we must realize that we are responsible as parents before the Lord. And then notice that there is in this very brief verse a negative admonition and a positive admonition. They're two sides to the same coin. There's something that you must not do, and then there's something that you should do. And the first thing That we are told here in this passage that you must not do is that you must not provoke your children to wrath. And again, let me emphasize this is not just advice given to fathers. It's not just fathers who provoke their children to wrath. Mothers can do it just as well. This is given to both mom and dad. Provoke not your children to wrath. Now what does He mean by this. Paul means that you must not treat your children in such a way that they become bitter, angry, or resentful. It is very easy. Without trying to do it, by trying to be a good parent , that you can provoke your children to wrath. So how are children provoked to wrath? Let me mention several ways First of all, by severity, by severity, by issuing a harsh punishment for the slightest infraction. And just being very severe with them. Martin Lloyd Jones The great preacher says this, it's a thoroughly bad parent who will not take any circumstance into consideration at all, or who will not listen to any conceivable explanation. There's some parents, I think, who have adopted a zero tolerance policy for certain things. I want you to know I'm not a fan of zero tolerance policies anywhere. Because they often result in very foolish decisions that people make because They have to uphold some certain guideline, and they never thought about the possible problems that could come when they develop that guideline. Be that as it may. Probably every person here can remember a time, even you may have had the most wonderful parents, where there was a situation maybe where you got in trouble. Or you were blamed for something, or you were criticized for something that you did not do, or that you did not do in the way that your parents think that you have done it. And you tried to explain yourself But your parents did not listen to the explanation. They just shut you down. And that can breed so much anger and frustration in a child. Now, obviously I'm not giving an excuse for anyone to be bitter. And the very best of parents will do this on occasion. What this is talking about is a pattern of parenting that in time will create bitterness. Another way that children are provoked to wrath is by partiality, by showing favoritism to one child. Children have a very keen sense of justice. You see, of course, this very thing play out in the life of Joseph. His father favored Joseph, and his brothers knew that, and they hated him and resented him for it. And it wasn't just a perception on their part, it really was true. He really did favor Joseph. That is not a wise thing to do. But I've seen it happen in many households. It creates problems for the person who is favored and problems for the child who is not favored. It doesn't work well for anyone. A third way that you can provoke your children to wrath is by inconsistency, by arbitrarily handling discipline. In other words, a child does something on one day and because mom or dad is having a bad day and they're really frustrated They just vent their anger and their frustration generally with life on this little child and they blow up at them. But then on another day that child does the same thing, or maybe a brother or sister does the same thing, and there's no repercussion. There's no punishment that comes because they're having a good day today. That's not a good way to parents. There needs to be consistency. A fourth way to provoke your children to wrath is by hypocrisy Do as I say, not as I do, never works. People learn more, especially children, by example, than they do by verbal instruction. Howard Hendricks in one of his books says that children are not looking for perfect parents, but they are looking for honest parents. One of the things that I asked children, excuse me, parents, is if they ever apologize To their children. If they've ever said, you know, yesterday when I got really angry at you and I punished you for that, I was punishing you Not out of a righteous judgment, but out of anger, and it was sinful and it was wrong. Will you forgive me? And I've spoken to parents about things like this before, and sometimes they will say, well, you know, if I if I do that, if I were to say something like that, they would lose respect for me because I would be admitting that I was wrong. And I say to them, you're absolutely wrong about that. They would have more respect for you if you admitted that you fail God just like they do. Too often parents give their children the feeling that somehow they never mess up, they never fail God, but the kid does all the time. And if you want to minister effectively, you've got to let them know. You know, you struggle sometime with obeying God, so do I. So do I. You fail God, so do I. You sometimes don't do what you should do, the same with me. We both need God's grace and God's help. I found that the most difficult children to reach Are not children who come from the home of unbelievers. They are children who come from the home of two professing believers who live as hypocrites. And they come to church and they put on a show, but as soon as they leave the premises, their household is anything but a Christian household. And they use all kinds of language that they would never use around their church friends. And they do all sorts of things that they would never want the pastor to know or anybody else to know. And then they come back on Sunday and they put the front on all over again. When that child grows up to really put two and two together, they're going to say, you know what? There's nothing real to this. And as soon as I have a choice, I'm going to abandon whatever faith my parents have. Hypocrisy is about the worst thing you can do as a parent. And fifthly, by negativity. by constantly being critical, by constantly pointing out flaws. By giving them the sense that somehow they can never measure up. They can never be what you want them to be This is a huge problem. Sometimes parents don't realize that they see their child misbehaving, and so they say, I'm going to have to clamp down on them. I'm gonna have to be really strict with them and really stern with them. I'm gonna have to make sure that nothing gets by me. And so they watch them so carefully and they criticize everything. But that child, but they're actually doing the opposite of what they're trying to accomplish. Because the child feels that there's nothing they can do. So what is the result when children are provoked to wrath? Well, the word wrath here is a word that's used earlier in this book of Ephesians. Turn back with me if you would to maybe don't even have to turn to Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 26. The same word wrath. It says, be ye angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. There's the word. Neither give place to the devil. Neither give place to the devil. And that word place is a very interesting word. Could use two analogies. It's like a climber who's trying to scale a wall, and it could refer to like a foothold or a handhold. He now has an anchor point that he can scale that wall. Or it can be it's been used to refer to like a beech head Like at D-Day, there were many American soldiers and others who gave their lives because they had to get there and establish a beachhead and gain some territory before they could ascend further into the continent of Europe. And what it's saying is that when we have bitterness that settles into our hearts, which is not a momentary thing, but a settled disposition , We are creating a foothold or a beachhead for Satan to come and work in our lives. It's like opening the door to Satan's influence. And this is why this is a very serious matter. When bitterness comes into a person's heart, it becomes a door to a thousand other spiritual diseases. Satan has an open door to attack. And when a child grows up and they're bitter It sours everything in their life. It sours their future relationships, the relationship they will have with a future spouse and with their children. If they never really get beyond that, if they never deal with that bitterness, it will just permeate the rest of their life. Now I want to invite you to turn ahead to the book of Colossians. The book of Ephesians has a twin epistle that was written at the same time, the book of Colossians, and we have almost identical instructions in Colossians chapter 3. And verse 21. But I'm having you turn here because a different word is used instead of wrath that brings out a different facet for us to consider. It says in Colossians 3. 21, fathers, provoke not your children to anger lest they be discouraged. Lest they be discouraged. And that word discouraged in Greek literally means to lose hearts. What this refers to the fact is that a child naturally has been designed by God that they want the approval of their parents. That's a good thing. But if a child tries and tries to gain the approval of their parents and no matter what they do, they just never ever seem to make it They never measure up. They never hear a word of commendation. They never hear their parents say, I am so proud of you, of how you handled yourself today. of what you've accomplished, of the person you become, that if they never get that positive reinforcement, the time will come when they will just quit and give up trying. And they will say, I'm never going to be able to measure up to what my parents expect me to be. I'm never going to be the person that they think I ought to be. I'm always going to come up short. And so why should I ever even try? And this is again a horrible way to live your life. But so often in counseling, when you deal with people who have deep-seated problems, ever whether it is that they are filled with bitterness and frustration, or whether they are a person who is depressed and discouraged, who feels that somehow they are flawed human beings so often When you start to talk to them and you begin to probe, they will trace it back to their parents. You see, being a parent is really a heavy responsibility. It is a weighty matter that God has given to us. Now we've looked at the negative. Let's look at the positive aspect of this. Turning back to Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 4. He says, provoke not your children to wrath, but in contrast, Bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And this term, bring them up, means to bring them to the place of maturity. Bring them to the place of spiritual maturity. You see, parents, it's not enough for you to say, as long as my child at an early age makes a profession of faith, then my work is done. That is not your goal. You want to have higher goals than that. You want to see them disciple and become a mature, functioning believer. That is what God wants for your children, and that must be your goal. Now, this term bring them up is used one other time in the New Testament, and it's in the previous chapter. It's used in Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 29. It says, for no man ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the church. And we have the same term nourish here. So we see an analogy here, a very significant analogy, and that is that we are to bring our children to maturity by nourishing them spiritually in the same way that God does that for us as believers. Just as God's goal is for us to be mature and to become more and more like Christ and to evidence the fruit of the Spirit in our lives, that's what our goal should be for our children. And it's done in the same way that God cares for us. How is it that God does this? Well We have two things that are mentioned here. Nurture and admonition. Now the word nurture is a very broad word that means training. Now, most scholars believe that in context here it refers to discipline. Now, we think this because of what the connection is. He says here at the beginning of verse 4, provoke not your children to wrath. And probably the first thing that you would think of in relation to that would be being too severe. So what is the opposite error that a parent could fall into? I'm just not going to punish my children at all. I'm not going to discipline them at all because I do not want to make them angry. I do not want to make them bitter. And so Paul is quick to say, I'm not saying be self-indulgent. No, you've got to nurture them as that you have to discipline them. And so he's quick to keep the individual from going too far in the other direction. But bring them up in the Training or discipline of the Lord. And of course, this is exactly the way the Lord deals with us as his children, right? Is the Lord, would you say that his relationship with you is that he is self-indulgent, that he looks the other way? at your sin, that he doesn't deal with you, that he doesn't correct you. That is not what the scripture teaches. Hebrews chapter 12 uses this very analogy. He says, My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. And verse 8 he goes on to say, But if ye be without chastisement, whereof are ye partakers? And then he goes on in verse eleven and says, Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness unto them that are exercised thereby. No one enjoys being punished Probably has in view their corporal punishment. No one enjoys a good spanking. So it's saying here That we cannot be self-indulgent. Parent, now there's a lot of parents and parenting philosophy that says You know, I can't, and I and I've heard many unsaved parents tell me this, and even some saved parents, unfortunately, you know, I I I can't I can't discipline my children like that, Pastor, because I love my children too much. But this passage in Hebrews says that that chastening is an evidence of God's love. You see, the reason why people don't discipline their children is not because they love their children too much, is because they love their self too much. Because the easiest path to take that makes your children happy and perhaps your spouse happy and everything else is just to let it go and pretend it didn't happen and look the other way and not make a big deal of it. But it's not the loving thing to do for your children. But not only must you discipline your children, you must instruct your children. It has this word, bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. This is a word that speaks of verbal instruction. This is the primary method of warning or correction. The Greek translation of the Old Testament uses the same word in a very significant text. In 1 Samuel chapter 3 God speaks to young Samuel who's living with Eli the high priest. He tells Samuel that he's going to put an end to Eli's priestly dynasty. Eli's two sons, Hotni and Phineas, were irreverent and immoral. It says, his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not. And the word restrained there And the Greek translation of the Old Testament is the same word that's translated admonish here. He didn't verbally correct them. He didn't say these men were grown now. They were young men. serving as priest. And he didn't correct them. He didn't say, sons, what you're doing is wrong. You're disgracing the office of priest. He just looked the other way. And God held him responsible. Now, when it says here that we are to admonish them, it doesn't mean that we are to yell at them. It doesn't mean that we're to vent our frustration upon them. If you want an example of what this is, the best place to look would be in the book of Proverbs in the first nine chapters where you have some 15 different Conversations that a father has with a son. And every one of those passages begins with, Hear me, O my son. And it addresses a number of topics. That fathers should have with their children. And of course, there are topics that mothers should have with their children as well. My point is that as your child grows from the time they are old enough to really hear and understand till the time you die As a parent, there are appropriate conversations that you need to have with your child. And And you should not say, well, I'm not going to talk about this, especially in their youth. You know, they go through all of these different phases and all of these different developmental stages. And they desperately need your advice and your instruction for that particular place in their life. And that window will close quickly, and they'll be on to something else. So it's very important that moms and dads take the opportunity to talk with your children, to have substantive conversations. So often when I talk to children who are young adults or teenagers and perhaps they're rebellious, you know what one of the most common things I hear from them is, my mom and dad never talk to me. Oh, we might talk about what's for dinner, something that happened at school, but we never really talk. We never talk about anything that's really important. I don't really know what is important in their life. I don't know what their goals are or what really excites them. They never talk to me. They don't really know me. They don't know what's going on in my life. This is so easy to happen to parents that they get so involved in their life and they are oblivious to what's happening in the lives of their children. And I think this passage is saying in conclusion that you must lead your children to follow Christ. It says, bring them up in the nurture and admonition, notice this, of the Lord. What does that mean? Let me first of all say it means that your primary objective is not that they follow you, but that they follow the Lord's. You don't want to ever give the impression, and sometimes it's more than an impression. That the main reason you discipline your children, the main reason you educate your children, the main reason you punish your children is because Because you do not want them to make you look bad in front of your peers Everyone's seen that mother, that harried mother in the grocery store who is being held hostage by her children. And she will offer them anything if they will not throw a tantrum in the middle of the aisle there. That is bad parenting. It's uh I 'm sure there's some of you that at times you have seen this replayed in your life And you don't, of course, but you have to restrain yourself from saying and walking up to them and saying, you know what? I've got a solution for you. I know exactly how to fix this problem. But of course, you can't really do that. What does it mean that we to bring them up the nurture and admonition of the Lord? Well, it could mean that you discipline an instruction that is about the Lord, that is one possible meeting. A few scholars hold this It could mean that you discipline and warn them in light of the Lord, saying that someday you're going to have to answer to him. This is possible. But most scholars take this to mean the discipline and warning that comes from the Lord. I believe that this passage is saying that the parents are God's agents in their children's lives. You know how God will primarily discipline your children until they leave your home? He will discipline them through you. How will God instruct your children and teach them his principles of truth, primarily through you? You are, as it were, God's representative in the life of your children. And that is why it is such a grave responsibility. And you must treat them and disciple them the way God has treated you. How does God treat you? Is He patient with you? Yes, he's very patient, so you should be patient with your children. Is he loving with you? Yes, he is. Is he gracious? Of course. Is he firm? Yes. Does he correct? Oh yeah, he corrects. This is how you must deal with your children. You must deal with them in a balanced way. You must not be harsh and stringent so that you just suffocate and destroy any desire they have in their heart to really please you. But on the other hand, you cannot be indulgent and narcissistic and give your children the impression that the whole world revolves around them and that you they are the most important thing in the world. That's not doing them a favor either. You have to provide a loving but disciplined environment. Where they understand that there is a God that loves for them, loves them and cares for them more than they could ever imagine, but a God who is also holy and will hold them accountable for their actions. So this is our important task. Parents, it's a heavy burden. And no parent here who has had his children leave home feels that they have done a perfect job at this. But this is what God has called us to do. It's one of the most weighty responsibilities that any human being could ever face. I think of the great evangelist Dwight L. Moody. He preached often abroad in England. He became somewhat of a celebrity in the 1870s. And he became attracted to the beautiful gardens and lawns that they had in England. And so he decided when he got back home to Northampton, Massachusetts, that he was going to put in some really nice lawns. And so he had this sod that was put down. Beautiful grass. But one day when he was away in the afternoon, his boys got out the horse and they rode all over that grass and they tore it all up. And he was absolutely furious. He was a big man and he gave them a whipping they would never forget. And later that night, as the boys were crying in their beds after their whipping, They heard the heavy footstep of their father coming up the stairs. And he came up and he had tears in his eyes. And he said, Boys, I was wrong. Will you forgive me? That is not. the way Jesus taught. And those boys never forgot their father's humility and they grew up to follow the Lord. You know what drives children away from their mom and dads? And this ties in with our series so often it is pride pride that will never admit that they have failed, they have come short. I have talked to so many children. Some who have gone astray and come back to the Lord. And some of them have given testimony to me that what brought them back was when a mother or father came to them and said, I want you to know that I failed as a parent. I lived as a hypocrite before you. I did not Do what God called me to do effectively. And that admission was instrumental in bringing them back to the Lord's. Parenting is a very difficult job, but it's also a very rewarding job. For our parents tonight who have their children dedicated, God has given you a weighty task, but he's also given you his grace to help you accomplish that. And we as a church family will continue to pray for you and for our other parents that God will give them strength to bring up their children and the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Let's close in prayer tonight. Father, we thank you that you use weak and flawed vessels like us to do things as important. as bringing up children. I pray, Father, that you would help us to glean something that would be helpful from these words that have been spoken tonight. I pray that you'd be an encouragement to these parents. We pray that you would raise up a new generation, Father, who would seek the Lord and would be a bright light in this dark world in which we live. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.