Keep your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to the book of 1 Peter, chapter 5? 1 Peter chapter 5. Lisius Lewis who famously said, God whispers to us in our pleasures. speaks to us in our conscience, but shouts to us in our pain. It is his megaphone to rouse a deaf world. Suffering afflicts all of humanity. People from the very beginning of time have suffered. This is a very common theme of ancient literature. And so it's no wonder that the Bible addresses this issue, this age-old problem. Perhaps the most famous book in the Old Testament that touches on this topic would be the book of Job, and in the New Testament, it would be the book of 1 Peter. 1 Peter, of course, specifically addresses the suffering that Christians face due to their allegiance to Christ. But as I have labored to explain in the series, there are many parallels and many points of application, even for those whose suffering is not because of persecution. But simply because we live on a fallen planet. This morning we are concluding our study of 1 Peter. And today we come to the key verse. of this entire epistle. I mentioned to you over a year ago when we began our study that the key to understanding many of our New Testament books is found usually at the very beginning. or the very end of the book. And I use the analogy that I heard many years ago. It's kind of like the key to your house. You're either hiding it somewhere at the front entrance or the back entrance. You didn't realize that I knew where you put that key, did you? And it's like that with the epistles especially, and in the book of 1 Peter. The key verse is verse 10 that we read together a while ago. Verse 10 says, but the God of all grace who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus after ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. This book is all about God 's grace in our suffering. And in verse 12, in case you missed it, like you just missed an exit, we have a reminder of this again in verse 12 at the end. It says, testifying that this is the true grace of God wherein ye stand And then you'll notice in verse 11 we have the formal ending of the book with this doxology to him. be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. And then verses 12, 13, and 14, we could think of as kind of a postscript. Let me go through this very, very quickly. Verse 12, we read of Sylvanus, who is another form of a man we know by the name of Silas. Paul's missionary companion in the book of Acts. We remember in Acts 16 of Paul and Silas singing when they were in that jail in Philippi. This is the same man. He's being identified here as probably the man who carried this epistle to the churches in Asia Minor. In verse 13 Peter writes, says that he is writing from Babylon. That may seem a little unusual to you. It's very likely that he is not referring to the Babylon. in Iraq, but he is referring in a cryptic way to Rome. And uh in order to not give his uh location away and endanger believers or the church at Rome He refers to it as Babylon, but in so doing, he is signaling to his readers that he is an exile just like they are. They have been scattered. Through the known world, and that's how he begins the book. Remember talking about the diaspora, those who have been scattered, and now he identifies himself as one of those individuals. Because they would instantly connect Babylon with where the people of God were for a time in exile. And then we have the book concluding with this affectionate greeting, greet one another with a kiss of charity, which was a cultural way that they greeted members of the family by kissing them on the cheek. And it reveals the affectionate, family-like connection that was present in the early church. But with those preliminary comments, I want us now to consider this key verse of the entire book, verse 10, that summarizes everything that Peter has been saying. And what we see here is how God's grace works in our suffering. And there's some four vital truths. that I want us to remember, especially if you're here this morning and you would say, I am right now going through a time of suffering. Well, I want you to know that there are four vital truths that you need to know that are found right here in verse 10. Four things to remember. First of all, remember That God's grace is sufficient for your suffering. Notice how God is described here at the beginning of verse 10. But the God Now notice the very first word here is the connecting word, this word but in some translations I believe it's an it's reminds us it's connecting to verse nine. Now the last phrase in verse nine He speaks about the fact that we are suffering just as our brethren are throughout the world, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren. that are in the world. The universal nature of suffering may not sound very comforting. And so Peter adds that believers can find greater comfort in the truth. That we are watched over by the God of all grace. Peter's essentially saying suffering is painful, but God's grace is more powerful. What exactly is grace? Grace, of course, is God's unmerited favor. We usually think of grace in the context of our salvation. Indeed, we have been saved by grace through faith. We are saved by the unmerited favor of God. But Christians must also live by the grace of God. God's inherited favor also empowers us to face whatever problems we encounter in life. And this is the type of grace that Peter is referring to here. Now, this expression, the God of all grace, is interesting. It's found only here in the Bible. This title, the God of all grace. of all grace. What is it meant to indicate? Well first of all, it declares that God possesses all grace. Every good gift, everything that we love, everything that we need is ultimately found in God. But more importantly, it reveals that God is the giver of all grace. Because he possesses all grace, he is able to give all grace. And this has a very practical benefit for us because it means that whatever our need is, God has the grace to meet that need. I mean, what is it that you need this morning? Perhaps you feel weak. I want you to know that God's grace can make you strong. Perhaps you feel broken. Well, God's grace can make you whole. Perhaps you feel confused. Well, God's grace can give you clarity. If you feel discouraged, God's grace. can encourage you. He is the God of all grace. Another way of putting this is that he's the God of sufficient grace. And whenever I think of God's grace being sufficient, your mind should go to 2 Corinthians chapter 12. So I'm going to invite you to turn with me there. Please keep a finger here. We'll come back. But turn with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 12. This is that famous passage. where the Apostle Paul speaks about God's sufficient grace. 2 Corinthians chapter 12, I want to begin reading at verse 7. Paul writes, and lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. the messenger of Satan to buffet me lest I should be exalted above measure. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore, I take pleasure in infirmities and reproaches and necessities and persecutions and distresses for Christ's sake, for when I am weak, then am I strong. We read here of Paul's thorn in the flesh. We don't know exactly what this affliction was, but we do know that it was very painful. And it was something that he desperately wanted God to remove. And so he prayed to God in these intense seasons of prayer on three occasions. And the Lord answered him, but his answer was, My grace is sufficient for thee. So often when we pray and when we are suffering, and it's not sinful or wrong for us to do this We just want God to remove that thorn. We want God to make it stop. We don't want to hurt anymore. We don't want to deal with this problem that vexes our souls. The Lord, however, did not remove this painful burden from Paul's shoulders, but he gave him the strength to carry that heavy burden. We usually ask for the ministry of subtraction. That is, God, take it away. But God often answers with the ministry of addition by giving us more grace. You see, the real meaning of sufficient is that you come to realize that God is enough. That his presence more than compensates for your pain. That his promise of abundant grace will sustain you in the most trying of circumstances. And this grace must be received by faith. The r the real suffering in any trial, as I've said many times in this series, is not the issue itself, it's not the pain itself, but it's the way we think about it, the way we interpret it, the way we allow it. to unsettle us and disturb us. So often we magnify our suffering by the way we respond to our pain in sinful ways. But if you really rely on God's grace, you will discover that God will empower you to do what seems to be impossible. Because he is the God of all grace. This has been the testimony of God's saints down through the history. Saints who have encountered great suffering. But they have found that God is good and sufficient and gracious to them. The second thing we need to remember is this, that God has a glorious future for you when you suffer. Look at this next phrase as we turn back to 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 10. It says, For the God of all grace who hath called us , unto his eternal glory We've been called to eternal glory. Peter is reminding his Christian readers that God has graciously saved them and called them out of the world. This was a gracious and effective call. We talked about this earlier in this book. In 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 9, he says, but ye are chosen generation. a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that you should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. This is the way the Bible describes salvation. It is passing from death to life, it is from blindness to sight, from bondage to liberty, from darkness to light. Salvation is not some minor adjustment. It is nothing less than a new beginning. And it's all due to God's gracious call. Sometimes when people hear the truth, they think, well, God must have seen something special in me. Well, you would be wrong about that. I want to read to you some verses from 1 Corinthians chapter 1. I love what these verses have to say. Listen to me. This is verse 26. Paul writes, For you seek your calling, brethren, how that not many wise after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called, but God hath chosen the foolish things of the world. to confound the wise, and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty and the base things of the world. Which are despised hath God chosen, yea, and the things which are not to bring to naught the things that are that no flesh should glory in his presence It's not usually the elite of society, the celebrities that make up the church. These are not the people that God tends to call. It is the weak, the ignorant, the despised, the outcast. Those are the ones who humbly come to the Savior. Those are the ones who have been called from the world to the Lord Jesus Christ And we need to remember that we have a glorious future ahead of us. In 1 Peter 5 and verse 10, he refers to his eternal glory by Christ Jesus. The only reason that we have a future of glory is because of the work of Christ on the cross. And if you are truly a child of God, this is your destiny. This is your destiny. Everlasting glory in the presence of Christ. If we could really grasp that by faith and we really lived as if that was our future, that was what was beyond the grave. Oh, how it would make the problems and the suffering that we experience in this life seem so inconsequential. If we could really wrap our hearts and our minds around this wonderful truth Peter's essentially saying the same thing that Paul says in Philippians chapter 1 and verse 6, where he writes, being confident of this very thing. that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. God finishes what he starts He's not going to give up on you. This is why we read in what is probably the most reassuring chapter in the Bible, in Romans chapter 8. We have this wonderful, gracious chain of redemption. It begins with that famous verse, and we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to those who are the called according to his purpose. For whom he did for know, he did also predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called, and whom he called, them he also justified, and whom he justified, them he also glorified. And those verbs are in the past tense because there is good as done. If you have truly been justified, you will be glorified. That is what God's word teaches. There is a pattern that commentators mentioned that's found frequently in the book of 1 Peter, and that is first their suffering. And then there's glory. Let me show that to you. Turn with me back to the very first chapter where we were many months ago. And 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 11 we read, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ, which was in them, did signify when it testified beforehand the suffering of Christ. And the glory that should follow. This was true of our Lord and Savior. First, he suffered. He came to a sin -cursed earth And he died on an old rugged cross, but after that was the resurrection and the ascension and glory. We see this again in chapter four. Turn with me at chapter four and verse twelve. Peter writes, Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial, which is to try you as though some strange thing happened unto you. But rejoice in as much as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may also be glad with exceeding joy. If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, Happy are ye, for the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you. On their part he is evil spoken of, but on your part he is glorified. And you see there again this pattern of suffering and then glory We see it even in chapter 5 and verse 1. Peter writes, The elders which are among you, I exhort who am also an elder and a witness of the suffering of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that shall be received. So I say to you this morning, if you are a child of God and you are suffering, there's a second half to this. And that is glory. And that's where you must set your mind. That's what you must meditate on. That's what you must think about. The suffering is not the end for you. There is a better day of coming. The Puritans used to say, there is no crown without a cross. As night turns to day, as winter turns to spring, as death leads to resurrection life, so your suffering will in God's time turn to glory. So what suffering are you enduring this morning? As I look out on this church family, I see a lot of people who are suffering, and some of them, of course, are not here today because of their suffering. could be a chronic health condition that is very grave, something that greatly limits your lifestyle. or perhaps will shorten your life. That gives you pain every day. That's nothing. That's light or easy. But I want you to know that the end will be glory. Perhaps you have a broken heart this morning because of a painful family situation. There's nothing more vexing to the soul than when family members are estranged, and there's tension and there's a severed relationship and there's misunderstandings and there's And there's strife there. That is so troubling, especially when it lasts for years and years and years. And there are many here this morning that I know of, and I'm sure there's some that I don't know about. And that tears at your heart, that's part of suffering because of sin being in this world. Or perhaps it's something else that is causing great pain and difficulty. If you are a child of God , If you know the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, this will not be the end for you. There's coming a day of glory. There's a third truth that Christians must remember in this verse, and that is that God is in control of the duration. of your suffering. We have this little phrase in the middle of verse 10 that says, after ye have suffered a while Now that sounds like a nebulous answer, doesn't it? We tend not to like nebulous answers. When I think of this phrase a while I think of the common scenario of a family traveling somewhere, perhaps on vacation, and the little children are very impatient, and they ask again and again, are we almost there? And perhaps the dad will say, just a little while longer. This is kind of what Peter, the pastor, is saying to these suffering saints who are crying out, How long, O Lord? And he answers a little while longer. What is clear in this statement is that God is in control of the duration of your suffering. It may be a few days, a few weeks, or months, or perhaps it will be for the rest of your life. We have examples in Scripture of godly individuals who suffered very seriously for a time, but then the Lord removed that suffering. We think of the example of Joseph. He was despised by his brothers and sold into slavery. And then for doing the right thing, he is cast into prison where he is forgotten about what great suffering he endured. But in an instant, God removed that suffering and exalted him to he was the prime minister, essentially, of Egypt. And we think of the same phenomenon in the life of Job, Job who seemed to have everything and then lost everything. He lost his family, he lost his wealth, he lost his status in society, but he didn't lose his faith. And God restored him. He released him from that trial. And blessed him double from what he had before. We have examples of this in Scripture, and you can probably know of individuals who who Christians who went through a time of severe suffering, but God brought them out. They suffered a while. There are two things that we can be certain about concerning the timing of our suffering. One is that our suffering will not last any longer than God intends it to last Because God is both a sovereign God who is in absolute control and he's also a good God. He is not going to require you to suffer one moment longer than you need to. Lamentations 3 says, he doth not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of men. This is a comforting truth for us to remember. God is in control of the duration of your trial. And if you find yourself in the fire this morning, I want you to know it's because God is still at work. And He has more things to accomplish in your life. You need to yield to His sovereign rights To determine the time when your suffering will end. But there's a second point I want to make about our suffering, and that is our suffering will not last any longer than our lifetime. It is true that this phrase, a little while, is ambiguous and indefinite, but most commentators think that in context here, it probably refers to the entirety of our life on this earth. That time period of suffering, which he describes as a while, will come to an end. Jesus, remember, said to his disciples in the upper room, in the world You shall have tribulation. That was his promise. This is what you should expect to experience in the world: difficulty, hardship, pressure, affliction Paul said to new converts in Acts 14, we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God. Life on a fallen planet is filled with sorrow and suffering. But there is an intentional contrast found in verse 10. Did you notice this? He speaks here of eternal glory and then of suffering for a while. Eternal glory, no end, suffering, but for a little while. This is the perspective that we must bring to our chronic problems that vex our souls. We must view them in light of eternity. This is how Paul was able to stay so resilient. in the face of much hardship. He says in Romans chapter 8 and verse 18, For I reckon that the suffering of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. When you compare an eternity of glory with the Lord, with the suffering that we experience in this life, there is no comparison. You know, eternity and infinity are the are those things that we can't wrap our minds around. They're so open-ended and so amazingly immense and large and unending that that we can't really grasp them. But if we could grasp this by faith more concretely, How brief our time on this earth would appear in our eyes. Paul says, for our light affliction, which is but for a moment. Worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. He describes his suffering in life as but for a moment Like the snap of fingers. It doesn't last very long and it's over. And when we have been with the Lord, as the hymn writer puts it, 10,000 years. Our suffering on earth will seem like just a moment of time. This is the perspective that we must have, especially when we suffer But there's a fourth truth I want you to see in our passage this morning. And that is remember God's encouraging promises in your suffering. And this is found at the conclusion. Of verse 10. These are four promises here that God makes about your suffering. He says, after you have suffered a while , And the Greek text makes this emphatic that He Himself will make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. There are four stabilizing promises. That are intended to give us strength in the storms of life. Do you know what a ballast is? You know when a ship is empty of all its cargo, and it has no weight in the hulls. It's actually very unstable If it encounters a storm, it will likely be capsized because it has no weights to hold it steady. These promises are like spiritual ballasts, like weights, like goods, like resources that we put in the hull of our soul to give us strength and stability. As we go through the storms of life. If you're here this morning and you feel a little confused, a little unstable A little unsettled in your spirit because of the suffering that you have encountered recently in life, I want you to consider these four promises. Because God is personally involved in our suffering. First of all, he says here at the end of verse 10 that he will make you perfect. And the idea of this is that he will restore you. The idea has the significance of putting things right. This particular Greek word is used for the setting of a bone, like a doctor setting a broken bone. It's also used for the mending of nets. Something that was broken and unusable that caused great pain or discomfort is now going to be set and fixed so that it's usable again. This is God 's promise to you. It doesn't mean necessarily that in this life God is going to restore and fix and settle you like he did Job in the Old Testament. It's wonderful when God does that. And God does do that. But sometimes God doesn't do that in this life, but he certainly does in the next life. He fixes everything. All of your brokenness, all of those things in your life that have been shattered. and and and disappointing to you, they will be fixed. They will be restored. They will be put right. This is God's promise to you. God is seeking to use your suffering to mold your character so that you become more and more like the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord will restore you. Secondly, the Lord will make you strong. In the King James Version, it says stablish. Now we use the word establish, but we don't use the word establish very much today And so some translations render this establish or to strengthen or to support. And it's just possible. That Peter is using this specific word because it had significance to him. Do you remember what the Lord said to Peter the night before he denied his master? He said to him in Luke chapter 22 and verse 33, he said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat, but I have prayed for thee. That thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. You remember that verse? That word strengthened is the same verb here that's translated stablish. So maybe Peter is again somewhat writing autobiographically and he's saying, I know what it is. to be established and set up on my feet again by the grace of God. And that gives us insight as to why God does restore us. You know one of the reasons why God restores us from our suffering and our trials? So that we will strengthen the brethren. So that we will minister to other people who are going through the storms of life, and we can say to them, listen, I've been where you are, and I want you to know that God will bring you through this. God's grace is sufficient. He will help you. He will establish you. He will not fail you. He will not abandon you. Just keep trusting in him. Keep looking to him. I'm telling you, it worked in my life. It will work in your life. This is why God establishes his people. He makes us strong. And thirdly, the Lord will make you firm. This particular term is only found here in the New Testament. And it's translated here, of course, as strengthen. It has literally the idea of making firm or making strong. And the idea here is that God's grace will empower us to stand firm in the face of the lion who roars in our affliction. I mentioned a time ago about this warning in verse 8, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil As a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may devour, he seeks to paralyze us with fear. That's the intent of his roar. But by the grace of God, we can stand firm and not cave in to those fearful thoughts and threats And then we see this that the Lord will establish you or settle you, as it says here. I mean, it sounds like a little father speaking, to a father speaking to a small child. Children, you know, can get themselves out of sorts emotionally. And the father will say, you just need to settle down. Our loving Father will settle us down and plant our feet on a firm foundation. Sometimes the Lord allows our worlds to be turned upside down. Many of you know what it is to be going through life. Just going through your regular routines, everything's fine, everything's good, everything seems smooth sailing, and then in one day, your entire world can seem like it's falling apart. Because of something that has happened, something that you've heard, some bit of information that changes everything. And it's at that time that the Lord wants us to discover that He is a refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Now you may have noticed that these four terms are very similar. They're basically synonyms of one another. There's a great deal of overlap where they're essentially saying the same thing. They're like layers. And Peter here is not being redundant. What he's trying to be is emphatic. He's trying to say that God will strengthen you, God will restore you, God will set you back upon a rock. God will not abandon you in your suffering. This is his concluding message to the suffering saints of the first century. He wants them to know that God will graciously strengthen his people. When I was preparing for the ministry, I was taught that you should always seek to end your sermons somewhat with a bang. You don't want to just slowly fade out. And disappear. And it's one of the things that's difficult to learn at first in preaching is how to conclude a message. Well, Peter at this point has been a pastor for many decades. And so he is essentially ending his sermon here in verses 10 and 11 with a rhetorical flourish. When he has these four promises, these four verbs, when he says, after you have suffered a while, God will make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. I can almost picture in my mind's eye his voice rising and him saying these words loudly and definitely to comfort these suffering saints who would endure even more severe suffering in the days ahead. And now I say in the 21st century to suffering saints, God will make you perfect. He will establish you. He will strengthen you. He will settle you. And what should our response be? Verse 11, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for these wonderful promises to suffering people. We thank you that you do not leave us. You do not abandon us in our trials. You do not allow us to remain in the fire a moment longer than we need to. But Father, you do refine us. You do show yourself to be faithful and steadfast. You do give us grace. grace to withstand the suffering and the pain and the difficulties that come to us in life. I pray, Lord, that you would take these words, this summary verse, Of the book of 1 Peter and use it, Father, to strengthen suffering saints today. Help us, Father, to take these promises by faith and to live upon these wonderful truths. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen