If you have your Bibles, you can turn to the passage that we read a moment ago, Philippians chapter 4. Probably everybody in here has heard of the name of J. C. Penny. I'm not talking about the store, but the man that the store is named after JCPenney was A Christian businessman, very uh overt in his testimony. He uh believed in honesty in advertisements to the nth degree. He never wanted to be considered dishonest in his advertisements, and so he would have things uh like signs by shirts that would say the pattern is not very attractive but it wears well In October in 1929, there was the stock market crash. And it brought devastation to his business. J. C. Penny was not sure his business would survive. And so he worked very hard to try to figure out plans and schemes to save his business. And he found that he was completely overwhelmed with anxiety. For many days he could not sleep. He would pace the floor. He could not eat. His stomach was constantly churning. He was constantly crunching numbers. How could he save his business? How would he secure financial stability for his family that he had worked so hard to earn for many years? It got so bad that he had to be hospitalized. And even there, while given medication, he struggled to find any serenity at all. And he was embarrassed about this because he was a very famous Christian, a man who claimed to know God, and yet he could not seem to find peace in the midst of his storm. And one day, as he was in his hospital bed, he heard a church choir that had assembled down and was having a little service there at the hospital. And there was a children's choir, and they were singing the famous song, God Will Take Care of You. And when he heard that song , He remembered those words. And he grasped that truth by faith. God will take care of me, just like his word promises. And from that moment he began to improve and regain his strength and his stability and his equilibrium and his joy. The beginning of a new year is filled with a variety of emotions. Some celebrate, some make resolutions. And some worry about what a new year will bring. This first day of 2017, I thought it would be appropriate for us to examine Paul's prescription. For worry. I say Paul's prescription, of course, this is really God's prescription. And what Paul is saying is not new to Paul. He is writing what has already been recorded in the Old Testament, and of course was powerfully mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount when the Lord says on three occasions, be careful for nothing or be anxious for nothing. Or take no thought as it's put there. Now you might say, well, it would be easy for Paul, this spiritual giants. Not to ever be burdened with cares or anxieties or problems in his life But the fact of the matter is, I suspect that Paul was naturally a rather anxious person. In fact, in 2 Corinthians 11, he writes about the care, the anxiety of all the churches. Those many churches that he had planted, and he was always concerned and worried about them, that they would remain strong and stable and grounded in the truth. And let's remember that when Paul was writing this book of Philippians that we are reading and examining this morning. He was not writing from some palatial palace or some comfortable office. He was writing from prison. And he was a man who had many things that he could justly have worried about. There was personal conflicts that he mentions in chapter one of this book, where the believers. that were there at Rome and others were not convinced that he was really what he claimed to be an apostle. And they were actually working against him, even though they were true believers in Jesus Christ. You know that personal conflict can create a great deal of anxiety in the heart of a person. Many of you know that from experience. And let's remember that when Paul was imprisoned here, he was awaiting a trial that could very well result in his execution. That's why he says in chapter 1 and verses 20 and 21 that he wants Christ to be magnified in his body, whether by life or by death. I mean, how would you feel if you were awaiting a trial? That would be enough reason for anxiety, but knowing that the result could be execution. And then there's financial need. In chapter 4 of this book, he thanks the Philippians for their gift to him. He talks about how he's gotten used to going without and he can rejoice whether he is on top of the world or he has no resources at all. And of course, finances can be a great cause of anxiety. It's one of the leading things that people worry about. Because they are in great debts. But Paul was able to say at the end of this epistle, my God shall supply all my needs. You see, Paul had some serious problems that could have consumed him with worry. But instead, he writes an epistle where the underlying theme is: rejoice in the Lord's. And he models for these believers and for us how a believer can live with joy and peace in their hearts, even in the midst of trials and difficulties. So what was Paul's secret? It was really no secrets. Believers have always known of the solution, of the power of prayer. Let's look at our text. He begins by saying, be careful for nothing. The word careful there is a word that means anxious. Be anxious for nothing. The word for anxiety in the Greek language originally was a word that meant to be pulled apart. It was used in the ancient world to describe a form of torture in which a person would have their arms and legs tied to do different horses, and then a whip was cracked. And they were nearly pulled apart. It was a very painful thing. And it became an apt metaphor. for the suffering of anxiety. Many of you know that that can be just like torture. The various manifestations of anxiety make up the number one mental health issue in America today. It's interesting to consider this because we live in the most prosperous nation in the history of the world. We have the most powerful military in the world to protect us, and yet we are a people who are in large part consumed with anxiety. And yet you would think if there's anybody on the face of the earth that does not need to worry, it would be us. Because we're not going to starve to death. And no one has really successfully invaded our shores. So why are we so worried? This reminds us that anxiety is not so much about your circumstances as it is about how you interpret your circumstances And what is the presuppositions of what you truly believe and where you find your security? Now let me be quick to say that this passage that we're examining this morning does not forbid planning for the future. is not saying that we should not save and prepare and plan for the difficult day. Remember the Bible tells us in the book of Proverbs. that the ants are wise as it were because they plan for winter. They store up food. The Bible commends that kind of thing. The Bible is not promoting a laid-back attitude that is oblivious to the problems of life. The Bible never causes us to live in a fantasy world. However, these verses do prohibit the harassing care that distracts us from doing God's will for our lives and robs us of our joy and peace. That's not God's will for his children. No parent wants that for their children. You want your children to be at peace. You want them to have confidence and joy in their life. And God wants that for his children as well. Christians must not live in the bondage of the what-if scenarios of our fallen imagination. God has called us to live by the power of the Holy Spirit. And when we yield to his power in our lives, it will inevitably produce a harvest of love, joy, and peace. the fruit of the spirit. So let me be blunt this morning. What are you worried about? Perhaps you're worried about the fact that you might lose your job this year. Or perhaps you're starting to forget things and you're wondering if you're developing Alzheimer's. Or maybe you're torn apart by the conflict in your marriage and you're wondering if 2017 is going to be the year when your marriage ends in divorce. Or perhaps like many Americans, you're troubled about the mountain of debt that you're under and you suspect that sometime in 2027 it's going to catch up with you. and bring great problems into your life. These are real problems. These are serious problems that should not be taken lightly. The fact is, as I look around here and what I know of our church family, I know that many of you had a difficult 2016. You had the sorrow perhaps of losing a loved one. You had financial reversals. You had. . a diagnosis of a serious health condition, and the list could go on and on. . And so you enter 2017 with fear and trepidation. So how do we cope with these nagging thoughts? The answer is found in the passage before us this morning. I want to speak to you on how to stop being anxious. God's answer to the problem of worry. And I have two main points that I want us to consider in our text, in verses 6 and 7. First of all, we can stop being anxious by taking our worries to the Lord in prayer. Look at the first phrase in verse 6. Be careful for nothing or be anxious for nothing. He's saying, stop being anxious about all these different circumstances in your life. And this in the Greek text is a command. This is not a suggestion. This is a command from God. It is not his will that you worry. Now I wonder what you make of this. About a century ago there was a great Baptist preacher in Manchester, England, by the name of Alexander McLaren, and I have his great collection of sermons in my library, and he has a sermon on this text entitled, How to Obey an Impossible Injunction. He was very clever with his titles. And I think he was on to something. Telling a worrier to stop worrying is like telling a fish to stay out of water. It's like telling a person to stop breathing. It's not going to happen unless you provide another channel for that nervous energy. And this is exactly what Paul does. I want you to notice the symmetry of this verse. There's a negative part and there's a positive part in verse 6. Be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. There's a negative part. Don't worry about anything, and there's a positive part. Be prayerful about everything. Now perhaps you would say this morning, that sounds incredibly simplistic. And I want you to know I've tried praying about my problem, and it has not worked for me. I'm still as worried as ever. Well my question for you would be this. Have you followed the specific instructions that are given here in verse 6? Would you notice that Paul recommends three types of prayer in this verse? And they each provide an important distinction. First of all, he has in verse 6 he says but in everything by prayer, that is everything that you're worried about, everything that causes anxiety and concern in your heart. Every single one of those items you need to bring to God in prayer. Now the word that's used here is a very general word for prayer. And I think that Paul is calling on believers here to worship God when they are tempted to worry. You see, when we focus our minds on the greatness and goodness of God, our problems shrink in comparison. Worship invariably drives out worry. You cannot worship God at the exact same time that you are worrying. Those two things can happen at the same time. You're either doing one or you're doing the other, but you can't do them both at the same time. And when we are worried, we are giving evidence of the fact that we are focusing our mental energy, our emotional resources on a problem in our life, a vexing problem. That no matter how many times we turn it over in our minds, we can't seem to find a solution. God calls us to focus our mind not there, but on Him. And a change of perspective makes a tremendous difference. When we worry We must remember to worship. And we must come before God and remember who He is. And who we are. This is where we must begin to combat our anxiety. We must focus on God instead of our problem. It's only when we make God our vision. That our problems will become in true perspective for us. Now, the second word we have for prayer is this word supplication. That is, we must come before God as a supplicant or as a dependent, or we might even say a beggar, expressing our needs. We must humble ourselves and demonstrate that we are dependent on Him. We like to be in control. You ever had anybody tell you that you're a control freak? Can I tell you something that everyone in one way or another is a control freak? We all like to be in control. We like to have our life under control, all of our problems managed and taken care of so that we can just relax and say, everything is in the right place. Where it should be, there are no loose ends. There are no loose canons. Everything is just right in my life. But have you noticed that almost never ever happens? That's not the way life is. There's always something that is amiss. There's always something that's off the rails. There's always something That is not really contained or controlled in our lives. And usually there are multiple things like that One of the reasons we worry so much is because we want to be God. It was mentioned in our song this morning. We want to be in control of everything. Rather than the beggar, the supplicant, the dependent who says, God, I'm not in control. I can't solve this dilemma. I can't deal with this problem. I'm not wise enough. I'm not powerful enough. And so I lay my problems and my burdens at your feet because I can't take care of this. That's part of what we must do in prayer. Part of the reason that God puts us in perplexing circumstances is to humble us and to break us of that desire to be as God and to be ultimately in control of everything in our lives. He wants us to come like a desperate beggar and to find our strength in him. Psalm 50, verse 15 says, Call upon me in the day of trouble, I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. God wants to receive the glory in that situation that is perplexing you and worrying you And see, if you were able to solve all of your problems, then who would receive the glory? You would, not the Lord's. The third term that's used here for prayer is this term requests. It refers to our specific petitions. We should not pray general nebulous prayers. Let God take all the problems out of my life, please. It's not a good prayer No, we need to ask the Lord to do specific things in our lives that are in line with his revealed will in the Word of God. Like Lord, show me how in my suffering and difficulty today to glorify you. Show me how to see the good in this pain. Help me, Father, to be a testimony to those around me and to show them that you are more than sufficient, more than enough to meet whatever challenges a person faces in life. Those are the kind of specific prayers. That we need to pray when we're worried. And notice that Paul also reveals the attitude by which we should pray to the Lord. It's this little phrase here with thanksgiving. It would be real easy to just pass over that, but this is absolutely vital importance. Now, why does Paul mention this detail? Because The attitude in which we pray makes all the difference in the world. I mentioned earlier that some of you When you have brought your problems to the Lord, did not feel a great sense of relief, even though you went to him in prayer. That's why some of you might say to this instruction, I've tried that, it didn't work for me. Might work for some people, it doesn't work for me. Well, with what attitude did you pray to God? You see, if you're not careful, even your prayer time can be a meditation on your problems. As you're there on your knees or by your dining room table with an open Bible and you're praying to him and you're thinking and you're naming off the problems that you have that you want the Lord to deal with. and you start thinking about the complexity of those problems and how painful they are and how long they have lasted, you are now meditating not on God and His greatness. and the good he's going to bring out of this, but on the dire situation that you are in. And that's why some people, after a season of prayer, they get up and they say, you know, I feel worse than when I started praying. Because you lost your focus on the Lord and you didn't come to Him with a spirit of thanksgiving. You didn't take the time to reflect. On all the blessings that God has done for you and how He has been with you all throughout your life We have this hymn in our hymn book, Count Your Blessings. This is a great antidote to the poison of anxiety. It reminds us that there's more in the universe than our problem. You see, when we're in the midst of a trial and a problem, whatever it might be, whether it's financial, whether it has to do with your family, whether it has to do with your health When you're right in that, you can't see anything else in the world. It like so close to you that it just blots out your vision. And that's the only thing that exists in the universe. Some of you know exactly what I'm talking about, because that's where you are. But when you come to God and you start to remind yourself of who he is, and how the Bible reveals him to be, and you worship him, and you bring your request to him, and you bring it with a spirit of thanksgiving because you begin to count your blessings and think about all the good things that you have in your life. And the list is really long. And then you start to think about and reflect on how God has delivered you in the past. How God has been there to meet you in your crisis before. How many times in your life have you come to a crisis and you just felt, this is just going to completely be the end of me? This is going to devastate me. My life will never ever be the same. I'll never ever be able to get through this situation, but somehow, by his grace, you came through that. You survived it and you've even come to become strong because of that. You need to remember that. When you're worrying, you need to focus your mind on, all right, I've been in this situation before, or something like it. I have felt this way before, and God was faithful to me. And just as he was faithful to me in the past, he's going to be faithful to me in the future. This is how we must deal with this. Do you remember King David? When he was getting ready to face Goliath. And he went and he was trying on Saul's armor and everything. And he said, you know, God delivered me from the bear when I was watching my father's sheep. He delivered me from the lion. He gave me strength. to be victorious over opponents who were stronger and greater than I was, even when I was a little shepherd boy, and he is going to give me the strength to face this giant. David was reflecting on God's deliverance in the past. That's what we must do when we face a seemingly insurmountable foe. And notice the last phrase in verse 6. Let your request be made known unto God. Now, why is that there? Does God already know about your problem? Of course he does. Of course he does. In fact, when Jesus taught about this matter of anxiety in the Sermon on the Mount, he said, Your heavenly Father knows that you have need of these things. So you might say, Well, then why mention him if he already knows? It's because what this is calling us to do in prayer, we're not praying to inform God. He knows everything. When we pray, we yield the matter to God's. We commit the matter to God's. We bring our problem to the Lord. This is what we find in the passage that Pastor Steve read this morning in 1 Peter 5 and verse 7. Casting all your care in the word therefore, care is anxiety. Casting all your anxiety upon him, for he careth for you. Do you really believe that God cares for you? Remember, that was the truth that changed J. C. Penny in his time of anxiety. Psalm thirty seven verse five says, Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass Psalm 55 and verse 22 says, Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. These are great promises that in times of affliction we must cling to. This is really what it comes down to with our anxieties. Do we trust the Lord enough to give him our problems? Do you trust the Lord enough to give him your problems? Do you think he really will take care of it? That he really will do what is best for you? So what are you worried about this morning? Have you taken your burden to the Lord and cast it at his feet? Whether that's financial debt, or a serious health concern or family problem. Have you taken that problem and placed it at his feet? One of the problems that we have is we go to the Lord in prayer and we place the burden at his feet. And when we get up off our knees, we pick up that burden again and put it back on our shoulders and walk away. You gotta leave it there at his feet. You've got to do what Kathy 's saying for us. You have to say with that spirit Of joyful submission, thy will be done, Lord. I trust you. You know what you're doing in my life more than I could ever order and arrange my life. And so thy will be done. I place this burden at your disposal. I leave the matter with you because I'm tired of carrying it around. So often we don't really want to give our problems to the Lord. We want to hold on to them and solve them ourselves. We think if I can just think hard enough about this, I'll find a way out. I'll find a scheme, a solution, a plan to bring about my own deliverance, but it drives us crazy because God puts us in situations where we can never find the solution. You can't change people, so often we worry about people. You can't change the heart of someone else. You can manipulate them, you can punish them, you can do all kinds of things, but ultimately you can't touch their heart, but God can. And so often the things that we worry about the most are things that we cannot control. They're beyond our means. to engineer and manipulate. So often the real problem is the struggle with our will and anxiety. We want to be in control. We want to be our own savior. God wants us to yield to Him and let Him be our deliverer. You might say, but that is so hard to do. I know it is. That's why Paul offers this promise, this incentive to turn the whole matter over to the Lord. Look at verse 7. If you do this. If instead of worrying, you take your problems to the Lord in prayer and these various aspects of prayer that He's mentioned, it says this. And the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Isn't that a wonderful promise? I think perhaps there are many people who view that verse with jaded eyes and they say, I haven't experienced that. So let's talk about this for a second. Notice what's being offered here. It's nothing less than the peace of God This is actually the only place in the New Testament that we find this expression, the peace of God. Now, what does that mean? Most scholars think that it means the peace that God possesses. Did you know that God is the most peaceful being in the universe? Did you know that? God never worries or frets. He never wrings his hands wondering what's going to happen next. He never feels threatened by some circumstance or some opponents Because he is the eternal, omnipotent God of creation. He is always in control. He is always At peace, how could anything worry him? This is the peace, this perfect peace that he offers to his children if they come to rest their problem with him This is very similar to what the Lord said to his disciples in the upper room the night before his crucifixion. Do you know this verse? John 14, 27, he says, Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. Notice he describes the peace that he's offering to them as my peace. This was the peace that the disciples had marveled over many times, even though he was despised and rejected of men and accused of horrible things. And rejected in large part by the nation, by every strata of society, yet he was a man at peace. We have a wonderful picture of that when they were out in the Sea of Galilee with the disciples, and Jesus went asleep in the back of the boat, and this great storm arises. And the disciples wake him up and they say, Master, carest thou not that we perish? And he stands up and he says, Peace be still. And the waters, the troubled waters became as glass. It was a picture of the kind of peace that he had in his heart. That storm did not trouble him in the least. And Jesus said to his disciples, the night before he was to be executed, my peace I give unto you. This was his dying legacy to his followers. And this peace is available to all of the Lord's followers. Now notice how this peace is further described in verse 7: the peace that passeth all understanding. Now there's some debate among scholars about how to take this. You could take this one of two ways. Some scholars believe this is saying that the peace of God is far superior to the peace that comes by means of human reasoning and understanding. The point being that your scheming, your plotting, your planning to solve your problem is of no avail, because what you need to do is take your burden to the Lord, because His His peace that He offers us. Is beyond any scheme, any plan that we could imagine. That is certainly true, but that's probably not what Paul is expressing in this verse. No, I think what Paul is saying here is that when you really experience the peace of God in the midst of an anxious circumstance, It will utterly amaze you. It surpasses your understanding. Have you ever had that experience? Have you ever found peace in the midst of a storm? You were in a crisis. You were in a really serious devastating situation, but you took your burn to the Lord and by His grace you were able to leave it there and you were able to experience an amazing peace that just caused you to marvel. I know there's some of you that have experienced that. I've experienced that I feel like I need to give a disclaimer here. If you were to ask me, what is my besetting sin? I would say that my besetting sin is worry I'm a worrier. This is a message for me. And that's why you see me always walking around and everything. I have all this nervous energy. that's pinned up inside of me. You know, we all have like an engine inside of us and it's uh it's set to uh to different speeds and and some people some of you have a very slow engine And you know, nothing really gets you excited. And then there's some people that you have a really high setting and you're always revved up. I'm one of those people. I have trouble relaxing. I'm not a relaxed, natural person that way. But I have experienced the peace that passeth all understanding. I remember very vividly one night when, shortly after my son Andrew was born. And we didn't know if he was going to make it. Uh he almost died on four different occasions uh when he was a baby. And I remember we were Had him down at University of Maryland and we were staying there in the Ronald McDonald House. We'd spent all day with him, my wife and I. We were very exhausted. We finally went back. to that little hotel-like room to spend the night, and we got a call from the doctor saying they didn't know there was an obstruction in his airway. They didn't know if he was going to make it. And I remember the the fear that gripped our hearts when we heard that. We had uh this is several weeks into his life, and it had been a very, very difficult journey already. And we wondered if this was the end. I remember that we knelt there by the bed, my wife and I, and we prayed and we gave our son to the Lord. And I remember we got up, and I remember being amazed. At the peace that I had in my heart. And I knew that it wasn't for me because that's not me naturally. I knew that was from the Lord, the peace that passes all understanding. I want you to notice how the promise continues in verse 7. It says, and that this peace shall keep your hearts and minds Through Christ Jesus. The peace of God is personified as a soldier that marches around the perimeter of our hearts like a soldier, a guard on high alert. When Paul wrote these words, he was likely chained to a Roman soldier. And the people that he wrote to in Philippi would have seen Roman soldiers every day. Paul is saying that the peace of God will guard your heart from those distressing thoughts when you have truly yielded that anxious situation and circumstance of the Lord, the peace of God will guard you Now again, perhaps you would say, it doesn't seem to work for me. Well, there's several explanations The most likely one is that you have not really cast your burden upon the Lord. Have you really entrusted him with your worry? I say this as very sympathetically. I know how hard that can be to do. Isaiah 26, 3 and 4, I love these verses. I meditate on them often. It says, thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. whose mind is stayed on thee because he trusteth in thee. Trust ye in the Lord forever, for the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength. And the phrase translated to everlasting strength is literally in the Hebrew, the rock of ages. A rock, a great Rock that you see out in a field or on the side of a mountain is something that is so stable and it seems timeless. That's a picture of our God. You can trust in him. It really comes down to a test of your faith. Do you really trust the Lord with your problem? But there's another reason that this promise might not seem to work for you. Because there is a qualifying phrase at the end of verse 7. It says, through Christ Jesus. This speaks of the believer's union with Christ. In other words, Paul is saying that this promise is only valid to those who are in Christ. Those who have come to trust in Him as their personal Lord and Savior. You see, it's impossible for you to leave your problem with the Lord if you don't really know the Lord's. Because you can only trust someone as you know them and have a relationship with them. And the fact is, how could you possibly be at rest? If the wrath of God is abiding on you. If you're here this morning without Christ, He is not your Lord and Savior. You're not trusting in him. Can I just say this? You should be very worried. You have a really good and legitimate reason to be worried. That's the most important thing in the world. St. Augustine said that man is restless until he finds his rest in God. So let me ask you: have you found your rest in him? One of the most remarkable men in history was John Wesley. I don't agree with some of his theology, but he was a believer. And he did some incredible things. He preached over 43,000 sermons in his lifetime as an adult, an average of four sermons a day. He rode over a quarter of a million miles on horseback while traveling to his various preaching engagements. And he was famous for several things, one of which that he's never seemed to be worried about anything. But it was not always that way in his life. As a young man from a pastor's home who went away to Oxford and studied for the ministry A man who was very disciplined and very devout, he went to the newly founded colony of Georgia to be a missionary in October of 1735. And as he was traveling over in the midst of the Atlantic, there was a great storm. And he became terrified. He was pale with fright because he thought the end was near. But what really disturbed him was that there was a Moravian family, a Christian family there, a husband and a wife and a bunch of children. And they were there in the bow of that ship, and they were huddled together and they were praying, but they were not afraid. They were completely at peace and at rest. He was embarrassed that even the little children were not as frightened as he was. And when he arrived in Georgia, he met the leader of the Moravian congregation, a man by the name of Spannenberg. And he spoke to this man about his fright that day on the ship. And the man said to him, Do you know Jesus Christ? And John Wesley, this very religious man, very knowledgeable man with A bachelor's and a master's degree said, I know, of course, that he is the savior of the world. And the preacher wisely said, Yes, but do you know that he is your savior? And Wesley never got away from that question. And it would be three years later when he would be back in London. On May 24, 1738, that he would say that his heart was strangely warmed, and he came to trust in Jesus Christ as his Savior. And he became known as a man who was always at peace. Do you know the rest? Of knowing that your sins have been forgiven, and that you have a home in heaven, and that God is your Lord and Savior. Let's have every head bowed and every eye closed You might be here this morning like Wesley. You might be religious. You might have a sterling reputation But the question is not do you know some facts about Christ or about the Bible or about religion, but Is Jesus your Savior? Have you come to trust in him and cast your life in his care? Has there been a time when you passed from death unto life, when you began to believe and depend on Him alone? For your salvation and not on your own righteousness. You can never have the peace that is promised in this passage until you come to know the Prince of Peace. Now many of you here undoubtedly are truly children of God. You have been born again. You have been saved. But maybe you are plagued with anxiety and fear. And even as I've been speaking today, your mind has been meditating on insurmountable problems. That seem to be looming ahead. God 's word gives very simple instructions. You need To turn from your problems and worship the Lord and remind yourself of who He is and what He has promised You need to bring your petitions before the Lord as a beggar, as someone who recognizes that they are not in control, and you need to commit that problem to Him because you can't solve it. And need to leave it at his feet. And then you need to trust in the great promise that he gives here that you can experience that peace that passes all understanding. And the peace of God will guard your hearts. That is God 's cure for worry. Father, I pray that you would help us to receive this message by faith, and may it bring blessing to us in this coming new year, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.