Now I would like you to turn with me in your Bibles to a book that may be difficult for you to find, and that is the book of Habakkuk. One of the greatest hymn writers of the eighteenth century was a man named William Cooper. He was born into a wealthy, elite English family in 1731. His father was a prominent politician. But when his mother died at the age of six, his life changed dramatically. He was sent to a boarding school. where he was abused by the older boys. The trauma of those early childhood years uh never escaped him. When he was a young man, he fell in love with a beautiful woman named Theodora. They had a courtship for some seven years. But at the end, her father said that he didn't think the match was right, and so he broke off the engagement, and this crushed William Cooper. He was never the same after that. In 1759, his father arranged for his troubled son to have a good living and an important position, and so he was appointed to be the clerk of journals. in Parliament. But there was a political adversary of his father who did not want this to occur, and so he demanded That there be public hearings, and that William Cooper would come forward and answer a series of difficult and probing questions. And the prospect of this public hearing literally drove William mad. In the span of just one week, he attempted to take his life three different times. And he wound up in the same asylum. But it was there that he heard the gospel. A man who was working in that facility had left an open Bible on tables for the individuals there to read and it was open to Romans three and he read those gospel texts And was gloriously converted. Later he would become the next door neighbor in the providence of God to John Newton, the author of Amazing Grace. And Newton took this troubled young man under his wing. He recognized that this man had a genius for poetry. And so they started this club basically where Newt would write one hymn one week and then Koopa would write it the next week and they would alternate back and forth. And those hymns were put into a very famous hymnal called the Only Hymnal. Now the most famous hymn that Cooper would write was, There is a fountain filled with blood. But he wrote many others. But perhaps the one that is most autobiographical is entitled God Moves in Mysterious Ways. The words are very powerful and very biblical. He says, God moves in mysterious ways his wonders to perform. He plants his footsteps in the seas and writhes upon the storm, deep in unfathomable minds of never-failing skill. He treasures up his bright designs and works his sovereign will. Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take, the clouds ye so much dread. are big with mercy and shall break in blessings on your head. Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, but trust him for his grace. Behind a frowning providence he hides a smiling face. His purposes will ripen fast, unfolding every hour. The bud may have a bitter taste, but sweet will be the flower. Blind unbelief is sure to err and scan his works in vain. God is his own interpreter, and he will make it plain. The prophet Habakkuk knew something about God's mysterious ways. Although he walked with the Lord for many years. There was a time in his life when he was greatly troubled because he could not understand what God was doing. And he records that in a little minor prophet book that bears his name. Now the name Habakkuk is odd to our ears. I don't know of anyone who has ever named their son Habakkuk, at least not in my sphere of influence. It's hard to say and it sounds strange to us. The name means embracer, or some have suggested wrestler. Habakkuk love the Lord. But he struggled to understand what God was doing. He ministered in a very significant time in Judah's history. He was a contemporary with prophets such as Jeremiah and Daniel and Zephaniah. He grew up under good king Josiah. You remember Josiah, he came to the throne at the early age of eight, and at the age of sixteen he began, the scripture says, to seek The Lord. He repaired the temple, he reclaimed the feast days, he drove idolaters out of the land, he brought about great reforms, he undid many of the wicked uh systems and structures that his father Manasseh had put forth in Judah. But after a thirty one year reign Josiah died in battle at the young age of 39. This was in the year 609 BC. And then a new king comes to the throne of Judah by the name of Jehoiakim. And in just a few years, the land has went back to its wickedness. Like it did under Josiah's father Manasseh. The nation became once more known for its idolatry and immorality and violence. And this man of God, Habakkuk, is frustrated with what God was doing. It seemed That God had heard the prayers of his people under King Josiah and things were getting better and people were coming to the Lord, God Jehovah, but now everything was going back and all the gains had been lost. The nation was filled again with wickedness. And worst of all, God seemed indifferent to the whole situation. Habakkuk has been praying faithfully for God to intervene, but nothing has happened. That's the occasion. For the writing of this minor prophet. This book is unique. It's unlike any of the other prophetic books in our Bible. Most of the prophets contain two types of information. You have a record of the preaching of the prophets to the people to turn from their sins. And then you have predictions of what God will bring to pass. It may be a prophecy about the Messiah, or it may be a prophecy of coming judgment, or prophecy of the millennium, but there is some prediction of what will happen. But in the book of Abakus, we have very little of these two standard elements that make up prophetic literature. Instead, what we have is a record of this prophet's personal struggle. In most of prophetic literature, the prophet speaks to God for the people. However, in Habakkuk, the prophet speaks to God about the people. This book has been compared to a prayer journal. It's personal, candid, and filled with intense emotion. The book structure is very easily to discern. In the first two chapters, we have the prophet wrestling or struggling, and his problems are brought before God. In a dialogue where the po the prophet prays and then God responds to his prayer. And then in the last chapter, chapter 3, we have a psalm of praise. So in this book, in this little book that records his personal struggle, we have the prophet moving from a focus on his problems to praising the Lord. You may wonder how did that occur? The answer is found in the most famous verse of this little book. And a very significant phrase that's echoed in our New Testament. It's in chapter 2 at the end of verse 4, it says, The just shall live by his faith. How is it that Christians can face uncertain times? The answer is the same answer that it's always been, and is by trusting in the Lord who does not change. This book is all about a man's crisis of faith. Every Christian At times finds it difficult to understand what God is doing in their lives and in the world And that is certainly the case with where we are right now. The coronavirus has shut down. Virtually every country in the world. There is no country that is unscathed by this pandemic. As of today, over 80,000 Americans have died in just a little over two months. Over 25 million Americans are out of work. And churches all over the world are shut up and closed down, unable to have services. In many advanced countries like our own, we're able to have live stream services, but in many parts of the world, this is not possible. Mission trips have been postponed. Evangelistic outreaches have been curtailed. It makes us wonder what is God doing? Why is the Lord turning our lives upside down? I believe that their answers are found here in the book of Habakkuk. And the answer is, initially in this book, is that we need to accept the fact that God's ways are often mysterious. They're beyond our understanding And we have to be content with not being able to figure out everything that God is doing. It's our pride that makes us think that we can understand the infinite creator of the universe. Now, when man looks at the world and sees disaster and catastrophe and pandemics, there are different responses that people have. Some people look at that and say, see, this is evidence there is no gods. Because the world appears to be completely chaotic and out of control. Others would say, well, there is a God, but he's a God who really isn't in control. He's not sovereign. I mean, he doesn't want things to happen like this, but there's there's just nothing he can do about it. And then there are others who would say, no, there's a God, but He really doesn't care what happens in the world. He's kind of detached. He's kind of left us to ourselves. He really is not aware or even that concern about what's transpiring in our lives and certainly not in our personal lives. For the Bible says that all of those answers are wrong. The Bible calls on us in these times of uncertainty. to trust in God's providential control even when we can't understand what He is doing And that is where we must rest ourselves. We don't have to understand what God is doing to trust in Him. I want you to look with me in this passage. You notice, first of all, that God's providence often does not square with our experience. Look at the first few verses here. It says the burden which Habakkuk the prophet did see. O Lord, how long shall I cry, and thou wilt not hear, even cry out unto thee of violence, and thou wilt not save? Why does that show me iniquity and cause me to behold grievance? For spoiling and violence are before me, and there are that raise up strife and contention. Therefore the law is slacked, and judgment doth never go forth. For the wicked doth compass about the righteous, therefore wrong judgment precedeth. The book begins with the burden which the Habakkuk the prophet did see. There was a mighty weight upon this man of God. And the burden was that the people that he was called to minister to were in large part wicked and godless. But what really vexed his soul was that God did not seem to be either aware or concerned of this reality. Verses 2 through 4 record what scholars would call a lament, or we might say a complaint. And his first lament is God seems unresponsive. To our cries. Here we have the prayer of an anguished soul. He says, Oh Lord, how long shall I cry and thou wilt not hear? The clear implication is that this was not the first time that this prophet had taken his burden to the Lord in prayer. I suspect that now for several years he's been calling out for God to intervene. What was he asking God to do? Well, he was asking God to do what is found. In the last word of verse 2, it's the word save, deliver, we might say. He's asking God to deliver the righteous and to judge the wicked. I think that Habakkuk was hoping that God would raise up another leader like Josiah, that God would institute a new period of revival. He had experienced those blessings early in his life, and what a joy it was to minister when there was a godly man on the throne. And the statutes and the laws and the enforcement was according to God's law. But now everything has changed. And he wants a return to those days of godliness. But God seemed unwilling to answer his prayer. It seemed as if his prayers were bouncing off the ceiling. God was strangely silent. The fact of the matter is that sometimes we come to God in prayer with our burdens. And it seems that God does not hear. It seems that he is silent This experience is not unique to Habakkuk. It is experienced at some time in all of God 's people. So, how do we respond when that occurs? Do we just assume that God doesn't care for us, or do we come to the conclusion that God has a different plan and a different timetable than we do? God 's silence is one of the great tests of our faith. And notice that God seems unwilling to stop the wicked. Verse 3 You will find in verse 2 and in verse 3, you'll see a mention of the word violence. This is a key word in Habakkuk's prophecy. It's found in chapter 1 and verses 2 and 3 and 9. It's found in chapter 2 and verses 8 and 17. What really distressed Habakkuk the prophet was that Jewish society had become violent. There was murder and bloodshed in the city. Notice how Habakkuk piles up synonyms for acts of injustice in verse 3. He speaks of iniquity and grievance and spoiling and violent strife and contention. The strong were attacking the weak, the rich were oppressing the poor. These brutal acts of injustice vexed the righteous soul of the Prophet Habakkuk. And it seemed that God was not going to stop this. Habakkuk witnessed the degradation of culture every day. And it seemed that God was allowing them to continue in their iniquity. Of course, this is still a challenge for us today. If you like to keep up with the news and you watch the news, most of what you hear is negative. Not just now, but it's always that way. And it's just the nature of the business. No one would watch a broadcast or read a newspaper if it said things are going pretty well right now. But when it says something about disaster coming or things look like they're going to go really poorly in this next month, it brings viewers and readership. And the fact of the matter is, if you just watch the nightly news, you will hear a great deal of talk of violence and death. and destruction and hopelessness and injustice. It's always been that way in the world. It may appear at first glance that God is out of control or that God doesn't care what's taking place. But that, of course, is not the case. In verse 4. The prophet says the law is slacked, and judgment doth never go forth. The word slacked means chilled literally. It seemed that God was paralyzed. and his response to evildoers. That was Habakkuk's perspective. The people were arrogantly violating the law of God They were worshiping other gods. They were fashioning idols out of wood and stone. They were taking God's name in vain. They were desecrating his holy Sabbath. They were murdering and stealing And everyone seemed to be getting away with it. The fact is, things often seem unjust and unfair in the world. So often the wicked prosper and the righteous suffer. And that brings us to the second point that I would like to bring out of this passage. And that is that God's providence is often misinterpreted by people. We see this really clearly brought out in verses 5 through 11. In verses five through eleven, God answers Habakkuk's complaints, but not in the way that the prophet would have guessed What the Lord tells Habakkuk is that he is very aware of the situation and he is in control. Look with me at verse 5. He says, Behold ye among the heathen and regard and wonder marvelously, for I will work a work in your days which ye will not believe, though it be told you. That was intriguing. He tells Abacu, you want to see me get involved? You want to see me intervene in the affairs of men? I'm going to do something in your day that you're not going to believe. That certainly got his interest. And what the Lord says in verse 6 is: For lo I raise up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation. which shall march through the breadth of the land to possess the dwelling places that are not theirs. The Lord says, keep your eye on the Chaldeans, or we would say the Babylonians He says in verse 6 that he will allow the Babylonians to invade Judah. He raised them up. For that purpose. It's not just that he was going to not stop them. No, he was going to guide them and direct them and providentially lead them to invade the land of his covenant people. He says in verse 6 that they're going to march into the land like they own the place. They're not going to come in stealthily. with an ambush and quite a try to s sneak up. No, they will show no respect for the people of Judah. They will just march in and take it They will act like they are law unto themselves. In verse 7, the Lord describes the fear that they will instill in the hearts of the people. when they come. He says they are terrible, terrible and dreadful. Their judgment and their dignity shall proceed of themselves. In verse 8, the Lord describes the Babylonians using animal imagery. Their horses are swifter than leopards. And they are more fierce than the evening wolves, and their horsemen shall spread themselves, and their horsemen shall come from far. They shall fly as the eagle that hasteth to eat. If we were to put this in in in our terms today, we would say that their military equipments Is like so advanced and so effective that it would just cause the people of Judah to say, we don't stand a chance. We cannot begin to put up resistance against this superior foe. In verse 9, we see this word violence again. What God is reflecting here is what is called poetic justice. Habakkuk has just complained that in the land of Judah the people are so violent. So God says, All right, I will meet violence with violence. He sends a people far more violent than the residents of Judah to bring judgment upon them God often punishes violence with violence. In Psalm 18, verse 26, it says, with the fro word thou wilt show thyself forward and that word means twisted or perverse. It's something that we find often in Scripture that God often judges sinful conduct with sin from those who oppressed those who are committing that sin. This is very much in line with what the Lord said. Those who live by the sword will die by the sword. In other words, those who live a violent life often die a violent death. In verse 10, we read that the arrogant Babylonians will scoff at the nobility of Judah. And they shall scoff at the kings and the princes, shall be a scorn unto them, and they shall deride every stronghold, for they shall heap dust and take it. The idea here of heaping up dust is that they will build siege ramps and they will breach the walls of every city they come to. The idea is they will come and they will see these cities and they will laugh and say, Is that all you have? Is that the the the thickness of these walls and the height of these walls? This is no challenge to us at all. And when they look at the nobility and the royal court of Judah, they will laugh because it's nothing compared with the splendor of Babylon. Now, what I want us to recognize in these verses is that God's people frequently do not see When he sends judgment. They don't think of it as coming from the Lord. So I'm going to look at three actors In this prophecy. First of all, I want you to notice that the wicked usually do not perceive the providence of God. And we see this from unfaithful Judah. They did not believe the prophet when they when they warned of coming judgment. They had become comfortable with their sin. They had lived wickedly for years, and so why would God suddenly bring judgment upon them? This is the way wicked people always think. When Noah warned of a coming flood, the people scoffed at him. When Lot warned the inhabitants of Sodom and Gomorrah that God would rain down fire upon their city, they laughed at him. And when the prophets of Judah raised uh warning of pagan babylon that they would come and they would capture the city. The people laughed at this warning. To make matters worse, Jeremiah records that there were false prophets who kept telling the people, peace, peace. Don't listen to these alarmists over here. Everything's fine. After all, we are the covenant people of God. He's going to take care of us. He's going to protect us. Nothing bad is going to happen to us But they were wrong. They were false prophets. Secondly, the world rarely perceives The providence of God. And we see this exemplified in that pagan nation, Babylon. The Babylonians had no idea That they were being used to chastise the people of God. Look with me at the end of verse eleven. It says imputing this his power unto his God. The idea is that the Babylonians thought the reason why we're so powerful And while we're able to come in and just annihilate the people of Judah is because of our pagan gods. And the one true God is saying they're ignorant. It's not that their gods are empowering them to do this. I'm empowering them to do this. I'm using as an instrument to chastise and punish my wayward people You see, the Babylonians were convinced that their gods were more powerful than the gods of the Jews. That's the way the ancient peoples thought when they went and Defeated another people, they would say, Oh, this proves our God is superior to their God. And that's the way all the peoples in the ancient world viewed things. But the God of Israel and Judah says this is not true. There are actually pawns in my hand. They are doing all my bidding. They think it's because their non-existent pagan gods have great power, but that is not the case. Little did they know that God had raised them up, but that in a short time God would bring them down to destruction at the hand of the Persians. You see, empires rise with great power and arrogance, but their dominion always comes to an end We read of the Egyptians and the Assyrians and the Babylonians and the Persians and the Greeks and the Romans. They all thought that they were invincible, that they would establish an empire. A kingdom that would last for eternity, but they were all pawns in the hands of a sovereign Almighty God. God is still working in the world today, but most people don't get it. They don't see it. They don't perceive it. But the promises and declarations of Scriptures are true. I love what it says in Daniel chapter 4 and verse 35. And all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. And he doeth according to his will in the army of heaven. and among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou There are no checks and balances to our God. There is no way. There is no power that can keep him from doing what he wants to accomplish in the world. But not only were the people of Judah and Babylon ignorant of God's involvement. But the prophet Habakkuk did not perceive what God was doing. This has always been the case. With the people of God. His ways are past finding out. So often people have come to me with a great crisis of faith because they don't understand what God is doing. And I always say to them, if you could understand everything that God is doing, you could trace all of his thoughts and all of his plans Then it would mean that you're just as intelligent as God's. But He is the omniscient God of the universe Habakkuk didn't understand what God was doing. When he asked God to intervene, he was asking God to send a righteous sovereign. to reign over the people, to bring about repentance and revival, but God had other plans. You see, God often answers our prayers in ways that we do not anticipate. How many of the Lord's people have over the years and even in recent years been praying and begging God To get the attention of the people of the world, to shake us from our lethargy, from our godless secularism, from our rampant materialism. to get our attention, to bring us out of our normal patterns and routines so that people look up, so that people are brought down to their knees. And see that they are weak, that they are not self-sufficient. Well, you know what? God has answered our prayers. But not in a way that we expected. We often think that we know what God must do in a given situation. It's not wrong for us to pray with a specific request. We are invited to bring our petitions to God. But we must always recognize that God may answer our prayers in a way and through a means that we would never imagine. So why didn't God answer Habakkuk's prayer when he was asking really for revival? Instead, God sent judgment Well the answer is found in 2 Chronicles chapter 36. I want to begin reading at verse 14. It says, Moreover, all the chief of the priests and the people transgressed very much after all the abominations of the heathen, and polluted the house of the Lord, which he had hallowed in Jerusalem. And the Lord God of their fathers sent to them by his messengers, because he had compassion on the people and on his dwelling place. But they mocked the messengers of God and despised his words and misused his prophets until the wrath of the Lord arose against his people, till there was no remedy Therefore he brought upon them the king of the Chaldees, who slew their young men with a sword in the house of their sanctuary. And had no compassion upon young man or maiden or old man or him that stooped for age. He gave them all into his hand. The scriptures reveal that God was righteous in what he was doing. In fact, he was being merciful. He was vindicating his faithful servants, the prophets. and sending the judgment of Babylon and taking the nation off into captivity. So let me ask you, how do you view the coronavirus pandemic. You know, there are different lenses or different grids That you can look through this. And I'm not saying that there's no importance to any of these, but I do want to make one challenge to us. In other words, you can look at this pandemic primarily through a nationalistic lens Look at what this is doing to our nation. But this is not just influencing our nation, it's affecting the whole world. You can look through it through a political lens. And say, look how people are taking political advantage of this crisis. And indeed, there is some justification for that You could look at this pandemic through a naturalistic lens and say, you know what? This is just the way things happen You know, every once in a while, every hundred years or so, we have a global pandemic. Nothing we can do about it I would encourage us as Christian people to look at this through a theological lens. These other things may have secondary importance, but our primary thought, our primary interpretation must be: what is God doing in the worlds? And the answer of Scripture is first and foremost that God is bringing judgment to the world. He is awakening the world. I said very early on in the first week when we were not able to have services on a Sunday evening, I mentioned to you that if you go through the scriptures and you look up the terms Pestilence or plague, you'll find that every single time the scripture speaks of this, and there are many times like this, it is always in the context of judgment. The Bible never interprets it as, well, you know, it just sort of happens. It sees it as something that was ordained of God to bring judgment and to awaken people to the reality that there is a God that they must answer to. That's the way Christian people have always interpreted plagues. And natural disasters and things of this matter. And I would suggest to you that that is the way we should interpret it as the people of God. We tend to have a very sentimental view of God that is distorted from what the Scripture reveals. And what this pandemic does is remind us that there is a righteous God Who despises sin and will bring judgment to the world This does not mean that every person who dies of coronavirus was a wicked and notorious sinner. Of course not. There are godly people that have died of this. But we should not extract from that fact that therefore this is not the judgment of God. This is the judgment of God. And it is a preview. It is just a little reflection. It is an echo of the ultimate judgment of God. And if you are listening this morning to this service, or you're going to listen to it later on, I want you to know that the Bible says that God is a righteous God. And that everyone must someday give an account to him, an answer for their life and their actions. And the Bible says that those who even today have not been found in Christ are right at this moment under the wrath of God. It says in John 3. 36, he that hath a son hath life. And he that hath not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him The wrath of God is an inconvenient doctrine that we would like to just ignore in the scriptures, but it's mentioned hundreds of times. And this judgment that we're experiencing right now is a reminder to us that there is a righteous God that we must answer to. So I exhort you, if you are not in Christ, if you have not repented of your sins and turned to the Savior, won't you seek him today? It's the only way to flee from the wrath to come. Finally, this morning I want us to conclude by looking at the fact that God's providence is at work even when we cannot perceive it. And I want to bring from this first paragraph four truths that will guard our hearts in times of confusion and doubts. Four stabilizing truths. The first truth is this God is in absolute control. From Habakkuk's perspective, it seemed like God was not in control, because the wicked were prospering and the righteous were perishing. False prophets were accepted and God's messengers were ignored. But what this little book reveals is that God is very much in control. The wicked are not escaping his judgment. And the reason he has delayed their doom is to provide them with a chance to repent. You see, the very things that we often view as evidence that God is not in control are actually when properly seen demonstrations that he and is very much in control, that he is sovereign. What we see is chaos. Is Africa actually the fabric of God's grand design? God is in absolute control, number one. Number two, God has a good plan. It's not just that God has a plan, but God has a good plan. A plan designed for our good. A plan designed for the good of the worlds. The Lord answers the prophets. complaint by telling him of what will happen next. He mentions that the Babylonians will come. We know historically the Babylonians came in three waves. They at first invaded Judah in 605 BC. That's when they captured Daniel and his friends. They came again in 598 B. C. And surrounded the city and did some further damage. And then finally they came and destroyed the city of Jerusalem in 586. And they took the people as captives to Babylon. This was all part of God 's good plan for his people. He predicted this captivity decades before through his prophets. And he also predicted for their comfort the fall of Babylon. One of the most amazing prophecies in Scripture is found in Isaiah 44, where God predicts Long before this man was born, that a man named Cyrus would come, a Persian, and he would topple the Babylonian Empire. And that occurred in five thirty-nine BC. In one night Their empire, the world domination crumbles. God has a good plan. Number three God has a definite timetable. In Galatians 4. 4, we get a hint of this In reference to our Savior, it says, when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his Son. Jesus was born exactly when God wanted it to occur. Habakkuk's prayer was that God would deliver his people From their injustice that God would bring about Someone who would save them. And that prayer would ultimately be answered some six hundred years later in the coming of Christ. But in just a few years after Habakkuk wrote the words of this prophecy, the Babylonians would come and destroy Jerusalem and take the Hebrews captive. It seemed like the end of the world. You can see that in the writings of the prophet Jeremiah. But God was accomplishing his good purpose in his good time. It seemed like God was doing nothing for years, but everything was right on schedule. One of the things that we're all struggling with right now is impatience. This is the ninth Sunday that I have preached essentially to an empty congregation. I want to assure you that I am very eager to return to public services But God has a timetable. We all want our lives to go back to where they were before, to get it back into our comfortable routines, to being able to engage with other people. But we need to remember that God has a timetable. He will bring us out of this crisis when he deems it best. God is at work. He has a good plan. He has a definite timetable. And fourthly, he has an ultimate purpose. What God says to Habakkuk the prophet in this little writing is essentially you need Habakkuk to look at the big picture. You're you're you're too immersed in the here and now and you're looking at your little your little responsibilities and what's happening here in Judah. You need to look at the big picture, my grand design at what I am doing. You see, the Bible teaches that God is in complete control. that he has a good plan, a definite timetable, and all of this is leading to one specific purpose. And that is found in chapter 2 and verse 14 of this prophet. Prophecy. This is one of the most amazing verses in the Old Testament. It says this in Habakkuk 2. 14 for the earth Shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. What a wonderful promise this is. God reveals to this troubled prophet that everything is moving to the glory of God 's When all the world will recognize the splendor and majesty of the Lord. This is what we should be praying for that God would use this pandemic to bring glory to Himself That his name would be hallowed, that is set apart, that his kingdom would come, that his will would be done. We should be praying that all the peoples of the world would come to behold the glory of the only begotten Son of God 's. You see, when we begin to trace the sovereign design of our Lord, our hearts are turned from worry to worship. I want to conclude with Paul's concluding words of the first half of the book of Romans, found in Romans 11. 33 and following, O the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments And his ways past finding out, for who hath known the mind of the Lord, or who hath been his counsellor, or who hath first given to him that it should be recompensed unto him again For of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory for ever. Amen. What is God going to do through this global pandemic? The biblical answer is that ultimately he is going to bring glory to himself. And we can rest in that hope. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father. We thank you for your word. I pray that you'd help us to respond to it in faith and trust in you, even when we cannot discern what you are doing. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen