Give your Bibles, please. You can be turning to the book of Genesis, to the end of Genesis. One of the most remarkable preachers of the 17th century was a man named Samuel Rutherford. He was born in the year 1600. to a prosperous but unbelieving farmer. This bright young boy was sent away to the University of Edinburgh Where he would take his master's degree in 1621. But it was not until three years later, as a young man at the age of 24, that he came to saving faith in Jesus Christ. After two more years of theological training, he was called to a church in the countryside of Scotland. And here he would serve for nine years as a pastor. But his life was far from easy. In 1629, his only two children died of some unknown disease, and then his beloved wife who suffered horribly for thirteen months also perished. Rutherford writes that the only thing he had left to give him any joy in his life was preaching, but soon he lost this as well. Due to his bold preaching and positions on various issues, his pastoral charge was taken from him for a period of some 22 months. And he would write of this, I have tasted bitterness and eaten gall and were wood since that day on which my master laid bonds upon me to speak no more. But during this period of darkness, he would also write, praise God, for the hammer, the file, and the furnace. And there he is, of course, referring to these afflictions that God used as tools in the process of sanctification. The fact is that God uses many different means to shape us into the image of his son. This morning, as we continue our study of the life of Joseph, we are shifting our focus to how God was working in the life of his father Jacob. Most of the book of Genesis is a record of God's dealings with the patriarchs from verses Genesis 12 through 50. Revealed God's dealings with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. As I mentioned at the outset of our study, the life of Joseph is really an extension of God's covenant with his father. Jacob. I want to ask you to turn back with me where we began our study in Genesis 37. I want you to see this. In Genesis chapter 37 , Which begins the life of Joseph. We have this introduction in verse 1, Genesis 37, 1. And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger. In the land of Canaan. Then it says, These are the generations of Jacob, Joseph being seventeen years old, and then it begins that narrative. You see, the life of Joseph is really embedded in the narrative of Jacob. Of course, no one lives a life to himself. Our lives touch and influence everyone around us, especially, of course, our children and their children. Although Joseph was the son of his father Jacob, He was nothing like him. Sometimes children grow up and say, I want to be just like my dad. And sometimes they say, I want to be nothing like my dad. And I think that that may have been the sentiment of Joseph. Jacob was deceptive and dishonest. But Joseph was truthful and transparent. Jacob manipulated people, but Joseph ministered to people. Jacob tended to doubt God, but Joseph trusted in God. Jacob looked at his troubles always as the judgment of God, but Joseph saw in his trials the providence of God. Beginning in Genesis 37, the biblical narrative turns from Jacob to his son Joseph. But now with the reunion of the family in Genesis chapter 45 The focus of the story turns back to the last patriarch Jacob. It has not abandoned Joseph. But it's kind of like a story now with two tracks, two storylines going side by side, what God is doing in the life of Joseph and in Jacob and in both of their lives. Joseph is the man that God would use to take the covenant people of God out of Canaan And into Egypt where they would become a nation. He is the bridge figure between the books of Genesis Now let me remind you that the reason that God moved the children of Abraham out of the promised land Canaan is because there was a real danger. that they would adopt the pagan practices of their neighbors and that in time they would just be assimilated into Canaanite culture. And so God moved them out of Canaan and into Egypt, that has often been described by theologians as the womb of the infant people of God. Perhaps you would ask, how would Egypt serve as a better residence? Because we know, as I've mentioned in previous sermons, that Egypt was full of idolatry. And the answer is that the Hebrews were considered culturally inferior by the Egyptians, and therefore they were segregated in the region. of Goshen. It was like they had their own little state. The Egyptians really wanted nothing to do with them, and so they were able to retain many of their cultural distinctives, including their worship of the one true God. Jehovah. Now within this larger story of God's dealing with this covenant people, we see how God deals with individuals like Jacob and Joseph. These examples are very helpful for us because although these events happened thousands of years ago, they are still very relevant because human nature has not changed. And God has not changed. So what are some of the circumstances that God uses in our lives to transform us? So I want to speak to you. this morning on God's tools for spiritual transformation. And the first one that I want to mention is that God uses difficulty in our lives. to transform us. Turn with me ahead to Genesis chapter 47 and verse 9. Genesis 47 And verse 9. Let me read this verse for you, and then we'll make some points from this. It says, and Jacob said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage are a hundred and thirty years. Few and evil have been the days of the years of my life. And have not attained unto the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage. This verse records Jacob's appearance before Pharaoh. Shortly after Jacob's family arrives in Egypt, Joseph arranges his meetings with Pharaoh. He first presents five sons of Jacob, and they make the request that they would be able to live in Goshen. Now Joseph has already given him this idea, but this is kind of like the official agreement that has already been basically agreed to. Pharaoh graciously grants the request, and then Joseph brings in his father Jacob before Pharaoh. I think this is a fascinating scene. What a study and contrast. Pharaoh was cultured, sophisticated, and refined. Jacob had lived all of his life in attempts. Pharaoh was clean shaven, and Jacob probably had a beard down to his belt. Jacob came slowly limping along with his ancient staff And he blesses the most powerful man in the world. It's interesting if you Consider this incident through the lens of Scripture in Hebrews chapter 7 and verse 7. We read that the less is blessed by the greater. You see, the most powerful man in that room was not Pharaoh, but the patriarch who had received revelation from God. Jacob looked like a man from a different era, and so Pharaoh asked him his age. And then he says something remarkable. He says, Few and evil have been the days of my life. Jacob is saying, this is amazing, of course, because who would say at the age of 130, you know, I haven't been around that long? Perhaps there's a little note of humor here. But he is saying that relative to his father and grandfather, who lived to be 175 and 180, respectively, he really isn't that old at 130. But what I want to zero in on. Is the summary of his life here as evil. Now, what does he mean by evil? He does not mean that it's been morally evil, although that was certainly true in some situations. But he means that it's been difficult. He says, if you were to summarize my life in one word, it would be difficult. He says, in the essence, I've seen a lot of trouble in my 130 years of life. Now this statement was true in a sense. Let's remind ourselves of some of Jacob's life. As a young man, he fled from home because of the way he deceived his father and brother, and for twenty years he found himself working with a man named Laban who gave him a taste of his own medicine. I mentioned this before. I heard a preacher say this many, many years ago and it stuck in my mind. He said that Jacob had a bachelor's degree in manipulation, but Laban had a PhD. And so they were constantly trying to outwit each other. And although it seemed at first glance like Laban was always getting the upper hand. Because of the blessing of God, somehow, although he changed his wages ten times and cheated him repeatedly , God made him to prosper even in that harsh, difficult environment. Jacob, of course, had his share of sorrow. He lost his beautiful wife Rachel, and for over 20 years it seemed like he'd lost his beloved son Joseph. And his oldest sons, who he hoped would carry on the family name, had been a disappointment. They made bad choices. They were in many ways moral failures to him. And now he has nearly died of the famine that has come and looked like it was going to wipe out all of his family. In Genesis 42, 36, Jacob makes a very telling remark. He says, all these things are against me. And his viewpoint, his life was just one difficult circumstance after another, and he felt in his heart of hearts that it was God that was behind him, that God was judging him. Now let me be clear. Much of Jacob's problems were self-inflicted. The reason he ran away from home is because he did wrong his brother, Esau. And the reason why his sons treated Joseph the way they did, at least in part, was because of his favoritism towards Joseph. The Bible says the way of the transgressor is hard. But even when God brings chastisement into the lives of his children, there still is comfort there, there still is affection there, there still is love God often uses our disappointments and difficulties to drive us back to Him. The Puritans used to say of affliction, and they wrote a great deal about trials and affliction, that the believer must kiss the rod. And what they mean by that is the rod that God is using to afflict you rather than fight against it and resist it and grow angry and bitter. You are to kiss the rod as a symbol of submission that you are yielding to his purpose in your life. This is a difficult thing to do. It's very difficult when God sends trials into our life to accept this as the will of God and not to become upset and distant and bitter. But this is what we must do. This is part of what God does to transform us. He brings difficulty into our lives. Secondly, God uses his work in the lives of our children to transform us. We know that God used the promise of Isaac as a great factor in Abraham's spiritual growth. And now the Lord would use his work in Joseph's life to bring Jacob back to the Lord. I want you to turn with me to Genesis chapter 45, please. Genesis 45 and verse 25 This is the record of the brothers returning to tell their father Jacob this astounding news that Joseph is alive. It says in verse 25, And they went up out of Egypt and came into the land of Canaan unto Jacob their father, and told him, saying, Joseph is yet alive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt. And Jacob's heart fainted, for he believed them not. And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said unto them. And when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob, their father, revived, and Israel said, It is enough. Joseph, my son, is yet alive. I will go and see him before I die. Jacob was a skeptic, and this report from his sons at first seemed too good to be true. And so in verse twenty-six it plainly says that he didn't believe them. And we should not be surprised. He suspected that they lied to him about Joseph's disappearance years earlier. I say this because when he sent his youngest son Benjamin back to Egypt with them. He was afraid, he said, that some mischief might befall him. Jacob wasn't certain what happened to Joseph, but it never felt like he got the whole story from his sons. And so now when they tell him that Joseph was not only alive, but that he was the governor of Egypt, he was really not buying their story. It just seemed too far-fetched. But as Jacob looks around, he has a change of mind. Jacob was one who tended to walk by sight. And not by faith. Remember when they wanted to convince their father that Joseph was dead, they got his coat of many colors that they had torn off of Joseph. And they dipped it in animals' blood and they presented it to him as evidence because they knew the kind of mind that Jacob had that with this physical evidence he would draw some conclusions. And now Jacob is going to draw some conclusions by what he sees them returning with. He sees a royal wagon from Egypt that probably had Egyptian writing on it. He knew. This was not something that was local. He had never seen anything like this before. And there wasn't just one, there were several, and they would weight it down with goods that obviously had come from Egypt. And so quickly he begins to calculate and he realizes my sons are pretty bad and they they they might have perhaps somehow been able to steal one of these wagons. But not all of these wagons, and not with all of this stuff, this must certainly verify their outlandish story. As strange as it seems, it must be true. And so in a moment of time, his life has changed Sometimes things happen in our lives that change the entire trajectory of our life, one moment in time. And that's the way this was for Jacob. This truth was staggering. The ramifications of this news must have taken some time to sink in. First of all, God had not abandoned his son as he had been assuming for all of these years. The Lord had not turned a deaf ear to his tear saturated prayers. No, God was at work. God had protected his son. But his son was not just alive in Egypt. He had somehow been exalted to be the second most powerful man. Just imagine how that news was going through his mind at this time. Not only did the Lord spare his life, but the Lord was now, through Joseph, going to spare the life of his entire family. You see, God was not against Jacob as had been thinking for 23 years, but God was for him. God was at work, God was good. His future was not dark and dismal, but bright and blessed. Verse 27 says that when Jacob believed this news, that his spirit revived. And I think this is true not just in a physical sense, but perhaps in a spiritual sense as well. Jacob's spiritual life throughout his life had been like a roller coaster. I've met many people like this in my life. Have you met people like this? Maybe you're one of these individuals. Where the person is either on the mountaintop and they're enthusiastic about doing spiritual things and they're reading their Bible and they're praying and they're witnessing to people and they're going to church every time the doors are open, they're at the top. They're either there or they're down at the bottom where the roller coaster has just come down the hill. And everything's horrible. They don't go to church. They're not reading their Bible. They're not doing anything. And then they'll come up again and then they'll go down again. They'll come up again and come down again. That's a very, by the way, poor way to live the Christian life. It is not a fun experience. It is not the way the Christian life is supposed to be. That's the way Jacob lived it, however. You can study his life and see that. But for the past 23 years, he's been down at the bottom of the hill. He's kind of stayed there in a slump. And that's where he has been. And in his mind, he was just going to live out the rest of his miserable life there in Canaan. And that would be the end of his sad life. But God had other plans. The God who revealed himself to Jacob at Bethel and wrestled with him one dark night at Penil. seems to have abandoned him. But now Jacob sees that his perceptions were all wrong. God was faithful to his promise. God was at work even in Egypt in the life of his son. The God of his fathers is also the God of his son. God would fulfill the promises that he made to Abraham. And in his descendants all the nations of the earth would be blessed. And this was an evidence of that. How many parents here this morning can testify that God Has worked in your life through your children. Does this in different ways. When your children are small You might learn something about, Pastor Nick mentioned this the other day, the depravity of man. You see in your little children this defiance, this selfishness, this egocentrism. And what is really, really humbling is when you see yourself in your children. And you see that stubbornness or that worldliness or that whatever it might be, you see that reflected back at you. And you know exactly where they got that from. They got it from you. When you see how your children grow and how they learn about God, and you see Sometimes the naive aspects of their faith, and it strengthens your own faith, their confidence that if they pray for something, God's going to do it. And the way they they trust in the Lord. And many times there are lessons to learn as they come of age. And they began to figure things out for themselves and begin to make choices themselves, sometimes the choices that you would not make Or choices that you do not want them to make. But now you find yourself losing control. You don't have the easy grasp that you had of them once when they were little. Now they're adults. And you have to let them make some choices on their own. And it causes you to trust in God. And now the danger of the world, the danger that their life is going to go off course. Become real and tangible right in front of you. And what does that do to every Christian parent? It drives you to your knees. Lord, keep them from making that mistake. Keep them from going astray. Keep them from going in that direction that is going to bring them grief for the rest of their days. You see, God uses our children to shape us and mold us. And sometimes when our children grow up , And I've heard this from parents before, and you recognize that they're a better Christian than I am. They're more faithful than I am. They're more involved in the Lord's work than I am. By the way, that should be the goal of every parent. That your children eclipse you and go further in their Christian walk than you do. And I think as As Jacob, when he met Joseph and saw his character and saw what God had done for him in a strange land, I think his own faith revived. And he said, I do serve a faithful God. Look at how faithful he's been to my son. Look at how he has worked and preserved and protected my beloved son. This is one of the great instruments that God uses in our lives to shape us is our children. And thirdly, God uses the promises of his word to transform us. This brings us to the passage that we read together this morning, Genesis chapter 46. I want to look at the first four verses. And Israel took his journey with all that he had and came to Beersheba and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac. And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night and said, Jacob, Jacob, and he said, Here am I. And they said, I am God, the God of thy father, fear not to go down into Egypt, for I will there make of thee a great nation. I will go down with thee into Egypt, and I will also surely bring thee up again. And Joseph Put his hand, and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes. This is a wonderful passage of scripture. This journey marked a spiritual milestone in Jacob's life. First notice that he offers a sacrifice at Beersheba. At the same altar, his grandfather Abraham and his father Isaac had offered sacrifices to God. So this was a place of special significance. It reminded him of who he was and of the God that he served. Then Beersheba was as far south as you could go. and remain in the land of Canaan. You might say it was the last exit before Egypt. And Jacob hesitates. And so God speaks to Jacob in a vision. He tells him not to be afraid to go down into Egypt. Now let me ask you why Would Jacob be afraid to relocate to Egypt? I mean, you would think he would be really eager to go there and live with his son. And I'm sure he was eager to see Joseph. But Jacob is afraid to relocate. Why? Let me suggest several reasons. Number one Because change is often uncomfortable. Change is often uncomfortable. You like change? Some people do. A lot of people don't. When I asked that question, you know what I saw? I saw a lot of elderly people doing this. Don't like change. Don't like change. Generally speaking, that's the way it is. The older you get, the less change you want. And let me remind you that Jacob is 130. Elderly people find comfort and confidence in routines and schedules. But God is getting Jacob out of his routine and everything that was familiar to him. And telling him to go to a place that would be completely different from anything that he ever knew. He was taking him out of his comfort zone. Sometimes God does that to us, and it's for our good. Another reason that he was hesitant to go was because Egypt was filled with bad memories in his family history. Let me remind you that Abraham and Isaac had both experienced near disastrous events there. And perhaps his father or grandfather had warned him never to go to Egypt. And thirdly, Canaan was the land of promise. Didn't God promise that it was here that they would possess this land someday? And now they're moving out of it? Has God abandoned his promise? It didn't seem right. And so God assures him with this vision. This is a remarkable thing. The great events in Jacob's life were marked. by revelation from God. You remember when Jacob fleeing from his brother Esau ran away from home? And he spent the night at a place he called Bethel, where he used a stone for a pillow. I always thought about that when I was a boy. That couldn't have been very comfortable But it was there that God revealed himself to him and reaffirmed the Abrahamic covenant, and he said, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I knew it not. This is the house of God, the gate of heaven. And at a later time, when Jacob was discouraged, because he was being cheated by his father-in-law Laban, God appeared to him and called him to return home in Genesis 31. And shortly after that, at another moment of crisis, when he hears a report that Esau, his brother, is coming to meet him. with all of these men he assumes that his brother is finally going to get his revenge and that he and his family will be slaughtered. And you remember how Jacob goes into crisis mode and he divides up his family and his herds and he spends that night. He goes over the little creek of Jabuk and he's there wrestling with God, as it were, literally. And in the darkness a stranger comes and wrestles with them, and he comes to realize this is no ordinary man. He's wrestling with a pre-incarnate manifestation. of Christ. This is a theophany. And he calls the place Penil because he says he saw God face to face. And his life would never be the same. Literally, he would walk with a limp for the rest of his days, signifying that he had been touched by God and he must depend on God. Then after a period of backsliding, God calls Jacob to arise and go back to Bethel and put away the false gods from his household. We read of this in Genesis 35. And there God reaffirms the covenant with Jacob and blesses him once more. But then many, many years pass, at least 23 years. And he hears no voice from God, no more revelation. And Jacob is in a real spiritual slump. But now, as he prepares to leave the land of Canaan, he hears from God for the fifth time in his life. This would be the final revelation given to the patriarchs. As far as we know, the next time that God would reveal Himself to a human being would be 430 years later, when God would call a man named Moses at the burning bush. And God would reveal Himself as the great I Am. And Moses, of course, is the author of this story of Joseph. But I want you to notice with me how patient the Lord is with fearful Jacob. He says, fear not To go down into Egypt. I mentioned to you often that the most common command given in Scripture is fear not. I think that's significant. It's because human beings are fearful creatures. We work really hard to make people think that we're afraid of nothing. When in fact we are very fearful people. We're like sheep. How many blessings do we forfeit because of our fear? How many times do we fail to obey because we are afraid to move forward? Just imagine if Jacob's fear kept him. From going to Egypt. He probably would have died from the famine in Canaan. But he didn't remain in Canaan. He relocated to the land of Egypt. He trusted in God. So, what are some reasons that Jacob should not be afraid? Notice how God deals with him here in Genesis 46. First of all, consider who is giving this command. He says, I am God. Our fear of God should drive out all other fears from our life. The Bible says the fear of man bringeth a snare, but how often The fear of man keeps us from doing what God wants us to do. Consider how well the Lord knew Jacob. He says, fear not to go down into Egypt. We have no expression or text that Jacob was afraid, but the reason why God said this is because he knew that Jacob was afraid. God 's presence is never hindered by geography. And consider the promises that God gives to Jacob There are four of them here. He says, I will there make of thee a great nation. This is a reiteration of the Abrahamic covenant. God is assuring Jacob that he is not annulling that covenant given to his grandfather. It is still valid. God is still working his plan. He says, I will go down with thee into Egypt. When you study Scripture, you'll find that the answer to our fear is always the presence of the Lord. The Bible says again and again, fear thou not. For I am with thee. And then God says, thirdly, I will surely bring thee up again. God will fulfill his promise of bringing them back to the promised land. And then an even more personal promise. Fourthly, he says, Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes. What does that mean? This is speaking about when he dies. He's saying, you will not die alone in a strange place. Your family will be with you when you die. You will die in peace and dignity. And Jacob grasped these promises by faith and continued into Egypt. You see, God's promises strengthen our faith and enable us to defeat our fears and respond in obedience. This is an important thing for us to consider. The Bible is also filled with wonderful promises for us that we need to grasp hold of by faith. I'm just going to mention a few of them. The Bible says, no good thing will he withhold from them who walk uprightly. That's a wonderful promise. Or this one, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Or my God shall supply all your needs, or sin shall not have dominion over you. Or he that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall not he with him also freely give us all things? And this all that the Father giveth me shall come to me, and he that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. These are promises that we need to appropriate by faith. So often in our Christian lives, we come to a fork in the road. I say this to people all the time in one-on-one counseling. We come to a fork in the road where there's just two paths before us, and one is we can respond in fear or we can respond in faith. And so often we respond in fear. We play it safe. We don't really trust in God. We're so careful and concerned about preserving what we're familiar with and what we're comfortable with when God wants to stretch us and challenge us and shake us out of our routines. Because he wants to do greater things for us. I tell people all the time, you must not let your fear keep you from doing what God wants you to do. You must face your fear. You must not let it dominate you. Sometimes I wonder if God, when we're in heaven, will say Let me show you what you could have done if you had just kept moving forward by faith instead of being so hesitant and fearful and not trusting in me. These are things for us to consider. So often, young people, especially, they may sense that God is calling them or that God is working on them. or that they need to be in some type of ministry, but because of fear, because of worldly pressures, they cave and they don't follow the will of God. That is a huge mistake to make. Trust in the Lord. Take the promises of his word. How many times I have as a pastor dealt with things that I was very fearful of. And I would even write down, this is embarrassing to say in a way, I would write down promises of God on a three by five card. and put them in my coat pocket and bring them out and look at them again and again and say, Lord, I'm claiming this promise. I'm claiming that you're going to bring me through this. And you know what? God has never failed me. You need to learn to trust in the promises of God. And fourthly, God uses, believe it or not, his blessings in our lives to transform us. Now, this instrument of grace may seem strange to you, but the Bible does say that the goodness of God leads us to repentance. Sometimes God blesses us so abundantly That we are embarrassed. Do you know what I mean? This was certainly, I think, the case with Jacob, because Jacob was not walking with the Lord for 23 years. He had not really been moving forward in his faith. He had just been feeling sorry for himself, and all these things are against me, and I don't have my wife, and I don't have my beloved son. My life is not really worth living. And now God is going to, for the next 17 years of his life, shower him with blessings. living together as united family in Egypt in wonderful fertile pasture land Being able to see his grandchildren. What a blessing he had. And all of that, of course, was undeserved For 23 years he has been questioning the goodness of God, and so God is like saying, All right, Jacob, you want to see how good I am? I'm just going to pour forth a shower of blessings upon you. We see some of these in Scripture. First of all, all of Jacob's family came out of Canaan and were united with J Joseph's family in Genesis 46 verses 7 through 27. We have a record of Jacob's family that came out of Canaan and settled in Egypt. We're not going to read those verses. But altogether, including Joseph's little family there in Egypt, and the people came out, there were 70 people who comprised the people of God. And all the commentators believe this number is significant. It's the multiplication of two perfect numbers, seven and ten, in the mind of the Hebrews. And the idea here is that it was complete, that all of God's people were brought out. They didn't leave some of them back in Canaan to perish. No one decided, you know what, we kind of like it here in Canaan. Let's just stay here. That would have broken Jacob's heart. All of his family were together. What an incredible blessing that was. And Jacob got to see his beloved son Joseph again. Look with me at verse 29 of Genesis 46. And Joseph made ready his chariot and went up to meet Israel, his father, to Goshen, and presented himself unto him, and he fell on his neck and wept on his neck a good while. And Israel said unto Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seen thy face, because thou art yet alive. What a wonderful reunion this is. Jacob is not suicidal. He's simply saying, my life's complete now. I've seen my son again. The son that I thought God had taken from me, he's brought back to me. My life is complete. I can die a happy man. But that was not all. Jacob and his family received the best pasture land in Egypt, Goshen. And at the close of chapter 46, Joseph is coaching his brothers on how to request the best of the land. And then at the beginning of chapter 47, we see this. plan worked perfectly. We're not going to take the time to read those verses, but you can check them out for yourself. The point is that never again would Jacob need to worry about famine like he did in Canaan. Even though his herds were large and things seemed prosperous, he always knew that one bad year could wipe them out. He didn't have to worry about that anymore. He was living in rich, luxurious pasture land of the Delta there in Egypt. And besides that, his son was second in command and had access to all of these food resources. They would never go hungry. He would never have to worry about starvation again. This was the thing that ancient people always worried about. We don't worry about it today in this part of the world. But most people throughout the ages of history have worried about starving to death. Now look with me at chapter 47, verses 11 and 12. It says, and Joseph placed his father and his brother and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Ramses, as Pharaoh had commanded. And Joseph nourished his father and his brother and all his father's household with bread according to their families. Jacob prayed that God would bless his son. And in this story, we are reminded that God does exceeding abundantly above all that we could ask or think. I'd like to make some concluding applications briefly. Number one, we must never judge God by our feeble, feeble perceptions of reality. You see, Jacob assumed that God had given up on him. The Lord had abandoned him. He wasn't working in his life, the life of his family anymore. Because he was completely ignorant of God's larger plan and the amazing things he was doing through his son Joseph. He had no idea of what was taking place for 23 years, but God was at work. I think some believers are going to be embarrassed when they get to heaven someday. And they went through a period of their life where they felt that God had abandoned them, where God was not with them, where God was not blessing them, when in fact God was very much at work. But their attitude and their perceptions and their faith was weak, and they looked at the outward circumstances and the things that they recognized, and they drew wrong conclusions from that, just like Jacob did. He said, few and evil have been my days. And there's a sense in which God made him eat those words. Oh, you think your life's been difficult? Let me tell you, I have blessed you more than anyone else on the face of the earth. And Jacob would experience that his last 17 years. When we are able to see God 's good plan Then we will recognize indeed that God is good. But because our view is limited and clouded by our own perceptions and our finite abilities, we must never judge God. by our feeble perceptions, because they're always going to be distorted and fall short of what he is accomplishing. Secondly, we must never think that it's too late to come back to God. Faith has no expiration date. Jacob is 130 years old, and yet God was still at work in his life. I've talked to many people over the years who, when I've exhorted them and challenged them to turn back to God and to repent of their sins and to get right with God, they say again and again, it's too late. My friend, the scripture says otherwise. It's never too late. That's a lie of Satan. You may have lived apart from God with some sin in your life for years. It's still not too late to repent of that sin and come to Christ. Thirdly, we must respond to our challenges in life by faith and not by fear. So often we must decide whether we're going to take God at His Word or we are going to live by our own wisdom and knowledge. We need to listen to God's word and not to our fears. And fourthly, we need to remember that to trust and obey is the best way to live. You ever thought about this? Both Jacob and Joseph come to about the same place in their life, but at many different, but at a completely different age. You see, Joseph's response was always to submit to God's will in his life and to trust in him. Jacob was always fighting God's will. Jacob eventually got at the right place, but he took the long detour to get there. It's so much better to come and follow the Lord early in life. I want to address our young people for a moment. You know, the the lie of Satan that has gone out to every generation is, listen, in your youth You need to enjoy the things of the world. And then maybe later in your life, when you're an old person, you can come back to God and And then things so you know you can go to heaven and that. But when you're a young person, you should sow your wild oats and enjoy life to its fullest. That is a lie. He's not telling you about all the regrets and the scars and the complications and the spiritual bondage that come with that kind of decision. Jacob followed the Lord or Joseph followed the Lord from his youth. And although his life wasn't easy, He came out at the right place. And he never regretted being faithful to God. And finally, let me say this. That Joseph made all the provisions that his fathers and brothers needed. There's nothing they needed to do but come. And Jesus has provided all for our salvation. He's done it all from beginning to end. The question is, have you come? Have you come in faith? Have you come claiming this promise? He that cometh to me, I will no wise cast out. What an astounding and wonderful promise that is. That those who come to Him brokenhearted over their sin, who come by faith, will not be turned away. They will be saved. May you come today if you have not. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it's filled with truth and with Christ and with the glory of our God. I pray that you would help us. to heed it, to learn from these examples of the past that have been set here for our learning. I pray, Father, that you would help us to be a people who indeed love you and have come to trust in you and are responding not in fear but in faith to your blessed promises. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.