If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 1? We read this morning from 2 Corinthians, but I will be preaching From our text in 1 Peter. One of the greatest Puritan books ever written is entitled The Existence and Attributes of God. It was written by an English pastor named Stephen Charnuck. It is a large book, about 1,200 pages of fine print. It's never been described as a page turner, but it is a great book. It's well worth reading. In his discussion on holiness, Charnuck makes this arresting statement. He says, power is God's hand or arm. Omniscience, his eye, his bow, mercy, his bows, eternity, his duration. But holiness is his beauty. I wonder if we consider holiness to be a beautiful thing. The word holy increasingly sounds archaic to our ears. It sounds outdated and restrictive and perhaps even legalistic. It's rapidly taking on a negative connotation, kind of like the word pious. If you like to read old books the way I do, you often read in previous centuries of Christians being described as being pious. We don't use that term anymore because it has a connotation of perhaps being hypocritical. It's a really good word that's been tainted and destroyed through usage. And I'm afraid that holy might be following in its wake. I think we most often use the word today to speak of someone perhaps in a pejorative way as being holier than thou. But we must never forget that holiness is a foundational concept of Scripture. And it's one of the attributes of God. It is also God 's will for his people. One of the biblical names for Christian is the word saint. We rarely use this term today because it sounds so lofty. In fact, we're more likely to say, I'm no saints. But if you are a Christian, you are a saint. What does it mean? Well, the New Testament word for saint comes from the same root word for holy It means that in some sense every believer is a holy person. We have been called out of the world and we have been called to live for Christ. This is our position before God. In practical terms, however, we are all a work in progress. The process of sanctification is all about appropriating God's grace so that our practice comes increasingly to match up with our position in Christ. But so often we forget this. And so The scriptures are filled with reminders, with calls to holiness. We read one of those this morning, a very stirring passage from 2 Corinthians chapter 6. There's another one here in 1 Peter chapter 1. Look with me, beginning at verse 13. Peter writes, Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust and your ignorance, but as he which hath called you as holy So be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. Now the concept, this call of holiness, requires of us to have some explanation. The word holiness has two basic ideas that are complementary to one another and not hard to grasp There's a negative and a positive aspect. This is true in both the Hebrew or Old Testament and Greek or New Testament words for holiness. Something that is holy is something that has been set apart, something that is separate. It's distinctive. In 1 Timothy chapter 2, we find a helpful illustration that is still relevant for us today. It's the illustration of China. Most likely you have at least two different types. of tableware in your home. You have stuff that you put out for important occasions, like Thanksgiving, Christmas, Easter perhaps. And then you have everyday dishes that you use that might be chipped up, that may not look that special, they don't have a beautiful pattern on them. But they do the job that you require of them. They're just everyday dishes. Well, there's a Concept here. First of all, the negative concept is that we have been set apart from the world. Most people take their fine China. And they put it aside from their everyday dishes. They might put it on display in a hutch or in a special cabinet that they only go to for special occasions. It's set apart. That's the negative aspect. But it's also, there's a positive aspect, and that is it is dedicated for something special. It is sanctified, as it were, for a very important and significant event, a gathering of the family. And so it's the same way with us as believers. We have been set apart from the world. We have been called out from the world by God's grace. But we have also been dedicated to the Lord. This is really the idea of the concept of holiness. Now in verse 13, which we considered last Lord's Day. The key idea there is that of setting our hope on the grace that is to come at the return of Christ, the culmination of our sanctification when we will be glorified. Now in verse 14, he's going to continue to flesh out for us what that kind of lifestyle of hope looks like. And then in verses 15 and 16, he is going to call us to imitate our Holy Father. Now, this morning Because this text is so rich, we are only going to look at one verse. Verse 14. I don't plan to do that every week throughout this book. Otherwise, we will be here for a long time. But there's so much to be said, and this is such a important consideration that I really can't move beyond verse 14. Look with me carefully at verse 14. He says, as obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust in your ignorance This morning, I would like us to consider this verse that calls us as Christians to be counter-cultural. It has one basic proposition. There is a positive and negative aspect, and that is that we must be different from the world If we are going to live holy lives, we have to be different, distinct, set apart from the world. The first thing I want you to consider is found in this opening phrase as obedient children, and that is that we must embrace our new identity as the children of God if we are going to live holy lives. Our identity here is that we are obedient children. This is who we are in Christ. Now in the ancient world, it was expected that children would obey their fathers. The Father was given great respect, and his word was to be obeyed without question. And so Peter's description of Christians as obedient children would have been readily understood. Now in the original text this is grammatically put in an interesting way. Literally it reads, children of obedience. I don't want to bore you with grammatical points, but this grammatically is known as a genitive of description or definition. And that is, it designates the ruling nature or predominant characteristic of a person. This is one way you can describe a Christian individual. They are a child who is obedient. This is to be our ruling nature. And the scriptures are very consistent. Those who are lost are described as disobedient. Let me show you this. You can look with me if it's convenient for you in Ephesians chapter 2. And verse 2. This great chapter magnifying God's grace says Paul writes, wherein in times past ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air. the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. And a little bit later in this same book in Ephesians chapter 5 And verse 6, Paul gives the solemn warning, let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things Cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. So this is very clear. Christians are obedient children Lost people are disobedience. Before we were saved, we were naturally rebellious and disobedient to God's will for our lives. This was characteristic of our lifestyle. But now we have been changed. We have been transformed This is who we are as believers. This does not mean that we are perfect. This does not mean that every Christian is at the same level of sanctification or obedience. We are at different levels. But it does mean that our identity as Christians is that we are obedient to the word of God. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creation. All things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Now some scholars think that Peter brings this point out because there was a problem in the early church. And it's a problem that still exists with us today. And that is that there were people who claimed to be children of God, who claimed to be Christians. But they were not living obedient lives. Some of them excused this and explained this through philosophical means. They were tainted with pagan philosophy and they said, well, you know, what my body does and what I do with my body has nothing to do with my spirits And so I can live in a moral life. I can live like I did when I was lost, but it doesn't matter because in my spirit I'm a follower of Jesus Christ. And so we find in the writings of Peter and Paul and the other apostles these warnings that say, this is not so This is not what the scripture teaches. I mentioned, I read to you this passage from Ephesians 5. I want to If you want, you can join me here. I want to turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Paul emphatically brings this out in several of his writings. 1 Corinthians chapter 6. And verse 9, the Apostle Paul says this, Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? What do you mean by unrighteous Paul? He says, be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor feminine. nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you But ye are washed, ye are sanctified, ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. Notice he says, be not deceived. Why does he say that? Because some early Christians were deceived. And they said, well, I guess you can live that way and be a Christian. Paul says, no, you can't. Notice how dogmatic he is here. He says, they shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Now turn with me to the passage we were at just a moment ago, Ephesians chapter 5. I want to, we read one verse from this, but I want to back up. So that you get the full impact of what Paul is saying here. Ephesians chapter 5, please, and verse 2. Notice what Paul says. And walk in love as Christ also hath loved us and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor, but fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as becometh saints. Neither filthiness nor foolish talking, nor jesting which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks. For this ye know that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of God. Of disobedience. You see how clear the apostles were in their denunciation of sin and this idea that you can live like the world You can live a lifestyle of obedience and still claim to be a child of God. This is something that is consistently found in Scripture. And obedience is something that the Apostle Peter brings out in his writings. I've already mentioned to you in 1 Peter chapter 1, where we are now, when we were at verse 2, at the very beginning, he says, elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father through sanctification of the Spirit. unto obedience. You see, when we have truly been born again, when the Spirit of God has done a work of regeneration in our hearts, it will invariably lead to obedience. And towards the end of this first chapter in verse 22, notice what Peter writes, 1 Peter 1. 22, seeing you have purified your souls. in obeying the truth through the Spirit, unto unfeigned love of the brethren. See that you love one another with a pure heart fervently. Notice, through the Spirit of God, we obey the truth. So let me ask you a very important question. Is your lifestyle characterized by obedience to God your Father? Do you earnestly seek to do his will? You see, one reason why so many so-called Christians Do not obey is because they're not really children of the Father. They have never been born again. They have never been regenerated. This is what Jesus said to the religious leaders that he had controversy with. He said in John chapter 8 these very offensive words to them, you are of your father the devil, and the lust of your father ye will do. In Matthew chapter 7, we read some of the most solemn words in the New Testament that we should never read I think without fear and trembling. Jesus says in the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 7. 21, Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. And then will I profess unto them I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work Iniquity. The Bible teaches that all of God's children to some degree have a lifestyle of obedience. This is part of our family likeness. It is a birthmark that we all share I think the proper response to all Christians should be that we all recognize that we are not nearly as obedient as we should be. But our desire is that our conduct would be more in conforming more and more to the will of God in our lives. Now, whenever a preacher makes the kind of statements that I've just been making about the obedience of a believer, there are always some who are quick to object. And I'm sure there are some here this morning who in your heart you're saying, I don't know about this. This this makes me kind of uncomfortable because isn't Doesn't the Bible teach that we're saved by faith alone? That it's not of works, that salvation is not based on what we do? Absolutely. That's what the scripture teaches. The scripture also teaches that a living faith will work. It will lead to obedience, not perfect obedience. But there will be a desire in the heart of every child of God to walk more closely with his Lords. Obedience is not the cause of our salvation, but it is the inevitable result of saving faith. The children's chorus is correct that says obedience is the very best way to show that you believe. Our new identity as Christians is that we are children who obey our Heavenly Father Now perhaps you would object on another ground. Perhaps you would say, you know, all this talk about obedience seems so performance-oriented. I think we should talk more about our love for God. We should view it more from a relational perspective than from a obedience perspective. Well, let's examine what the Bible teaches. I would invite you to turn with me to the Gospel of John, please. John chapter 14. Would you join me at John 14? What does the Bible say should be the motivating factor of our obedience? Look at John 14, verse 15. Jesus says in the upper room, the night before his crucifixion, he said to his disciples, if you love me, keep my commandments. And a few verses later, he's going to expand on that. Look with me now at verse 21. Jesus says, he that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me, and he that loveth me shall be loved of my father, and I will love him and will manifest myself to him. Judah saith unto him, Not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us and not unto the world? Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words. And my father will love him, and we will come unto him and make our abode with him. He that keepeth Me not keepeth not my sayings. He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings, and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the Father's which sent me. You see how emphatic the Lord Jesus Christ was about this. That when we truly love God, it leads to obedience. And then he says at the reverse, and those who are obedient are the ones who love God. So we can't put our love for God and our obedience to God and separate them as two different elements. No, they are invariably combined. Love leads to obedience. John is going to pick up on this in his first epistle in 1 John chapter 2 And verse 3, he says this very boldly, and hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know him and keepeth not his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoso keepeth his word in him, verily is the love of God perfected. Hereby know we that we are in him. He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also to walk even. as he walked. And then one final passage at the end of 1 John chapter 5 and verses 2 and 3. By this, we know that we love the children of God when we love God and keep his commandments. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not grievous. That is, they're not burdensome to us. We don't go around saying, oh yeah, the Christian life is horrible. I have all these restrictions, all these things I can't do that I really want to do. That's not going to be our view of the Christian life. Because we're motivated by our love for the Savior. So you see, you can't love God without obeying God. And if we are going to be different from the world, we must remember who we are, that we have been called out of the world. We are now obedient children. Children whose lifestyles can be characterized as those who obey God, and therefore we're different from the world. Now as we look back at our text, 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 14 , We come to this extended phrase, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust in your ignorance. And this is where we come to our second point, and that is that we must resist the influence of the world if we're going to live holy lives. We must recognize and accept our identity as obedient children. And secondly, we must resist the influence of the world if we are going to live holy lives. This is the negative aspect of holiness. This is something that we have to do on a daily basis. Notice it says, not fashioning yourselves. This translation reflects a participle that is governed by the verb be holy in verse 15. It could be expressed this way. The only way you can be holy is not to fashion yourself by according to the pattern of this world Now the Greek word that is used here is very specific. It's found in only one other place, and I'm sure many of you have this cross-reference in your Bible. Because it's a very familiar verse that many of you have memorized. It's Romans chapter 12 and verse 2. And there it is translated, be not conformed to this world. That word conformed is the same word here that is translated fashioned. It's a word that I think we can best think of as a potter molding clay. It's actually the Greek word schema. We get a word of schematic drawing from this. Some of you men Perhaps who are engineers know what a schematic drawing is. It gives you a pattern and a plan of maybe how things are laid out, perhaps electronically. And it's saying here that the world has a pattern and a plan. You see, the world is not neutral. It has an antithetical message to the message of God The message of the world is constantly every day trying to wear away whatever progress we make towards holiness in our Christian lives. And it does this by shaping our thinking. And it often does it so subtly that we're not even aware of it. You ever aware of the fact that your thinking, your attitude towards things have changed? It may happen so gradually that you're not even aware of it. But what is it that changes our thinking? And what exactly is the message of the world? I want you to notice that the Bible's description of the world is very consistent. And it hasn't changed. The world essentially is exactly the same as it was in the first century. Let me show you these three key passages. that describe this force. Turn with me to 2 Peter chapter 3. I know I'm having you turned to a lot of scriptures today. I like the sound of rustling pages. And I hope, but but it's important for me that you see these things for yourself. 2 Timothy chapter 3. Look with me at verse 1. Paul writing to young Timothy says, This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. What will they be like? For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection. truce breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high-minded lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof, from such turn away Now there's an awful lot of terms there, and I'm not going to try to go through and define them, but you know, if you really want to know what a person is all about, look at what they love. In verse 2, it describes these individuals who are lovers of their own selves. We have a term for that. It's called narcissism. Do we live in a narcissistic culture? Says it's all about you. I hope I don't have to give you example after example and convince you that's the case. It should be self-evidence. The message of the world has always been, you know what? You need to be looking more out for yourself. That's your problem. You're always thinking of others. Of course, it's not true. And then there's another love that is kind of hidden here. It talks about being covetous. And literally in the Greek text, that's a lover of silver. You can see how that would come to mean to covet. It's talking about what? Narcissism, and then we have materialism. We live to acquire things, really nice things. And our whole sense of acceptance by our friends and of status in the community and the fact that we have really made it in life is that we have really nice stuff and we have a lot of it. In fact we have to have all kinds of buildings and storage sheds and multiple properties to house all of our stuff. Look at all that I have. That's the message of the world. That's materialism. All that really matters is stuff. And then there's another one here, you may have seen down towards the end, it says lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. What's lover of pleasure? We have a term for that. Hedonism. These philosophical pillars have always characterized the pagan worlds. Narcissism, materialism, hedonism. And they are the major driving forces of our contemporary culture in the United States of America and throughout the world. And so if we are going to live as Christians, we are going to have to live in a counter-cultural way. We're going to have to swim against the stream. You see, these values permeate almost all forms of popular entertainment. By the way, I didn't look at the other two passages with you, did I? Let's look at Galatians chapter 5. Galatians chapter 5, please. This is uh in contrast to the works of the flesh, we have the fruit of the spirit, we have the works of the flesh. So look with me at Galatians chapter 5, and we have another laundry list here in verse 19. Paul writes Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations. Wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, endings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like, of which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Notice that dogmatic assertion again So we have all kinds of sensual, sexual sins here. We have all kinds of violence and relational animosity here And we have the party lifestyle. These are all on display in this extended description. And now turn with me to the third passage, which is 1 John chapter 2, which is more concise. Verse 16, we'll just look at that verse. This is how John defines the world's values for all that is in the world The lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the pride of light is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passeth away and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever And once again we see here these twin pillars, the unholy trinity of hedonism, materialism, and narcissism. This is what the world has always been about. And these are the themes that permeate almost all forms of popular entertainment. We cannot take a passive approach to these things and live a life of holiness. I want you to notice And 1 Peter chapter 1, what it says after this, according to the former lust in your ignorance. Peter here is addressing primarily Gentiles who have been saved out of a very pagan background. And he's talking here about their desires. Now the word translated lust is most often used in a negative sense in Scripture. In Romans chapter 1 and verse 24, we read that God gave them up to uncleanness through the lust of their own hearts. In Romans chapter 6 and verse 12, we read, Let not sin reign in your mortal bodies that ye should obey. it in the lust thereof. In Galatians 5. 16, walk in the spirit and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. And I could go on and on with scriptures that speak to this idea that if we are going to live lives of holiness, we have to strike at the very root of the problem. And that is our desires. That raises the whole question, why is it that God has given us so many strong desires that often lead us astray? Did he make a mistake? These desires are means to the end, to an end, but man's wicked heart has made them the end of our existence. These desires that God has instinctively given us for like self-preservation, you know what? It's good that you try to stay alive. Because you can't do God's will if you're trying to stay alive. But that desire for self-preservation and for protecting yourself can easily lead and be morphed through sin. into becoming egotistical and narcissistic and living for self. God gave us a natural desire for food because you know some of us Some of you might be so focused, you know, if if you didn't ever get hungry, you would never eat because you'd be doing stuff. Well, if you never ate any food, you know what, you'd die. So God gave us a little reminder. It's time to refuel. But what has man done with that natural desire that is simply to sustain our lives so we can do what God has called us to do? We make that the end of our lives. Instead of living to eat, we eat to live. We focus our attention on something that's just a means to an end. And of course, there are many other examples that you can think of. These are all distortions of the natural desires that God has given to us. Now, why do lost people live this way? Our text is very clear in verse 14. It says that it is. according to the former lust in your ignorance. In other words, this is the way Peter is saying you used to think before you were saved. This is the way you used to live, when you were ignorant and didn't know any better. You see, Peter's Instruction here is based on this premise that when a person is saved, things change, their perspective, their thoughts about what's really important in life change. But those who are lost are dwelling in darkness. They are ignorant. This is why 1 Thessalonians 4. 5 says that we are to live not in the lust of concupiscence. Even as the Gentiles which know not God This is an ignorant way to live. Ephesians chapter 4 brings out the same aspect of living in darkness of living in ignorance. Then we make this application. Do you find yourself envying the lifestyle of celebrities? They have such beautiful homes. And they have beautiful cars. And it seems like they have everything that a person could ever want, and they live a party lifestyle, and you say, it must be nice. Don't ever think that way. That's an ignorant way to live. They live that way because they don't know any better. They think that all there is in life are the things of this world. Don't envy them. Instead, you should pity them. Now I want to make some pointed application here. If you were paying attention to most of the cross-references and verses that we've been reading this morning And some of it may be a little veiled for some of the language that's there. But you've probably, hopefully, if you're paying attention, you've picked up on the fact that most of the references Or many of the references, let me put it that way, to the sins in the world that characterize the world, that characterize the lifestyle of Lost people, make reference to sexual sins. The fact is that the Roman world of the first century, the first century in which the New Testament was written, was a very wicked place. It may be hard for you to imagine this, but it was even more immoral than our culture is today. Pagan temples that were everywhere in cities and towns were basically brothels. Much of their entertainment was pornographic. And our culture is rapidly becoming just like this. The fact is that the more our culture changes, the more conspicuous we should be as Christians. I mean as as our culture becomes more and more pagan, more and more hedonistic, further and further away from God's truth, it shouldn't be hard to let your light shine. Because the world is so dark. But what unfortunately I'm afraid has happened in many cases Is that Christian, and I'm speaking here very broadly of the church, are letting the values of the world shape and mold us so that we are not distinct. and different as God has called us to be. I want to be blunt here and I want to talk about some of these things specifically And I'm not specifically preaching against these sins. That's not the point of this message. My point is to show you how many Christians are adjusting their thinking and their lifestyles to the values of this world. I read in various magazines , Christian magazines, that living together before marriage is becoming accepted within the evangelical community. Now what do I mean by evangelical? I mean churches that profess to believe in the gospel. I'm not talking about any old church. There are many churches that don't profess to believe in the gospel. They're basically a social club and they want to help people out and they They do good things to the community, but they don't preach the gospel. They don't preach that a person is lost and need to be saved. They don't preach about heaven and hell. They don't preach that Jesus is the only way. They don't preach the Bible is the Word of God. These are all the hallmarks of an evangelical church. Churches that believe the gospel. These churches, many of these churches that claim all of those things I just mentioned, they believe the gospel. Believe it's okay for a couple to live together, to be sexually intimate before marriage. It's acceptable. And so in many of these churches, you can be a member in good standing. And you're living together, and you're not married. I am told that most teenagers in evangelical churches when they have been questioned anonymously, think that it's fine to be intimate before marriage if the two people love each other. That is the message of the world. Well, as long as they care for each other. That makes it okay. That's what most people think And I think I don't have to convince you that homosexuality has become more and more accepted. It has been an incredible change of opinion in a very, very short time. There are whole denominations that not only accept this, but celebrate. this lifestyle. Some evangelical schools are now accepting homosexuals as brothers in Christ. And again, some of these same polls that poll teenagers and evangelical churches, they go to the youth groups. Anonymous surveys, what do you think about this? And the vast majority of these young people and churches that profess to preach the gospel say that a homosexual behavior is fine because that's the way some people are born and they should have the right to be married. And as you well know, this is indeed the law of the land. An incredible change in a very short time. Now I want you to know that the Bible's position has not changed at all. It does not change with shifting values. So let me be clear. We hold these values in this position not because we hate these people. In fact, the most loving thing that we can do is to call them to repentance. Because the scriptures are clear. in the Old Testament and the New Testament again and again and again that this lifestyle will lead to ultimate destruction To the wrath of God, so a very unloving thing is to say, oh, you guys are fine living this way. No problem. It's that kind of supposed support that will lead them to hell. We must call them to repentance. Now my point is not to specifically address this issue. But to ask us, are we allowing the Word of God to shape and mold our thinking, or is the culture in which we live, which is constantly changing, the main source? Of changing our thinking. Why is it that our young people, the majority of them in evangelical churches , hold these two opinions that are absolutely contradicted by the plain teaching of God's Word. It's because this is not molding their thinking. It's the world that's molding their thinking. And this is not a diatribe against young people. Many of their parents have similar viewpoints as well. I want you to know that if every single person in the world comes to view these relationships, whether it's a heterosexual relationship outside of marriage or a homosexual relationship, if every single person in the world accepts these as good and healthy and normal. It will not change the reality that is condemned in the Word of God. Because the Bible is not based on popular opinion. It's based on absolute truth. Now I can see that these things could come to a head and be a real problem in days to come. It doesn't take a whole lot of imagination to think that someday what I'm saying here might be regarded as hate speech. And it could be that it will be illegal to express opinions like this, and that those who do, that churches who do will be on some type of watch list, and their pastors may be imprisoned for simply preaching the plain word of God's. But I want you to know something. My fear is not about the political ramifications or the legal ramifications. The greater danger is not that we will become an oppressed myor minority and lose our religious freedom. That would be a horrible thing. But you know what? That's the way it's been for most Christians in most places throughout the history of the church. And God's church often thrives in such an environment. No, my fear is that rather than us standing up and saying, we will do what God has called us to do. We will capitulate to the culture and come to accept and conform to the world's pagan ideas. That is the real danger. God has called us to be light in this dark world. And so if we just become more and more dim in our light, then we will no longer be the salt and the light that God has called us to be. God has called us to be witnesses. God has called us to be different. God has called us out of the world to be distinct, not that we would be like them, but that we would be obviously different in our values and in our lifestyle. And the God who has called us is the Holy One of Israel. And we as his children, as the saints of God, are called to live a lifestyle that is radically and essentially different. This is God's call for us in this passage. And we do this by remembering who we are We are children of obedience that have been called out of darkness into his marvelous light. And we are those who actively and intentionally resist The fashioning, the shaping, the molding, the conforming of the world that challenges us and assaults us every day. The great scientist Isaac Newton was once thinking to learn more about the sun. He was very curious. And so he thought that perhaps he could view the sun if he used enough filters and by use of a mirror, he could actually kind of study the sun. But when he tried to do this, he looked at it far too long and he nearly blinded himself. He lost his vision for three days And he would write in his diary that even when he went into a dark closet, he would see the bright spot of the sun burning in his retina And wherever he went and whatever he did, he could not get the blazing brightness of the sun out of his vision. That's the way we must be as the people of God. We must remember that our God is holy. And he has called us to be holy, and we must take that vision with us as we walk through this dark world. We must be actively guarded. and resisting the message of the world to live for self, to live for pleasure, to live for things. And we must reply, no, we will live for our God who is holy, who has called us to something much better. May God help us to keep a bright light in this dark world in which we live. Let's close in prayer. Father We thank you for your word. We thank you that it's clear and understandable, authoritative, and sufficient. I pray that you would help us by your grace to be obedient children Father, for those who might be here this morning who are strangers to your grace, they may have a form of godliness. But they deny the power thereof. Their life gives no testimony of obedience. They do not have a desire for holiness, but they have a lust for the things of this world. I pray, Father, that you would turn them to you and that they would be saved. Father, for those who are your children, who are very well aware of their disobedience of how they have failed to resist the call of the world, the antithetical message of the world. I pray, Father, that you would give them grace, help them, Father, to repent of their sin. And to walk in holiness and the fear of God. Oh Father, I pray that you would use these words to accomplish your purpose in our life, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.