We are continuing to look at the book of 1 Thessalonians, and Lord willing tonight will be in chapter 3. Let's go over our Memory verse for this week, or continuing for this month as we're working on our memory verse out of 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verses 5 and 6. So again, I'm not sure why it's not showing up there, because it's it's there in my notes. But 1 Thessalonians 5, 5 through 6, the reference isn't showing up. But let's stand and quote this through two times. And uh if if you are able to quote this together tonight, I'd like to try that by encouraging the church, I would encourage you to do so. So say the reference, which you're just going to remember, and uh then the verse as well. 1 Thessalonians 5, 5 through 6. For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. So then, let us not sleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober. 1 Thessalonians 5, 5 through 6. For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. So then, let us not sleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober. Let's continue on. 1 Thessalonians chapter 3. And we're beginning in verse 6, and the goal is really to finish up this chapter tonight, and that's all that's a pretty robust goal. But I'd like to read just to get our mind in where we're at in 1 Thessalonians chapter 3. And remember where we have been. I maybe should go through this way. Looking at the the theme and the layout of the book of 1 Thessalonians, the first three chapters are a backwards look. Looking at what God has done and how God has brought them to Himself and how He has helped them to endure trials, looking at all the ministry of the Apostle Paul and his teammates as they ministered to them in Thessalonica. There's there's a theme really overarching in these first three chapters of thankfulness. And that's one of the reasons why we sang that song that my heart is filled with with thankfulness because Paul is rejoicing in the state of the church in Thessalonica. They are marching forward in faith and in obedience and in love, and he's encouraging them to do that more, but he's just so thankful for what God has done in their lives. The next two chapters, which we'll be beginning, Lord willing, as we come into the month of December, is really a forward look. Living in holiness and in obedience and in faith in light of the soon return of Christ, that Christ is coming again, and we need to be living with an expectation of that. And the fourth and fifth chapters really emphasize that significantly. But the overall theme is to continue to grow in faith. hope and love in light of Christ's imminent return. And with that, let's just read chapter three, and we'll get to where we're started. Let me go back here. We were willing to be left behind at Athens alone. And we sent Timothy, our brother, and God's co-worker in the gospel of Christ. to establish and exhort you in your face, that no one be moved by these afflictions, for you yourselves know that we are destined for this. For when we were with you, we kept telling you beforehand that we were to suffer affliction, just as it has come to pass And just as you know. For this reason, when I could bear it no longer, I sent to learn about your faith, for fear that somehow the tempter had tempted you, and our labor would be in vain. But now that Timothy has come to us from you and has brought us the good news of your faith and love, and reported that you always remember us kindly and long to see us as we long to see you. For this reason, brothers, in all our distress and affliction, we have been comforted about you through your faith. For now we live if you are standing fast in the Lord. For what thanksgiving can we return to God for you? For all the joy that we feel for your sake before our God, as we pray most earnestly, night and day, that we may see you face to face. and supply what is lacking in your faith. Now may our God and Father Himself and our Lord Jesus direct our way to you And may the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all, as we do for you, so that he may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints. So with that, we kind of get the feel of this chapter. Paul is was distressed. Paul was in a place where he said, I could not bear it any longer, not knowing your spiritual condition. If you remember when Paul left Thessalonica, he didn't leave when he wanted to. He was kicked out of town, you might say. He was thrust out of town. Because the the Jewish people had stirred up a mob and they forced him out of town. These were baby Christians who had just come to know the Lord a few months earlier, and he he was so concerned that perhaps the the the suddenness of him being thrust out of town or the rumors that they were spreading about him would somehow cause them to turn away from Christ. And so he sent Timothy to them. He said, we couldn't bear it any longer. I couldn't get back, but I sent Timothy so that he might find out how you were doing. And that he might be able to strengthen you and encourage you. And we talked about that last week. But now in chapter 3, verse 6, Timothy just returned. And so Timothy has now come and he's given a good report. And so we have this really good news from a far country. It's kind of the theme of this latter part of chapter three. Paul has received good news. from Timothy about the Thessalonian believers. And Proverbs 25, verse 25, it tells us that like cold water to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country. And now I think we have become somewhat immune to this reality because in our modern era of instant communication We can communicate with someone far distant. We can I frequently have instant communication, video communication with people in the bush of Tanzania. And it's remarkable. They've got their smartphones and I've got my smartphone and we're talking as they're walking through a bush area of the of of Africa. So that this idea of long-awaited anticipation of good news from a far country is not as prevalent in our culture today. But throughout most of human history, word from a distant land took a long time to arrive. And you just had to wait. You had to pray. And there was a sense of anxiety. There was a sense of fear. What has happened? Oftentimes in the past when missionaries would go to a foreign land, they would say goodbye to their family, and that's it. You'll get a few letters, maybe a letter a year, maybe two. But you're never going to see them again. And so a letter that came from a far country was like a breath of fresh air. It was like a cup of cold water. And Paul says that's the way he felt when he got this word from Thessalonica. From Athens to where Timothy left Paul to Thessalonica is about 300 miles. And so it's quite a journey. This didn't happen overnight. He didn't fly up there. It's a pretty significant journey. And mostly by boat, I'm imagining, possibly by foot. It's not clear. But he probably has waited for months to hear back from Timothy about how the Thessalonian church is doing. Obviously it took some time to travel there. Obviously he didn't come in, talk to them one afternoon, turn around and come back. He spent some time building them up and encouraging them and ministering to them and then came back. So months have gone by And the whole time, Paul is just wondering, how are they doing? What's their condition? Have they been faithful? What did Timothy find? Maybe Timothy got there and the whole thing has just fallen apart. And he's concerned. But when Timothy comes back, he's just filled with joy. In this verse 6. When it says, but now, the construction there is actually like just now. Right now, Timothy got back. So I imagine Timothy got back that day, and that evening, Paul is writing this letter. Timothy has just returned. from his journey and got gave the report of the progress and Paul said, I need to write a letter. And he said, just now I got this news. And he describes it as good news. It's interesting because the word good news there, the way it's written here, it's every other time you find this construction in the New Testament. It's translated, preach the gospel. So when Timothy came back, he preached the gospel to Paul. He preached the good news, not the gospel of Jesus Christ, but the good news of the Thessalonians, that they were standing firm. It's our word that we get evangelized from us. You say someone They were evangelizing me. This is the Greek word here for evangelizing. Paul Timothy comes back and he's evangelizing Paul about the good news. of the Thessalonian believers. It's the only place in the New Testament where this word isn't describing the gospel Here he's describing the good news of the Thessalonian believers. And as he describes it as good news about their faith and love. So the two things that are described here, their faith and love. Remember those are the two things that Paul was concerned about as he writes this letter. He's concerned about their faith. Are they holding fast to the faith? In chapter 3, verse 2, just a little bit earlier. He says, we sent Timothy, our brother, and God's co-worker in the gospel to establish and exhort you in your faith. Especially since the persecution and the trials that are coming their way, he was concerned that they might have abandoned the faith because of the trials. And although they were embattled and they were baby Christians , they were still holding firm to the faith And he says, I got good news about your faith. They had surrendered to the truth of the gospel, and they were walking in obedience to the gospel consistently. And he got good news about their love. What I think he's describing here is not necessarily their love to God, primarily, but their love for Paul. And he says, I understand that, and the reason I say that is because of what he says in the rest of the verse, where he says, that you always remember us kindly and long to see us as we long to see you. Remember one of the things that Paul was concerned about is that the the Jewish community was spreading lies about Paul, that he was unfaithful, that he was a money he he loved their money, he only came there to get their money, and he's telling them Did we didn't even take any money from you? Remember that. We didn't even take money from you. We worked night and day with our own hands so that we wouldn't be a burden to any of you. Well he only wanted to take the women out of out of your church. He says, you know that's not true And so he's defending himself, and he's thinking, maybe perhaps they want nothing to do with me because these lies have been believed by them. But when Timothy gets there, he finds out that they have not believed the lies. They know the truth about Paul. And they long to see Paul. They long to see Silas. They long to see Timothy. They long to know them more and to have them there with you. And he says, you remember us kindly And longed to see us as we long to see you. What a thrill that must have been for Paul to hear that the tempter had not tempted them. That they were filled with faith and filled with love for him. Paul expressed something similar about the saints in Philippi that were another hundred miles or so northeast of Thessalonica. And he says, For God is my witness, how I long for you all with the affection of Christ. Paul didn't minister to the church there with just some cold, calculating Normal, businesslike behavior. He had a deep, affectionate love. And he was so thankful that that love was reciprocated to them. Think about this though. The work of the gospel in the life of Paul and in the Thessalonian believers, Paul was previously a Pharisee, proud. Arrogant even. Confident in himself. Never would he care about the Gentiles. He was a Hebrew of the Hebrews. And now this proud Pharisee has a tender heart longing for these former pagan idol worshipper Gentiles. Does not the gospel just make a radical change in people's lives? People who before would have had nothing to do with one another, idol-worshiping Gentiles. And Phariseic Hebrew of the Hebrews. They would never have known each other. But because of Christ, they long for each other. They love one another. The love of Christ has changed them. This is the amazing beauty. I love it when you see in the church people that you're like, they would never normally be associated. But they pray for one another and they care for one another. And they are in Christ, they are brothers and sisters. We see here that this good news brought great comfort to Paul in his distress, in his affliction. Prior to Timothy's return, Paul was in significant distress. Remember he said in in the beginning of chapter three that when we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left behind in Athens alone. That staying there by himself was a dangerous thing, not only emotionally, but physically dangerous, because Paul everywhere he went seemed to get into a riot. And so being by himself was a dangerous thing. And it was it it caused him to be filled with fear. I think sometimes we think of the Apostle Paul kind of like he was an iron man. This guy that never flinched in the face of danger, never knew fear. He was bold as a lion. He never struggled with anxiety or fear. But that's not the case. Paul was a man. Paul was a man like you and I with human fears. He was, he faced uncertainty as all believers do. And in the book of 1 Corinthians, he talks about his time of ministry there, which is immediately it's this event. He writes from the town of Corinth. So as he's writing 1 Thessalonians, he is in Corinth. And when he describes that time in the book of 1 Corinthians, he says to them in chapter 2, verse 3, that I was with you in weakness. And in fear and much trembling. The Apostle Paul. That's kind of hard. I think we often think of this man as like a macho man. And he just just comes into town and does what he wants and doesn't care if they stone him and leave him for dead or they beat him or whatever. But he says, I was with you in fear and in weakness and in much trembling. And that's when he was there without Silas and without Timothy, while they were going to check on the state of the church in Thessalonica. Apparently his weakness was so pronounced. That the Lord came to Paul in a vision in the book of Acts, chapter 18. So read these verses here. And this is what Jesus said to him. Do not be afraid. He's in Corinth. He comes to Paul in a vision and he tells him, Do not be afraid, but go on speaking, and do not be silent, for I am with you, and no one will attack you to harm you, for I have many in this city who are my people. Now, you don't tell someone do not be afraid unless they're fearful. They're timid. You don't tell them go on speaking unless they're actually thinking about stopping speaking. Obviously Paul wasn't afraid, and he was like, I don't care what people say, I'm just going to keep on preaching the gospel. I'm not afraid. Then Jesus wouldn't have come to him. But Jesus came to him and he said, do not be afraid, keep speaking, keep preaching the gospel, for I have much people here, and I will be with you to protect you. Bible students have noticed that during this time that Paul was ministering in Corinth while Timothy was up in Thessalonica and Silas was up in Philippi, and he's left there in Corinth by himself. that his ministry energy seemed somewhat subdued. If you study the records in Acts, going into Acts chapter 18 just a little bit earlier This is the same period of time, it says, and because he was of the same trade, he stayed with them, meaning Aquila and Priscilla, for they were tent makers by trade. And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath. and tried to persuade Jews and Greeks. So his ministry went from being every day to once a week on the Sabbath. Until verse 5. When Silas and Timothy arrived from Macedonia, Paul was occupied with the word, testifying to the Jews that Christ was the Lord. So when they came back, his ministry flourished again. When he got this report of the state of the church in Thessalonica and the state of the church in Philippi from Silas, he was so encouraged by their good report, the good news. And it was like he had energy again for ministry. Now I think there's two things here. One, his anxiety was gone. His fear that all that work that he had done What had failed was gone. But secondly, at that same time when Timothy came back, the church in Thessalonica actually sent him with a gift. To help him be able to minister effectively without fear of finances. And so he was able to minister, to be occupied with the word, and to testify to the Jews that Christ was Jesus. So the news of the Thessalonian Christians really put wind in Paul's sails. It gave him almost like new life. He says in this verse here, if you look back at verse 7, he says, For this reason, brothers, in all our distress and affliction, we have been comforted about you. Through your faith. He says, we have found a comfort because of your faith. And it's interesting that Paul had sent Timothy, and he uses the same word, to comfort you, to exhort you. But when Timothy came back, you comforted us and you gave us a comfort. The question comes is, have you ever been a comfort to someone? Are there people that have ministered to you and by your faithfulness, they can say, I am comforted because I know they are walking with the Lord? I was fearful that maybe they had gone away from the Lord, but now I know they're standing firm in the Lord, and I am comforted by their faithfulness. Is your faith and love strengthening the hand of anyone else? How about maybe is there someone else that you hear news of? And when you find out that they're standing fast in their faith, does that encourage you? The fact is that we are either going to strengthen other people or we're going to discourage Other believers by our faith. And our lives have an impact on those that we are around. Our Christian walk is seen and heard by other believers. One of the things we always tell the youth in in youth group and in church is there are other youth that are looking at you. And whether you realize it or not, there are teenagers that are looking up to you for an example. And a lot of times teenagers go, looking up to me? There's there's people that are looking up to me, and the ironic thing is, you know, a 13-year-old is being looked up to by an eleven-year-old And a 15-year-old is being looked up to by a 13-year-old. And is that 15-year-old is walking with the Lord? The 13-year-old is encouraged to walk with the Lord. He's strengthened to walk with the Lord. And it's not just true of teenagers. It's true of the entire body. That as we walk with the Lord, we encourage one another by our faithfulness. And similarly, we discourage others when we are unfaithful. So the reality is that our lives are designed by God to be a constant encouragement to one another, to love. and good works. We are to be provoking one another in a continual fashion towards us. That's why we meet together. When we come together and we gather as a body of believers. And we worship the Lord together and we pray together and we listen to the word of God and we fellowship together. The goal is that we are designing this time to encourage each other in Christ so that we will walk faithfully. Paul says his encouragement was so great, it's as if his life was bound up in theirs. It's an interesting phrase he says in verse 8, where he says, For now we live. If you are standing fast in the Lord. It could be translated, since you are standing fast in the Lord. But basically it says, we have new life now. It's as if there was a sentence of death hanging over us as we waited to hear about your spiritual condition. But as soon as we got word of you, it's like we have new life. Do you want to be an encouragement to your pastor? Do you want to give him new life? You can do that by walking faithfully. So when he sees your example, he's encouraged by. What did the Apostle John say in 3 John, the little tiny book of 3 John? He says, For I rejoice greatly when the brothers came and testified to your truth, as indeed you are walking in the truth. Then he says I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. He's not talking about his biological children. He's talking about his spiritual children. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. Can you say that about those that you minister to? I have no greater joy. That is my highest pinnacle of joy. If you were to say, I have no greater joy than, dot, dot, dot , what would it be? I have no greater joy than seeing my 401k grow. I have no greater joy than working on my car Stick with a nice car, maybe. I have no greater joy than taking a trip to Italy Or can you say, I have no greater joy than to see my children walking in the truth? If your heart is invested, In people, then that will be your great joy. Paul's heart was invested in them. So he says, I live now. I got this word back from Timothy. And it's like I have a new lease on life. I am alive because of it. And he was encouraged because they were standing fast in the Lord. But this good news brought about a renewed zeal of prayer in the life of the Apostle Paul. Look at verses 9 and 10. He says, For what thanksgiving can we return to God for you? For all the joy that we feel for your sake before our God, as we pray most earnestly, night and day, that we may see you face to face and supply what is lacking in your face. So this good news brought this renewed zeal of prayer, and he described several aspects of their renewed prayer that he had for them. First, it resulted in a passionate prayer. He describes praying for them as praying earnestly. Our English word earnestly is a fine word, but it doesn't do justice to this Greek word here that is translated earnestly. The Greek word is actually a compound word, and it's the word one word is abundantly, and the other is above or beyond. And so when you combine it together, it's abundantly above all measure. So he's praying abundantly above all measure. He's praying superabundantly is another way to describe it. He's saying, I am praying with a deep, passionate earnestness in my prayer. It's the same word that's found in Ephesians chapter 3, verse 20, where he says, Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than. That's all one word. It's that compound word, far more abundantly than. And this is the same word here. He says, I'm praying earnestly, far more abundantly than, super abundantly. But it's this power of God that's in us that to do far more abundantly than what we ask or think according to the power that is at work in us. And he's talking about our sanctification. When you feel like there's no way I can overcome this sin. The power of God working in us can do far more abundantly than what we ask or think, according to that power that's in us. The fact is that we have been called to passionate, earnest prayer for the work of God. In James chapter 5, remember this, right after he says to them about the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much. He gives the example of Elijah. And Elijah, he says, was a man just like other men, with a nature like ours. Meaning he was a sinner. He wasn't an angel. He wasn't some superhuman. He was a human with human weaknesses and human passions. But he prayed fervently that it might not rain. And for three years and six months it did not rain on the earth. Then he prayed again, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit. This is the idea. Paul said, I prayed and I am praying more earnestly now. Because I've received this good report. It stirred me to earnest Fervent, passionate praying. This is what Jonathan Bishop, I know, is trying to stir us to this week at our missions conference. Not just say, Lord, pray for the missionaries. Bless them, but to pray earnestly, specifically. We're going to talk about that in just a moment. But with a consistent zeal The fervent praying is honored by God. And He was trying to stir us by showing us answers to prayer that God has done as we have been calling out to God. And to stir us to then greater prayer. Paul didn't pray casually. He didn't pray haphazardly. He prayed with a great passion and energy for the Thessalonian believers. Secondly, it resulted in praise-filled prayer. He says, What thanksgiving can we return to God for you? Really, this entire epistle, remember, he got the word from Timothy. And he starts writing 1 Thessalonians. And so this whole first half of the of the book is all filled with thanksgiving. This section here is just like it. He says, what thanksgiving can we return to God? It's a rhetorical question there in verse 9, and it indicates that no amount of thanksgiving Is going to be sufficient. What am I supposed to give back to God? How can I give enough thanks to God for what He has done? And the answer is basically, you can't. But it doesn't stop him. It just urges him to do it even more. The idea here is kind of like that Paul is thankful beyond words. Do you ever feel that way? That what God has done in your life, what God has done in your family, what God has done for you individually makes you thankful beyond words. Now again, it's important to remember Paul didn't have an easy life. He didn't have The creature comforts. He knew what it meant to be beaten on a regular basis. He knew what it meant to be shipwrecked. He knew what it meant to be stoned and left for dead. He knew what it meant to be hated by many people. He knew what it meant to be abandoned. And he says, and I'm filled with thankfulness, and I don't even have enough words to express my thankfulness. I think Paul's gratitude is kind of a rebuke to us for our ingratitude so often, or our complaining spirit. We complain and we gripe and we comp we moan and and we have it so good And Paul says, I can't even thank God enough. I don't have the words to express it. When you're praying for your children or your church members or even your missionaries, are you filled with thanksgiving to God for what he has done or what he is doing or even the opportunity to come before the Almighty? Or is your prayer more of a complaint? God, why are you not hearing me? How come this has happened to me? God's work and God's people really is a reason for God's worker to give God praise. And he is doing that here. Philippians 4, 6 says that we are to come before the Lord with prayer, meaning worship and supplication, with thanksgiving. Worship, request, thanksgiving. This is the model that we have been told. And we've been given. And the Apostle Paul does it. If you're a parent of faithful children, you ought to be filled with thankfulness because of the gracious work of God in your children's lives, but you ought not to be filled with boastfulness. It ought to be God has done this. He isn't saying, look what I have done. Notice that he's saying, I can't return enough thanks to God because it is God who has done this in you. So we have here, Paul first of all, is passionate in his prayer, his praise-filled prayer. It resulted in persistent prayer. He says, we prayed earnestly, most earnestly, I'm sorry, most earnestly, night and day. We prayed most earnestly night and day. That means throughout the day and at night, late into the night, in the middle of the night, Paul would wake up and he would pray for them. He was consistent in his praying. It isn't that they did nothing else. We know he was very busy, but they had the habit of regularly laboring in prayer. This is one of the things I think that I want to be characteristic of our ministry. That we labor in prayer, that it's not about busyness. but the power of God working to save lives and to transform lives as we depend on God in earnest prayer. I read somewhere recently, or some no, someone told me this recently, that the average Christian prays five minutes a day, and the average pastor prays seven minutes a day. No wonder so many churches are lifeless. No wonder we see so little of the work of God if If that's all that is our prayer life, thank God that that's not the case here. I know many of you are diligent in prayer, but I want to stir you up to prayer in a earnest, persistent way. Jesus told us that men ought always to pray and not to faint. We ought to be faithful in our praying. When you wake up in the middle of the night, do you find yourself praying or worrying? When you have a spare moment during the day, does your heart run to prayer or some entertainment or escape that you can do? Paul says, we were praying most earnestly, night and day. Fourthly here, it resulted in purposeful prayer. And he prays specifically. That's the idea here, that we may see you face-to-face. and supply what is lacking in your faith. So he prayed first of all for a the chance to go there. Remember Satan had hindered him on multiple occasions that he was not able to go. He tried to go and it fell through because of some satanic hindrance. But he says, I'm praying that God will make it possible for me to come visit you face to face. And if you continue reading the book of Acts in Acts chapter 20, We find that God did answer that prayer in a specific way. And Acts chapter 20 says Paul departed for Macedonia. Remember, Thessalonica is part of Macedonia. Thessalonica and Philippi. which he had gone through or when he had gone through those regions and had given them much encouragement, he came to Greece. And when it talks about Greece, Thessalonica and Macedonia, that's part of Greece, but Greece proper meaning Athens. So he'd gone back then down to Athens There he spent three months, and when a plot was made against him by the Jews as he was about to set sail for Syria, he decided to return through Macedonia. So now he's going back to Macedonia. He's going back to Thessalonica, now for the third time, because of this plot. So you have your map here. You have Athens is down here. We have Philippi and Thessalonica up here. So they he went through this region and he traveled. He came back down to Athens. He was preparing to go back to Syria here by boat, probably to be there in time for the worship, but he realized, oh no. There's a plot. There's actually some sort of plot to to take his life as he traveled. So he traveled by land back up here to Thessalonica into Macedonia. And I don't know whether he gathered a boat then or or what, but he he traveled on through that way and he had two times then. to go back through Thessalonica. And what he says there is exactly what he prayed for. One, that he'd see them face to face, and two, that he would supply what is lacking in your faith. And he says here that when he had gone through these regions and had given them much encouragement. Much encouragement. He ministered to them. He supplied what was lacking in their faith. Remember, these are baby Christians. These are Christians who a year ago were worshiping idols. And he comes back and he teaches them and he encourages them and he reminds them and he reproves them and he encourages them to walk faithfully. I think we learn the importance of focused and specific prayer. He prayed earnestly, he prayed passionately, he prayed purposefully, he prayed specifically, and God answered those prayers. I'd love to jump into this last paragraph of of this chapter, but I don't know time is going to be a challenge. I think I'm going to cut it off right here for tonight. But I want to give just a couple points of application from what we see here. And we'll look into this latter part as we jump into chapter four the next time First, we ought to make earnest prayer a priority in our lives. There's a lot of things that take a place of prayer in our lives. We're busy And so he said, I don't have time to pray. I got stuff to do. I have ministry to do. I used to have a little note on my desk that said, Ministry in the flesh will fail. Have you prayed? And it was a constant reminder that you can be busy even in ministry. And not be in the power of the Spirit. And that prayer was the first priority. Because if it is in my power and in my flesh, It's worthless. Paul says that he prayed passionately. He prayed persistently. He prayed with great purpose. He prayed with great thankfulness and praise to God. Examine your prayer life. Is it that? Is it passionate? Is it praise-filled? Is it persistent? Is it purposeful? Or is it just if I have time? I would say make time for prayer. It is the priority. Secondly, we ought to grow and abound in love for one another. Real Christian love, like what Paul demonstrates here. Where our our hearts, our our lives are literally intertwined with with one another. We weep with those who weep and we rejoice with those who rejoice. That the success of another brother is actually our success, and their failure, their fall, is actually our fall. Where we grieve with them. And our hearts are linked together. Paul demonstrates a beautiful pastor's heart, what a true pastor is like. For now we live if you are standing fast in the Lord. Can you say that about anyone? My life is so intertwined with them that if they stand fast in the Lord, it's as if I live. And if they fail, if they fall, it's as if I die. This is the heart that our Savior has for us and that we are called to have for one another. May God help us to exemplify these things in our lives. Let's pray. Father, I thank you For the faithfulness of the Apostle Paul, the example, even his human frailties that we see in these passages that help us recognize that your grace is sufficient and that you use Men and women like us, with our own weaknesses, with our own personalities and unique gifts and weaknesses, Lord, I pray that you would make us faithful Passionate prayers. Lord, help us to pray consistently, to labor in prayer for those within our assembly and for the work of missionaries around the world. For those who have gone out from our assembly to do the work of evangelism, for young believers who are struggling to stand firm in Christ Lord, help us to labor in prayer with praise, with persistence, with with specificity in our request. And Lord, I pray that we would see your power at work in a mighty way in our assembly and in your church. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.