We're in Isaiah 65 this evening. If you take your Bibles and turn to Isaiah 65, we're looking at verses 8 through 16 about God's redemptive plan for Israel. But we're going to kind of Go back a little bit and fill in some of the things that we didn't get a chance to cover last week. But let's just read verses 8 through 16 so this is fresh in our minds. It says, Thus says the Lord, as the new wine is found in the cluster, and they say, Do not destroy it, for there is a blessing in it. So I will do for my servants' sake, and not destroy them all. I will bring forth offspring from Jacob, and from Judah, possessors of my mountains My chosen shall possess it, and my servants shall dwell there. Sharon shall become a pasture for flocks, and the valley of Acor a place for herds to lie down for my people who have sought me. But you who forsake the Lord, who forget my holy mountain, who set a table for fortune, and who fill cups of mixed wine for destiny. I will destin you to the sword, and all of you shall bow down to the slaughter. Because when I called you did not answer. When I spoke, you did not listen But you did what was evil in my eyes, and chose what I did not delight in. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, my servants shall eat. But you shall be hungry. Behold, my servants shall drink, but you shall be thirsty. Behold, my servants shall rejoice But you shall be put to shame. Behold, my servants shall sing for gladness of heart, but you shall cry out for pain of heart, and shall wail for breaking of spirit You shall leave your name to my chosen for a curse. And the Lord God will put you to death. But his servants he will call by another name. So that he who blesses himself in the land shall bless himself by the God of truth. And he who takes an oath in the land shall swear by the God of truth. Because the former troubles are forgotten and are hidden from my eyes. We see in these verses The continued plan of redemption, God's redemptive plan for the nation of Israel. And we see as well that God will not utterly destroy because He has Good grapes. There are good grapes in the bunch. There are there is a good cluster in the vine God will not utterly destroy because he has a remnant that is prepared, that he has prepared, and he will redeem his remnant. God's judgment on Israel is real as described here, but it is not total. It would be easy if you remember the first seven verses of this chapter. And conclude that God is finished with the nation of Israel. And I actually read several commentators who said that, that God is finished with the nation of Israel based on these verses. And the reality is that these verses not only say that God is not finished with the nation of Israel, but that He has a plan for them. He has a purpose yet for the nation of Israel. Remember when we were reading this, this is the response to the prayer that took up most of chapter 63 and all of chapter 64, and that prayer ended with the words Will you restrain yourself at these things, O Lord? Will you keep silent and afflict us so terribly? And God answers that question. In these verses that we're reading and that we looked at last week as well. And he described how he had spread out his hands to the people of Israel all the day long. And they provoked him to his face continually. So just the same way that he spread out his hands to them, they continually provoked him to his face. Well we looked at last week, we spent a good deal of time looking at how Paul quoted verses 1 and 2 of chapter 65 in Romans chapter 10. And Paul's quotation of verses one and two gives us really the structure that to help us interpret what is being described here. He says in verse 1, I was ready to be sought. by those who did not ask for me. I was ready to be found by those who did not seek me. I said, here I am, here I am, to a nation that was not called by my name. And we learned in Romans chapter 10, verse 20, that that first verse is a reference to God's gracious work among the Gentiles. That God in Christ has called Gentiles to Himself and He has made of Himself one new people of Jews and Gentiles in the church. In Romans chapter 10, verse 20, Paul says, this is an evidence that God has been open-armed towards the nation of Israel. But they refused. And that's what he says here in verse 2. I spread out my hands all the day to rebellious people, meaning a stubborn and recalcitrant people. And verse 21 of Romans chapter 10. It says this, but of Israel, he says, all day long I have held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. God is saying essentially in these two verses, I have not been silent, I have been inviting you to me. And the proof of that is the fact that I have called a people who were not called by my name, and they have experienced my grace The very fact the Gentiles have come to me is an evidence that I am a God who delights in saving, a God who delights in forgiving. The problem was not with me. And my posture towards you, he says, the problem was with you and your rebellion against me. And so with that in mind, we come to verse 6 of this passage, and he answers directly the question. Remember the prayer of the watchman ended with this question, will you keep silent? And afflict us so terribly? And the Lord answers that question in verse 6 with tremendous clarity. He says, Behold, it is written before me, I will not keep silent. But I will repay. I will indeed repay into their lap both your iniquities and your father's iniquities together, says the Lord. So unless you think Oh, he's going to bless them by repaying them. No, he's going to repay them with judgment because of their iniquities. And we saw Three things about this judgment that God brings. When God breaks his silence with Israel, it is a certain judgment. He says, it is written. before me. God has a perfect record of the righteous and unrighteous actions of all mankind. And so when God enters into judgment with you or me or anyone, it is not on the basis of a whim. But on factual thorough knowledge of all that has been done. And it speaks to the absolute certainty of God's judgment on their rebellious behavior. And it's it's similar to what we read in Revelation chapter 20. Let me just skip ahead here. Revelation chapter 20, verses 11 and 12, when at the great white throne judgment, which this is now forward in time significantly here. But at the Great White Throne judgment, it says, And I saw a great white throne, and him who was seated on it, from his presence earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Well, what are these books? Well he goes down there and he says, and the dead were judged by what was written in the books according to what they had done. So when he says here, Behold, it is written before me. He is describing the fact that I have a perfect record of your actions. I have a perfect knowledge of your iniquity and your transgressions before me. And he said, and as a result, when I judge, I'm going to judge with a certain judgment. In Jeremiah chapter 17, the Lord says, I, the Lord, search the heart and test the minds, to give every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his deeds. The reality is that God, when he comes into judgment with any one of us, he comes with a perfect knowledge in his judgment. But he also describes it as a very personal judgment. Notice how he says, I will not keep silent, but I will repay, and I will indeed repay into their laps, or could be translated, some translations have it, into their bosom. It's a judgment that just doesn't doesn't impact them on the periphery of their existence or of their being. Doesn't just impact their finances or their social status. It's not a periphery judgment. It is a judgment that is on them personally, at the very core of their being, on their very soul. And there is A reference here to the seven-year tribulation that God will bring upon the nation of Israel to judge them for their stubborn rebellion. Jeremiah calls this the time of Jacob's trouble. In Jeremiah chapter 30, verses 5 and 7, it describes the devastation of that tribulation period. And he says, Thus says the Lord, we have heard a cry of panic, of terror, and no peace. Ask now and see, can a man bear a child? And the question is, no. In our day and age, people are still trying to figure that out, but the answer is no. Then he says, why then do I see every man with his hands on his stomach like a woman in labor? What is it? It's panic, terror. Fear has gripped him. Why is every face turned pale? Alas, that day is so great. There is none like it. It is a time of distress for Jacob. Yet he shall be saved out of it. And even in this word of judgment in Jeremiah, a great and terrible judgment is going to come upon the nation of Israel, the time of Jacob's trouble, he says, Yet I will save. A remnant. I will save a remnant of my people. So it's it's a certain judgment, it's a personal judgment, it's a cumulative judgment He says here as well, both, I said, I will indeed repay into their lap both your iniquities and your father's iniquities together, says the Lord. And maybe as I read that you go, that doesn't seem fair. Why are these innocent people being judged for their father's iniquities? Well, they're not innocent people. And the reality is it's not that they are innocent, he says, both your iniquities and your father's iniquities. It means that the children continued and even increased the wickedness of their parents, and as a result, they are bearing the cumulative weight of the judgment that God in mercy restrained from their parents, but they in their stubbornness continued to pursue the rebellion. It's kind of like the idea of when God told Abraham that his descendants would be in the land of Egypt for 400 years because the iniquity of the Amorites was not yet full. And when the nation of Israel came in to take possession of the land, the the inhabitants of the land of that time bore the cumulative weight of the judgment. that came upon them bec from their parents and now down to them themselves. But it wasn't that they were innocent, they were also guilty and guilty in a in d as great or greater way than their parents. But what we see here is in this judgment, in this message of destruction, he says, there is also a message of hope that God will spare a remnant. And verse 8 is that beginning of that message of hope. He says, Thus says the Lord As the new wine is found in the cluster. And they say, Do not destroy it, for there is a blessing in it. So I will do for my servant's sake, and not destroy them all. When we read these verses, we are forced to ask, is there any hope for Israel? If God is going to pour out his wrath in such a way, Is there any hope for the nation of Israel? Has God determined to utterly annihilate the nation of Israel? And Turn to the Gentiles alone. And the answer of verses 8 through 10 is no. It's an emphatic no. God still has a future for the nation of Israel. And he uses this illustration, this analogy of new wine being found in the cluster. And I don't know if if when I read it, you maybe scratched your head a little bit and said, I'm not exactly sure I understand that analogy. What is happening here? Why do they say do not destroy it? Well, to be quite honest, there are there's there's roughly two different ways of interpreting it, but they all come down to the same meaning in the end because the Lord gives the interpretation of the ultimate meaning. But I think the interpretation that makes the most sense is that it refers to a vineyard keeper who is thinking about uprooting a vine. Because it doesn't seem to have any fruit. And he's going through the vineyard and he sees a vine that doesn't appear to have any fruit, and he's about to order it to be cut down. When those men who are working with him say, No, no. There is still a blessing in it. Look, there is a cluster of good grapes here that are bursting with new wine. There is a blessing in it. And they say, do not destroy it For there is a blessing in it. So in light of that good cluster, the vine is spared And this would, I think, fit nicely with the parable that we read in Isaiah chapter 5. And I'm sure you remember vividly Isaiah 5. That's only been two years ago that we looked at Isaiah 5. But Isaiah 5, verses 1 through 7 is a Love song, a love song about God 's love for the nation of Israel. And he describes Israel as a vineyard, and he as the vineyard keeper who tenderly and thoroughly and perfectly cared for them, and yet the vineyard produced bad grapes. He says in Isaiah chapter 5, let me sing for my beloved my love song concerning his vineyard. My beloved had a vineyard on a very fertile hill. He dug it and cleared it of stones and planted it with choice vines. He built a watch tower in the midst of it, and hewed out a wine vat in it, and he looked for it to yield grapes, but it yielded wild grapes. And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge between me and my vineyard. What more was there to do for my vineyard that I have not done in it? When I look for to yield grapes, why did it yield wild grapes? And now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard I will remove its hedge, and it shall be devoured. I will break down its walls, and it shall be trampled down. I will make it a waste. It shall not be pruned or hoed, and briars and thorns shall grow up. I will also command the clouds that they rain no rain upon it, for the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah are his pleasant planting. And he looked for justice. But behold bloodshed, for righteousness, but behold an outcry. And so God says, I'm going to bring great judgment on the nation. And this is describing the Babylonian captivity is going to come upon the nation of Israel because instead of righteousness and justice, he found bloodshed and he found people crying out for for justice, but there was no justice. And so here it would make sense to think of this as God saying, I'm going through my vineyard and I find a vine that is appearing to be dead, but yet there's a cluster. that has some good grapes in it. And so I will not destroy that vine for the sake of the good grapes The other possible interpretation is that a cluster of the vine is discovered that is largely bad, but has some um good grapes in that cluster and the good grapes are culled out of the bad grapes and they are saved. It's not very clear that the there's just this it's an idiomatic expression that is found here in Hebrew that over the course of centuries and millennia we're not exactly sure of the details of it, but the the the clear impression is that there are some good that is left, and so God is going to spare it for the some that are good. And he says so at the very end of verse 8, so I will do for my servant's sake, and not destroy them all. So either one of those understandings could be the right interpretation because they agree with the application that is made there at the end of verse 8, where God says, I will not destroy them all. And that is referring back to the nation of Israel. He says, I will not destroy the entire nation. Instead, I'm going to preserve a remnant of this nation. that will come into the land and be saved. So the message here is of God's plan to preserve and to purify a remnant. And that that message through the book of Isaiah is on nearly every page. God's plan to preserve and to purify a remnant. It starts all the way back in Isaiah chapter 1. And I'm sure when I say Isaiah chapter 1, you can just instantly recall everything we read in Isaiah chapter 1 all those years ago. But let's just look at it. It says in verses 8 and 9. And you'll notice that is a cucumber hut. It's a booth in a field. We in a lot of countries they'll have things like this in the farmers field where the farmers can rest and get some shade. And it's not a sturdy structure. It's just something to allow you to get a little bit of shade while you're working in the field. And he says, and the daughter of Zion, meaning Jerusalem, is left like a booth in a vineyard. like a lodge in a cucumber field, like a besieged city, if the Lord of hosts had not left us a few survivors, We should have been like Sodom and become like Gomorrah. And right from the very first chapter, we see that And I even when we were going through the first chapter, I remember saying the first chapter tells us the theme of the whole book. As we come through this whole book, we're going to see the themes that are in the first chapter are the themes that are repeated again and again and again in the book of Isaiah. And God's message of preservation and purification of a remnant is found here in the first few verses of the book of Isaiah. Remember in Isaiah chapter 7, Isaiah chapter 7 is famous for the virgin birth prophecy. But you remember, God gave the virgin birth prophecy to King Ahaz. And God told Isaiah to go meet King Ahaz by the water outside of the city of Jerusalem, outside the walls, and to give him a surprising message of comfort. It was surprising because Ahaz was a wicked king. But God tells him to go, and he tells him to go with his son. It wasn't just like take your child to work day for prophets in Israel. God tells him to go with your son, Sher Jashub. It's an unusual name. I've urged parents here in our church, if anyone would like to name their children after one of the names of Isaiah's sons, I will pay them $100. Sher Jashab is one, Meher Shah Hashbaz is another, and I am willing to pay anyone a hundred dollars who names their child after one of Isaiah's sons' names, but no one has taken me up on it. But Sher Jashub is a name that God intended. God gave him this name as a sign to the people of Israel. And it means the remnant. Shall return. The remnant shall return. God is giving a message to the king King Ahaz that although the nation of Israel, the land of Judah, will be taken captive, God has a plan for the remnant. In fact, if you go into chapter 10 of Isaiah, verse 22, the Lord says, For though your people Israel be as the sand of the sea. Only a remnant of them will return. Destruction is decreed, overflowing with righteousness The message repeatedly through the book of Isaiah is that I am going to judge this nation because they have turned their backs on me, but I am not through with the nation. I will preserve a remnant and I will purify that remnant through the trials. So the the events that are described in this passage, Isaiah 65 , have broad application to the Jewish people, going back to their captivity in Babylon all the way to the present. However, I think that likely the specific teaching here refers to God's purging work Done during the tribulation, in that seven years of tribulation, God is going to judge the nation of Israel for their rebellion, but he will also preserve a remnant that he will purify through that time. If you remember, just thinking through the theme of this chapter, in verses 1 and 2, we are told verse 1 is God's gracious dealing with the Gentiles. And how God is now going to bring a judgment upon the nation of Israel because they have rejected him, but the Gentiles have received him, which of course we know as God's work amongst the church in the New Testament. And then in verse 17 of this chapter, kind of like a bookend to it or another chronological marker, he says, for behold I created new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come to mind. So we have God's work. Amongst the Gentiles, and then we have at the other end of the spectrum the new heavens and the new earth. And so what we're finding here in between are the events that are in between those two events. And specifically what is being described here, I believe, are the events of the tribulation period. The clear implication is that these events are transpiring between these two chronological markers. And other Bible passages. Speak of God's dealing with the nation of Israel during the tribulation period, and they add detail to the verses that we read here. You can think of Zechariah chapter 13, verses 8 and 9. It says, In the whole land, declares the Lord, two -thirds shall be cut off and perish, and one-third shall be left alive. And I will put this third into the fire, and refine them as one refined silver, and test them as gold is tested. They will call upon my name and I will answer them. I will say, they are my people, and they will say, The Lord is my God. Now when you think about what Jesus talked about calling upon the name of the Lord and coming to him, we understand here that these are those who they repent. And they trust in Christ. And as a result, they are spared. But during that time of great testing, they are refined and they are purified and they are made to be his people. God will do a work here, he describes, of uniting the nation and restoring the land. You notice in verse 9, he says, I will bring forth offspring. From Jacob and from Judah, possessors of my mountains, shall c my chosen shall possess it, and my servants Shall dwell there. And we have this reference to the word my servants. We're going to find it many times throughout this chapter. Probably as I was reading, especially in verses 13 and 14, you notice that reference, my servants, my servants, my servants. The word, when you think of my servants, your mind probably remembers back the servant songs. And the servant songs refer to the Lord Jesus Christ, the Messiah. My servants. Are those who are brought to the Lord because of the work of the servant of the Lord? Because of the sacrificial death and resurrection of our Lord. He makes many to be accounted righteous. Does that sound familiar? Isaiah 53, 11, in the final servant song, by his knowledge shall the righteous one my servant Make many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities. It is through the work of Jesus Christ that he makes servants. They become my servants because they are in Christ, in the servant. But when God restores the remnant, The old divisions of northern kingdom and southern kingdom are taken away. There's no longer Jacob and Judah, northern and southern, but they all together are possessors. of my mountains. And there's a physical and geographical possession. Many, many, many times as we've gone through the book of Isaiah, I've had I've mentioned this and pointed it out. That the references to the land and the land and the land and the land not just generally that are to be spiritualized, but very specific prophetic declarations about the land of Israel and their possession of unique geographical locations within the land of Israel are repeated. So many times you probably got sick of me mentioning it, but here again, we see that reality. There is a physical geographical possession. And we find he says in verse 10, Sharon shall become a pasture for flocks, and the valley of Acor a place for herds to lie down for my people who have sought me. Now, Sharon is not a person's name. It is the plain of Sharon on the western, northwestern edge of the nation of Israel. It's a very, very fertile area, beautiful area. You can see. Uh this region right here is just full of farm fields, beautiful , delightful area, and it goes right up to the Mediterranean Sea, so it's just absolutely gorgeous area. It it begins down there in Joppa and goes up towards Mount Carmel type of place that you would want to live. Very, very beautiful. The Valley of Acor is the antithesis of the plain of Sharon The Valley of Akor is the place where Achan, remember Achan, he took the forbidden things from Jericho, and they stoned Achan and his family there in the valley of Akor, which means the valley of trouble. Not a very pretty place. Not a very not a place where you'd want to like start a farm. The valley of trouble. But what's amazing about it here he describes, he says, and the valley of Acor a place for herds to lie down. You're like, where? Where would these herds lie down in that rugged terrain? Well Hosea chapter 2 speaks of the valley of Acor as well. It says, Therefore, behold, I will allure her, meaning the nation of Israel, and bring her into the wilderness and speak tenderly to her. And there I will give her her vineyards, and make the valley of Acor a door of hope, and there she shall answer as in the days of her youth, as at the time when she came out of the land of Egypt. And God is talking about a re uh regathering of the nation of Israel, where they recognize him as their Lord, as their husband and they respond to him like they did in the early days when they came out of the land of Egypt. And as a result, the valley of Acor becomes a door of hope. It represents really God's transformation, not only of them spiritually, but also the transformation of the land. What was a wasteland becomes a fertile land where herds can lie down in safety. We read about in Isaiah 35, the desert blossoming like a rose. I mean that That's the desert. And he says it'll blossom like the rose. And the rose is often used synonymously with the rose of Sharon, the plain of Sharon. And he's saying, Sharon, or the valley of Acor will be like Sharon. This would become a fertile area during the millennium. And God is going to bring about a transformation not only of the people, but of the land. And that is Such a beautiful promise right here in the midst of these passage on judgment. What we find here as well is that God distinguishes between the righteous Remnant and the wicked. God is a distinguishing God. Jesus' words on the Sermon on the Mount are instructive for us. And when in Matthew chapter 7 he says, Enter by the narrow gate, for the gate is wide, and the way is easy that leads to destruction. And those who enter it Are many. But the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life. And those who find it are few. We've already read how two-thirds of the nation of Israel during the tribulation period will be destroyed, and that one-third will be purged and purified even further. The vast majority of the nation of Israel and the nations of the world foolishly stroll along in the wide path, the easy path. The path that has no knowledge or concern for God. But on the other hand, the narrow, hard way requires taking up your cross daily and following Christ And he says, few there be that even find the way that leads to life and peace. God's warning about his distinguishing between the wicked and the righteous. is not something to be taken lightly. Because notice what he says here as we continue to read. He says, But you who forsake the Lord who forget my holy mountain, who set a table for fortune, and fill cups of mixed wine for destiny. I will destine you to the sword, and all of you shall bow down to the slaughter, because when I called, you did not answer. When I spoke, you did not listen. But you did what was evil in my eyes and chose what I did not delight in. God is not pleased with religious syncretism, with compromise. He describes them being involved in a pagan ritual. Now if you have the King James Version, you're not going to be able to see this in your version. There's a poor translation, unfortunately. The word fortune in the ESV is translated by the word troop. And the word destiny is translated by the words that number. And it just goes back to the fact that when they translated the King James in sixteen eleven, They didn't know these Hebrew words yet. There was still a learning that they were doing to try to understand the names of of pagan idols. And so they did their best guess. And they just didn't know. They just didn't simply they didn't know what those words were, and so they gave their best guess to understand it, but they they got it wrong. But here we have the the meaning is that they had worship of pagan gods. It says in verse 11. But you who forsake the Lord, who forget my holy mountain, so instead of going and worshiping in Jerusalem on the at the temple, you set a table for fortune. And fill cups of mixed wine for destiny. There's this desire on the nation of Israel not to return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. But to manipulate the future by the demonic, by idolatry, by pagan services, having a table set for fortune and for destiny. And their desire was not to find security in God, but to find security in a pagan idol. And the sad reality is that this continues even to this day. In the world, but unfortunately often in the church, Christians often are found consulting the horoscope or getting their palms read and they say, oh, it's not that big a deal. It's just something I like to do. Or they'll carry a talisman around for good luck. Just this past week a woman gave my daughter, Anna, who is who is pregnant, a a medallion, I think it was a Saint Gerard, to help keep her safe during her pregnancy. What is that? It is nothing more than than than putting mixed wine for destiny and having a sacrifice for fortune. It's Christianized paganism And he says, it's evil in my sight. And God calls them to return and rest in him alone. He calls all of us to do that. But he says the punishment will fit the crime. He says, Because you have filled cups of mixed wine for destiny, I will destine you to the sword, and all of you shall bow down to the slaughter. He says, you want to worship the God destiny, then I will destine you to the sword. You want to bow down to false gods, then you will bow down, but it will be to slaughter. And this is not hyperbole. We shouldn't think of this as, wow, that's just graphic poetic language. It's the ultimate end of all who take the wide path. That leads to destruction, and refuse the narrow way, the hard way of taking up your cross and following Christ. The ultimate end of all who, like sheep, go their own way and reject the shepherd, God's servant Jesus Christ. He says, When I called you, you did not answer. When I spoke, you did not listen. It's referring to the fact that when he convicted them and he called them to repent and return, they rejected it. They refused. And he says, You did what was evil in my eyes and chose what I did not delight in. And they rejected the day of God's calling. And as a result, the judgment will be severe. But God contrasts here the ultimate end of his servants and the wicked who refuse to heed his call. He says these five things here. My servant shall eat. But you who forsake me shall be hungry. My servants shall drink, but you who forsake me shall be thirsty. My servants shall rejoice, but you who forsake me shall be put to shame. My servants shall sing with gladness. But you who forsake me shall cry and wail for pain of heart. My servants shall be given a glorious name, but your name will be used as a curse. The ultimate end of this is the difference between heaven and hell. It's the difference between feasting in Christ's kingdom and enjoying Christ. And being damned in hell, far away from the presence of the Lord, being like the rich man in hell who cried out and asked for a drop of water to be placed on his tongue. But the contrast here specifically seems to be with regard to those who are purified through the fires of adversity in the tribulation and come to put their faith and trust in Christ. and enter into the joy of the millennial kingdom. And why do I say that? Again, remember verse 17 is specifically talking about the new heavens and the new earth. And we'll look at that next week and what that refers to. But also in verse 16, he says, So that he who blesses himself in the land shall bless himself by the God of truth. He who takes an oath in the land shall swear by the God of truth, because the former troubles are forgotten. And are hidden from my eyes. That reference is to what we see in verse 17 about the former things shall not be remembered or come to mind. He's saying There will be a purging process, but that purging, that trial will be forgotten, and I will remember it no more. The contrast here is of them who are trusting the Lord and turn to the Lord in the midst of the tribulation and receive Christ, come to put their faith and trust in Christ, their Messiah, the servant of the Lord, and enter into the joy of the millennial kingdom as opposed to those who reject Him. and face damnation and the consequences of it. There are several passages in Isaiah that speak of this. Turn back with me real quick to Isaiah chapter 33. Isaiah 33. And verses thirteen through sixteen Isaiah chapter 33, 13 through 16. Remember when we studied this, we saw this contrast as well. And he says To those, he says, Hear you who are far off what I have done, and you who are near, acknowledge my might. The sinners in Zion are afraid. Trembling has seized the godless Who among us can dwell with a consuming fire? Who among us can dwell with everlasting burnings? He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly, he who despises the gain of oppressions, who shakes his hands lest they hold a bribe who stops his ears from hearing of bloodshed, and shuts his eyes from looking on evil, he will dwell on the heights. His place of defense will be the fortress of rocks His bread will be given him. His water will be sure. Your eyes will behold the king and his beauty They will see a land that stretches afar. Your hearts will mu your heart will muse on terror. Where is he who counted? Where is he who weighed the tribute? Where is he who counted the towers? You will see no more the insolent people, the people of an obscure speech that you cannot comprehend, stammering in a tongue that you cannot understand. Behold Zion, the city of our appointed feasts. Your eyes will see Jerusalem, an untroubled habitation, an immovable tent. And he describes here those who refuse to trust in the Lord and turn to him and obey him, in contrast to those who turn to the Lord. and obey him. And as a result, their eyes behold the king in his beauty. And they behold the king in his Kingdom in his reign, and they see a untroubled land. They muse on terror. Where are the watchtowers? Where are the fortresses? Oh, that's because we don't need them anymore. Because the king is reigning in peace and righteousness. What's described here in Isaiah 33 and in Isaiah 65 is how God providentially will care for his servants The faithful remnant who put their trust in Christ. Notice how he says that they will have their dwelling in the rocks, and their bread will be given him, and his water will be sure. God has a perfect plan and a purpose in preserving the remnant of Israel. Well we go back to Isaiah chapter 65. There's many more things I'd like to mention. You can look at Revelation 12, 6 and 14, but we just don't have time to look at it right now. But that describes how God during the last half of the tribulation, the last three and a half years of the tribulation, he nourishes the nation of Israel who have fled for safety to another location. He describes it in Revelation 12, 6 Revelation 12, 14, how God nourishes them during those days and preserves them so that they will be able to be restored back into the land. But the memory of the wicked who refuse to turn to the Lord, their memory is utilized as a curse. He says in verse 15, you shall leave your name to my chosen for a curse, and the Lord God will put you to death. But his servants he will call by another name. This refers to the fact that they will say, if they want to curse someone, they will say, You be like those who rejected the Lord and did not heed him. They did this in Jeremiah chapter 29. Let me just skip a couple verses ahead and you can see this. Jeremiah 29 says, Because of them, this curse shall be used by all the exiles from Judah in Babylon. The Lord make you like Zedekiah and Ahab, whom the king of Babylon roasted in the fire. Those who had rejected the Lord, these were Two false prophets who not only prophesied falsely, but also were adulterous with the women of the city of Jerusalem. And so in Babylon their names began to be used as a curse. And God tells these people here as well, those who reject me, your name will be used as a curse, but I will give my people a new name. And the name that he describes here, we're not told what it is. But Isaiah 62, verse 2, is another description of the same thing. He says, The nations shall see your righteousness, and all the kings your glory, and you shall be called by a new name. That the mouth of the Lord will give. God Himself will give the people of Israel a new name that He Himself chooses. But what's interesting here is when they come into that millennial kingdom. They swear, he says, by a new name. They swear by the God of truth. Literally, the God of Amen. He says, In that day, in that kingdom, he that blesses himself in the land shall bless himself by the God of truth, or by the God of Amen. And he who takes an oath in the land shall swear by the God of truth. Because the former troubles are forgotten and are hidden from my eyes. Whenever we say amen, we're expressing our agreement with something We're expressing our agreement with what has been prayed or by what has been heard or preached. But when God fulfills his promises to the nation of Israel to bring them back into the land , People will say, he is the God of Amen. He has been faithful to his promises that he promised. Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. And although many people thought he would never fulfill those promises, just like in I have commentaries from the early 1900s that say the nation of Israel will never be a nation again And you're like, well, you had only had to wait a few years to find out that wasn't true. But God had already said he was going to do it. And those who say, well, God is never going to work again with the nation of Israel, he is the God of Amen. And when he does these things, God will be magnified as let God be true, and every man a liar. God is the God of truth. He is the God of Amen. That's why Jesus is described that way in Revelation 3. 14. He says to the angel of the church in Laodicea write the words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of God's creation. When Jesus Christ returns to establish his kingdom, he will be called faithful and true, because all that he promised, he fulfilled. The beautiful thing is this is a warning of judgment that is given in this passage. And it's true. So what should you do? Return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. Turn to the servant who died for you. Secondly, God's promises of salvation are true. So what should you do? Return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. He is the God of Amen. I apologize. I thought I'd be done quicker tonight, and actually I'm longer than normal. But uh I apologize for that. I appreciate your attention. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you that you are the God of Amen. You are the God of truth. Your word is true. It cannot be broken. And Lord, I pray that you would help us To look at the things of this world and not desire them, but to rest in you, to trust your promises, to find peace and security in them. And to follow you faithfully, we pray you'd help us in this in Jesus' name. Amen.