Have your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to James chapter 1? I mentioned to you that I was going to start a series on John, but because I'm going to be away and because we have Easter coming, And want the series to get off to a very disjointed start, so we'll preach individual messages, Lord willing, until the month of April. James chapter 1. Alan Gardner was a pioneer missionary in both South America and South Africa. This Englishman began his life as a Royal Navy officer. Fought in the War of 1812. He had a taste for adventure. and for doing dangerous things. And so after his naval career was over, he turned to missions and he wanted to reach the unreached, the people who have Never heard the gospel. He wanted to go to hard places. For several years he worked among the Zulu people in South Africa, and then He set his sights on Tierra del Fuego, which is at the very southern tip of Argentina. He went there with a group of six other missionaries. They faced great hardship and opposition, but he was determined to press on. He wrote in his diary, while God gives me strength, failure will not daunt me. He was afflicted with disease, fever, and a lack of basic provisions. In 1851, Alan Gardner and his entire team were stranded on an island without any supplies. They could not go for help and they could not communicate to others. And so in September of that year, his entire team died a slow and painful death of starvation. The last entry in Alan Gardner's diary is barely legible due to his trembling hand. His dying words were, I am overwhelmed with a sense of the goodness of God. Trials have a way of putting our creed to the test of reality. I'm sure if I went around this room and asked everyone, do you believe that God is good? that everyone would say yes because that's the right answer, that's the expected answer. But that becomes difficult sometimes to say When you face grave difficulty and suffering. This morning I want us to consider a key text in the Bible on the goodness. of God. The book of James was written primarily to Jewish believers, probably only a decade or decade and a half after our Lord's death and resurrection. So many of the people he's writing to would have seen and heard the Lord. It wasn't that long ago that he was on earth. James is writing to a persecuted church. These Jewish followers of Christ were scattered by persecution throughout the Mediterranean world. Jewish unbelievers considered them to be traitors, and the Gentiles thought that they were strange and dangerous. Therefore, it's not surprising that Jane begins this early epistle by speaking to them of persecution. Look at the opening verse A very challenging one. Verse 2, count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. And verse five he goes on to say, If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask God who gives generously to all without reproach and it will be given him. And he's talking there about wisdom and dealing and making hard choices about suffering and persecution. James reminds them that it's the blessed man Who endures in verse 12, blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life which God has promised to those who love him. In verses 13 through 15, he speaks of the progression that sin takes in our lives because temptation comes in many forms, and with every trial With every bout of suffering in our lives, there are unique temptations that come with that. We may be tempted to use sinful means to get out of that suffering situation. Or we might be tempted to think That God is not good, that God is not faithful, that God has failed us. And we might be tempted to become bitter against God. Now, Christians generally don't share this with other Christians. But sometimes a pastor hears people say these things in the privacy of his office. Things like, I never thought God would make me face something this painful. I thought that he loved me. Or this. The Bible says that God is a loving father. Well, I would never make my child suffer the way he has made me suffer. When we face an agonizing situation, our belief in the goodness of God is really challenged and put to the test. This is why James next turns in this book to defend this vital truth. Verse 16 serves as a little bridge between two sections. It looks both backwards and forwards. It says, do not be deceived, my beloved brothers. This warning notice is given to Christian people. You see, even Christians, even mature Christians, when they face suffering, can doubt the goodness of God. This is a common response, but it's a dangerous response. So James uses verses 16, 17, and 18 to correct this common error. Now maybe you're facing painful suffering in your life right now, and you find yourself questioning the goodness of God. When we suffer, We either tend to walk away from God because we don't think he's being fair to us, or we walk close to God to cling to him and to find help. Suffering and difficulty comes in many different forms. Many people face regular discouragements. Perhaps it's in limitations of things they can't do that others do, or things that others have that they don't possess. It's very difficult for a married couple who do not have children to be around a bunch of children It's very difficult for single people who desperately want to be married to be around a bunch of peers their age who are married. It's difficult for people who are struggling with a unsafe spouse. to see others who have a strong Christian leader for a spouse And so we sometimes question and think that God hasn't been fair to us, or God hasn't been faithful to us, or God is not dealing with us the way we thought He would. Many people think, somehow in the back of their mind, that there's a promise that if we follow the Lord and trust in him, he will shield us from any pain and suffering and difficulty. And I've talked to people who have said things like, I've tried to do my best. I go to church. I put money in the offering plate. I brought my children up in Sunday school and in the church. And now look at what has happened. And what that betrays is this idea that they had struck a bargain with God. But that of course is not the way it works. I want us to see in this passage this morning three good reasons. for you to trust in the goodness of God. Christians should trust in the goodness of God even Or perhaps we could say especially when they face suffering. Why is that? Well, there's three considerations I want to point out from this text. First of all, consider the gifts that God has given to you. I want you to notice the comprehensive nature of the opening statement in verse 17. Every good gift. And every perfect gift is from above coming down from the Father of lights. I want you to notice Every is found twice in this sentence. There are no exceptions to this. It's not that some of the good things you enjoy came from God and others you earned. No, everything that you could possibly list. That is a gift from God has been given to you by the Lord. And notice it's from above, a reference to God coming down from the Father of lights. So everything good that we enjoy ultimately comes from God. In fact, our English word good comes from the word got We cannot properly conceive of what is good without thinking of God. God is infinitely and always Good. This is the comprehensive teaching of the word of God. God's goodness is manifested wherever you look. You question that? Just consider creation. Every morning when you get up and you look out Perhaps on your commute or out your back porch or whatever it is, you see the goodness of God 's. Do you remember what God said after the various days of creation? He said, it is goods. Psalm 33 and verse 5, it says, the earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. It's just crammed full of demonstrations of God 's goodness. Psalm 145 in verse 9 says, the Lord is good to all, and his tender mercies are over all his works. God is even good to wicked people. Matthew chapter 5, verse 45 in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus says that His rain and the sunshine comes on the good and the unrighteous. It's not, give or notice this, it's not that the rain stops at your property line. And your unsafe neighbor gets no rain. Or it's not that during the day, you know, they're over there in darkness, but there's all this sunshine on your property. It doesn't work like that. God is good even to people that hate him God 's personal gifts to you are a reminder that God is good. Have you taken inventory of your blessings lately? I want to mention just a few things. We could go much further with this. How about this? I'm addressing you today In the United States of America, in the state of Maryland. Most of us here were born into the wealthiest nation. in the history of the world. Do you have any idea how many advantages come with that? I have often thought when I've heard people come to me and complain that God has not provided for their needs. Because they don't have the things their neighbors have or others. There are times I wish I could take this entire congregation. on a field trip to a third world country where we would live there for a month. You know what? I wouldn't hear any more complaints. If you've never lived in a third world country, I did for four years, you have no concept of how incredibly privileged you are And how many things you take for granted. Most Americans, if you were to suggest to them that they're wealthy or rich, they would say, oh no, no, no, no, no. I I 'm not a rich man. I I I don't have very much. But in comparison to the rest of the world, you are very rich, my friend. I think I am very safe. And could demonstrate statistically that every single family here is in the top 1% financially, as far as your security and your advantages of everyone currently living on the planet. You're in the 1%, my friend. And you know what? You didn't choose to be born here. God did not, you were not some disembowel spirit up in heaven. And God said, so where would you like to be born? Pick it. And you said, you know, I think I'm going to go with the wealthiest nation in the history of the world. Well chosen, we'll put you there. That's not how it worked. That's not what happened. That conversation never occurs. But God has allowed you to live here in all the advantages of health care and security and safety and freedom That you have been blessed with and that you don't think it's that big of a deal because everybody you know has that Most people in the history of the world, most people in the history of the world lived every day with the fear that they might starve to death. Because a famine could come and wipe out their crops, and there was no safety net, there was no support, you just simply died a slow, agonizing death, you and your family, and there's not much you can do about it. And most people have ever lived on the face of the earth, that was their great fear One of our great fears is that we're going to get fat. It's true. Just to put things in perspective. We are so incredibly blessed, so much so that we don't realize it. And we could go on and on the list. Most of us were born with a healthy body. You can walk, you can see, you can hear. Most of us have been given a multitude of talents. We have some really incredibly talented people in this church. And you know what? There's nothing you did to earn those talents. God, again, didn't ask you, hey, so I got a list here. What talents? You want some music talent? You want some mathematics talent, some engineering talent. What kind of talents do you want? Athletic talents? Throw that in. You weren't asked. But God gave them to you. And how about the gifts of a family? Many of us here came from Christian homes where we had a mother and a father who were not perfect. But they brought us up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. What an incredible privilege that is. Stability, security , a foundational belief system. That sets you up for life. And again, you didn't choose the family you'd be born into. So many of us have spouses, children. The list could go on and on. Our blessings are truly staggering, and they are all gifts. From God 's. And I've already alluded to this, but let me mention this again. All the good things that we enjoy are undeserved. We didn't earn them. Now maybe you'd argue with me about that and say, wait a minute. I've got a big, beautiful home. And I've got a large bank account, and that is because I have worked really hard I went to school and I studied hard and I stayed up late and I got good grades and then I joined this company and I worked my way up and I worked really hard and I carefully stewarded my finances. And all of this is because of my hard efforts. But where did you get the stability from to be able to go to school and everything else. That came from your family. What about The health to work that hard for that many years, that came from the Lord. What about the gifts that mind that enabled you to do a very specialized job very well? Where did that come from? You see, even if you did work hard, ultimately the ability to do those things came from God's They're all a gift. You'll notice in verse 17 that the word gift is used twice. Every good gift, every perfect gift is from above. A gift is something that is freely given that you have not earned. James goes on to use the imagery of the sun in this verse. Just as the sun continually shines its light on us. So God continually pours forth his blessings upon us. The psalmist puts it this way. He daily loads us with benefits. Every day of your life, God is piling on one layer of blessing after another. You may not be aware of it, you may not be thinking of it, but indeed it is occurring. He showers us with demonstrations of his love, and we have done nothing to earn those blessings. You didn't select your talents. You didn't earn your beautiful family. You didn't choose to be born in America. You didn't select the talents and gifts that you possess And all of this is because God is good Well then why is it that so many people are not overwhelmed with the goodness of God's? You ever notice that it only takes one little thing in our day to make us really annoyed and angry and all out of sorts? I've had a bad day. This occurred to me. Got stuck in traffic. Got a flat tire. My boss didn't appreciate me. And all the other blessings that have impiled on us that day we're completely oblivious to. It reveals our narcissism. It reveals our ingratitude. So often we respond like spoiled children when we don't get what we want. And when people get angry and bitter against God, they are betraying an underlying assumption that God owes them certain things. But the Bible teaches that God is debtor to no man. All the good that we experience is an unearned gift from Him. So why should we trust in the goodness of God? Well, just think for a moment about all the good gifts that God has given to you. But secondly Consider the good God who has given you those gifts. The reason why God showers gifts upon us is because that's his nature. He is a good God. Here in our text, he's called the Father of Lights. This is a unique title for God's sound only here in the Bible It's a reference to God as the creator of the sun, moon, and stars. Many people in the ancient world worshipped the sun, moon, and stars. These powerful lights in the sky that have such an impact on nature. Well, the God who's revealed himself in Scripture is the one who created these lights. The James is going to make both a comparison and a contrast from these realities. The point that James is making is that God never changes. And because he never changes, God is always good. Two expressions in our text reveal this. First of all, it says there's no variation. This is a term used only here in the Bible. It has the idea of a change in an established pattern. It was an astronomical term. You can look on your phone and you can see the time that the sun will set. Tonight, precisely. Why is that? Because God created an orderly universe that's predictable. And the idea here is the Lord is the same way. You can always count on him. He will always be good. But then we have a contrast or shadow due to change. In the ancient world, they kept time usually by means of a sundial. And the length of the shadow changed with time. So although the movements of the sun , moon are predictable, they still seem to change in some ways at some times. And the point he's making here is God's not like the moon with its changing phases or like the sun which sometimes is eclipsed. No, God is not like a shadow that sometimes is short and sometimes is long. No, he is always the same. He never changes. He is constant. Theologians call this perfection immutability. God is immutable. Psalm 102, verses 26 and 27 says, They will perish, that is creation, but you will remain. They will all wear out like a garment. You will change them like a robe, and they will pass away. But you are the same and your years have no end. He says, creation is like an old garment that's worn out. Do you have some garments that are really old, but they're very comfortable, and you don't want to get rid of them? I do. I have some clothes in my closet that are older than my children. They're very comfortable. But the problem is they're wearing out. There's threads things. God doesn't wear out. He doesn't get old. Malachi 3. 6 says, For I am the Lord, I change not. Therefore, you sons of Jacob are not consumed. How does this truth help us? Well, it helps us because we can know that God, in his actions towards us, is always being good because that's the very nature of God. So we must never interpret our problems, our suffering, our pain, our difficulties as, well, I guess God's changing the way he deals with me. Guess he's suddenly become evil, or he's stopped loving me, or he's deserted me, or he's put me in his doghouse. No, that's not true. God does not change. He is always good. The explanation for your suffering is that God is testing you. He's refining you. He is Disciplining you because you've started perhaps to stray and he wants to bring you back. And he's doing this out of love. Your suffering comes from a good God with a good purpose. And therefore you can trust in him. He has showered your life with blessings. And he will always remain good. Therefore, he is worthy of trust. You know, one of the things that's difficult is that people sometimes change And a person that you thought you could trust in, you find out later you can't trust in them. Because they're so different from what they used to be. But God's not like that. He is always good and he never changes. But now James offers a third consideration as to why we should trust in our good God And that is consider the ultimate gift, the ultimate good gift from God, and that is our salvation. James saves his most powerful argument for the goodness of God until last. It says in verse 18 Of his own will, he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. The same verb that's translated here, brought forth, is only found one other time in the New Testament, and that's in verse 15, where it's translated gives birth to. And the author James has has used this term intentionally to make this contrast that the reader will catch the ideas that sin gives birth to spiritual death, but God gives birth to spiritual life. Verse 18 is one of the most important texts for the doctrine known as regeneration. Regeneration simply means the giving of life. It's the same idea as we find in John chapter 3 when Christ said to Nicodemus, you must be born again. Salvation is not simply agreeing to a few facts. It's not getting a person to say a prayer. No, salvation is the regeneration of the soul. It is nothing less than new birth. The only way we can ever understand what occurs in salvation is through the Scripture's revelation to us. From our perspective We were walking along, living our life, perhaps encountering difficulties. We heard the gospel. It made good sense to us. We understood that we were under the just judgment of God. So we repented of our sins. We trusted in Christ, and now our life is different. And from our perspective It seems like we did everything. We were the one who heard the gospel. We were one that decided, boy, this is not a good path I am on. And Jesus is a great Savior. I think I need his righteousness. And we made these choices, and it looks like we did everything. But in the scriptures we find out it was the Lord who was doing everything In 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 3 it says, according to his great mercy, he has called us, caused us to be born again. In Titus chapter 3 and verse 5, it says, He saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy by the washing of regeneration and the renewal of the Holy Spirit. Think of it this way, you did nothing to contribute to your physical birth. You didn't help your mom out. You didn't do anything. You were completely passive. Your spiritual birth is also a gift from God that you did not contribute to. It's not something you weren't This is what the scripture teaches repeatedly in Ephesians 2, verses 8 and 9. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not of your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of work, so that no one may boast. I want you to know that there is no one in heaven today that says, you know, I had to work really hard, but I finally made it here. I mean, it was a close call, but because of my diligence and going to church and being a good person, this is why I'm here. There's no one in heaven with that perspective. Because it's all of grace. It says here in verse 18 that our salvation is brought about by the will of God. What's the significance of that? It means that God was not obligated in some way to save us. It was his own free will. Sometimes people do things because they're constrained to do so or they're pressured to do so. Some authority figure, some parent, someone is saying, you will do this. But God has no one over him. No one's pressuring him to do anything. He does what he wants to do And God of his own free will decided to save sinful people like us. This is consistent with what the Bible teaches everywhere. Listen to this familiar text in John chapter 1 verses 12 and 13 But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become the children of God, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. The scriptures teach that salvation is of the Lord. And all Christians instinctively understand this to some degree when we pray. Because we say, Father, would you please save so-and -so? Because we've witnessed to this relative We share the gospel with them, and yet they have absolutely zero interest in hearing us. And we recognize I can't do this. I've seen this happen so many times. Someone comes to Christ and then they recognize, oh no, all of my relatives are lost. And they think, I'll fix that. I'll just get them all saved. And they find out that the way they understood the gospel and the way it gripped their hearts, it doesn't grip their hearts. And they say, you're different. I don't want to hear that stuff. Just go away. And they're shocked. They assume that those people would see and understand just the way they did. And so they are taught that they must depend upon the Lord. How does God bring us to new life? It's with the word of truth. Now, when you hear that, you probably think of the Bible. And you would be right in that, but it's more specific. It's talking about the gospel that is embedded in Scripture. Romans 10, 17 says, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Just a few verses later in this very chapter. James chapter 1 and verse 21 we read, Therefore, put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls. 1 Peter 1 and verse 23 says, Since you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable through the living and abiding word of God. If you are here this morning and you are a child of God, it is because in some way the gospel message came to you. It may have been a tract, it may have been a radio broadcast, it may have been a service that you went to, it may have been when you were reading the scriptures or because you were in a Bible study, but somehow You were saved through the declaration of the gospel. And it is the good news that brings new life. But why did God save us? It says here in verse 18, excuse me, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. This is a purpose clause. This is allusion to the Old Testament practice that in the harvest they would give the first fruits, the best. to the Lord. And the idea is that these early Jewish believers were just the first harvest of the infant church. They were the first fruits of the gospel. Now, how does this have any bearing on us? Let me make this connection. God brings difficult trials into our lives. so that we will produce spiritual fruits. One of the reasons why Christians become so dismayed And so upset and they can't understand what God's doing in their lives is because they have a different goal than God does. You know what all of us instinctively want? We all instinctively want a life with very little suffering or difficulty. And a life filled with significance and meaning and joy and happiness. That's what we want. That's what everyone wants. And sometimes when people come to Christ, they think that's what God is offering. You come to me, I'll protect you, I'll protect your family from difficulty and hardship and disappointment. And health issues and family struggles. I want to protect you from all of that. It's going to be grace. And then they face difficulties and problems and struggles. And they don't understand what God has done. Maybe God's not good. Maybe I've been taught wrong. Maybe I didn't understand. Maybe God doesn't really accept me. Maybe He hasn't really forgiven me for my sins of the past. John 15 verse 16 says, You did not choose me, but I have chosen you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruits. God 's purpose in our lives is not to give you the most comfortable life possible, but to give you the most fruitful life possible. that you would bring forth fruit for his glory. And so he must prune us and shape us and discipline us. for a good purpose. I want to quickly make some applications. Number one, Christians must not be deceived and interpret their trials as evidence that God is no longer being good to them, or that God is angry with them, or that God is judging them. No, all of your sin was paid for by the death of Christ on the cross. But God is pruning you. And shaping you and molding you to bring fruit to his glory. Secondly, Christians should be the most thankful people in the world We should be the most thankful people because we understand that all the good things that we enjoy are ultimately from God, and secondly, that we did nothing to earn those good things. And if we truly believe both of those things are true, we will be very thankful people. Every day we will be saying, God, you have been so good to me. Lord, you have blessed me so abundantly. You have just poured forth your blessings into my life. Thank you, Lord. Thirdly, Christians must share the gospel in full dependence on the Lord. We must recognize that God must do the work. We must be faithful in giving the gospel. We must pray. I'm not suggesting for one moment that we be passive in our evangelism But we must recognize that if an individual is going to be saved, it's going to be because God has taken his word by his spirit and applied it to their hearts. So we don't need to use salesmanship or manipulation or any technique to convert the loss. We pray and we share the good news of the gospel. Number four, those who claim to be saved but have never been radically changed and are not bearing spiritual fruit should examine their hearts. The Bible describes salvation as a radical change. And I mean by that, the word radical has the idea is from the root. It comes from inside and it works its way out. It's not a superficial change. When a person gets saved, it's not just that they change a few details of their life. They started going to church. They didn't used to before, carry a Bible around. They pray every once in a while. No. It means that they have been changed, their desires have been changed, their affections have been changed, their goals have changed. Why do I bring this up? Because there is a real danger, especially in our country, especially if you're middle-class American. That you only have a cultural Christianity. This is especially a danger if you have a Christian heritage. You have parents and grandparents and great-grandparents that are Christians and And strong in the faith. It's very easy for you just to go along and nod your head and say, yeah, yeah, yeah, I believe all that stuff. And yet there's never been a change inside of you. The Bible describes conversion as being born again. That's a big change. And one final application. One of the most beautiful fruits of the Christian life. is when a Christian can proclaim in times of pain and suffering that God is good. What a testimony that is. Have you ever seen that? I've seen it many times as a pastor. The bedsides of individuals dying. They can hardly speak anymore. They're in pain. They're in discomfort. And they say to me, Pastor, God has been so good to me. What a blessing that is. That's not natural. That is the fruit of walking with the Lord. You've heard of the name of George Mueller the Great, 19th century founder of orphanages, a man of prayer. On February 11, 1870, his wife Mary died after 40 years of marriage. And George Mueller preached her sermon. From Psalm 119 verse 68 that says, Thou art good and doest good Here was a man who'd come through a severe trial, but he was able to proclaim to everyone, God has been good to me. Let's close in prayer. Father, I pray that this would be the testimony of our hearts because our hearts have been changed. They have been transformed by your grace. Father, I pray for your people here today who are suffering hardship difficulty that you would use this message to strengthen them, to remove false notions of you. And help them to cling to you and to trust in you that you are indeed a good God that has a good purpose in their life. And Father, for those that are here this morning Who do not think of you at all, who do not have a heart for you, who do not long to worship you and to walk with you, And to praise you, Father. I pray that you would show them that salvation is not a superficial change, but it is a change at the very core of their being. Help them to seek you, Father, with all their hearts. until they come to believe the good news of the gospel. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.