Give your Bibles, please. You can be turning to the second book of the Bible, the book of Exodus. And we'll be looking at the second chapter, Exodus chapter 2. Dr. G. Campbell Morgan is widely regarded as the greatest expositional preacher of the first half of the 20th century. And it's not surprising that his four sons all became preachers themselves. They all enjoyed some level of success, but They could never begin to equal the ability of their famous father. One day a man came to visit their family, and all of the sons were there. And he thought that he would have a little fun with them and maybe stir up a little arguments. And so he said, so who is the best preacher in this family? And one of the sons looked up and he said, Why, mother, of course I suspect that moms are the best preachers. They are often s preach to us through their lives, through their words, and they're often the best evangelists. Perhaps at the end of the age we will find out that most people who have come to Christ have come to Christ through the instruction of their mothers. This morning we come to Exodus chapter 2. to a passage that does not even mention the name of the mother here. Speaking of the mother of Moses, we know from other passages that her name is Jacobed. She married a man named Amram. That's what the first verse tells us. You might think that Moses was the first child because We have her marriage in verse 1 and verse 2 we read of her birth of this child, but we know from other passages of scripture that She actually had two children earlier and been married for probably at least 15 or 20 years when this event took place. We read that she was a daughter of Levi. Of course, not referring to actually Levi was her father, but that she was a descendant of Levi because He lived some 300 years earlier. Or actually 300 years later, I should say. Now this passage tells us that she had three children. You know the three children. They're famous. Miriam. Miriam was The older sister, she was very gifted. Probably when Moses was born, she was one somewhere between the ages of 10 and 13. And she was a poetess, a musician. She was the leading lady in Israel. Of course, he had a brother named Aaron. We read in Exodus chapter 7, verse 7, that he was three years older than Moses, and he would become the first high priest. in Israel. And Moses, the last born, he would become one of the most famous people in the history of the world. He's the greatest character in the Bible from that span of time from Abraham to David. There's no one who eclipses his greatness in that thousand years span of time. He, of course, was the lawgiver and the deliverer of Israel, the one who was raised up by God to take his people out of Egypt and into Israel. And he is the author of our first five books of the Bible. He spoke to God face to face. The Bible says as a man speaks to his friend. In fact, the Bible records, if you were to count it up, that God spoke directly to Moses at least a hundred and ten times. There's no one else we have recorded in scripture who comes even close to that. He's in a league of his own. He's the first person in Scripture called a man of God. He's the man most often called the servant of the Lord. We know the Bible describes him as the meekest man on the earth because of his incredible patience and humility with the people. Moses, by anyone's estimation, was a great man. And I suspect that he had a great mother. What can we learn from a mother of such influential children? I think we find that she instilled in them some godly values that are very instructive for us. Now the only information we have about her is what we have in these few verses in Exodus chapter 2. This is the only insight that we have to this woman's life. And it all involves the time when Moses was born. And although we don't know much about her, and that we only have this little brief description of what happened when Moses was born, we can still glean some wonderful truths from this. That hopefully would be a great encouragement to our mothers today. This woman, Jacobed, was a woman who was facing an incredible crisis She had some incredible difficulties that were in her life that made it seem that being a mother was virtually impossible. But by God's grace. She was able to bring up her children and instill the values that they needed to live for the Lord. And the same grace that God provides, that provided Jacob that he provides for mothers in crisis today. So I'm going to speak to you this morning on God's grace for mothers in crisis. But I want you to know That the things I'm going to say today, the points that I'm going to make, are applicable to anyone in crisis who turns to the Lord. It's very easy on a Mother's Day sermon to preach to just a small segment of the congregation. And for many other people to kind of tune out and say, well, I'm not a mother, so none of this applies to me. God 's truth is for all people. God doesn't have a unique message just from others, the same truths, the same principles, the same God that we deal with. has these truth for all of us. So you might be a young man here and you're f facing difficulties, I want you to know this message is for you. You might be a married woman, but you do not have any children. This message is for you. God 's grace is for us all who come to Christ. Now The first point I want you to notice with me is that God's grace will enable you to parent, or you could say, minister, in the most difficult of circumstances. Jacobed found herself in an incredibly difficult circumstance. She was married. She had two children, but things were at a crisis point. In the time in which she lived, in the place where she lived. Certainly when she discovered that she was about to have another child, there were mixed emotions. Because we read in chapter 1 of Exodus in verse 22, it says, And Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every son that is born ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter ye shall save alive. And so the problem, the question that would have assailed her was, is this child going to be a boy or a girl? Because if it's a boy, then we've got a real problem because the king has passed an edict that all baby boys are to be killed. She must have prayed prayers that were the opposite of the way Jewish moms had prayed throughout history. We find in Scripture that Jewish moms were always praying and wanting what? A son, a boy to carry on the family name. But now she must have been praying, Lord, give me a daughter. Give me a daughter. And of course, this is long before the age when parents could find out. That their child would be a boy or a girl, so she had to wait the day of birth. And as that little baby Came to her horror, it was a boy. It was a boy, and she must have thought this poor child is doomed to death We know that they would sometimes punish the entire family, so she must have wondered, what should I do? Would her husband be treated harshly? Would her husband be put to death? Would she lose her baby? Would they all lose their lives? What was going to happen? It was truly a time of crisis. It was a time of national crisis. The people of God were slaves to the proud pagans in Egypt at this point about 350 years. There was no sign of hope. And there was no sign that their situation would improve. It must have been a spiritual crisis. She had been taught from a girl that they, as Hebrews, knew the one true God, Jehovah. She had been instructed that the Jews were God's people. She had learned that God keeps his promises, but here they were oppressed an oppressed minority and a powerful nation. Everyone knows here, even today, thousands of years removed, that Egypt was a world power, that they had one of the greatest civilizations the world has ever witnessed. And they were a little minority within that powerful country. And for centuries now they had worked as slaves. It didn't seem like God was fulfilling his promises. It didn't seem like they were God's favored people. It seemed that they were destined for extinction. And it was a family crisis. How long could she keep that little baby boy a secret? Mothers often find themselves in circumstances that seem impossible. Circumstance might be an unbelieving husband Or perhaps she is a single mother. Or perhaps there's a situation of extreme poverty, or the challenge of bringing up a child in a dysfunctional home. Mothers often find themselves with the odds stacked against them. And this is true of everyone, whether they're a mom or not. What crisis are you facing this morning? I know some of you are facing a crisis because you've shared it with me. But I suspect there are many more that are facing a grave crisis, but you have not shared it with me. You've kept it to yourself. You're struggling with something that's great and just insurmountable in your mind. Sometimes people wonder why God brings a crisis into their life. In fact, this is often the excuse that people use To draw the false conclusion that there is no God. How could there be a God? Look at all the problems in the world. Look at the problems in my life. Look at the crisis that I face. How could there be a God with all of this going on? That might be a valid argument if the Bible says, you know, that if you follow God, you'll never have any problems. But that's not at all what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches that we are fallen people living on a fallen world and that God uses the difficulty of our lives for his purposes. One of the things he does with difficulties, and I've seen this again and again, is God uses them to draw people to himself so that they will be saved. Very few people seek the Lord when everything's going great in their lives. But when their entire life caves in and they don't know where to turn, they often will look up and they will seek the Lord And mercifully, he brought that catastrophe into their life because otherwise they would never be saved. But then for his children, he will often bring crisis into our life so that we will learn to trust him more, to rely on him more, to cast aside our idols that we depend on. And that we treasure and seek him in him alone. God has his purposes in our trials, and he will give us grace. To sustain us in the midst of them. I want you to notice with me that God's grace will enable you to trust God in the most perplexing of circumstances. In verse 2, we read. that she hid baby Moses for three months. What an anxious three months they must have been. Every night when he would cry, she would seek to silence him and pacify him and quiet him as quickly as possible. But you can't keep a baby from from never crying. Oh, it must have been so difficult. And finally she came to the place after three months where because he was getting bigger and he was getting louder, she said to her husband, we can't keep this a secret forever. And so something had to be done. Now in order, I think, to understand more of what was going on, I want to turn to a New Testament commentary on this in the book of Hebrews. You're welcome to turn there if you would like, but if you don't want to, that's fine. I will read this for you. Hebrews 11 This great chapter of faith, Hebrews 11, verse 23. It says, by faith, Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents because they saw he was a proper child and they were not afraid of the king's commandments Now at first glance it may it makes you think in verse 23 that it's speaking of the faith of Moses And I don't want to get technical and grammatical on you, but it's talking, of course, not about what little baby Moses did when he was three months old, but what his parents did by faith. It says they did two things. They hid the child, and then they did not obey the king's commandment. They did not offer up their son to be euthanized. It's interesting that once again here we read a reference to the appearance of this little baby You ever thought about this? And three times in Scripture it talks about the appearance of this baby boy. It says in Exodus chapter 2 and verse 2, which we read, it says that he was a goodly child. In Stephen's great sermon in Acts chapter 7, he says that he was exceeding fair. And here we read that he was a proper child. Now, what exactly does this mean? Well, these are all expressions of the fact that this was an incredibly beautiful baby boy. Now, every mother thinks this of her baby rights. You've never heard a mother say, oh, he's kind of ugly. And they show pictures to everyone. It's probably good that we can't read everyone's thoughts when they look at those baby pictures. I think often people are thinking, yep, that looks like a baby. Looks like a baby. But the Bible says in this case he really was an exceptionally beautiful baby boy. I mean if people were around today and they saw this little three-month-old child, they would say, you know, he should be like a baby model or something. He's just perfect. He's adorable. Everything about him is just unique. But we have to, I think, think a little harder Because in Hebrews 11, 23, it says that they hid him three months because they saw that he was a proper child. Let's think about this logically. Does that mean because the baby was really cute, they decided they would keep him? I don't think that's what it's saying. You know, if he wasn't so adorable, then they would have offered him up. No, this was an act of faith, the author of Hebrews says So I want to do a little bit of sanctified speculation. So what I'm saying here is I don't have specific verses that say this. However, I will offer this to you. This is not unique on my part. You will find that preachers and commentators and Bible scholars through the centuries have kind of pieced this together to make sense of the narrative that we have in Scripture. It says they acted in faith. Now we need to understand something. That faith doesn't mean they just had kind of a hunch or they wished something to happen. What is biblical faith? Biblical faith is based on the promises of God, on God's revelation. There's a lot of people in the world who think that faith is just, you know, some people they just have these powerful feelings inside, and so they trust in God and they say, you know, I'm just not like them. I'm not that kind of person. I'm more of a a rational person, a scientific person That is a false understanding. Faith is based on the promises of God. Romans 10, 17 says, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. So what I'm going to suggest to you is that God, I think, revealed to these parents, as we see often in Scripture, that this next baby that was to be born had a special destiny. That he would be the deliverer that they had been looking for, the prophet that would come and take them out of Egypt and back to the promised land. And I think that God gave them a sign to confirm their faith that he indeed was the one. We see this often in Scripture, don't we? Where God gives a sign. Do you remember the shepherds when Christ was born? He says, and this shall be as fine unto you You will find the babe wrapped in swallowing clothes, lying in a manger. That's how you would know it's the right baby, the promised Messiah. And so God gives them the sign. I think it was a sign that this baby would be incredibly beautiful. and striking. It would capture everyone's eye. Look at that baby. That's because he's the one. And I want to go further. I want to suggest that God also revealed to them that they were to put that baby into that little ark, that little boats. Now again, I don't have a verse for this, but I'm saying this for this reason. Let's think about this. Moms, put yourself in Jacobed's position. You you desperately want your little baby to survive and to live Even though they're it under this murderous regime. What are you going to do? What are we going to do? We can't hide this babe anymore. Would you say, oh, I know what we'll do? We'll put him in this little ark and we'll take him down the Nile River And we'll just set it in there and see what happens. Is that what you would do? Let's think about this for a second. You know what the River Nile was famous for? It was called the River of Death. You know what you have in the Nile River around those flags and everything? You have the largest crocodiles in the world. Okay? And then of course there's always the hazard of drowning. So what mom would say, I've got a great idea, honey. I know what we'll do. We'll just put him in this little boat and we'll send him down the Nile. I don't think any mom is going to come up with that plan to preserve the life of her child. I think the reason she did this is because God told her to do this. And I think it took a great deal of faith for her to do that. Wouldn't it for you, moms? This is something that moms have to learn, a very important lesson. And that is you have to learn that your children ultimately do not belong to you. They're on loan for a short time. And I think as Jacobed put that little baby boy, that three-month-old child into that little ark, that little boat. And put the lid on and as if she was putting it in the Lord's hands. It's not mine, Lord. It's yours. He's not mine. He's your child. You protect him, you take him, you use him for your glory. I want you to notice with me thirdly that God's grace will protect your children in the most dangerous of circumstances. We read that she made a little boat of papyrus reeds and waterproofed it with pitch and slime. It's interesting to note that the word that's used here for that little boat is ark, and it's the same word that's used for Noah's Ark. And it's the only time that this word is used other than a reference to Noah's Ark. And I think the writer of Scripture here is drawing the parallel, just as the Ark saved humanity. So this little ark would save and preserve the Jewish people. Because all of their hopes, their entire future as it was, was resting in that little boat that was floating in the Nile River And the providence of God, the daughter of Pharaoh, came down to the river's edge to bathe with her attendants. And she sees this little basket floating there. And she's intrigued by it. She has one of the maidens go and get it and bring it. And she opens the lid, and to her surprise, there was a little baby. And she knew that he was a Hebrew. We don't know if it was because of his distinctive features. Or if she assumed that the mom must have given up this baby in despair because of the king's edict. But in any case, she determined right there and then that she was not going to comply with his law. And when that little baby boy began to cry, her heart melted And she said, I must have this child, this strikingly beautiful baby boy. He will be my own. He's been abandoned. He has been given off, and so I have the right to adopt him. And I am going to take this endangered child, and I'm going to lavish my love and all the advantages that he could have in the royal court. What an amazing example of how God can preserve our children. I'm going to be very careful about what I say here because it could very easily be misunderstood. But you know, we live in a society that Has almost become obsessed with safety for children And probably every parent here of my age can think back the way things were as a child when you were a child and and then your parents can think back to the previous generation and things that were normal and everything and that no one thought anything of today, they would take your kid away from you If you d if they get that. I'm not advocating that everything that was done years ago was great But sometimes we become so obsessed with safety for our children. God forbid that they ever stub their toe or have any harm come to them. We have to protect them and cocoon them. You see this even in in parents when they have their first child. You remember when you had your first child? It's interesting to see a progression. And then the second child Things that you never let the first child do, or you were afraid they're going to get germs, or or that's going to be dang. You let the s then the third child you just go go do whatever you want That's the way it goes. But I want you to see here that ultimately safety is of the Lord. Yes, we need to protect our children. We have to use common sense. We have to be careful. But ultimately, you cannot shield your child from every dangerous situation they will ever encounter. And that why that's why you have to put them in the Lord's hands. How hard was it for Jacob to let that little boat go? Now she sent his sister to kind of watch out and see what would happen. But how hard was it for her to do that and to put his life in the Lord's hands? It's interesting that this child was not only in physical danger But I'm sure she was concerned about his spiritual danger because we read an interesting insight that you don't find in The narrative here in Exodus chapter 2 from Stephen's sermon in Acts 7, it says in Acts 7, twenty, in which time Moses was born, and was exceeding fair, and nourished up in his father's house three months, and when he was cast out, Pharaoh's daughter took him up and nourished him for her own son. And Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians and was mighty in words and in deeds. He was nourished up in all the wisdom of the Egyptians. Now, what kind of education did Moses receive in the royal palace? It was pagan education. It was based on idolatry. It would not have been what Jacobed would have wanted for her son. I want to be very careful what I say here because I can make a lot of people really angry at me. But I have heard many preachers in my time say categorical statements that I think are not warranted or not entirely in keeping with Scripture. What I'm talking about is I've heard preachers say things like, no Christian parent should ever send their child to a state college or to a community college. They can you should only send your children to a Christian college because there they're going to get the right education philosophy and the worldview and the theology and everything they need. And that's what every Christian parent should do. And that's what you must do. Well, I want you to know that's not the kind of education that Moses got. And I'm not suggesting that it doesn't matter. This is an individual choice. And for many parents, you might have to say, you know, that would not be right for my child. They're not going to be able to stand in that environment. But for other parents, you might be able to say, my child I have taught them they they walk with the Lord. They will be able to stand and be a bright light in a pagan place And you know what? The Lord used this experience, his pagan education, for what he had called him to do. Did you know that? Because what would Moses have to do? He would have to go into Pharaoh's court, and you know what? He knew how to conduct himself. He knew how to speak. He knew Egyptian He knew exactly what was culturally acceptable before the king and what was not We believe that Moses, there's all kinds of historical records that suggest that he was a great military leader. before he went out in the backside of the desert. He learned about leadership and he would need those leadership skills To lead the children of Israel through the wilderness for 40 years. How could a man lead that massive number of people? You know why? Because he learned all about leadership in the pagan schools in Egypt. He learned some real skills. We read in the book of Exodus that when the children of Israel left Egypt, they spoiled the Egyptians. Can I suggest to you that Moses spoiled the Egyptian educational system? He took what God would give him and used it for God's purposes and for God's glory. You see, it's an interesting thing to consider that God never wastes our experiences. Did you know that? Sometimes people say, you know, that 15-year period of my life, that was a complete waste. Nothing good came of it. I wasn't walking with the Lord. Complete waste. Not true. God will use even difficult, painful experiences in the future so that you can minister to other people and do what God has called you to do. God does not waste our experiences. The final thing I want you to see is that God's grace will enable you to teach your children the most important truths for life. Turning back to Exodus chapter 2 We read some interesting things in verses 7 and following Then said his sister to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go? I call to thee a nurse of the Hebrew women that she may nurse the child for thee? And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. And the maid went and called the child's mother. And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away and nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages. And the woman took the child and nursed it. And the child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son, and she called his name Moses, and she said, because I drew him out of the water. Now you may have always read this Bible story and thoughts, and I think I did for a time that what was happening is that at the age of three months Moses went to live in Pharaoh's court and like every once in a while the sister would take her home and be fed by the mom and and that's the way it went. But The vast majority of scholars believe that what it's saying is that when the baby was weaned, then it went to the courts. Now I know it's hard for us by our modern understanding to realize this, but the baby was not weaned at 18 months or two years old. The common literature of the day would say usually the time period was between six to eight years old before the baby was weaned. So I want to suggest to you that Jacobet had some time to really instill values in the life of that child. And I think that's exactly what she did. What did she teach Moses? What did he learn in those early years before he went to live in the court? What kind of foundation did she bring into his life? I think that he learned that his identity was that, first of all, that he was not an Egyptian. But that he was a Hebrew. He was part of God's chosen people. Why do I say that? Well look at the very next incident we have in the life of Moses. In Exodus chapter 2 and verse 11. It says, and it came to pass in those days when Moses was grown, he's forty years old now, that he went out unto his brethren and looked on their burdens and spied an Egyptian smiting a Hebrew one of his brethren, and he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that there was no man, he slew the Egyptian and hit him in the sand. And when he went out The second day, behold, two men of the Hebrews strove together and said to him , that did the wrong, wherefore smitest thou thy fellow? And he said, Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? Intendest thou to kill me, as thou killest the Egyptian and Moses speared, and said, Surely this thing is known. And when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses. But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh and dwelt in the land of Midian, and he sat down by a well, and that begins the second half of his life. My point is that even though he spent the vast majority of his life living in the royal palace as an Egyptian, He knew that his true identity was that he was part of the people of God. This is an important thing for us to teach our children. We live in a pagan culture, as did Moses, and we need to teach our children that they are not part of the world. We see here that he knew that he was a son of the covenant. But most importantly, he learned the identity of God. In Exodus chapter 3, the very next chapter in the life of Moses, we read about God calling him. We read about him outkeeping his father-in-law's flock. It says in verse 2 of chapter 3, and the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush, and he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. And Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses , Moses, and he said, Here am I. And he said, Draw not nigh hither, put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. Moreover, he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. You notice how God identifies himself. I am the God of your fathers, the God of the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Moses knew who those men were. Because his mother had taught him about the one true God Jehovah, in spite of what he would be taught about all the polytheism and all the pagan idolatry. idols of Egypt, Moses in his heart believed in the one true God, Jehovah. And he knew that God had promised wonderful things to his people. And now he knew that he would have a part in that. And the third thing I would say that Jacobed taught her son was she taught him to walk by faith In Hebrews chapter 11, verses 24 through 26, we read these remarkable verses. By faith, Moses When he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season, esteeming the reproaches of Christ. greater riches than the treasures in Egypt. I think That that mom instilled some values in that little baby boy. And even as he grew up, perhaps, and he was still in her home at the age of six or seven or even eight, she was still pouring everything that she could into his life And she taught him, listen, you're going to go live in the palace, and it's going to be luxurious. It's going to be beautiful. But I want you to know that this is not your home. This is not who you are. God has something greater for you to do, and that is to be the leader of his people. And so, moms, I want you to know that you need to teach your children that the treasures of this world are hollow and empty. Don't give your children the impression that life is all about trying to achieve the American dream And they have a big home and a beautiful yard and wonderful cars and that's really what life is all about. That's what we strive for. That's why we go to school, that's why we go to college, that's why we get training. And we network and everything because life is all about gathering a bunch of things and status so that people are impressed by us. Don't teach your children that pagan philosophy. Teach them to walk with God by faith. I'm sure that Jacob had shared with Moses how God spared his life when he was a baby and how she put him in that little boat and she put him into the Nile River. and how God in his providence had the princess come down to the water's edge. And that's how he was fared. And that's how he ended up in the palace. And I think she instilled in her son the sense that God had a great purpose for his life. That's an important thing for us to get across to our children. God has a purpose for you. He has a plan for you. Something for you to do. And I think that Jacob probably taught very earnestly, you know what? Because she knew that she had a very limited amount of time to pour her values into the life of her child. And you know what, moms? That's true of every one of you. The window of time when your child's hearts are soft and pliable and trusting and open to receive the gospel and to receive instruction. That's a very narrow window. And so you must take advantage of it. You must pour your life and your values into them. Because soon, before you know it, they will be grown up and they will go their own way. Every mom here with grown children will tell you how quickly those years will pass by. They're gone in the flash. And so you must make the most of it. You never get a second chance at those early formative years. Don't waste a day. Make the most of your God-given opportunity. What a blessing it is to receive godly instruction as a child from your mom and to have her pray with you. That was my experience. I know that's the experience of many of you here. It was also the experience of a man named Charles Spurgeon. Pastor of the largest church in the world during the Victorian era in England. He would write an autobiography, and in this autobiography he gave tribute to his mother Eliza. He says this, I'm sure that in my early youth no teaching ever made such an impression upon my mind as the instruction of my mother. Certainly I have not the powers of speech with which to set forth my valuation of the choice blessing which the Lord bestowed on me and making me the son of one who prayed for me and with me. How can I ever forget her tearful eye when she warned me to escape from the wrath to come? I thought her lips eloquent. Others may not think so, but they certainly were eloquent to me. How can I ever forget When she bowed her knee and with her arms around my neck, prayed, Oh, that my son might live before thee. And you know what? The Lord answered that prayer. And he became a great preacher of the gospel. Moms, you have an indispensable role. You have a great privilege. Of pouring your life into another in a way that no other opportunity will afford. And so I encourage you, you might be in crisis, you might face great obstacles to what you're trying to accomplish, but I call on you to rest in the grace of God. He will sustain you. He will enable you to overcome the most severe obstacles and to bring up your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the example of this woman that we've been able to consider this morning. I pray that you would help us now. to be an encouragement to our moms, and I pray that all of us, Father, would see to walk by your grace and to know you more. And Father, for those who are here today, who have never put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I pray that they would seek the Lord today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.