It's good to be able to be here this evening and to look into for the first time this uh the new book that we're looking at, the book of 2 Thessalonians. And I'm excited to be able to do so. It's not a long book. The last book, 1 Thessalonians, was uh five chapters, and it took us twenty-two lessons. So it was a good It's a little bit a long one. I think three chapters. I'm thinking we can do it in like twelve because isn't they're not long chapters. So twelve to fifteen is my goal for for Second Thessalonians. We'll see how that goes. But I want to go over I there's our logo, so in case you want to know our new theme, be established in every good work and word as you wait for the return of Christ. And that is the theme that we're going to look at even this evening as we begin this study. And our memory verse for this Early section is in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, verses 11 and 12. So why don't we begin this evening? Would you join me in standing while we try to begin to put this to memory? We'll say it through two times this evening. 2 Thessalonians 1, 11 through 12. To this end we always pray for you that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power. So that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. 2 Thessalonians 1, 11 through 12. To this end we always pray for you that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in him. According to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. It was roughly six months since we began 1 Thessalonians, and there is a lot of similarity in background. to 1st and 2nd Thessalonians. So we are going to go over, but in a little bit of a truncated form this evening. Kind of brush up on a few things that maybe in the last six months. We have forgotten, or maybe you weren't here six months ago and we began the book of 1 Thessalonians and some of the things you didn't know, but also there are some slight differences that will help us as we continue on into this book. Well, we'll get there. I'm going to start with just a background of the book of 2 Thessalonians. And you may catch me saying 1 Thessalonians a few times. I'm going to try not to. I actually initially put our memory verse as 1 Thessalonians instead of 2 Thessalonians. So old habits die hard. I'm going to work on it. So if I do, please forgive me. I'm going to try to say 2 Thessalonians. Throughout this this evening. But when we look at a book, it's helpful to know a couple things right off the bat. Who wrote it? Who was he writing to? And what was the purpose of the writing? Why was he writing this? And the authorship of the book of 2 Thessalonians is pretty clear. Right as we begin, we have these words, Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy. To the Church of the Thessalonians and God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. And it identifies right off the bat the three authors, you might say, of this short letter, this short epistle. Paul, like in the first Letter to the Thessalonians is the primary writer. Not only is he the apostle, the lead in this missionary team, but he is the primary writer. These are called Pauline epistles, not just because he was one of the writers, but he is the primary writer. And we see this in uh verse seventeen of chapter three, where he says, I, Paul. write this greeting with my own hand. This is the sign of genuineness in every letter of mine. It is the way I write. And so Paul, even if he used in Ammanuensis, he he had someone who was writing and he was orally dictating to them a letter. He would take up the very end and he would write with his own hand the last bit of it so that everyone would know this was indeed an authentic letter from the Apostle Paul. So you can have like a his own autograph, his own uh way of finishing up a letter to make it clear that this was a Pauline letter. He talks about Sylvanus. We mentioned this last time we were going through 1 Thessalonians. Sylvanus may be not be a name that you're very familiar with. He was the Emanuensis in the book of 1 Peter. Where Paul, Peter writes at the end of 1 Peter, by Sylvanus, a faithful brother as I regard him, I have briefly written to you. Peter used Sylvanus as his as his secretary, you might say. And Sylvanus wrote the words. And who is Sylvanus? Well, it's another name for Silas. It's like we might say William and Bill. It's essentially the same name that some people would refer to him as Sylvanus. Sometimes in the Bible we see that. Other times we see him referred to as Silas. And when you think of Paul and Silas. What's the first thing that comes to mind? Jail, exactly. Paul and Silas in jail singing praises at midnight. That's the first thing that usually comes to my mind. Paul and Silas were the two that went on Paul's second missionary journey. Paul and Silas were together on that missionary journey. He was the main partner. Timothy was added on in the middle of the second journey. missionary journey. And then of course we have Timothy. And that's easily more easily identified because we have 1 and 2 Timothy. He was Paul's son in the faith. And he joined the second missionary journey in Acts chapter 16 in Derby and Lystra. He was the son of a believing Jewish woman and an unbelieving Greek father. He continued with Paul into the third missionary journey. We know we see him in the third missionary journey. We don't specifically see Silas. In the third missionary journey, which is kind of helpful as we try to come to an understanding of when these letters were written The audience that we are told here too, the Thessalonians. Thessalonians were were uh the church that was founded by Paul and Silas. and Timothy in this second missionary journey. And if you just thinking of where this is in in uh in the the map of the world, of course you have Israel, Jerusalem down here. You have Antioch where Paul was, his home church was, where he was sent out of. And you see this the nature of this second missionary journey going up through here. All of this is what's considered the continent of Asia. Right here is where the Macedonian vision takes place. And in that Macedonian vision There's there's one from Macedonia that Paul has this vision of saying, come over to help us. And that is the first time then that the gospel goes into Europe. If you think of this right here, this this This is Istanbul, not Constantinople. And this is where this is the dividing line between Asia and Europe. And the first time the gospel goes into Europe is at the after the Macedonian call in Acts chapter 16 where Paul sees this vision. A vision appeared to Paul in the night. A man of Macedonia was standing there urging him and saying, come over to Macedonia and help us. And from there the gospel spreads throughout Europe. But that is the first time that the gospel comes in. And they go immediately to Philippi, and in Philippi, you know Paul and Silas in the jail after they had uh some early success. Paul cast a demon out of a slave girl who was formerly bringing her master significant wealth by fortune-telling, and when he saw that the possibility of that fortune was gone. . He got very angry and he brought Paul and Silas before the magistrates. . They were beaten illegally and thrown into prison. You know the story about the earthquake and Paul and Silas singing praises at midnight and the Philippian jailer coming in. And how through that ultimately the Philippian jailer came to know Christ. The day after that, they were released from prison, and Paul and Silas and Timothy. Encouraged the brothers and left, and they went on their way, and they came to Thessalonica. So it's on the heels of this that we have in Acts chapter 17 the founding of the church in Thessalonica Thessalonica. And Paul tells us, or Acts tells us in Acts chapter 17, that as was Paul's custom, he went into the synagogue there in Thessalonica, and he preached for three weeks, telling them that it was That was the message that Paul brought in every one of the synagogues. It was necessary. for the Messiah, not only to be a conquering Messiah, but first to suffer and to rise from the dead. And you can think of several passages in Scripture that would indicate that. But most of the Jewish people had looked at the Messiah as a conquering Messiah, not a suffering Messiah. And they had trouble understanding the dual nature of the Messiah's work. Because of the resistance he received, they left the synagogue and they began preaching in the community to Gentile proselytes as well as Jewish people, the remnant that that joined to the church, and they had a very successful period of ministry. We're not told exactly how long. Most people think somewhere between six and eight months that Paul was in Thessalonica. Until there they sought for Paul again. And there was an attempt to try to find Paul and Silas, and they weren't able to find them, and they took Jason, one of the Jewish converts, and brought him before the magistrates. And they threatened him with insurrection. They charged him with insurrection because they said that he was serving a new king, King Jesus, and not Caesar. And he said, No, I'm that's not the type of king that we're talking about here. And they demanded of him money so that he would not lead an insurrection. And after that Paul and Silas were sent away. They ministered in Berea, then in Athens, and eventually they settled in Corinth. It knows while they were in Corinth, Paul sent Silas and Timothy to visit and encourage the brothers there in Philippi and in Thessalonica. And then word came back to Paul as Timothy and Silas came back in Corinth and said, the churches are doing well. There's progress. They remember you with joy. They're facing persecution. They're suffering, but they are continuing on, and their testimony is vibrant and beautiful. And that's when Paul wrote 1 Thessalonians. And it seems that he wrote 2 Thessalonians shortly thereafter. We'll look at that in just a moment. But the church here in Thessalonica was a mixed congregation. Jews and Gentiles. They're proselytes who had been a part of the synagogue and watching from a distance, and many of them had converted to Christianity. And Paul describes them in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, saying that they had turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. And not only did Paul and Silas and Timothy face persecution, but the believers there in this young church were facing persecution, but that didn't stop them. That didn't keep them from proclaiming the gospel. Because Paul says in 1 Thessalonians 1, verse 8, that their faith was known throughout all Achaia and Macedonia. That the gospel was being proclaimed by them. So even in the middle of severe persecution, they were proclaiming the gospel. And Paul commends them for that. The writing of these two Thessalonian epistles is able to be discerned with some degree of accuracy because of a really unique historical marker that we find in Acts chapter 18. And verse 12. It says, when Galio was pro-council of Achaia, the Jews made a united attack on Paul and brought him before the tribunal. So this happened when Paul was in the city of Corinth, when he was waiting for Silas and Timothy to return with word about the churches in Philippi and in Thessalonica. This event takes place. And it says, while Gallio was proconsul of Achaia. Here is a bust of his brother Seneca. You've heard of Seneca the younger and Seneca the older. This is Seneca the younger. who was his biological brother. So we don't really know what what Gallio looked like, but he might have looked something like that. There's probably a family resemblance to the two of them. But the interesting thing is that we can date with really great precision when Gallio was proconsul of Achaea, and it was from June 51 to roughly May of 52 A. D. It's that specific. They served a one-year term and it began in June and ended in May. It was very, very specific. And so, because of that, you can tell when Paul was in Corinth. when the church in Thessalonica was founded and when then the Thessalonian letters were written. So the church in co in Thessalonica was established around 50 to 51 prior to Galileo being the proconsul of Achaea. And the letter of the Thessalonians was written in 51-52, at this time when Galileo was the proconsul. of Achaia. And the second Thessalonian letter was probably written shortly thereafter. Part of the reason that we think that is because it mentions again Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy. And Sylvanus or Silas didn't accompany Paul on his third missionary journey. So we have this limited time frame when the three of them would be together. So we have this ability to really kind of to know very precisely when these two letters were written. And it's just kind of interesting to go to know and kind of place these things. into into history and see where these things and when these things happened. When we come to the layout of the book, The letter of Thessalonians, most of the epistles of the New Testament are what we call crisis literature. If you think about literature, uh crisis literature is literature or something that's written in response to a crisis. Sometimes it's called occasional literature because there's an occasion, there's an event, there's something that's happened historically that requires this letter to be written. It's not that Paul was one day going, you know, I just feel like writing a letter. I'm just gonna write a letter. What should I write about? Just I don't know. I'm just gonna think about this and I'm gonna I just some things I've been just thinking about in my mind. I 'm gonna write this letter. No, there's crises that have happened that have caused the Apostle Paul to say, I need to write a letter to address these issues, these things that are happening within the church. And when we get an understanding of that, we begin to look for what are the crises that happened, what are the events that happened that caused Paul to write this letter. And that really helps us then in interpreting the letter. If you look at the the book of 2 Thessalonians, there are really essentially Three crises that correspond to the three chapters of this letter. Chapter one, there's continuing and seemingly even increasing persecution. The persecution is growing. And Paul is trying to deal with that. The second crisis is that there's been an introduction of false teaching about the day of the Lord. In chapter 2, you can see that. He says, now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to him, we ask you, brothers, not to be quickly shaken, in mind, or alarmed. either by a spirit or a spoken word or a letter seeming to be from us to the effect that the day of the Lord has come. Let no one deceive you in any way. So there has been A forged letter. Partly the reason why Paula says at the end, this is how I write in all my letters. This is my signature at the end. So you can know an authentic letter from a forged letter. So there's a crisis of false teaching in the name of the Apostle Paul, or maybe even in addition to this, people prophesying falsely about the day of the Lord, saying that they're already in the day of the Lord. So that's the second crisis, and that's probably the biggest one that is driving Paul's writings. And the third one is in chapter 3. He's dealing with the undisciplined lives of idle church members. And all of these are somewhat related probably. The idle church members might have what you call an overrealized eschatology. And they're like, well, Christ is coming back. It is probably going to be today, so I'm not going to work. They were becoming lazy and they were they were mooching off the people in the community, and Paul wants to address that So those are the three crises that really give us the layout of the book. So you have the simple layout. Chapter 1, Chapter 2, Chapter 3. It's very simple. You have pastoral comfort in the face of persecution You have prophetic correction in light of false prophecy, and then practical commands in response to idleness. And what's interesting about each of these is at the end of that, each section, there's a prayer. And so we the verses we're looking at and memorizing today are the prayer for chapter one as he addresses this first issue, the the severity of persecution. It's continuing. And he prays in verses 11 and 12, then in chapter 2, verses 16 and 17, and then chapter 3, verse 16. Each of them is kind of brought to a conclusion with a prayer. So that's kind of helpful as we are looking at the book, you can see the layout, what is happening, what are the events that Paul is addressing. how he deals with them, and then how he concludes each of those sections. And then the theme of the book, be established in every good work and word as you wait for the return of Christ. Christ. So don't let the return of Christ be something that keeps you from every good work and word. Rather, let it increase in you the living faithfully in every good work and word. At this point, I was just going to go over these three points real briefly, and then I'd like us to do what we did in 1 Thessalonians. I'd like us to read together. All of 2 Thessalonians in one setting. I think that's a helpful practice as we enter into a study of a book. But in this issue, the first chapter, the church began. Under intense persecution. It's the same persecution that forced Paul and his team out of the city, and that caused one of the early young believers, Jason, to be fined because he was a follower of Christ If you remember in 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, Paul tells them, you are acting like the churches in Judea who also faced persecution from their countrymen. And now you are facing persecution from your own countrymen. And he's encouraging them by saying, you have essentially the same DNA as the churches in Judea, the early churches. Also had the same problem. And you are facing it in the same way. And he encourages them with that reality. But if you come into the 2 Thessalonians, we find that there is this persecution is increasing. And he encourages them by reminding them that Christ is coming again. And when he does, He will bring vindication and judgment on those who persecute them. He will vindicate them and he will judge those who are persecuting them. He says he will repay with affliction those who afflict them, and he will grant them relief at the time of Christ. And then in that first chapter ends with this prayer of 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. To this end we always pray for you. That our God may make you worthy of his calling, and may fulfill every resolve for good, and every work of faith by his power. So that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you and you in him according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. You see that prayer that ends this section, chapter one, where he's dealing with the persecution. And he's praying for them that God, through the persecution, may make them worthy of his calling As he sanctifies them, as they demonstrate living faith. They demonstrate living faith by staying true to the gospel in the midst of persecution. The second chapter, Prophetic Correction, in Light of False Prophecy, Paul suffered from identity theft. He probably could have used life lock, you know, where his his identity could have been secured. Maybe he he was the victim of a spiritual deep fake, you might say. Someone was forging a letter and claiming to be a letter from the Apostle Paul. And so when we think about this, recognize when was when was 2 Thessalonians written? 51, 52, maybe 53? Pretty early on, already at this point in time, there is what? Forgeries. And the church was told to be discerning. That's why we looked at in 1 Thessalonians this reality that they were to discern. They were called by, as believers and dwell with the Holy Spirit, they were called to discern truth from error, true teaching of the Apostle Paul, and false teaching. False doctrine, false apostles. They were given the ability by the Holy Spirit to determine and discern these things. And we see that already in the early part of this first century. Paul comforts them in the face of this this false doctrine because people were saying that the day of the Lord was already upon them. The day of the Lord we looked at means the seven year tribulation period. There was people who are saying, you're already in it. We are living in the day of the Lord. And Paul says, no, that is not true. What have I told you? You should know these things. And he comforts them in the face of this thought. The Bible talks about them. Paul says that they were troubled, they were alarmed because of this thought, that they were living in the day of the Lord. Paul says that is not the case, and he reminds him of truths that he had already taught them. And he prays then in verses 16 and 17 of chapter 2. Now may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God our Father who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace. Comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word. Now you see where we got that first part of the theme. Be established in every good work and word. It comes from verse 17 of chapter 2. In this last chapter, chapter 3, there's practical commands in response to idleness. Paul addresses this issue, if you remember, in 1 Thessalonians, he addresses it, but it seems like between 1 Thessalonians and 2 Thessalonians, not only had they not fully gotten us under control, but it seems like it's actually gotten worse. That there are increasing idleness within the church. There are undisciplined loafers who are taking advantage of the generosity and love of the Christian community. And he says, this behavior is contrary to Christian doctrine. It's contrary to the way we lived. And he said, don't you remember when we were with you what we told you? If anyone doesn't work. Neither should he eat. And so you shouldn't be supporting undisciplined loafers. And he says they need to be rebuked, they need to be shunned, but you don't treat them as an enemy, but as a brother who needs to be separated from. And he prays in verse 16, Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace at all times in every way. The Lord be with you all. So at this time, I'd like to read the book of 2 Thessalonians, and I think it'll take about six minutes. I've done it a few times. It's roughly the pace that I think I read it at. And I just like you to follow along. And as there's something to hearing it read out loud that helps, and even following along in your Bible. And then hearing the whole of it together, especially after we've looked at the layout of this book. So I just want to encourage you to follow along as I read this evening. Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy, to the Church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, as is right, because your faith is growing abundantly, and the love of every one of you for one another is increasing. Therefore, we ourselves boast about you in the churches of God for your steadfastness and faith in all your persecutions and in the afflictions that you are enduring. This is evidence of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you are also suffering. Since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you, and to grant relief to you who are afflicted, as well as to us when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might. When he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints. and to be marveled at among all who have believed, because our testimony to you was believed. To this end, we always pray for you that our God may make you worthy of his calling, and may fulfill every resolve for good, and every work of faith by his power. So that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to Him, we ask you, brothers, not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed. either by a spirit or a spoken word or a letter seeming to be from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come. Let no one deceive you in any way, for that day will not come unless the rebellion comes first, and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction. Who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called God or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God. Do you not remember that when I was still with you I told you these things? And you know what is restraining him now, so that he may be revealed in his time. For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work Only he who now restrains it will do so until he is out of the way. And then the lawless one will be revealed. whom the Lord Jesus will kill with the breath of his mouth, and bring to nothing by the appearance of his coming. The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan With all power and false signs and wonders, and with all wicked deception for those who are perishing, because they refuse to love the truth and so be saved. Therefore, God sends them a strong delusion, so that they may believe what is false, in order that all may be condemned who do not believe the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the first fruits to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth To this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught by us either by our spoken word or by our letter. Now may our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God our Father, who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace Comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word. Finally, brothers, pray for us. That the word of the Lord may speed ahead and be honored, as happened among you, and that we may be delivered from wicked and evil men, for not all have faith. But the Lord is faithful. He will establish you and guard you against the evil one. And we have confidence in the Lord about you, that you are doing and will do the things that we command. May the Lord direct your hearts to the love of God and to the steadfastness of Christ. Now we command you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. That you keep away from any brother who is walking in idleness, and not in accord with the traditions that you have received from us. For you yourselves know how you ought to imitate us, because we were not idle when we were with you, nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it. But with toil and labor we worked night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you. It was not because we did not have that right, but to give you in ourselves an example to imitate For even when we were with you, we would give you this command: If any one is not willing to work, let him not eat. For we hear that some among you walk in idleness, not busy at work, but busybodies Now, such persons we command and encourage in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly and to earn their own living. As for you, brothers, do not grow weary in doing good. If any one does not obey what we say in this letter, take note of that person, and have nothing to do with him, that he may be ashamed Do not regard him as an enemy, but warn him as a brother. Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace at all times in every way. The Lord be with you all I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. This is the sign of genuineness in every letter of mine. It is the way I write. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Now we've read through a book of the Bible here. I think it took us just a little over five minutes. That's not too bad. Did anyone time it? It was like eight and a half. Was it really? Yeah. Okay, well there you go. Thank you for that. I appreciate that. It didn't seem that long. Not surprisingly. Well just in the last few minutes that we have this evening I want us to look at the greeting. We're not going to get into the the text very much, but just into the greeting of this Second Epistle to the Thessalonians, where he says, Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy, to the Church of the Thessalonians, in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I just want us to see in this some encouragement from the Apostle Paul to the Thessalonian believers that is an encouragement to us as well. An encouragement that we can take upon ourselves and find great strength in. Paul encourages them by reminding them of their position in Christ. But not just their position in Christ. He says, in God our Father, and in the Lord Jesus Christ. This is almost the exact same phrase that we read in the beginning of 1 Thessalonians, in chapter 1, verse 1. S one word difference. The only word difference is our Father. It says instead of in 1 Thessalonians says in God the Father. The only difference there is just that simple word. But this is a beautiful truth, that we are, as believers, in Christ and in the Father. We read frequently in the New Testament about being in Christ, in Jesus Christ, in Christ Jesus. That idea is found over 80 times, most of them in the writings of Paul, and describes this. Essential reality of Christianity. Either you are in Christ or you're in Adam. There's no other third option. You are in Christ or you are in Adam. Those who are in Christ are already seated in the heavenly places. Those who are in Adam face eternal judgment unless they repent and turn to Christ And Paul points out that all who are in Christ have been united with Christ by faith, and therefore they are also in God our Father. It's kind of like the same truth you find in John chapter 10, where Jesus says that his sheep are kept in his hand. And no one can pluck them out of his hand. And he says, and that my father, they're also in my father's hand, and no one can pluck them out of my father's hand, meaning that you are secure in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. It's in John chapter 17 that we have this beautiful, beautiful prayer of Christ. He says, I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. So you and I 21st century Christians are being prayed for by Jesus, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us So that the world may believe that you have sent me. That is a beautiful prayer and reality that as believers Not only are we in Christ, but because Christ is in the Father and the Father is in Christ, we are in the both God, the Father, and in the Son. And he says, and I want this to be so, so the world may believe that you have sent me. That holiness that we have. That love that we have. I want them to know that holiness and that love so the world may see that they are in us in an intimate and intrinsic real way. The intimate relationship of the Father and the Son is now ours by faith. Because we've been united with Christ by faith. By grace, we've been brought into this. Unbelievably intimate relationship with the Father and the Son that they have enjoyed through all eternity. And we, we who were. Rebels who are sinners have been justified and we've been sanctified and we've been brought into this intimate relationship of the Father and the Son. In 2 Peter, there's this beautiful verse that just is really mind-boggling. He says, His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness. That's a great truth right there. All things. Not most things, all things that pertain to life and godliness, whatever it is that you need to live holy in this life, you've been given. You have it through the knowledge of Him who called us to His own glory and excellence, by which He has granted to us His precious and very great promises. so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. I don't know if you ever read that verse and just wondered, what? What does that mean? In what way have we become partakers of the divine nature? Well, it doesn't mean that we are be little gods. You know, we become gods and that we're going to eventually become gods of our own planet. Or it doesn't mean that like in the pagan sense that we are we are we are little gods But rather that believers have this organic connection with God. The verse leading up to it tells us that we have been given all things that pertain to life and godliness. We've been given the Holy Spirit, the enabling power and presence of the Holy Spirit dwelling within us. And on top of that, we have been brought into fellowship with the eternal life of God. We have now been brought into the eternal life, God's own eternal life. We who are mortal have been brought into God's eternal life. We've been made partakers of the divine nature. These realities are ours And the question is, how could we ever fear? And that's what Paul is writing to the Thessalonians to encourage them. The word encouragement comes up several times in this little epistle. How can you fear if you are in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ? What is there to fear? Persecution? Why? You're secure. Don't fear him who can destroy the body. Fear him who can destroy both body and soul in hell. We don't need to fear man. We live in the fear of God. What can man or what can a demon ever do to those of us who are in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ? Nothing. That is the beauty of this assurance. This is what Paul brings out in Colossians chapter 3, where he says, For you have died, and your life is hidden. With Christ in God. Secure. Untouchable Absolutely unable to be assailed. That's what Romans 8, the last part, is all about. But I am persuaded that neither life nor death, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come. He goes, Oh, over all these things, heights or depth, none of these things can separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Because we are hidden with Christ in God. Secure. Untouchable. Think about the encouragement that would be to the young church in Thessalonica. And think about the encouragement that should be to us when we face trials and persecutions. He also encourages them that they are the recipients of grace and peace. This is a very standard Pauline greeting and And even closing in many of his letters, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Peace was the traditional Jewish, even today if you go to Israel, shalom, shalom is a typical greeting. Bokertov, shalom. It's very standard greetings that you're going to hear. But he adds grace because peace is not possible. without grace. And grace comes before peace. There is no peace with God, there is no peace of God apart from the grace of God. And when we understand the grace of God, we are able to have peace with God and the peace of God. Romans 5 1 says, Therefore, since we have been justified with faith, by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. The order of these two words is very significant because of God's unmerited favor through Jesus Christ. Christ, we have peace. And we have peace with him and we have peace from him. If you're anxious or fearful, Unsettled in spirit this evening, and you're a child of God. I want to encourage you to meditate on the amazing position that you have in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ, that you are hidden with Christ in God. And there is no need to fear. Storms come Challenges, persecutions. But your life is secure in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. And you can rest in that reality. Live daily in the light of that truth, that you are secure in God, our Father, in the Lord Jesus Christ. And it's this beautiful reality that we have by grace that gives us our peace. Because we are secure, when storms come, we have peace. Let's thank God in prayer this evening. Father, we do thank you that you have loved us with an incomprehensible love that passes our understanding. We thank you that we are secure in you, our Father, and in the Lord Jesus Christ. And that you have lavished your grace on us so that we have peace with you And we have peace from you. Strengthen us in the midst of storms, in the midst of trials. May this reality sink deep into our souls, and may it be the delight of our hearts. And may it change the way we live day to day. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.