Excited to be with you tonight. Let me start in a word of prayer. Our Lord, we are so gracious. We are thankful For your mercies upon us. Pray you be with me in the word as I preach it tonight, Lord. Pray you give me understanding and wisdom and give us ears to hear your word and your truth as you deliver to us your prayer. Father, that we should follow our Father who are in heaven. As you pray, give us wisdom tonight as we discern this, and we ask it all in your Son's name. Amen So how important is your name? Do you think you have a good name? Have you ever thought about maybe how your your name is reflects your character, or maybe your character kind of came out of your name? You know, I have a pretty strange name. Sometimes I wonder if I'm strange because my name is strange. That'd be a good excuse. But as strange as any of our names might be, they pale in comparison to some of the Sussex Puritans. See, the Puritans were on top of this whole naming of children thing. They decided that naming their children Horatory names or names that would encourage or exhort a person to live a virtuous life in Christ was a great idea. So from this group, we get these real names. Be Courteous, Cole. Safety on High, Snat. Fight the good fight of faith, White , Humiliation, Scratcher, and Mortify, Hicks. Those are some good names. Humiliation Scratcher went on to be a great preacher about the perils of pride, if that's a surprise to anyone. But probably the most famous of this name, though, is first name. If Christ had not died for thee, thou hast been damned. Last name, barebone. Damned barebone for short. This name really emphasizes the peak of the zeal that the Puritans had for the gospel and its proclamation and this horatory naming. scheme. Yet no matter what your name is, or these extraordinary names of the Puritans, we all know that names carry weight in our lives. They can precede us, like the Puritans. They can leave a legacy, like the names Washington or Nixon. Names are how people come to know and relate to us and ultimately how they define us. And this can be no truer when we turn to the name of God. Scripture says a good name is better than precious ointment, yet there is one whose name is far greater than all other names. God. whose names adorn the pages of Scripture, highlighting to us his character, his persons, and his purposes. And the name of God is going to be a recurring theme in my message tonight as we return to the series on the Lord's Prayer, where we're going to learn one, how to relate to God by his name. And two, how to know how his name defines him as we start to get into the actual prayer, and I believe this pattern of prayer the Lord gives us in the Lord's Prayer. So turn with me to Matthew chapter 6, verse 9, if you're not there already. As I continue to preach through this series on the Lord's Prayer, the format of the Lord's Prayer is going to require us to handle the text at two levels. As Pastor said, it's a different task to preach just a few words. At first, we have to handle the richness and depth of what our Lord speaks to us in each of these lines. I'm sure many of you know them well. So we have to explore this text at a macro level, really get into it. We can't move through the text without extracting the richness of those lines, almost like taking a nice juicy citrus fruit and squeezing every last drop out of it. This is how we're going to uncover what our Lord's purposes were in giving us those words. Yet while each line is important, the overall structure, the macro view, is going to help us see what was the intention in the prayer. But really, as we see the trees, we need to also see the forest. What's the progression? Why is the order important to what the Lord is doing in this prayer? So this evening's verse, verse 9, has two significant parts. I'm going to be handling the text in a way that kind of helps us delineate these two things. First part is the Lord's command to pray Which contains this instructive command. And then I'm going to handle the first two clauses of the Lord's Prayer as we get into it. And these first two clauses give us the address of intimacy and reverence. I'm going to come back to that. And the first petition that our God's name be called holy. So let me look at this first part together with you. So starting in verse nine. We know that the visions of the Bible are not inspired, the verse numbers. The verse 9 contains this kind of brief introduction before it gets into the Lord's Prayer. Not sure why they didn't start 9 at the Lord's Prayer, but that's neither here nor there. But how we interpret this first section of verse 9 can really detail how we're going to view the Lord's Prayer. If you can remember from the last message, the section that the Lord's Prayer is in is on the Sermon on the Mount, which really contains a polemic. against the godless practices that were carried out by a group of folks simply called the hypocrites. These were practices that had to do with alms or g or tithing in a sense. prayer and fasting. These hypocrites had all kinds of evil practices. So the Lord's Prayer is not delivered in a vacuum. It's not delivered without prov provocation. It's in response. to some sinful practices. So verse 9 starts like this. Pray then like this. See, the then is what we have to address first. The then, which also in Greek is sometimes rendered as therefore, is simply a text marker that says, hey, whatever's going to come after this is in reflection to what came before it. So it helps us understand that we need to see both what was before to address what's coming after. This prayer is coming after Jesus tells his disciples of two ways not to pray, which was, of course, the message I delivered last time. If you remember this sermon, in response to the hypocrite, Jesus laid out two dangers in prayer that can affect all believers. One was the love of public adoration. The love of public adoration is love being seen or love being admired by others while you're praying. In sin, it's when we pray for the attention of man or the love of man, not the glory of God. It takes the glory that is due to God and kind of reflects it back on ourselves And the second danger is the love of formalism. This love is the wrong view of where the power in prayer belongs. See, the prayers of the pagans then, and even some today, believe there's power to be derived in how we pray or the form of prayer. The uttering of specific words or repetitions or certain names of God or postures in prayer. These are all attempts to make the power in prayer be under our control, not God's. All the glory and power in prayer is God's. And anytime we try to take that from that glory from him or co-opt his power, we are sinning against him. So these two dangers then are what we expect, as Jesus says, pray then, we expect what's coming in the instruction that Jesus is going to be offering some kind of alternative. some kind of correction to these two sinful practices. But first we're met with a very simple command, pray. This is probably the simplest part of this entire sermon, yet it is the most significant. It affirms that the Christian not only has the ability, but has the mandate to pray. It's not an if, but a when. Access to God in prayer is one of the gifts given to his children for his glory in our benefit. So he says, pray then, as we talked about, like this. Jesus is instructing us in a prayer that follows a pattern. This word being translated here is a demonstrative adverb which makes You know, you don't know what that is, it's not important in no big sense, but what it implies is that this is something of a similar nature. It implies that whether you view this as a pattern or a prescription. What I mean by that is when he says pray like this, is he saying pray exactly like this, or pray kind of like this, like an intent in a sense A pattern or a prescription. There are three reasons why I think it's a pattern, not a prescription First, this word that is translated like this also is translated in this manner or in a like way. It's with a focus on the content of what's come before. So Jesus again has just mentioned these kind of practices that he doesn't that are sinful, and he's saying, I'm going to give you some new practices, not a specific prayer, but more practices that would kind of balance that out. It kind of logically follows, right? If you're giving me some bad practices, I'll give you some good practices. The second reason I think it's a pattern. Is there many other ways that Matthew could have demonstrated that this was an exact phrase to be uttered? There's other phrases, other words in the Greek he could have used to say, say this. Yet some people take up this argument that this the Lord's Prayer is a literal prayer to be uttered because of what is used in Luke 11. So Luke 11 is the other place in the Gospels where the Lord's Prayer is uttered, and Luke actually uses that verb, the Lego verb, the verb to say, which is used for direct quotations. Now that's a smaller and less complete version of the prayer, but it's worth noting. But I don't think that evidence is strong enough. And thirdly, if we come back to the Lord's own previous warning about formulaic prayers. We would have a hard time justifying that this prayer would be asked to be repeated verbatim. I mean, why would the Lord warn us about rote kind of repetitive prayers that lose their integrity and stifle our heart's love for him and then give us a rote repetitive prayer. Doesn't really make sense. So the evidence suggests that the Lord is offering this prayer as a pattern, as a way, not a prescription of exact words. But this pattern. But I will say, that doesn't mean you cannot pray this prayer. You can pray it with all of your heart, all of your zeal. But you're not achieving some deeper level of spirituality by conforming to these words in prayer. They are good and wonderful words to pray, but that's not the intent. So this is the full command. This is where Christ starts us. In response to the warning on how not to pray, Jesus is now going to deliver us an instruction on how to pray. What follows is a pattern of prayer that would fly in the face of these sins that was presented by the hypocrites and properly align our hearts to the realities of God. So we come now to the first line of the Lord's Prayer, the first patterns within the prayer. And we start with the address of intimacy and reverence and the first petition for God's name to be called holy. So I say address with intimacy and reverence because this first line of the prayer is going to both give us instruction on how to address our Lord. And addressing our Lord in intimacy to God that actually did not exist before Christ mentioned this in his prayer. Yet it's not an earthly intimacy like we think of with a friend or with any other human being, but it's an intimacy that is supernatural, with an intimacy with a holy God that results in a great reverence in our hearts. So let's look at this first part of the prayer, the address of intimacy and reverence. He says, our Father in heaven. I know you in the back of your mind you said art, because you've got if you've got know this prayer, you've been saying it for a long time, maybe from the King James. What kind of intimacy would a creation have with its creator? Paul gives this question as a rhetorical device. What role does intimacy play in our prayer life? These questions are answered here in this first line of the Lord's Prayer. As Jesus opens the door to this pattern of prayer, his first destination is the truth about God. and how we address him, not simply with words, but with our hearts. Our Father in heaven. Right off the bat, we're confronted with a truth and a challenge. You see, the pattern of prayer that Christ is laying down intends us to use and address that is one of corporate nature. See, the simple R in the beginning, this is not a trivial thing, but it's a directive from the Lord that when we pray, that our prayers not only pray for ourselves, but for the corporate body. If you haven't noticed this before, there are no singular first person mentions in the entire prayer. The prayer to God on behalf of those who believe. It's not my Father, but it's our Father. Not my debts, but our debts. See, Christ knows one of the greatest challenges we face in the Christian life is one against individualism. It's the selfishness even in the life of a believer. Both of the dangers and prayers I mentioned before come from this root of self-centeredness, of a selfishness, of a desire for one's own glory. How gracious then for our Lord to start this prayer off by cutting this desire right at its knees. The Lord's going to give us a pattern that starts our heart focused on a high and mighty God and takes us out of that equation. How harmful is it to our ego and desires when our communion with God is trifled by this? Christ patterns for us this humble disposition in a single word are bringing us to understand who we are facing. But it's our father. Now, there's a lot to be said about the title Father. We are in the full light of Christ as New Testament believers, the revelation of the Trinity in Scripture. We are not surprised or shaken by the title Father. Yet when Jesus used this title for God in this prayer, it was revelatory. No one prayed to God the Father before this. This was unheard of. This was shocking. See, before this, the Old Testament saints had a reference to God the Father, but never as an address. You see, there are about a dozen, twelve, a dozen mentions of God as Father in the Old Testament. And they're used mostly to discuss his relationship as the father of the nation of Israel. This is how it's done in Psalms, in Isaiah 63 and 64. God is the father over Israel, the source of his true people. Again, this fatherhood is over a people, of a nation. Like how Malachi says it, we have not one father, had not one God created us? Again, pointing this, I the father is the creator of this people. Yet when we get to the gospel, everything changes with Christ. Remember I said there are about a dozen references to God the Father in the Old Testament? Well, there are approximately 225 references to God the Father in the New Testament. John uses this address six times in the high priestly prayer in John 17. And it's all because of Christ and his relationship to God as Father that he includes us in in his sacrificial atonement upon our behalf. We must not miss the importance of this. It goes beyond just the simple word count. See, Jesus is instructing his disciples that in prayer we are approaching God as Father. as our creator, as the head of our new family in Christ, as the protector, the one who delights and loves his chosen people, as the one who is committed to his children. that we are related to him in a way like our own fathers, yet pure and perfect. And if you are truly his child in Christ tonight, you've been given the Spirit that you can have this intimate relationship with him. Galatians 4, 6 says, and because you are sons, God has sent his spirit of his son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father. So you're no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God. See the name Father. Is a level of intimacy with God available to only those who know Him in Christ. The world will never know God as Father They will know him as Lord, they will know him as judge, but they will never know him as Father. Christ has opened the door with this declaration to a truth in our lives and a reality in prayer. We are sons and daughters of God. Because of this, we approach God in prayer directly and with a directness that has an intimacy that should stir our hearts. But with saying all this about God and being a perfect father to us, I'm not ignorant to the reality that some of us here And in the world, struggle with this name for God. Through sin, there is great brokenness in the role of fathers in our world. The idea of relating to God as Father may be challenging to many of us. See, fatherhood is in a crisis in our country. Some statistics say that one in four children live without any father figure in the home. And if you had a father in the home, it may have been difficult or abusive. So, how are you or we to relate to God as Father when our own view of fatherhood might be broken or marred by our experience or may not have one? You see, the failing of fathers fall into so many categories. Disconnected, distant, uncaring, unprotecting, possibly hurtful. But our Father is the true model of fatherhood Our Father is merciful beyond all mercy, even in our condition as he sent his son for us to be reconciled while we were his enemies. Our Father is kind, putting you in pleasant pastures. Matthew, he says, Or which one of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, we'll give him a serpent? If you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him? Our Father is perfect in kindness. He's abundant in his kindness. Our Father is not distant. He is present with you. In the storms and in the sunshine, he is there, he is with you, he will not forsake you or leave you. Closer than a brother, yes, as close as a father. He will not abandon you. Our Father is not abusive or cold-hearted, but just and righteous. Never double-minded, always acting in the fullest integrity, that we can trust him fully. Your trust is kept with him, and your soul is at peace. Our Father is committed to you. He will never leave you or forsake you and has promised an inheritance for you in heaven. Even at this moment is committed to making you more like him and bringing you up in his family, that you might draw closer and closer to him. Every imperfection of your earthly Father is made perfect in your heavenly father. And you can rejoice and fall into his arms and let all your defensiveness and worry fall away and cry, Abba Father, knowing your Father in heaven is a good and perfect Father. Yet even as we expound on this truth of God our Father, we need to add this last part of the clause to help us understand this full nature. It's our Father who is in heaven. This is a call to God's transcendence. All through Scripture, heaven is referring to a location where all things are holy. Yet when we think of God the Father, we can't think of this purely as location because it has a more of a figurative sense. See, our God is infinite Which means he cannot be contained by a place, so he can't dwell in one place. So this reference is a way to speak of his majesty. Another way of thinking about this is that God is not distant from his creation. Or he's distinct from his creation. Some forms of Eastern religions see their God as dwelling within the earth or dwelling in the creation. Yet our God is apart from it, yet intimately connected to it. I like how the psalmist says, Our God is in the heavens, he does all that he pleases. The linking of these shows there's an unboundedness to God. Not a physical space or limitation, or God does, he's limitless in his action because he's limitless in his being All this to say is that our Father who is in heaven is a God who transcends all creation, all things knowable, into a majesty that's inexplicable for us. He's unchangeable, infinite, unconquerable in purpose, the Holy One of Israel. Means when we come to our Father in heaven, we come with great reverence for Him. Christ paid the price that we can come to him in profound intimacy, yet never without reverence. We come as children, but with humility It's these two truths here that work together that give us that disposition of how we approach God. We have access to an intimate, loving Father that should draw us to him, yet he dwells in unapproachable light. worthy of all reverence and worship. Being a father speaks to his nearness, yet being in heaven speaks to his distance or really his difference, and that he is holy and we are not. God is not your buddy, but the supreme holy one that angels and men fall down to in reverence and worship. So how are we to apply this, our Father in Heaven pattern to our prayer? When we address God in this way, our Father in heaven, we are doing four things. First, we are putting God before ourselves. We put God and His glory and majesty in our address as we open our conversation with the Holy One of all creation. Our first desire in prayer should be to address him, not our needs. It goes beyond just dear God, but into an acknowledgement of his being and his holiness. We also, too, we pray for others and pray with others. He's our Father, remember. Jesus patterns our heart in this that we be focused on the needs of the saints and the needs of the church rather than just our own. Are we coming for our needs or for God's glory in the church? Thirdly We can address him in the most intimate way as the one who knows your thoughts, the one who knows you like a loving, perfect Father. You can cry to him, Abba Father. The one who knows your heart, he knows your struggles, he knows your joys, he knows your struggle challenges. But in all of this, we draw close to him in confidence. He knows everything, so why not share it with him? And lastly, we can never forget that he is God. We acknowledge that the Father, we have access to Him through the Son, that we bring our petitions to Him for His glory, and we can speak our hearts, yet we must never be flippant or casual when we speak to our hearts. God, because we are speaking to God who is in the heavens. So we've seen so far in this prayer is that Jesus is setting this pattern for us in the beginning of the Lord's Prayer of this intimate and reverent address to God. And should guide our hearts in how we open our prayer to the Lord. Yet now we must move to the second part of this, and really the first petition in the prayer. Which is this, that God's name be made holy. See, these next two lines of Scripture are probably the most quotable lines of Scripture outside of John 3. 16. Yet much like Jesus' own warning, just because we can say it doesn't mean we know exactly what it means. We say it so many times, maybe hear it in context, but do you really know what he's saying? Let's look at this next line to see how this pattern of the petition is this call for God's name to be holy in prayer. You see now I say this as a petition because it's one that might go unnoticed if you don't really know the language. This petition is the beginning of three petitions that are made about the character of God. There's a the introduction, three petitions about God, three petitions about man, and the larger structure of the prayer. These petitions ask God to act in a way that glorify himself more and more. And we'll explore the other two, potentially in the next message. But for tonight I'm just going to talk about the first one. But it says, hollowed be your name. This word hollowed. The first request after the address is that our Lord's name be hallowed. Now, admittedly, this is a word that we don't generally use on a day-to-day basis, unless you grew up in the church This may be a very strange or different word. You might kind of guess it's one of those things we kind of approximate in context. But do we know what it is? Hollowed is a rarely used version of the word holy. Likely, if you've heard this before, it's from this verse or someone saying, oh, we stand on hollowed ground, which may or may not be accurate actually in their use. So why, if this word is so strange and so different, why does almost every English translation of the Bible use this word? Well, I have two thoughts. I wondered this question this week. And so I consulted a scholar who has spent a lot of time in the KJV and translation issues, and I presented this case to him. He uh spent a lot of time doing this as kind of like his big research thing. They kind of told me this. He said, you know what, this word actually is It's not a word that's considered archaic. It's actually a common used word in the sense of when you need to use this word. It's not like some other words in the KJV, we might call false friends we've talked about, that are words that We don't even really use, we don't even really understand anymore. It's a word that is still used, but it's uncommon. But more importantly, it's a revered word. It's the word that so many people have learned for this verse. So it sense, it has a sense of piety in it when we read it. In its construction, in its use, it's almost like it would feel wrong if we took this word out of the Lord's Prayer. It's been so, so ingrained in our mind. Second thought is that the CSB or the Christian Standard Bible, the Holman Bible, does change it. They render it, your name be honored as holy. Although that might be a more relevant and accurate translation, it just doesn't have the same appeal to our ears as hollow does. See, translation has a set of trade-offs every time you do translations. There's the literal representation of the word, the language, the tradition, and so picking and choosing has trade-offs. In a piece of text like this, in a shadow of the High English of the King James and just the use of it over time, it really becomes hard to separate this word from the language here in the Lord's Prayer specifically. because of its rich tradition and its poetic nature. So it remains hollowed and probably will be for the foreseeable future. But coming back to the text, it's important we understand what Christ is saying here, then we can apply it to our prayers. See, this is not a statement about God. It's not a doxology. It's a petition. One commentator noted that this prayer is not so much a petition that God will act some great act and show everyone who and what he is. As it is a prayer that he will bring people to a proper attitude towards him. It expresses an aspiration that he who is holy will be seen to be holy And treated so throughout his creation as holy. This idea of the hallowed be thy name is actually the opposite of something we see in Exodus 20 when the command says, you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. It's the opposite of that. It's taking his name and making it holy. Set apart, revered. But it's not just that. God is holy, but the name of God be treated as holy See, names, as we talked about in the beginning, have some interesting history and some connection. And names in the biblical sense Really show an extension of their person and their attributes. Names characterize the person. Think of some of these names. Abraham. That name means the father of a multitude. Or Joseph. The name means to add or to increase. Moses means to be drawn out, like maybe out of a river or out of a nation of Egypt. Or Job, he who weeps. Names carry with it character and definition. God 's name is all that God is and who He stands for. Hallowed be your name is a petition that God act in a way in the world that all the glory and honor be ascribed to his name. That God be all the glory, that more and more people would ascribe the holiness to God that is due his name in this world. This is the first thing we are to do in prayer, in petition, that God's glory increase, that he be called holy, holy, holy by more and more of this world. We beseech God to demonstrate his holy glory in this world, in the church, and in our lives. Hallowed be your name is a request that the church be sanctified. Hallow be thy name is a request that you're asking God to work in the world more and more that people would make him the center and foundation of their lives. Hallow be your name is a declaration that we seek his glory even in the storms of life, that he is our refuge that gives us strength, and that he deserves that honor. Hallowed be your name is a request that even when we have green pastures in our lives, all is ascribed to his glory and his holiness. What this phrase means in total is that the name of God will be called holy because of his providential hand and his working in this world, that more people and more circumstances in this world would affirm that he is truly holy. holy. God's holiness is obviously directly connected to his glory. Think of Isaiah 6. 3 when it says, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts, his character. The whole earth is full of his glory, the demonstration of his holiness. So what does this mean for us when we talk about patterning this in prayer? What does it mean to pattern this prayer of hallowed be thy name when we pray? Well, we're asking God to make his glory known, his holiness known, by making creation acknowledge him as holy, this can have a wide range of applications. In one simple way, it means that God would act in our lives in a way to enable us to glorify him and his holiness. We pray for the wisdom and might to worship him as holy. We would ask for that grace that his name would be holy to us and it would remain that way and for others in the church. to sustain them. It would supply what we need to worship. It's also for the church as a whole. It's a prayer for the conversion of souls, because that points to his holiness. Praying for even visitors to our church, again, as those are drawn to his holiness and his glory. Praying that more people would call him holy and more would do so more and more throughout generations But in a second way, in prayer, we're asking that the circumstances in life move in the direction that would result in his glory. See, this is the humbling part of prayer. Because we're not asking that God have it turn out our way or God would do what's best for us. We're asking him to maximize his holiness in our everyday. Maximize his glory in the circumstances of our lives. No matter what may come, that we also would give him glory and maximize and point and ascribe him holiness in all that he does. This is what it means to hollow his name. And his name would be built up more and more in ascribing him his holiness for what he has done. So we've only looked at the first two lines of the Lord's Prayer. But these opening lines provide us with a powerful pattern of how we're to approach God and address Him in prayer. And the instruction, therefore, of how we come to him in our first petition, that his name be holy. So in closing we have much more to learn from Jesus and how he teaches us how to pray. But tonight he's opened up two essential elements in the pattern of prayer. First, that we come to God with an address of intimacy and reverence. He is our Father. We are his sons and daughters. In full confidence we come to him with open hearts, full trust, and joy. Yet he is God. Mighty, transcendent, powerful. We come to him as children, yet come in reverence and awe. And second, that our first petition, when we approach the throne of grace, that we would seek that his name be honored as holy. That he would work in a way that would bring people this ability to ascribe holiness to him. That he might be glorified in every way through sanctification, through salvation, through the working of history, that all the nation would call his name holy, set apart, glorified. Because of who he is, in honor due only to our God. May we seek to worship him in prayer this way. Let me close in prayer. Our Father who art in heaven, you are holy. You know us, you love us because you sent your son for us. Thank you for this guidance in teaching us to pray. Help us to take your words to heart that we would pray and worship you in ways that are pleasing to you. Let us go from here tonight, Lord, revived in prayer, seeking to glorify you, that we should tell the world of your holiness, and that you would make your name called holy across the earth. And we ask this all in your son's precious name. Amen.