If you have your Bibles, please, you can turn with me to Matthew chapter 6. If you're visiting with us this morning, we have been going through what is commonly known as the Lord's Prayer. Verse 9, Jesus said, after this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name In R. C. Sprohl's modern classic, The Holiness of God, he makes the following perceptive statement. Xenophobia. is a fear of strangers or anything that is strange or foreign. God is the ultimate object of our xenophobia. He is the ultimate stranger. He is the ultimate foreigner. He is holy, and we are not. This morning, as we continue our study of the Lord's Prayer, we come to this very first petition. which is hallowed be thy name. The word hallowed, of course, is a form of the word holy So according to this pattern prayer, our very first concern, our very first request should be that God 's name would be holy. One preacher of the past said in real life this is probably the least prayed petition in the Lord's Prayer. We pray for bread, we pray for forgiveness, we pray for guidance, and we pray for deliverance. But rarely do we pray that God's name would be hallowed. This opening petition. You can picture as a guard that is restricting the request that we bring to God in prayer. How does that work? Well, if our request is not something that would magnify our Lord, that would hallow his name, if it's not something that we could pray that's in line with his holy character, then it's really not something that we should pray for. It's almost like a filter that keeps back those sinful requests that we might be thinking of making. I wonder if you know what this means. I wonder how many people over the centuries have repeated this prayer Sunday after Sunday with these words, hallowed be thy name, those very traditional words that just fall off of our lips, and yet they have no idea what that really means or what they're supposedly asking God to do. Before I get to the answer, I want to make a few more observations. I want you to notice that this is the very first request in the prayer. This is to be our priority. Now, depending on how you divide things up, there are six or seven requests here. The first three deal with God's rights. They're all connected. Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done. And then and only then do we come to the second half. to man's needs. We have, give us this day our daily bread, which encompasses all of the material needs that we have. And then forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. And the reason why some people see six petitions and others see seven is some people divide that last line into two segments, two petitions. But it's not really important whether there are six or seven. What I want you to notice is that God 's rights must come before man's needs. You see the same order in the Ten Commandments. The first table of the law deals with our obligations to God And only then do we come to the second table of the law, which deals with our relationships with others, because unless we are right with God, we can never have right relationships with others. And so we see here that before we bring our problems to the Lord, we must bow before his throne and worship. Now what exactly is meant by hallowed be thy name? I want you to know that this is not some quaint religious language, but the place where our request must begin. The name here is, I think, not a reference to some specific name or title for God. And our culture names just or a convenient label to distinguish us from others, but in the Hebrew culture, a name spoke to a person's identity. It was a revelation of their character. That is why the third commandment says, Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. To use God's name in a flippant and thoughtless manner is to dishonor him. But this opening petition is about much more than being careful with our words. It means that we are to live in such a way that magnifies the holiness of our God. As I've mentioned to you before, the word holy means to be set apart, and is often translated as to sanctify, which in essence says the same thing The best illustration that really comes from Scripture itself in 2 Timothy chapter 2 is also found in our ordinary lives, and that is that many ladies here have fine china. That perhaps you keep in a special place, perhaps in a hutch. And on special events like Christmas or Thanksgiving or Easter that's coming up in a few weeks. You will take that fine china out and you will set it down and you will have special guests over because this is a special occasion and that china, those utensils, that fine silver that you keep in that cabinet That is reserved. It's been set apart for special events. It's not your everyday dishes. And so when we pray, hallowed be thy name, we are praying that God's holy name be set apart. Now let me clarify here, we are not praying for God to make his name holy or himself holy because he is perfectly holy. No, what we are praying is that God would work on our hearts and the hearts of others in such a way that we would all come to a greater awareness of the holiness and glory of God's. So I'm going to preach to you this morning on this truth that every believer should pray for God's name to be hallowed. And I want to make two primary applications of this. First of all, when we pray that God's name would be hallowed, we are praying that God would change us. That's where we must begin, because we are inherently unholy, and yet God has called us to be holy Apart from Christ, we would never even begin to pray this prayer, hallowed be thy name. Without the grace of God drawing us to the Savior, we would never become holy because the Bible teaches that we are all naturally and inherently unholy. We were born that way. We've inherited a sinful nature from our parents and they from their parents. This is why you don't have to teach a little toddler to be selfish or to be self-centered or to be rude or impatient. They come by that naturally. They got it from you. But the Bible teaches that by God's grace we become saints. We are called saints. Those who have been set apart to gods, not that we are perfect, but we are declared to be righteous because we are in Christ who is the Holy One, the perfect Son of God. You see, the Christian life is all about becoming more and more of who we really are in Christ, of living up to our true identity in Him. Positionally, we are saints, we are holy, because our substitute Jesus is holy. And he died as the perfect sacrifice for our sins. But practically, none of us have arrived. This is why you would probably feel a little uncomfortable if someone addressed you as Saint So-and-So. I would feel funny if you spoke to me as Saint Timothy. I'd say, please call me something else. It it it doesn't seem to fit. Because one of the things we say about people is what? He's no saints. Let me say to you that if you are truly a child of God, you are a saint. That's what the Bible teaches You may say, but I don't feel like I'm really l living up to that. That's what the Christian life is all about, where we're dying more and more to sin and we're living more and more for Christ and we're becoming more of who God has called us to be. We read together this morning 1 Peter 1, verses 15 and 16. But as he with hath called you as holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation or conduct Because it is written, be ye holy, for I am holy. We are called to be holy because our God is holy. He is our Father. And we are to reflect the character of our Father. So often we want to reduce holy living to a list of do's and don'ts, but holiness goes beyond our conduct to our very identity. If I were to go through and show you what it means to live a holy life, we would be here for many, many weeks. So I want to just turn to one truth that is found. in the sermon where the Lord's Prayer is found. So turn with me a chapter earlier, please, to Matthew chapter 5. And we have this famous and wonderful verse, this overarching truth, Matthew 5, 16, let your light so shine before men. that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. What does it mean to let your light shine? What does he mean by good works here? Does it mean that we are to put on display and we are to piously go around? No, because in the very next chapter in Matthew chapter 6, he condemns the Pharisee for doing things to be seen of men. No, it's talking about living in such a way that people see that we are different from the inside out. He is referring, of course, this follows closely. On the heels of what we call the Beatitudes, verse 3, blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are ye when men shall persecute you for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. It's interesting that there are two basic Greek words for good, and the one that's used here in verse 16 is not the word that denotes goodness or moral purity. It's a word that speaks of what is beautiful or attractive. There is something beautiful and attractive about the Christian life, the genuine, transformed Christian experience. People are not impressed by your displays of religion because they can smell hypocrisy a mile away. But when they see genuine humility, when they witness that you have a real compassion for the needs of others, when they see that you go out of your way to live at peace with others, When they see that you are really broken and disturbed over your spiritual inconsistencies, when they see that Christ has first place in your affections, they will be intrigued. They will know that that is not natural. That's not the way people typically are. And they will be drawn to you because they're looking for something that's real, for something that's transformative. When they see that you actually love those who hate you, they will sit up and take notice. Turn with me just a little bit later in this chapter, Matthew 5. Turn with me please to verse 43. Jesus says, you have heard it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy enemy, thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thy enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you. and persecute you, that you may be the children of your Father which is in heaven, for he maketh his son to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and the unjust. For if you love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? And if you salute your brethren only what do you more than others? Do not even publicans so be therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. You see, it's very unnatural for a person to show love and concern for people who dislike that individual. The world will stand up and take notice when they see that you are loving towards those who actually hate you. So let me ask you, are you reflecting the holy character of your Heavenly Father? Are you known as a loving and forgiving person? Do you demonstrate in very obvious ways that you're set apart from the world and dedicated to God? This should influence every aspect of our lives. It should influence the way you work. Did you know that 's? In 1 Timothy chapter 6 and verse 1 Paul writes, let as many servants as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor, that the name of God be not blasphemed. You see, if you're known as the complaining employee, as the lazy employee, as the worthless employee where you are The name of Christ will be blasphemy. People say that's the way Christians are. You know, they go to church and they pretend they're better than everyone else, but they're actually worthless. God wants us to be the most responsible, the most trustworthy employees in that office building where you find yourself. Does your use of free time demonstrate that your life has been consecrated to God? Does all that you watch and read and download and listen to say, hallowed be thy name? In 2 Timothy 2 and verse 19, Paul says, let everyone that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. To live a holy life is to live nothing less than a life of worship. This expression, hallowed be thy name, is the language of worship. Although we were made and redeemed to worship the Lord, yet we come short of enjoying the glory of God. This is indeed mankind's chief end, but it's often our common omission. We are so naturally selfish even when we come to church. Even when we come to church and to worship our Lord. So often we don't really worship the Lord. We're thinking about how people are going to minister to us. And we're distracted by a thousand different things. We may mouth a few words and shake a few hands. But so rarely do we really worship the Lord from the depths of our being. And even when we come to the Lord in prayer throughout our days, so quickly we rush really to the fourth request. Lord, give us this day our daily bread. We want Him to provide our needs, to provide our health, to provide for those that we love, to make our life pain-free and comfortable. And that is our burning desire and priority and concern. But the only way that we can really pray effectively is when we begin By worshiping the Lord and saying, hallowed be thy name. We so often come to the Lord for things that we want But we don't want him. I've used this illustration before. We're like a little child that goes over to his grandmother's house. And he loves to see his grandmother because she always has freshly baked cookies there. And he rushes into the kitchen and grabs those cookies out of the bow bowl and begins to eat them. And he loves those cookies. He loves to go to grandma's house, but then he rushes away. He doesn't talk to her. He doesn't spend any time with her. Now we will accept that from a little child. But if that child continues to grow and to mature and becomes an adult and he still goes to his grandmother's house just for what he can get from her. And he never stops. He doesn't enjoy her company. He doesn't talk to her. He doesn't spend any time. He doesn't share his life with her. We would say, what a very immature and selfish person. And yet, how often we do that with the Lord, we come to him because we want things from him. We want him to do things. We want him to heal. We want him to bless us. We want him to help us. But we don't want to be in his presence. We don't want to worship him. I enjoy the hymns of John Newton. John Newton, that former slave trader who became a preacher of the gospel and a hymn writer, most famous, of course, for Amazing Grace, one of the most famous hymns ever written. But he wrote many other wonderful hymns, such as how sweet the name of Jesus sounds in a believer's ears. It soothes his sorrows, heals his wounds, and drives away his fears. It makes the wounded spirit whole and calms the troubled breast. Tis manna to the hungry soul and to the weary rest. But my favorite verse in this hymn is this, Weak is the effort of my heart, and cold my warmest thoughts. But when I see thee as thou art, I'll praise thee as I ought. Can you identify these words? Did you know that your best day of worship, the best Sunday you've ever had when you came and you were in the right spirit and you prepared your heart, you had read his word and prayed in the morning. And you came there with a spirit of joy, and you worship the Lord and you minister to other people, the very best day you've ever had could still be characterized as a cold day, a day filled with apathy, with distraction, and with selfishness. That's what Newton is saying, and cold my warmest thoughts. How desperately we need for God to make us holy, to change us from our earthward gaze to a heavenly gaze. But secondly, I want you to notice that when we pray that God's name would be hallowed, we are praying for nothing less than that God would change the world. You see, Christianity is not about self-improvement. It's about the glory of God. It's not just about me. And God changing me, yes, that's where it must begin. But if God begins to change you and to work in your life and revive your spirits, you know what's going to happen? You're going to be concerned about those around you. When God does a work in your heart, it never just stays here. It goes out here. And therefore, in our prayers We must pray that God's name would be hallowed, that it would be set apart in the lives of those that surround us. That we would see God's grace at work in the hearts and the lives of our loved ones, our spouses, our children. And we would be concerned about our co-workers and other extended family members because we want God's name to be hallowed not just in our hearts but in the hearts of others. This is the way Jesus taught us to pray, and this is the way he prayed. In John chapter 12 and verse 28, he said, in the shadow of the cross, Father, glorify thy name. Yes, he went to the cross to save sinners like us, but ultimately it was to glorify his father's name. You ever had a lot of respect for someone because of their children? I remember many years ago I had some contact with the church and they were looking for a pastor. And there was a man that they were considering. And he didn't have great sterling qualifications. He was not an incredible preacher. He was not a great organizer or administrator But he was a godly man, and that was evident in the lives of his children. And they knew his son, and his son was such a godly young man who was focused on serving the Lord and doing the things of God, that even though he had many shortcomings, the people said, we want this man to be our pastor because look at his children You see, I use that to say this, that the way we live our lives has a reflection on the glory of our Father. A few days after Jesus uttered those words in John 12, we read of what I would call the real Lord's Prayer in John chapter 17. And I invite you to turn there with me, please. These words were prayed shortly before our Lord was arrested in the garden. This is the longest recorded prayer that we have of our Savior. It's known as our His great high priestly prayer. And I want you to notice what exactly we are praying for God to do when we pray that He would be glorified or that His name would be hallowed, those two terms which are virtually interchangeable. Look with me at John 17, verse 1. These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come, glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee. as thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent. I have glorified thee on the earth. I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. What is implicit here is that the glorifying of God is accomplished to the salvation of sinners. Christ came and died for sinners to give them eternal life That they might know the only true God. This is how we glorify them. This is how his name is hallowed and set apart. So when we pray that God's name would be hallowed, we are praying that people from all over the world, from people within our close circle of acquaintances, to people in our community, to people in our nation, to people all over the world, that they would come to truly know God and be born again, that they would set Him apart in their hearts. We are praying with the psalmist that men may know that thou, whose name alone is Jehovah, art the Most High over all the earth. Psalm 83, verse 18 I don't agree with everything that John Piper has written or said, but I really like his opening statement. In that book, Let the Nations Be Glad, he says missions exist because worship doesn't. The ultimate aim of missionaries is not just to get them saved. It is to get them to worship God with all of their hearts. You see, this is a mission prayer. Hallowed be thy name. It reminds us that we should be outward focused. I wonder if you've looked at a map lately. Have you ever noticed the vast tracts of land that stretch for thousands of miles where there's very little gospel witness? Where people can live and die without ever hearing of Jesus Christ and his dying for sinners Why is this? Why is it that mysiologists talk about the 1040 window and this vast segment of the world that you can look on on a map where there are very, very few preachers of the gospel, very few churches. The answer is because those lands are dominated by false religion. They are dominated by idolatry. They are dominated and they have been for centuries and in many cases for millennia. They have been steeped in false teaching. These are places that have been dominated by Hinduism and Buddhism and most of all by Islam. I'm going to be a little politically incorrect. But when you pray that God's name would be hallowed implicit in that prayer Is that these false religions would be cast down and destroyed. We are also praying that the secular atheism of Europe and the pervasive materialism of America would be shown to be empty idols, that they would be cisterns that do not hold water, that they would be promises that do not satisfy the human soul. The Bible says, He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall have them in derision. He'll break them with a rod of iron. Because the Lord will not share his glory with another. And did you know that when we pray this prayer. We are praying God's truth. We can pray with absolute confidence that God in his time and in his way will bring this to pass. Did you know that there are peoples from all the ethnicities from all over the world that will come to believe and to set apart and to hallow his name? There are many places we could turn that hint to or say directly this truth. I want to invite you to turn with me back to the book of Psalms. For convenience sake, I'm going to look at two Psalms that are next to one another. Turn with me to Psalm 66. Psalm 66, I'm just going to read the first two verses. Notice what it says, make a joyful noise Unto the Lord, all ye lands, sing forth the honor of his name. That's what we're talking about. Make his praise glorious Notice it says, make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands, not just the land of Israel, not just the United States of America, but all the lands, all the nations of the world. Look with me at Psalm 67. This was a passage that the Lord used to call our own pastor Aaron to the mission field. Psalm 67, verse 1, God be merciful to us and bless us and cause his face to shine upon us, that thy way may be known upon the earth, that thy saving help among all nations. Let the people praise thee, O God. Let all the people praise Thee. O let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for thou shalt judge the people righteously and govern the nations upon the earth. Let the people praise thee, O God. Let all the people praise Thee. Then shall the earth yield her increase, and God, even her own God, shall bless us. God shall bless us, and all the ends of the earth shall fear him. We could look at many others. And how back at chapter 2 and verse 14 it says, For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. What a wonderful promise this is. His name will be hallowed. It will be set apart. So often it seems that false religion is growing and it's taking over and people feel threatened. But I want you to know we know the end of the story. We can pray with faith. We don't have to run around wringing our hands like victims saying, What in the world is going on? What are we going to do? God is in control. His name will be hallowed. I do not believe in universalism. That is, that everyone will be saved. The scriptures teach clearly otherwise. But even those who will not believe unto salvation will still yield allegiance to his holy name. Did you know that? Philippians chapter 2, we read these words, that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth. and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, the glory of God the Father Every despot, every wicked man, every false prophet, every cult leader, they will all someday bow the knee. And his name will be hallowed. So when we pray, we must pray in faith. We must pray that God would change us, that He would make us more holy, that He would make us who we are in Christ that is saints. That we would die more and more to our sin, that we would live and become more and more like Christ But we don't stop there. We also pray that God would do the same thing in our loved ones and in our church and in our nation and throughout the world that his name would be glorified, that it would be set apart in hallows. One of my favorite hymns was written in 1719 by Pastor Isaac Watts. He's known as the father of English Hemnody. He wrote such classic as Our God, Our Help and Ages Past, Joy to the World, When I Survey the Wondrous Cross, Alas and Did My Savior bleed. How we are indebted to him for these wonderful hymns of the faith. But Pastor Isaac Watts, as he was going through and putting the Psalms , In the Christian hymns, he was struck by the fact of how often he came to these descriptions of praise that would be world-wide. That people from all lands, from all ethnicities would someday praise his holy name. And to him that seemed utterly impossible because he lived in a day when there were really no missionaries that are active in most parts of the world. This was just at the dawn of the new age of missions. But there were no missionaries in Asia or in Africa at that time? And yet, as he was going through and putting these Psalms into verse , he came to Psalm 72 with the concluding prayer that says, Let the whole earth be filled with his glory. And he wrote these words. Astonishing spectacle When the dark and savage inhabitants of Africa and our forefathers, the rugged and warlike Britons from the ends of the earth shall appear in that assembly with some of the polite nations of Greece and Rome. And each of them shall glory in having been taught to renounce the gods of their ancestors and the demons which they once worshipped, and shall rejoice in Jesus, the King of Israel, and in Jehovah, the everlasting God. The conversion of the Gentile world to Christianity is a matter of glorious wonder and shall appear to be so in that great day. And so in faith, even though there was really no missionary activity to speak of going on when he wrote this, in faith he wrote, Jesus shall reign. Where'er the sun doth his successive journeys run. This is a wonderful reminder to us that his name will be hallowed. Let's close in prayer, Father. We pray That you would make us people who pray according to your priorities and not our own, that we would not be so fixated on our troubles and trials. That we would forget to worship you and to enjoy your presence. And I pray that you would help us not to have a microscopic view of the world and our prayers. but a macroscopic view that we would pray that your name would be hallowed throughout the world, that you would cast down false prophets and idols, and that you would exalt the name of your dear Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And we pray that this holiness would be evidence in our lives as well. The world would sit up and take notice that we have been changed by the grace of God. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen