If you would turn with me in your Bibles to Matthew chapter 5. Matthew chapter 5, verse 4. Many of you know the name George Whitfield. He was one of the key figures of the Great Awakening in the 18th century. An amazing man, a remarkable man. On average, he preached a thousand sermons a year for 30 years of his ministry. So you can do the math. It's a lot of sermons. Arnold Dalimore, his biographer, one of his biographers, said that his life was a sermon. His entire life was a sermon punctuated with brief breaks. He lived a sermon. Great orator, phenomenal preacher. When George Whitfield preached for the first time. In the open air, it was to the Kingswood Miners in Bristol, England. And because of His evangelical nature of his preaching and the fact that he was a bold and powerful preacher who preached on the need for repentance and the need to be born again. Many in the Church of England did not welcome him to their pulpits. His pulpits were closed to many of the by him to in many of the churches of England. Many of the pastors of those churches were jealous, and as a result, they refused to let him come in. So in response, George Whitfield did what was unthinkable at the time. He decided to preach outside, in the open air, to people outside of a cathedral or a church building. And to blunt some of the criticism of that initially, he decided to preach in a place where There were no churches and no ministers were trying to reach the people. He went to the coal miners of Kingswood. These folks were entirely uneducated. They were considered to be rude, crude, immoral, and irreligious. They were almost considered to be subhuman by the Erudite elite of England at the time. And there were no ministers that ministered among them. The men who worked the mines were dirty, and they went through life with coal dust on their faces and dirt under their fingernails. But it was to such a people that George Whitfield came and preached the gospel. He didn't put up any posters. He didn't have a microphone, obviously, or speakers. He didn't have musical instruments. He didn't have singing. He didn't have a platform. He went around with one of his friends and began to knock on doors in the homes of that community and saying that they would have a service And then he stood up on a hill and began to preach from the passage we'll be looking at this morning, from the Beatitudes in the Sermon on the Mount, Blessed are the poor in spirit. For they shall see the kingdom of God. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. And it immediately caught the attention. Here's this young man dressed in a Church of England frock. Standing out in the open, preaching boldly, loudly, powerfully. And he was on their turf. And soon a gathering of over 200 people came to hear him speak. In years to come, thousands and tens of thousands would come and hear him at a at the time, even in England and the United States and many other places around the world. But Whitfield began by telling a funny story, and that caught the attention of the coal miners. They'd never heard a preacher tell something funny. And sounded human almost. But before the sermon was over, he covered all the bases. He talked about man's depravity. He talked about God's love. He talked about heaven. He talked about hell. He talked about Christ and his redeeming sacrifice on the cross of Calvary. He talks about the resurrection. And those who were laughing in the beginning found themselves weeping. And tears were streaming down their faces. And he said later that he knew they were moved by the white gutters that were made on their cheeks as the tears ran down the coal-stained faces as he preached the gospel to them. Hundreds and hundreds of them would soon be brought under deep conviction and joyfully and happily converted. It's those type of tears That Jesus is speaking about when he said, Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. When we began looking at the Beatitudes a few months ago, we noticed that each of these beatitudes kind of builds on the other. It's built on the foundation of blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And we talked about what that means. But all of all of these beatitudes, if you look at them, they're paradoxical. They're counter-cultural. But there's probably none that's more paradoxical and more counter-cultural than the one we're looking at this morning. Blessed are those who mourn. Happy are the sad. The word blessed literally is the word that's translated happy in many places. And Jesus wants to get our attention. He wants us to stop and think. What does it mean that happy are the sad? Blessed are those who mourn? What does that mean? What does it mean that they shall be comforted with what comfort? What type of sorrow is Jesus speaking about here? When we started this study, we noticed that the theme of the Beatitudes is really, or the Sermon on the Mount, which is part of the Beatitudes are part of, is really threefold. The first is to expose the hypocrisy of the Pharisees, the religious leaders. And chapter 6 of Matthew 5 begins by contrasting the hypocritical practice of the Pharisees, the way they pray, the way they fast. the way they give with the way of true worship. Secondly, it's to awaken the conscience of his hearers And that's what Christ is trying to do as he preaches the Beatitudes. He's trying to awaken our consciences so that we understand the true nature of the gospel and we feel the weight of our own sinfulness. He tells them, unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven. And that's remarkable. We know the scribes and Pharisees as ungodly, the enemies of Christ. But they were considered to be the most righteous people on earth. And it was said that if two people make it into heaven, one will be a scribe and the other will be a Pharisee. And Jesus says, unless your righteousness is greater than theirs, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Then he tells them, be perfect. As your Father in heaven is perfect. If you want to get into heaven, be like God. Perfect. That's a high bar. And the third thing he is doing is to express to Christians the way in which they are to live. The sermon doesn't tell people, live like this and you will become a Christian, but rather those who are Christians ought to live like this. If you are a Christian, you ought to be like this. The Beatitudes, we talked about them as eight marks of a believer. Of a true believer. A true Christian has these eight marks on his life, and they are telescoping from blessed are the poor in spirit. Each one of them builds on the other. And you can't understand the whole of them unless you understand blessed are the poor. in spirit. Being poor in spirit is the root from which all of these other beatitudes stem. To be poor in spirit means that you are utterly bankrupt. We talked about this A month ago when we looked at this, where you're capping your cup on the side of the street, begging for mercy, because you have nothing to make you commendable to God. You have no righteousness of your own that says, Lord, look at me. I've done all this, and I've done all this, and I've done all this, and I've lived perfectly. Our righteousness, the Bible says, is like filthy rags in the sight of God, and we must come like a beggar to receive mercy, tapping our cup. Because we have nothing to make us commendable to God. When you get a grip on that reality deep in your soul, then you can understand what Jesus says next. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. So the proposition of this sermon is pretty simple. True happiness comes to those who mourn. And the sermon has two main points. God calls us to mourn. And secondly, proper mourning leads to joy. God calls us to mourn. And proper true mourning leads to true joy. So, first of all, let's look at this fact that God calls us to mourn. Luke chapter 6, we have another sermon of Jesus. He says, Woe to you who are full now, for you shall be hungry. Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall mourn and weep. What type of mourning is Jesus talking about here? What type of mourning does he mean? The whole human race, the human history is wrapped up with this idea of mourning. Job says that man is born to trouble as the sparks fly upward. All mankind mourns. Does that mean that all are going to heaven? There's some sort of some lasting comfort in. In having sorrow? The fact is that not all sorrow is created equal. This is not saying that everyone who sorrows is going to be comforted. Some people have almost understood this like the idea that time heals all wounds. And don't worry, it'll be okay. But that's not at all what Jesus is saying. And again, you have to understand the first beatitude. Blessed are the poor in spirit, the word meaning bankrupt in spirit. And that this is building on that first beatitude. And we need to understand that not all poverty leads to heaven. Being poor financially does not lead to heaven. There are many, many poor people that do not go to heaven It is only those who are poor in spirit, who recognize their spiritual poverty, that they cannot make themselves commendable to God in any way. By their own actions. And in a similar way, not all mourning leads to comfort. Not all mourning leads to comfort. The Bible talks about a variety of mourning. And I classify them just this morning. I'm going to classify them in three different groups. You could classify them differently, but just so that we have an idea of what they are, there's natural sorrow. Ecclesiastes 3 says that for everything there is a season and a time for every matter under heaven. Goes on to say, there's a time to weep. And a time to laugh. And so when I'm speaking here, I'm not saying that there is no time to laugh. And anyone who knows me knows that I like to laugh. You might say, you're the last person that should be preaching this. I hope that's not true. There is a time to mourn, and there's a time to laugh. And when you understand the time to mourn, then you're able to laugh in the right time. There is a time to mourn and a time to dance. But natural sorrow comes upon all. We live in a fallen world. There's disease, there's death, there's cruelty, there's heartache, there's disappointments that strike all of us. It can include things like sorrow over a lost loved one. or the sorrow of loneliness, or the sorrow of being sinned against, or the rejection of a job, or the rejection of someone that you love. But that love is not reciprocated. We have the example in the Bible of godly Abraham, the father of the faithful, weeping over the death of his wife Sarah in Genesis 23. And the Bible says that he went in and he mourned and wept for her. And that's appropriate. Jesus wept over the death of Lazarus. We looked at that just a few weeks ago. In Acts chapter 9, we have the story of the woman Dorcas. Who when she died, she had ministered to the widows of the church, and the widows came with the things that she had made for them, and they brought them there, and they were weeping in the presence of Peter. They were mourning because they did not have this one who cared for them anymore. Jeremiah was known as the weeping prophet. He wrote the entire book of lamentations about weeping over the nation of Israel and the city of Jerusalem. Expressing the sorrow that he felt when it was ransacked by Babylon and observing his people murdered and raped and pillaged. And the sorrow. And he says in Jeremiah chapter 9, Oh, that my head were waters and my eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughters of my people. And he said, I can't even cry enough. I wish I could cry more. These are natural Sorrows. There's also unnatural sorrow. This type of sorrow can be multifaceted. It can be the sorrow of lust that is unfulfilled. One biblical example is King Ahab. If you know King Ahab, he wanted Naboth 's vineyard. But because it was Naboth's inheritance from God, Naboth refused to give it to him. And in Kings, 1 Kings chapter 21, we read that Ahab went into his room and he laid on his bed and he sucked his thumb and he pouted. And he mourned because he couldn't have what he wanted. Sometimes this type of sorrow can be actually the expression of a guilty conscience. Remember when David mourned the death of his son Absalom? Absalom was an evil man. He had led a coup against his father. He had brought great harm to the people of God. He was a selfish, self-centered man. And when David's men were able to kill Absalom and end the rebellion, instead of rejoicing that the kingdom was safe, that he was safe, that the family was safe, that his people were safe, he wept and he lamented bitterly. For his son Absalom. Oh, Absalom, Absalom, my son Absalom. And the people slunk away in sorrow. Why did he do that? Because he felt guilty over being a horrible father. Because he had failed to bring his children under the authority of God's word at a young age. Because he had sinned with Bathsheba and brought this rebellion upon himself and upon his family. It was not a natural sorrow, it was an unnatural sorrow of a guilty conscience before God. The thirdly, there's godly sorrow. The sorrow that Jesus is referring to here is neither of the first two, not the natural sorrow. Nor the ungodly, unnatural sorrow, but it is a sorrow that is rooted in the poverty of spirit that Jesus just spoke about. Just like there's nothing meritorious about being poor financially, only spiritual poverty is pleasing to God, so too there's nothing blessed, there's nothing meritorious. about natural mourning, over mourning for the death of your loved one, or the death of a of a dream that's been crushed Jesus is pronouncing true blessedness on those who mourn because of their spiritual bankruptcy, because of their sin. And there can be two a elements of this. There can be a mourning that comes as you see the sin in the world around you. You look at the world, you see its brokenness, you see the effects of sin on the culture, on family, on a nation. And you can mourn over that, but specifically what Jesus is talking about is not this general mourning for sin out there. But a mourning for sin in here. A mourning for your own brokenness, for your own rebellion, for your own poverty of spirit. If you remember, we said to be poor in spirit refers to one who recognizes that they are a spiritual beggar. And it's when we recognize that we are beggars. That we mourn over the brokenness of our sin. We mourn and we weep because we have sinned against God. We have broken his commandments. We have violated the law of the God who is holy, who is sovereign, who is love. And we are a people who are sinful. We talked about the sinful tax collector when we talked about being poor in spirit. And he came into the temple and he wouldn't even lift up his eyes, but he stood afar off and he beat on his breast and he said, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. The Bible says that he went away justified. That's poverty of spirit, but that's also mourning. Godly sorrow. We see the two of these brought together. A recognition of his spiritual poverty and deep mourning over his sin. And these beatitudes, they begin to build one upon the other. This is also seen, I think. When we think about the woman who came and she wiped Jesus' feet with her hair as her tears poured down on Jesus' feet. And she was mourning, but she was also filled with love at the one who had forgiven her. Her brokenness made her weep, but she found the comfort of joy because she had been forgiven. Paul spoke about this type of mourning, this type of sorrow in 2 Corinthians chapter 7, verses 10. And following, he says, For godly grief Produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret. Whereas worldly grief produces death. Foresee what earnestness this godly grief has produced in you, but also what eagerness to clear yourselves, what indignation What fear, what longing, what zeal, what punishment. At every point you have proved yourselves innocent in the matter. He talks about this godly sorrow that worked in the Corinthians, such a zeal that they wanted to change. They no longer wanted to stay in their sins. They had to make a change. And they were zealous to bring about that change. Godly sorrow is more than just regret. When you think about regret, regret is something like saying, I wish that hadn't happened. I wish I wasn't experiencing the bad consequences of my actions. Godly sorrow is more than regret. It's more than remorse over the consequences of my sin. We can think of probably the greatest example of remorse that didn't turn to godly sorrow in the Bible. Think of Judas Iscariot. Remember when he had betrayed the Lord and he'd received the silver? Afterwards he realized what he had done and he came into the temple and he said, I have betrayed an innocent man. They said, That's none of our business. And he threw the silver into the temple and he went out and he didn't run to God. But he hung himself. He had remorse. He had regret. But he didn't have godly sorrow. Which leads to repentance. Which leads to God. The problem with so much of what we call evangelism in the church today is that it has an anemic view of sin. Before there can be the blessing of God and the true joy of salvation, there must come the weight of sin and the seriousness of our sin as against God. In our Christmas cantata, we talked a lot about the darkness of sin and the light of life. But until you understand the darkness of sin, you can't appreciate the light of life. And too much of what is called evangelism today Lacks this morning, this poverty of spirit that leads to brokenness that says, I have sinned against God We find in this verse here that true mourning and godly sorrow is a deep mourning. The word for mourning in our Greek text is the strongest term in the New Testament to describe describe sorrow. It's usually a word that that is used and reserved for the death of a loved one. We see it in the Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament. That's what the word was used when Abraham mourned and wept for Sarah. At her death. It's the same term that's used when good King Josiah died, which is considered the epitome of mourning in the Old Testament. The people wept and they mourned for him. So, how do we come to this type of sorrow? How do we actually become those who mourn? Because this is what Jesus says they shall be comforted. We want that. So how do we get to that place where we understand this sorrow? It comes first from seeing God as unapproachably holy. Our low view of sin is in direct correlation to our low view of God. We view God like a Benevolent grandfather. We don't see him as awesome, as holy, as set apart. As being a consuming fire. The Old and the New Testament repeatedly refer to him as a consuming fire in his awesome holiness. Even the angels, the seraphim, do not dare to look upon him. We have too low a view of God. Remember when Isaiah the prophet saw the Lord in Isaiah chapter 6, and he saw the seraphim crying out, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts, the whole earth is full of his glory. What did Isaiah say? He said, woe is me. Or when I think of woe, understand what he's saying there, I am doomed. Not pity party, woe is me, but I am doomed. I deserve death. Woe is me, for I am lost. For I'm a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. What was Isaiah's sin that caused him to cry out, I am doomed? Was it rape? Was it murder? Was it theft? It's unclean lips. Proud words Foul words. Words that bite and devour. Words that hurt He says, Woe is me, I am doomed. For I'm a man who speaks perverse things, proud things. I don't think most of us understand how serious those things are. Because we live in the midst of a people of unclean lips. When Isaiah saw the awesome holiness of God, those words Broke him. We think of our sin as not a big deal because we don't understand that awesome holiness. In Psalm 50, verses 18 through 21, listen as I read this, God rebukes the people and he says, if you see a thief, You are pleased with him, and you keep company with adulterers. You give your mouth free reign for evil, and your tongue frames deceit. You sit and speak against your brother, you slander your own mother's son. These things you have done, and I have been silent. You thought that I was one like yourself. But now I rebuke you and lay the charge before you. What does the psalmist, what does God say through the psalmist? You thought I was like you, but I'm holy. What does he charge them with? You're pleased with a thief. Well, sometimes we do get pleased with a thief. something. How many people these days when they hear about a thief who gets away with with something like, stick it to the man. Why do we love to hear the stories about the thieves that get away with it, that steal from the Louvre? Like, oh yeah, that's awesome. Because we're pleased with a thief. You keep company with adulterers. How many adulteries have you watched on television and laughed and smiled at it? And we excuse it saying it's only a movie. You're pleased with adulterers. You keep company with adulterers. You give freight free reign to your mouth to speak evil, cursing, deceiving, slandering, gossiping. When the Bible says that our mouth is an open sepulchre. It speaks truly. It speaks truly. Condemns all mankind, myself included. It condemns all of us. But sadly, we're like the children of Israel who thought that God was like us. And he didn't care. And it's no big deal. Because that's what everyone does. He says, that's not true. And I will bring these to account. Do you know Jesus said that you will give an account for every evil word that you have said? Every idle word, he says, actually. Every idle word. When you called your brother a fool. He said, You'll answer for that. Wow. Jesus is calling us to something here that we don't appreciate. He's telling us about who God is And who we are, in light of his awesome holiness. He is completely separate from all that is unholy. And again, the Bible repeatedly describes him as a consuming fire, as dwelling in unapproachable light, which no one has seen or can see. Look at the incarnation of Jesus Christ. Look at his perfect holy life. And then to the cross. And realize the seriousness of our sin. And let it bring us to that place where we mourn, we weep, and we cry out to God for His mercy. We must see God for who He is. Secondly, it comes from seeing our sins for what they truly are against God. They are against God. David comprehended this when he repented of his adultery with Bathsheba, and he said, For I know my transgressions. And my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned. Now that's not to say that he didn't sin against Bathsheba. He didn't sin against Uriah. He didn't sin against the men of his army. He did sin against them. But primarily, ultimately, even in sinning against those other people, he sinned against God. And he was aware of that. And in Psalm 51, he describes the need of brokenness. Joseph understood this about sin when Potiphar's wife tried to seduce him. And he said, How can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? If you're here this morning, you say, I don't really think my sin is that big a deal. Can I urge you to do one thing? Ask God to show you the seriousness of your sin. In true humility, come to God and say, Lord, show me how serious my sin is. Let me understand it the way you see it. And then let God use his word to probe your heart. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. And see if there is any wicked way in me and lead me in the way everlasting. True mourning and godly sorrow is a continual mourning. It's not just a one-time deal. Notice that it doesn't say blessed are those who mourned or who have mourned, but blessed are those who mourn. It's present. It's continual. And it's no means confined to that initial stage of coming to repentance and faith in Christ because the Christian himself has much to mourn over. The closer you walk with God, the more you realize how broken you are. If you're here this morning as a Christian of many years and you say, I've pretty much got it nailed, and you don't know anything about walking with God. You don't know anything about God's holiness. And you don't know anything about your own sinfulness. Because the Christian life is one of continual repentance. Of continual mourning over sin and continual comfort from God because He has forgiven us. The mature Christian is ever aware of the unbelief in his heart, of the swelling of pride, of the coldness of his love, of the lack of fruit. And it makes him cry out like Paul did, O wretched man that I am. Who will deliver me from the body of this death? Then he says, but thanks be to God. Thanks be to God who has given us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. You see the morning and the comfort. Oh, that we would have this morning James 4 tells the believers, draw near to God and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves before the Lord. And he will exalt you. But the morning must come first. And it must be continual, so that we can continually receive the comfort and exaltation of God. The world tells us, you only live once. Live it up while you can. Live it up while you're young. Unfortunately, even in the church, I think there's too much of an emphasis on this. We have a lot of emphasis on Christian comedians. Our problem is not that we laugh too little. It's that we weep too little. It's that we mourn too little. We don't weep over our sins enough Maybe you're listening to me this morning and you're wondering, you know, Aaron, last year, this time you preached as well. And I remember what you preached on. You preached on the fruit of the Spirit is joy. So which is it? Is it mourning or is it joy? I mean you can't have it both ways. Well I wanna I want to defend myself against that charge I went and actually looked up my sermon on joy last year, and I went through it. And right after I pointed out that one false fruit of joy is laughter, I pointed out one of the keys to cultivate true joy. Listen to this. Let your sorrow be full. If you want to have true joy, let your sorrow be full. And I said this: sorrow is one of the keys to experiencing joy. That may sound weird. But let's think about this. There's a direct correlation between godly sorrow over sin and joy in forgiveness. And then I quoted John Sanderson, who stated those who feel the worst over their sin feel the happiest over their forgiveness. Joy and sorrow are not opposed to one another. Sorrow comes first, and then joy. Weeping may last for the night, but joy comes in the morning. Think about the woman who stood behind Jesus and he wept, she wept over Jesus. feet and she wiped his feet with her hair. What was she experiencing? Sorrow and joy. Sorrow over the wastedness of her life and the sins that she had committed against God, but joy over being forgiven. And that's what Jesus brought out to Simon the Pharisee saying, she loves much because she's been forgiven much. She understands how much she has been forgiven, therefore she is full of joy and love. Just here briefly, I want us to talk about this last point. Spirit-empowered mourning results in spirit-enabled comfort True comfort and joy is, I want to clarify this, is not in the mourning itself, but comes from God in response to our mourning. It's not that mourning is happiness. It's not that joy is sadness. That's contradictory. But one leads to the other. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. True happiness comes from God in response to our mourning over sin. Happiness comes as we receive the forgiveness of our sins. as we come to God in repentance and contrition and in deep sorrow over our sins against God, and we repent of them and we find His love and His forgiveness flooding in And that leads to true joy. That is why a full appreciation of the weight and magnitude of our sin against God is what is so essential to having a deep and abiding joy of the Lord. Until you have wept and mourned over your sin, you cannot have the joy of the Lord. But when you do, there's nothing that can take away that joy. True joy is only for those who mourn over their sins, though. The word they is in the emphatic tense here. Emphatic place indicates that they only shall be comforted. Those who know joy are only those who who truly mourn over their sin. There is no other pathway to joy. The world is seeking out all these different pathways to joy. Even now at this Christmas season, there are so many signs that say joy to the world. If you go up to McDaniel College, there's a big sign up that says joy. But yeah, what leads to joy? Mourning leads to joy. Mourning over our sin that brings us in contrition to God to receive the gift of forgiveness in Jesus Christ, that alone brings us joy. True comfort. True joy is found in a relationship to God through his Son. We've just come through the Christmas season. And one of the unique titles that is given to Christ in the Christmas story is found in Luke 2. 25, where the old man Simeon comes into the temple and he scoops up the baby Jesus out of Mary's arms. He's probably like, what's just happening here? And he says, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word. And the Bible says that Simeon was waiting for what? The consolation, the comfort. Of Israel. And he says, now that I've seen this child, he is the consolation of Israel. He is the comfort of God to Israel. That's one of the unique titles of Jesus is given in the Christmas story. He is the consolation. Throughout the Old Testament, God speaks of comfort. The comfort of the Messiah. In Isaiah 61, it says that the Messiah will come to comfort all who mourn. Interesting. And Jesus quotes this of himself when he's in the synagogue in Nazareth. And then to grant those who mourn in Zion. to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning. Is that not an amazing promise? That God promises the oil of gladness instead of mourning. He takes away our brokenness. And he gives us wholeness. The next verse tells us that surely, I'm sorry, I'm going into Isaiah 53, we have the Messiah. Talking about being the man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. But then he says, surely he has borne our griefs. and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted, but he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. He is the man of sorrows, so that we can have comfort. That we can have peace. Simeon understood that Jesus himself was the consolation, he was the comfort. And that he would die to pay the price for our sins. And he even mentions that to Mary. Just before Jesus went to the cross to die for our sins, he told his disciples that he's going to send another comforter. Who would be with us forever. Meaning the Holy Spirit. But it also means that He was the first comforter. He's sending another Comforter. Praise God, He has not left us alone. He's given us the Holy Spirit who leads us into joy. by progressively leading us into holiness and repentance over our sins, that we might be made more like our Savior Jesus Christ. It is the Holy Spirit who produces us in the fruit of the Spirit, which is love, joy , peace. That comforter does that to us. And lastly, true comfort and joy is future. Notice he says they shall be comforted. And some have felt that this means that only in heaven will we be able to know the true comfort of God. But I don't believe that's the case. Jesus is emphasizing two realities. First, sorrow must precede comfort. You must first be sorrowful if you're going to know the comfort of God When David repented of his sins, he talked about being broken and contrite in heart. Then he said, blessed is the one whose sin is covered. But if he'd refused to repent, he would never have known that blessedness. Secondly, there is an eternal and ultimate comfort that awaits those who have been broken and mourned over their spiritual bankruptcy. Sin and joy. Sin and joy are mutually exclusive. Where there is sin, joy cannot exist. But praise God, there's coming a day when for all who mourn over their sins, not only will the penalty of sin be gone. Not only will the power of sin be broken, but the very presence of sin will be erased. And we will be given new bodies, glorified bodies that delight in holiness. And 1 John 3 says that when Christ appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. Can I ask you, do you know what it means to mourn over your sin? Do you know what it means to be bankrupt? Do you know what it means to weep and to find the comfort and joy of God? Have you seen your sins for what they are? If not, then I would urge you to come before God this morning and plead with Him to show you the heinousness of your sins. And to lead you to repentance. Ask God to show you your sinfulness as He sees it, to show you your bankruptcy as it truly is. And for Christians, can I ask you to do one thing? Don't rush through repentance. Don't rush through repentance. Let the weight of our sin have its right work in our hearts. Let us feel that So that we can appreciate the forgiveness and the grace of God that is ours in Christ Jesus. Take time to contemplate God's awesome holiness. Spend some time in Isaiah 6. Spend some time in Revelation 1. Contemplate God's holiness. We are so busy, especially at this Christmas season, that we have no time to consider. God for who he is and us for who we are. And then allow the grace of God to fill you with abiding joy Marvel at his grace. Worship him because of his grace. Praise him repeatedly. Let that joy flow from you because the joy of the Lord is our strength. It is the work of the Holy Spirit in us. And it comes to those who have mourned over their sin. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. We thank you for your word. We thank you for your love for us that loved us in spite of ourselves. Oh God, I pray that you would take your word and apply it to our hearts. Help us not to rush through this, but to let your word have its purifying effect in our lives. Lord, I pray for any this morning that do not know Christ as their Savior. Oh God, I pray that today they would see their sin for what it is. God, I plead with you. That your spirit would work a powerful work in their heart and bring them to repentance, that they might know the comfort and the joy of the Lord I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.