Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 1? 1 Peter chapter 1. This past summer my family went on vacation to New England and one of the places that We drove through that I insisted on stopping at was in Infield, Connecticut. It was in Infield, Connecticut on July the 8th, 1741 that Jonathan Edwards preached The most famous sermon in American history, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God I found very difficult to find the marker. The church where he preached that burn down long ago But many years ago someone erected a marker there to commemorate the spots, but it was overgrown with shrubbery and uh had great difficulty finding it, finally did. I went online and one historian said that the progressive town of Enfield, Connecticut was embarrassed that that sermon was preached there and they were happy to have it somewhat obscured. People think of Edwards as a fire and brimstone preacher because of that one sermon, but he actually preached more often about heaven than he did about hell One great sermon about heaven, the most famous one that he preached, is entitled Heaven, A World of Love. And in that sermon, he talks about the fact that in heaven there will be nothing but expressions of love between believers who are there. He writes, There's not a single secret or open enemy among them all. Not one heart is there that is not full of love, and not a solitary inhabitant that is not beloved by all the others. And as all are lovely, so all see each other's loveliness with full contentment and delight. Every soul goes out in love to every other, and among all the blessed inhabitants, love is mutual. and full and eternal. It is a beautiful sermon about what heaven will be like This morning as we continue our study of 1 Peter, we are just going to consider one verse, and that is 1 Peter 1 and verse 22. Look with me at this verse together, please. It says, seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit. unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that you love one another with a pure heart fervently. Now let's remember where we are in this book. In verses 3 through 12, the opening paragraph, he reminds the readers of their great salvation. A salvation that will never fail them, that will never be taken away. It's kept by the power of God. And then beginning in the second paragraph in verse 13, he calls on them to be obedient children, to be holy as God is holy. And then he provides some reasons why they should live this way. And that paragraph concludes at verse 21. Now he continues to talk about this matter of Christian living and holiness, but now the focus is going to shift slightly. It's not so much on the vertical relationship between the believer and his God. But now in this next paragraph, he's going to focus on the horizontal relationship, and that is on our relationship. with other believers. And prominent in this section will be the ministry of the Word of God in our lives, as we will see. Now the key command in this section, this little paragraph, is found at the end of verse 22, and it is love one another. Peter is continuing to explain what it means to live a holy life that is dedicated to Christ. And here we are reminded that the Christian life is not a solo pursuit. I've made this comparison before, but it could be compared to a team sport. You know, right now, many of you perhaps are watching the Winter Olympics. And there are different events in the Olympics. There's some that are just one competitor. Maybe you're going down in one of these sleds at an incredible speed whipping around there by yourself. But then there are other competitions that are like hockey, which are which is a team sport. There are many Christians who would like to turn Christianity into an individual competition. It's just me and my Lord. That's all that it is. And so they focus on bettering themselves, on being better Christians, on reading the Bible. and on prayer and on meditation perhaps and fasting and they're always trying to become more spiritual but there's no horizontal element in their lifestyle. The problem is that's not the way the Lord designed the Christian life to work. He designed it to be lived out in a community of believers. Spiritual maturity can only be developed in the Christian community. It is here that we learn to be patient and kind and gracious and forgiving. It's not enough to read your Bible and pray every day. I hope you do. And you must have that foundation of your relationship with God, of course. But that's not where it ends. That's not the full blossom of the Christian experience. It must be lived out with other people within a body of believers. You have to learn to love people that are different than you. You ever notice that you find that you're drawn to people who think about things just like you do? and have common interests just like you, and people who perhaps are about your age or look sort of like you or have the same educational level From perhaps the same part of the world. You you have things in common with them. But when you encounter someone who is completely different from you, from a different part of the world, they speak a different language, maybe they're of a different race. They have a different worldview. There's much more of a challenge there. But that is what God wants the church to be, to be a diverse group of people. We are not to be uniform where we all are like robots and we all think the same way about every issue and about everything. That's not God's vision for the church. We have to learn in the body of Christ. to love people who are different from us. We have to learn to love people, if I can put it this way, who irritate us and annoy us and perturb us and wrong us. just like they have to put up with us and we do the same things to them Someone put it this way in a humorous light. To live with saints above, that will be glory. But to live below with some saints I know, now that's another story. This is why so many people drop out of church. And frankly, it's easier in some respects to be a Lone Ranger Christian. To just to sit at home and maybe watch a service on the internet or watch a TV program and read your Bible occasionally and say, Yeah, I'm a good Christian. I believe in Jesus. I'm going to heaven someday. But you will never become the person that God wants you to be unless you learn to love your brother in Christ. This is something that Peter emphasizes in his brief epistle in chapter 2. In verse 17, he has these very brief commands. He says, honor all men, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. And right embedded there is love the brotherhood, love the body of believers, he is saying, and then look with me at chapter 4 and verse 8. At the end of these admonitions, he says, 1 Peter 4. 8, and above all things, have fervent charity or love among yourselves For charity or love shall cover the multitude of sins. Use hospitality one to another without grudging. And then he goes on to talk about how we are to use our spiritual gifts. to minister to one another. So you see, Peter saw here the great need that there would be fervent charity among one another. So let me ask you this morning. Do you love your brother and sister in Christ? I didn't ask if there is some brother or sister that you love. We can all find some people that are very much like us that we find interesting and friendly to love. But do we love our brother and sister in Christ as God has called us to do? Are you known by other Christians as a loving person? Have you done anything this week that was a practical demonstration of Christian love? I want to preach this morning on this truth that loving our Christian brothers and sisters is an essential part of our sanctification. Part of what God has called us to do is to grow in holiness, and that will only occur as we love our brother and sister in Christ. I have two main points I want you to consider from verse 22 this morning. The first is the essential prerequisite to loving our brother and sister in Christ. Verse 22 kind of reads awkwardly to us He says, seeing you have purified your souls and obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that you love one another with a pure heart fervently. The real message, the real command is embedded at the very end of the statement, but what comes first are the prerequisites. And we have here two phrases that express what it means to be a Christian. We see that loving others is only possible to those who have been spiritually cleansed Why is it so often that those who claim to be followers of Christ never demonstrate love to their brother and sister? One answer to that is because they're not truly followers of Jesus Christ. Peter reminds his verse, reminds his readers. of this great truth with this phrase, seeing you have purified your souls. Now the grammatical tense of this participle refers to an action in the past that has continuing results. He's not talking about their sanctification right now, but he's talking about something that happened in the past, and that was when they were saved, when they were born again. Peter describes conversion here as the cleansing or purification of the soul. Perhaps Peter is remembering something the Lord taught him in the upper room. Turn back with me, if you would, to John chapter 13. John chapter 13. This is in the upper room where the Lord Jesus Christ washes the disciples' feet. Look with me at John chapter 13 and verse 6. Says of our Lord, then cometh he to Simon Peter. And Peter saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do now thou knowest not, but thou shalt know hereafter. Peter said unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answering him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. Psalming Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. Jesus saith unto him, He that is washed Need not saved to wash his feet, but is clean every whit, and ye are all clean, but not all. Now the Lord uses two different Greek terms for wash here. The first one could be rendered to be bathed. Where your whole body is washed. And the Lord is using this as an analogy of conversion or regeneration. He is saying that when you were saved, you were spiritually washed. This is something that is found elsewhere in Scripture in many places. But then the Lord says, that doesn't mean, however, that every time you sin, you have to get saved over. You don't have to bathe again. And he uses another word that refers to the washing of hands or feet. He's saying that after we have been converted, we have been made spiritually from head to toe. But as we live in this sin-cursed world. As we walk through the dusty streets of this world, our feet and our hands get dirty, and we have to, on a regular basis, cleanse ourselves in the Word of God so that we can have close fellowship with the Lord. And perhaps Peter is thinking about that when he writes to his readers and calls on them and reminds them that they have been spiritually bathed, they have been purified, they have been washed. Now let's turn with me please back to 1 Peter chapter 1. Now how does this occur? Well, he uses another phrase to describe this in obeying the truth through the Spirit. Loving others is only possible to those who have obeyed the gospel through the work of the Holy Spirit. Now, what is Peter talking about when he mentions obeying the truth? Let's start by talking about this word truth. What does Peter mean by the truth? Well, all of God's word, of course, is truth. Jesus said in John 17, thy word is truth. But here the word truth refers to something more specific. It's referring to the gospel. This is often the way it's used in Scripture. In Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 13, it says, In whom ye trusted after that ye heard the word of the truth, the gospel. So the truth here is referring to the gospel. You know, there's all kinds of truth. God 's truth. All truth is God's truth. There's all kinds of information that is very valuable to possess and very helpful to know. But there is no truth as valuable and as important as the truth of the gospel. And then he speaks of obeying the gospel. Now when we hear the word obey obedience in reference to our salvation, it often makes us a little leery, a little nervous, because when we think of the word obedience, It thinks we think of like a works salvation. And of course, salvation is not by works. But the Bible does speak on occasion of our saving faith as an act of obedience. In Romans chapter 1 and verse 5, it speaks of obedience to the faith. And Romans chapter 10 and verse 16 it speaks of obeying the gospel. In 2 Thessalonians 1. 8 we read that the Lord will someday come in judgment upon them, it says, that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. God commands people everywhere to repent and believe the gospel. But only those who obey that command will be saved. So let me ask you, right now, in the middle of this sermon, have you obeyed the truth of the gospel? To obey means that we submit ourselves to that truth, to that authority. Have you submitted your heart? And will to God's solemn truth, have you become convicted of your sin by the Holy Spirit? Do you recognize and realize that you're under the wrath of God? Have you become convinced that Jesus is the Savior of the world? Have you obeyed the gospel? So many people have certain facts floating around in their head, and yes, they know that Jesus died on the cross. And yes, they may believe that the Bible is a good book. They have bits and pieces of the truth But they've never really put it together and obeyed it and submitted their lives to it. They've never come to trust in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you have never done that, I would urge you to do so today. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him. If you find that your heart is still listless and cold, call upon him to open your eyes and break the hardness of your hearts. The more desperate you become with your sinfulness and your sense of inability to come to Christ The better the sign is that you are being drawn to him. God likes people who come to him in desperation, not with a half-hearted smugness. But with a solemn sense that there's nothing I can do, Lord, and fall at his feet. The Bible is clear that unless you obey the gospel, you will eternally perish in your sins. This is nothing to play with. This is nothing to scoff at. This is nothing to make light of. This is a matter of life and death. Well how could a person know if they have been born again? That's a question that people often ask What would be the evidence of this inward change? And the answer is there are many evidences given in Scripture. But did you know that if you were to go through your New Testament, And seek to find the most common evidence that the Bible specifically gives for new life, you know what you would find it would be Not reading your Bible, that is one of the evidences. Not a burden for souls, that is one of the evidences. Not a desire to commune with God, a desire to worship. These are all good things, these are all biblical reasons. But the number one, the most often reason given in Scripture would be your love for the brethren. That is The mark, the Bible says, the evidence that something has truly transpired in a supernatural way in your hearts. Notice what he says here. Unto unfained love. This has amazed me when I studied this this week. I'd never seen this before, but Peter's saying, in the way it's structured here, that this is one of the purposes of our salvation is that we would evidence a genuine love of our brothers and sisters in Christ. You may have never thought about that as one of the reasons why you have been saved. But the scripture says right here that one of the reasons is so that you would love your brother and sister in Christ. Now you might think that loving one another is a nice sentiment. But not really that big of a deal or that important. But you would be wrong. The Bible places an incredible emphasis on loving our brother and sister in Christ. Let me just say something in explanation of this to begin with. You may say, well, shouldn't we love everyone? We should The Bible calls us to love our neighbor as ourself. But it's kind of like this, you know, there are a lot of kids that live in your neighborhood, some of which live in your home. And you should love them more than you love anybody else in the neighborhood. Does that mean that you're mean and not nice to the other kids in the neighborhood? No, not. Not of course not. But there's a special relationship that you have with your own children. You love them. They're your own. It's the same way in the world. Yes, we are to show love to everyone, but we can We can water it down so that this command means nothing. Whenever you see the one another commands in Scripture, it's talking about your brother and sister in Christ. That's why Jesus said, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if you have love one for another. The world should be able to say, man, those Christians are such a tight-knit group. I mean, the way they love each other, it's incredible. The Bible says that love is really important. Let me mention some things just in a very quick summary fashion The Bible says that love is the key to fulfilling all your obligations to God and man. Remember when the Lord was asked about what is the greatest commandment? He says to love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. And to love your neighbor as yourself. Love is the distinguishing trait of the believer. I just quoted this verse from John 13. He says, A new commandment I give unto you, that you love one another. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and verse 9, Paul writes, But as touching brotherly love, you need not that I write unto you, for you yourselves are taught of God to love one another. Just as the parents don't have to take a class and be told again and again, now you need to love your children. You need to love your children. Parents don't need to hear that instruction. They do love their children. Naturally, they may not always demonstrate it in the appropriate way, but they they naturally have their affection drawn out to their children. And Paul says that's the way it is with us and other believers. Love is the continuing debt that we owe to one another. Paul writes, owe no man anything but to love one another. Love is the greatest Christian virtue. Paul writes, and now abideth faith, hope, love, these three. But the greatest of these is love. In Colossians 3. 14 he says, above all these things, put on charity or love, which is the bond of perfectness, or we would say, maturity. Love is the premier fruit of the Spirit. It's not a coincidence that the very first one in that list is the fruit of the Spirit is love. And love is more important than any spiritual gift or costly sacrifice, according to 1 Corinthians 13, verses 1 through 3. And love is the most frequent command given to Christians in reference to our relationship with others. By my count in the New Testament, at least eleven times we are commanded to love one another. And then love is an essential demonstration of our salvation. Did you know that? Let me show you this. I want to show you. We could turn to some other books. But we're going to confine ourselves to one book, and that's the little book of 1 John. So just go a little ways further back in your New Testament to the book of 1 John. And I want you to listen to these passages read one after another. Look with me at 1 John 3 and verse 10. John writes, 1 Peter 3:10, In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil. Whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. Go up a few verses to verse 14. We know that we have passed from death unto life because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death. Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer, and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. But whoso hath this world's good and seeeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his vows of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him. Look with me at the next chapter, 1 John chapter 4, verse 7. John writes, Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God. And every one that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not, knoweth not God, for God is love. Look at the end of the chapter, verse 20, 1 John 4, 20. If a man say, I love God and hateth his brother, he is a liar. For he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this commandment have we from him, that he who loveth God love his brother also. So you see in just this one book how much, how often this is driven home to us, that the evidence, the most common evidence given in the New Testament for us being children of God. is that we love our brother and sister in Christ. You see, this is not the icing on the cake. This is not some kind of special gift that some Christians have. This is an essential demonstration of our faith that we are all obligated to follow. Now I want us to look at the practice of loving our brothers and sisters in Christ. Turn with me back to 1 Peter. I want you to notice very briefly what our text says. And verse 22, it qualifies or describes this love It says, first of all, that we should love one another sincerely. Notice this term, unfeigned love of the brethren. Now, the word unfeigned literally means unhypocritical. Now the origin of our English word hypocrite comes from the ancient Greek actors who would play a character and they would wear a mask. And often their character may be completely different from who they are as a person. I'm always amazed. We tend to always think that some actor or actress that we see on television is very much like the character they play. Have you ever thought that? You see some curse some person and they're playing a role and they may be a really wholesome role and they may be so kind and and so loving and everything and you think this is really an upstanding person And then you see that same actor, actress play in another role, and they're a completely different kind of person. And your whole view of that person has changed because we forget they're acting. They're portraying somebody that they're not. It was the same way in the ancient world, and so in time this term hypocrite came to be used generally as someone who pretends to be something that they are not. This was a term that the Lord Jesus used on at least eight occasions to denounce the Pharisees. They pretended to be very spiritual. They pretended to care for the widows and the disadvantaged, but they really didn't care for them. They were hypocrites. You know, we as adults, we as adults learn early to mask our feelings. and to put on a smiling face even when we cannot stand someone. How many times we answer a phone call and talk to someone and we have a nice pleasant lilt in our voice. And we say all kinds of very socially acceptable, nice things, and then we hang up our phone and we say, I can't stand that person. Or we see someone at the office and we talk to them and we commend them and everybody around would think that we're just really good buddies. But really we have in our hearts this deep animosity for them, and it's all just a mask that we put up. One of the most admirable things really about children is when they're really young they don't know to do that. And so often that produces embarrassing situations. But you know exactly how they feel. Because they just express how they feel about people. They don't know to put up a facade and to mask their true feelings. It's very easy for us to pretend That we love others, that we are on good terms with them when in fact we're not. It's interesting to me that the Bible often warms of having a superficial love for others. In Romans chapter 12 and verse 9 it says, let love be without dissimulation, that is, without deceits. Let it be honest and real. In 2 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 6, it says that we are to minister by love unfeigned, by unhypocritical love. And in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and verse 8, Paul says that we are to prove the sincerity of our love. So how do we prove that our love is not a farce, that it's not just something that we're putting on or something that we're saying? The answer was found in a verse that I read for us, I think, a moment ago in 1 John chapter 3 and verse 18, it says, My little children, let us love and we're not Love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. In other words, it should be more than just the words that we say We see the same thing found in the book of James, in James chapter 2, and verse 14. And this most controversial part of this little epistle. James writes, What doth it profit, my brethren? Though a man say he hath faith and have not works, can faith save him? Can that kind of empty faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and what did you say unto them, depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled. Notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body, what doth it profit? It's very easy to do this, isn't it? It's very easy. You hear about someone, a difficulty they're involved in. This doesn't mean that we should not say pleasant, encouraging things to people. But what it's saying is those words are not enough. So sorry to hear about your car being destroyed this week. Hope things work out for you. Sorry to hear about the loss of your loved one or sorry to hear about your recent illness or the loss of your job. It's appropriate to say those things. But do we ever go beyond that and get personally involved and try to somehow help them with their needs? This is what Agatha love calls us to do. It's not so much a feeling as it is an action. Do we ever do more than just say, I'm praying for you? We should pray for one another. We are commanded to do this. I'm not making light of that. But how often are we able, in a sense, to answer those prayers ourselves? We have the resources. We have the time. We have the ability. Or we know someone else who does to meet that need. And yet we don't want to make those sacrifices and get involved in the messy affairs of others in order to truly minister to them and show them the love of Christ. And in 1 Peter chapter 1, we have another qualifier. It speaks here of a pure heart that is a sincere or genuine love. Now our English word sincere Comes from a Latin word, as you may know, that means without wax. The Greek equivalent of this word in our New Testament means judged by the Son. They both are referring to the same thing. In the ancient world, there were little stands where people were selling pottery everywhere. All of your dishes. were basically pottery. They didn't have plastics, of course, back then. And so people were buying these and they would get broken all the time. So you were always buying new pieces of pottery, all different shapes and sizes for different purposes. But sometimes unscrupulous dealers would take pieces of pottery that had broken and cracked, and they would fill in the cracks with wax, and then they would paint over it, and it looked good. But if you held it up to the sun, you could see the crack. And so they would put signs out. The potter would put a sign out that say, since here. Literally, our pottery is without wax. And the New Testament word, of course, refers to people holding it up to the light. to test it out and see. And so in time this word came to mean that my heart is pure. What I'm saying to you is an accurate reflection of what I believe and what I feel. I have a pure heart Now, what is Peter talking about when he says that we are to love out of a pure heart? That is, that we are to love one another without ulterior motives. Do you know what I mean by that? We live and we naturally interact with others often on the basis of what sociologists called reciprocity. Do you know what that means? That means that when someone does something kind to you, you feel an obligation to be kind to them. I was reading about this the other day. You know, there's these charitable organizations that make uh send mail to your house. I assume they do because they send them to my house. And they're asking for your help, for your donation. And some years ago, someone discovered a way to really raise the level of their donations. You know what that is? They give you these little stickers with your address on it that you can put up in the corner of your envelope. You know what they found? They found that people were far more likely to give a donation If they put those stickers in there that cost them about two cents to make, because you're thinking, oh, these people are so kind, they gave me a gift, so I really should give something back to them. I hope I haven't ruined, and you don't have to go home and throw out your little stickers that you put in your envelopes But they didn't give that out of the kindness of their heart. They understand the principle, the psychological principle of reciprocity. And what the scriptures are calling us to is not just to be nice to people because then they'll be nice to me. For instance, you might invite someone over to your home. I've known this happening before. And people say, if we invite them over to our home, maybe they'll invite us to their home. I've always wanted to see what it looks like inside. I mean It looks magnificent on the outside. Maybe if we have them over, they'll have us over. All right Or this guy owns his own business and he's got a lot of contacts and I really would like to establish a business relationship with him. So maybe if I'm really nice to him and you know become his friend, then maybe I can network a little bit and make some contacts that will help my business One of the reasons, this is one of the reasons why we sometimes show love to others. Because we want something back in return. But the love that God has called us to show to one another is a love that does not anticipate or expect getting anything back in return. That is why in James it says that we are show, we visit the foulless and the widows and their affliction. You know what? Really poor, destitute people, you show them love, you help them, they're never going to help you back because they can't That's the kind of love that God wants us to show. And we should love one another fervently. Notice how it concludes in verse 22. Love one another with a pure heart. And we have this final word fervently. Now this word fervently is an interesting word. It's the same Greek word used of our Lord's agonizing prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane. In Luke chapter 22 and verse 44 it says, and being in agony, he prayed more earnestly. And it's the word earnestly. The Greek word literally means to stretch out or to extend It doesn't not difficult for us to picture this. You ever see in the Olympic Games again, in a very close race, they're coming down to the finish line and they stretch out Because sometimes they win by like a hundredth of a second. And it's that stretch, that extension, that makes the difference between a gold medal and a silver medal. If we were to put this in our language today, we might say it means that we are to go all out, or we are to do whatever it takes. You see someone with a need, with a very desperate need, and they really need help And you come in and your mindset is, I'm going to do whatever it takes to help them. I'm going to extend myself. I'm going to reach out of my comfort zone. I'm going to sacrifice my time, my energy, my money. Maybe even a comfortable situation in my home, I am going to extend the love of Christ to them because they are my brother and sister in Christ. This is what it means to be a Christian. This is what it means to grow in holiness. I think we often think that to grow in holiness just means, you know. that I'm . I'm sinning less . and uh you know I'm having more control over these impulses and I'm going to church more and I'm reading my Bible more and maybe I'm witnessing to people more and those are all wonderful things But if we can't get along with our brother and sister in Christ, if we're not talking to people in our own church and we just kind of ignore them and have nothing to say to them, my friends, we are not growing in holiness. That is all delusion in your own mind. As John says, if you can't love your brother and sister whom you have seen, how can you claim to be loving God whom you have not seen? God has called us as his people to grow in holiness by loving one another. Many of you know the name of Amy Carmichael famous missionary to India who did so much to minister, especially to young women there Before she went to India, she was a missionary in Japan. And she worked for a brief time in a missions compound where there were several older missionary women. In a short time, she became absolutely dismayed at the attitudes and gossip and backbiting that took place there. One day she went for a walk on the beach with one of the veteran missionaries and expressed her disappointment. And the older lady said , We didn't really expect the missionaries to love one another, did you? And she would write sometime later a very lengthy poem entitled, If But if you know that poem, it stands and ends with, then I know nothing of Calvary's love. I'm just going to read one of those stanzas. She says, if something I am asked to do for another feels burdensome, if yielding to an inward unwillingness I avoid doing it. Then I know nothing of Calvary's love. God has called us because of the cross to love our brother and sister and to show them that love in a very practical and a very meaningful way. May God help us to be more loving to one another. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you so much. For your word. We thank that that is sufficient. That's all that we need. I pray that you would help us. To be an assembly of people that truly love one another, that we would extend ourselves. That we would sacrifice our time and our energy in order to meet the needs of those around us. Help us, Father, to do more than just say kind words. but to demonstrate in a tangible way the love of our Savior to one another. And Father, for those who hear This morning, they'll find this whole notion to be a strange thing because they are strangers to your grace. I pray that they would flee to the cross. that they would come to be burdened with their load of sin. And Father, that they would be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.