I want to this evening do something a little bit different. I'm not going to preach what would be a typical message. Perhaps more like a family chat. We're going to have a business meeting in uh just a little while. And uh sometimes on these evenings uh I I like just to remind ourselves of of some things of what we're doing and what God has called us to do. And so tonight I want to I want to read the first part of our church covenant. to you. I don't know if you have ever read our church constitution. I hope you have, because if you're a member you're supposed to have. But the opening of it is a little bit unusual in that we have a listing of the one-another commands. And so I want to go through and read these and then make some comments to follow. Our covenant says this, we will strive by the grace of God. to faithfully love one another. We will seek to practically obey this command by remembering the following specific biblical instructions. to live peaceably with one another. Mark 9. 50, to respect one another, Romans 12, 10, to maintain a spirit of unity with one another. Romans 12, 16, to edify one another, Romans 14, 19, to accept one another, Romans 15, 17. To admonish one another. Several passages. Romans 15, 14 is one. To greet affectionately one another. Romans 16, 16. To be considerate of one another, 1 Corinthians 11, 33, to care for one another, 1 Corinthians 12, 25, to serve one another, Galatians 5. 13, to be Hurt one another's burdens Galatians 6. 2, to be patient with one another. Ephesians 4. 2. To be kind and compassionate with one another. Ephesians 4. 32. to be forgiving of one another, Ephesians 4. 32, to submit to one another, Ephesians 5. 21, to sing with one another, Colossians 3. To comfort one another, 1 Thessalonians 4. 8, to confess our faults one to another, James 5. 16 to pray for one another, James 5. 16, to demonstrate hospitality to one another, 1 Peter 4. 9, to use our gifts to minister to one another, 1 Peter 4. 9. 10, to fellowship with one another, 1 John 1 7. And then we will by the grace of God refrain from the following, make judgmental of one another. Matthew 7. 1, attacking one another, Galatians 5. 15, envying one another, Galatians 5. 26, lying to one another, Colossians 3. 9, speaking evil of one another, James 4. 11 complaining to one another, James 5, 9. These are known as the one another commands, the Greek term is aelon. And there are at least 22 positive commands and six negative ones. Now I listed these out when I worked on our church cons covenant years and years ago. Because I find when you take them from these isolated passages and put them together, they're very powerful A very amazing reminder of what Christ desires for his church. They're also a painful reminder of how far short we come as a body of believers. This list also reminds us that everyone wants to be a part of a community of people that observe these things. Wouldn't you like to be part of a church where all of those things took place, where you were loved and forgiven and supported and accepted and revealed respected and ministered to and given opportunity to minister and on and on the list goes. Everyone would like to be treated this way. And these items are vital for the spiritual unity of the body of Christ. Every local church in America this year Has been challenged by COVID. In several different ways, people have been isolated from one another. Some folks we haven't seen in many months Some of you haven't seen loved ones family members in quite some time It also, of course, has generated different opinions, very strong opinions about how it should be treated and how it should be handled. This is true in our church as well. But whatever your position might be, it must not usurp the one-another commands. We have been called by Christ out of the world to love one another. Pastor Nick preached last Sunday evening. By this shall all men know that you are my disciples, if you have love one for another. Often think of church tradition that John, the last of the apostles, when he was in his 90s, church tradition tells us that when he was at Ephesus. Like maybe 95 years old, very feeble, his body uh greatly damaged by persecution that he had faced. His voice was very weak, and the only thing that he could say When he got up was little children love one another. That was the abiding lesson that he recalled from his time with his Savior. And so tonight I want us to briefly consider these commands before we have our business meeting. I just want to make ten observations or reflections. I've entitled this House Rules for Christ's Church. The first observation I want to make is that these are not suggestions, but the will of God for his people. It's very easy to look at this list And say that's a nice thought, but it's just unrealistic. That's not the way people are. That's not ministry in the real world. But these are commands. For the church to follow. And the more we grow in Christ, the more we will fulfill these commands Jesus said, if you love me, keep my commandments. Every church should be striving to fulfill these commandments. We must not dismiss these as simply noble suggestions. Instead, we must pray for God's grace to enable us to fulfill these commands. Second, all of these commands are demonstrations of the command to love one another. Again, I'm going back to that passage that Pastor Nick preached for us last Sunday night. It says in John 13, 34, a new commandment I give unto you. That you love one another as I have loved you, that you also love one another. By this shall all men know that you are my disciples, if you have love one to another. All of these 30 sum one another commands are different ways that we love one another. And by the way, if you were to list out the one another commands, guess which one is repeated more than any of the others? It's love one another, because that is the core. That is all of them brought together. under one head. John mentions this often in his writings. It says in John 15, 12, This is my commandment that you love one another as I have loved you. In 1 John 3. 11 he writes, For this is the message that you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. And 1 John 3, 23, he says, and this is his commandment that we should believe in the name of his Son, Jesus Christ, and love one another as he gave us commandments. This is a really high bar that has been set for us. In fact, it is impossible for us to achieve this without the grace of God. All of these commands, thirdly, are impossible to do in the flesh. You might even say That they are unnatural for the natural man to do. That is why Galatians 5. 22 says, the fruit of the Spirit is love. It is not a coincidence that the very first thing on that list is love, because that is the most significant. In fact, some scholars think that all of the rest of them Are just aspects of that first fruit of the Spirit. This is a reminder to us that it's impossible for us. to love one another and fulfill these commands without the Spirit's enablement. The way people relate to one another in a local church should be radically different from the way lost people relate to one another in a secular organization. Our social interactions should be different. Our conversations should be different. Our concern for one another should be different. And our sacrifices should be different. If they're not different Then we're not being a light and a testimony to the world. That's just why Jesus said, By this shall all men know that you are my disciples. And I think we often think of that by the love that you have for people in the world. Now we should have love for people in the world, and the most loving thing we can do is give them the gospel. But that's not what Jesus said. He says, By this shall all men know that you're my disciples, if you have love one for another. In some ways, it's easier for us to love the sinner who's a homeless man living under a bridge somewhere who's addicted to alcohol. than it is to that person who sits next to us in ch in church and annoys us every Sunday. Because we have like a sense of mission to that person. To bring them to Christ and we can excuse their poor behavior because they don't know any better. But for our brothers and sisters now, that's a different matter. Number four, these commands are only possible as we grow in the spirit of humility. Turn with me, if you would, please, to Ephesians 4. Paul begins the second half of this epistle With these words. I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called with all lowliness and meekness with long suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. And I want to zero in on verse two, where there are four facets of humility that are listed here. First of all, there is lowliness This is a humble mindset that enables you to submit to God's authority in your life. The Bible speaks of different relationships like this. The Bible is very clear that there should be a hierarchy of relationships. I know that's incredibly unpopular and out of step with our culture, our egalitarian age where everyone's supposed to be on the same level. But the Bible speaks of wives submitting to their husbands, of children obeying their parents, of the younger submitting to the older, of people submitting to government. of employees to employers of Christians to church leaders, and everyone is to submit to God. The reason why we have such difficulty obeying the one another commands is because of pride. Every one of these commands requires us To humble ourselves and to esteem others better than ourselves. And that is what we don't like to do. The second facet of humility is meekness. as the idea of gentleness, mildness, of being controlled, self-possessed. It describes a person who has a calm response even in provocative situations. The Bible mentions it's to be a quality found in church leaders. The third facet is long-suffering, literally long of temper. One writer defines it this way, the ability to suffer a long time under the mistreatment of others without growing resentful or bitter. And that is difficult to do. In fact, it's impossible to do without the Spirit of God. The fourth facet is forbearance. It simply means really to tolerate or to put up with others. Notice it says in love. That is to what to motivate us to do this. I think it's likely that if I were to take a survey and give you all a piece of paper that's and ask you, I want you to write down some names of people in this church that regularly annoy you. That might be an interesting exercise. I'm not going to do it. I'm sure I'm going to be on that list for some of you. Things that I say, mannerisms and so forth just get on your nerves And the thing that's interesting about that is what you may not be thinking is that you might be on somebody else's list. We all have to forbear of one another. We have to make allowances for people's different personalities, different perspectives, different experiences, and realize that they're looking at things a little differently than you do. This all requires humility. Number five, these commands are only possible As we forgive one another. In Ephesians chapter 4, it says in verse 31: Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. and be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Do you know why some of these one-another commands seem impossible for us to do? The answer is because we have refused to forgive others. That's why there are people that we don't greet, people that we don't care for, people that we don't bear the burdens, or serve them, or pray for them. Because there is something between us, something they did or said in the past that you have refused to forgive, refused to deal with biblically. And so you've done the easy thing, at least in your mind, to do, and that is just to avoid them and not interact with them and try to tiptoe around them. But that's not what Christ desires for his church. You know, it's impossible to live as a community of believers in this assembly. Without there being some friction, some tension. It's inevitable. And our problem with these issues is not that they occur because of our fallen flesh, they are definitely going to occur. The problem is the way we manage them and the way we deal with them. And I think so often in our minds we come up with an acceptable alternative to forgiveness. We come up with an excuse as to why those frequent commands in Scripture that we forgive one another do not really apply to us in this situation. And so we live with unresolved contention with our brother or sister in Christ. Number six, these commands are a key part in the outworking of our spiritual maturity This is a key aspect of our sanctification. Throughout this book of Ephesians, into the latter chapters 4, 5, and 6, Paul deals with the the the practical aspects of the Christian life, which are all aspects of spiritual maturity. I think we often think of spiritual pursuit as a solo exercise, as me and the Lord. We think that if I could just get myself away from the evil influences of the world And the distracting influences of people at church, and I could live somewhere shut off from other people, then I would be able to achieve a high level of spiritual maturity and focus. This was the failed idea of monasticism and asceticism. The problem with trying to shut out the world From your environment so that you can thrive spiritually, so that you still have the flesh that dwells within you. You can't shut that out And we dare not do that because Christ has put us in this earth to be salt and lights, not to live in little closed communities. And one of the means that Christ uses for us to grow spiritually and to mature Is our interaction in the body of Christ. You see, if you can't get along with your brother and sister in Christ, you haven't progressed very far in your relationship with the Lord. John says if you can't love your brother whom you see, how can you love God whom you cannot see? You see, other Christians will probably test your spiritual maturity more than anything else. Can you love your brother or sister who has a personality from your perspective like sandpaper? I mean, it's just abrasive in every interaction that you have with them. Can you love your brother and sister who are constantly saying insensitive things to you? You see, in some ways the church is like a spiritual gymnasium. Not only are you fed, not only do you worship But you're also tested spiritually in your interactions and in your ministry with others. As I've said to you before, Christianity is not an individual sport, it's a team sport. The Bible has no instructions for the Lone Ranger Christian. Our American culture encourages rugged individualism. I'll do it my way. I don't need anybody's help. But you won't find that sentiment in the Bible. The Bible always speaks of Christians as being part of a community of faith. The assumption of Scripture is that every believer will be part of a local assembly where they are growing and ministering together with other members of the body of Christ. There's been a recent trend in the last few decades of Christians without churches Sometimes people have the slogan, I love Jesus, but I hate the church. This is absurd. It's like saying I planned a football team, but it's just me and the coach on the team. Well, guess what? You don't have a team. Because football is a team sport. The Bible compares the church to a body that works together. Christians were designed by God to function and grow in a community of faith. The fact is we all need everyone else. There are many people here that you love to minister to other people. But you'll never let anybody minister to you. Because you don't think you have any needs. To have someone minister to you would be to admit that I am not self-sufficient and autonomous enough myself. And that's repugnant to you. But it's true. I need your ministry. And I say on the basis of Scripture, you need my ministry. We all need each other's ministry. The body is interdependent, not independent. Interdependence. These commands reveal number seven that Christians should view themselves as members of each other. Romans 12, 5 says, so we being many are one body and all members one of another. And in Ephesians chapter 5, excuse me, 4. No, it's not that one either. Anyway, there are several passages in Romans 12 and in Ephesians and so forth that speak of us as being part of a larger body of believers and of all of us each needing one another In 1 Corinthians 12, we have the most sustained discussion about that. And I think that Paul was being intentionally humorous in this. where he talks about all the members of the body needing one another. We can't function by ourselves. You need, as gross as this sounds, you've never seen a hand crawling down the sidewalk. Or an eyeball rolling around. It doesn't function well without all the other parts, all the other members, and it's the same with the body of Christ. When a church has been around for more than a generation or two, you have families that intermarry. My wife and I come from two families that were at People's Baptist Church. Think of Aaron and Nicole Who met here and now are missionaries. There are two families. The Deans and the Shipes are here at Calvary Baptist Church. And when that goes on for a time, you have more and more family connections. There used to be a joke when I was over at People's Baptist Church. And Frederick, Maryland, my home church, that you couldn't talk about anybody because for all you knew you were talking about their sister or their uncle or somebody because everyone was related. Well, you know what? That's a good thing. Because we all are related in Christ. Everyone is your brother and your sister. These commands also reveal that there should be unity in the church. Number eight, despite the diversity. Now I realize that this aspect of diversity is something that is very popular and trendy in our culture, and it's often defined in ways that are unbiblical. But that should not keep us from the reality that Scripture does speak of the New Testament church as being diverse, different types of people. Have you ever thought about what it was like to be in one of those little assemblies that Paul wrote his epistles to? From the greetings and from other information that we have, we know that the church consisted of very different people. There were people there who were rich and those who were poor. There were slaves and slave owners. There were Jews and Gentiles, which did not at all get along with one another naturally. This is why Paul stressed the importance of our unity in Christ in his writings. He says in Galatians 3. 28, for there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free. There is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ. He says in Colossians 3. 11. Where there is neither Greek nor Jew circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free, but Christ is all and in all. Now he's not saying that when you become a believer that all these distinctions just evaporate and disappear. They're of course still male and female, and they're Jew and Gentile. Our racial identities do not disappear when we become believers. But they become seconds to our primary identity in Christ. And that's the way it should be in our assembly as well. We have Different types of people in our assembly. I wouldn't describe us certainly as a racially diverse assembly because this community that we live in is not very diverse. But there still are differences here. We have some people who are more wealthy and some who are less wealthy. We have some people who have different ideas of how to educate their children. We have some people who have different ideas in reference to the sovereignty of God and salvation. Now, there's different ways that you can try to bring about unity. One way is through uniformity. And I've got helpful suggestions by numerous people in this church over the years. That they would like, and they don't say this directly, but what they imply in their comments is they would like our church to be where everybody thinks exactly the same about every issue. Wouldn't that be great? You came to church and every conversation you had and every point you made, the other person said, yeah, that's exactly the way I feel. And we all kind of looked alike and thought alike and acted alike and dealt with our kids the same way. You know what? There is a name for religious groups who do that. It starts with a C, but it's not church. It's a cult. Religious groups that insist on uniformity, even though they may call themselves a church, are taking on a cult-like quality. Now I say that advisedly. But we need to be aware of that. We should welcome diverse ideas as long as they come under the headship of Christ and of his word. The other differences should not be deal breakers with us and our relationships with others You see, when the world sees that a group of people can come from different socioeconomic backgrounds, from different races. different levels of education, and they can worship together like brothers and sisters. They know that something amazing is taking place because that's not normal There's something that sociologists call tribalism. Do you know what tribalism is? It's simply the fact that people everywhere for all times follow this motto. Birds of a feather flock together. You like to be with people that look like you, that act like you, that talk like you. Christ doesn't want that for his church. And in Revelation chapter 5 and verse 9, we read that those who surround the Lamb will be people of every tongue and every tribe and every nation. It will be a diverse group of people that worship and cry out, worthy is the Lamb. And so we must resist the idea of trying to find unity through uniformity. No, we find unity by focusing on our common bond in Christ. Not in our political views, not in our race, not in our socioeconomic status, not in our nationalism, but in Christ. And the fulfillment of these commands is a key part of our testimony to the lost world. The fact is that people want to be part of such a place where individuals are truly loved. This is why people join clubs and gangs and organizations. People want to belong. They want to be loved. They want to be accepted. They want to be part of something bigger than themselves. They want to work together to do something really great that will change the world. God has instilled people with that natural desire, and He's given us a way to fulfill that in the church. The church, when it's really being salt and light. turns the world upside down. And so we must seek to love one another. And then let me close with this number 10. The obedience of these commands is intended to bring glory to God. It's not for the world to say, wow, Calvary Baptist Church is an amazing place. And so the world will say there must be something to what they believe. They must have a great God because what's happening there is supernatural in Romans chapter 15. Which is the end of an amazing section on Christian liberty that begins in Romans 14, verse 1, and concludes with this section. Paul here was addressing Christians at Rome who had different ideas about their diet. Some were apparently vegetarian. We don't know a whole lot of details of the backstory behind us. And it seems that there was also differ disagreement about the observance of days, probably a reference to the Sabbath. And so Paul, in his discussion, which we don't have time to go into tonight, says things like In chapter 14 and verse 19, let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace and things wherewith we may edify one another. In chapter 15, verses 1 and 2, he says, We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves, let every one of us please his neighbor for his good to edification. And then he concludes with these words, verse 5, Now but God of patience and consolation grants you to be like-minded one toward another according to Christ Jesus That ye may with one mind and one mouth glorify God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Wherefore receive ye one another as Christ also received us to the glory of God. When you came to Christ, Christ received you with all of your issues and idiosyncrasies and problems. And that's how we need to receive one another in the body of Christ. Christ has called us to love one another. And what we're seeking to do here at Calvary Baptist Church is to make Christ-like disciples by the Word of God for the glory of God. Let's close in a word of prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the way it guides us and admonishes us. I pray that you would help us. To be a church that supernaturally loves one another, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen