If you have your Bible, please, would you turn with me to Matthew chapter 26? Matthew chapter 26 One of my favorite books on the death of Christ was by a man who was a preacher about a century ago named William Clow. He wrote a book entitled The Day of the Cross. In that sermon he made this observation about the verse we will consider this evening. He said, to forsake Christ is not always to desert him. To desert is to play the apostate willfully, callously, and impentently, but to forsake Christ is to turn the back upon him in some hour of trial. It is the disloyalty of the fearful and overtempted. It is the sin of the day of discouragement and despair. All Christian men have so yielded in days of strain. Jesus has always been the forsaken Christ. Tonight as we prepare for the Lord's table, I want us to consider Just one verse that records what occurred in the Garden of Gethsemane. In that grove of olive trees, many significant events occurred. It was here that the Lord prayed while the disciples slept. It was in Gethsemane that we see the Lord in a state of sorrow and agony like nowhere else. It was here that Jesus yielded to drink the cup that his father had ordained for him. It was here that Judas betrayed him with a kiss. It was here that he was arrested. And it was in Gethsemane that the disciples abandoned him and fled into the night. The actual forsaking of Christ is only recorded in two verses. One is in Matthew, the other in Mark. They both say almost exactly the same thing. So we're going to look at Matthew's account, Matthew chapter 26 and verse 56 It says, but all this was done that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples forsook him and fled. Notice it mentions that all the disciples fled. Not one remained to follow the Lord. If they had listened carefully to his words earlier, they would have found perhaps courage and hope. Jesus says that all that occurred on that momentous evening was done. The scriptures might be fulfilled. And if the disciples would have considered everything that was going, that everything was going according to plan, perhaps they would have stayed with the Savior. But they did listen to his words and said They looked at the fearful circumstance of soldiers coming to arrest him, and they left him. The fact is, the Lord predicted that this would occur on two different occasions that night. He does so in John chapter 16 and verse 32, let me read that briefly for you. This is part of what is known as the upper room discourse. And at the very conclusion of that address, Jesus said, Behold, the hour cometh, yea, is now come that ye shall be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone. And yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. And then in Matthew chapter 26 In verse 30, we read this. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives. Then saith Jesus unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night, for it is written, I will smite the shepherd and the sheep of the flock. shall be scattered abroad. The word offended here means to stumble spiritually. Does it mean that they were upset? It means that they stumbled spiritually. They tripped spiritually. Now what specifically would lead the disciples to forsake the man that they had been following now for three years? Well, in Matthew 26, 31, it mentions specifically that it was because of me. That is, they would fail because of what was about to happen to Jesus. His arrest, his trial. The second reason that this event is significant is, of course, that it is prophesied in Scripture. It's prophesied that evening twice by Christ and in Matthew 26. 31 Jesus quotes Zechariah chapter 13 and verse 7 which says, Smite the shepherd and the sheep. Shall be scattered. You should not think that because it was certain that this would happen, being prophesied in Scripture, that somehow the disciples were absolved of any guilt. This was in fact a sinful response on the part of the 11 disciples that remained But why did they fail, especially when they received two warnings in the space of one hour? I want us to explore that briefly tonight. Why disciples forsake their Lord. And I want you to notice, first of all, it's because We often fail to pray. Look with me at Matthew chapter 26 and verse 40. And he cometh unto the disciples and findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter, What? Could you not watch with me one hour? And again in verse 46, rise, let us be going. Behold, He is at hand that doth betray me. The Lord told his inner circle to pray for him. But they slept. And he said those very convicting words to them. Could you not watch with me one hour? The fact is that prayer is an essential part of our spiritual defense. Perhaps if those three disciples had spent that hour in prayer. They would have had the fortitude and courage to stay with the Lord and not flee into the night. This is a reminder to us of how important prayer is. This is usually the first Christian discipline that goes by the wayside. It's so important that we take time to pray and commune with our Lord because this is essential for our spiritual health. and for the spiritual combat that we're engaged in. It's no coincidence that the Bible's key passage on spiritual warfare in Ephesians chapter 6 6 ends with these words, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance. And supplication for all saints. One of the reasons that we forsake the Lord, that we fail him, is because we don't spend enough time in prayer. But I want us to consider a second reason, and that is because we are ignorant of our spiritual weakness. We've already looked in verse 31 at our Lord's prediction that they would all fail him. I want you to notice In this chapter, that there is a chain of alls here. We have the first one in Matthew 26, 31, when he says, all you shall be offended. And then look with me at verse 35. Peter saith unto him, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. And then notice this phrase, likewise also said all the disciples. The Lord says, You're all going to stumble, you're all going to forsake me this night. And Peter speaking for all the other disciples, they all said, no, we're not going to forsake you. We're not going to leave you. Why would you think that of us? But then we come to verse 56. And at the last phrase of that verse it says, Then all the disciples forsook him and fled. The Lord predicts they will all leave him. They all protest, and then they all forsake him The disciples were insulted that the Lord thought that they would fall. They were sure that they could handle anything that would come their way that night. But in just a few minutes they would run away like little children. Let me ask you a question. Do you think you would have done better if you were there that night? The painful reality is that all of us have forsaken the Lord on multiple occasions And so often we are ignorant of ourselves. We are ignorant of our own weakness, of the own our our own uh inability to truly stand. Against great temptation. New Christians I've observed often think that they will never sin again More than once I've talked to someone who has come out of a very difficult background and they come to Christ and they're exhilarated and they say, All right, I'm resolving that I'm I'm just not going to sin again. And it's great that they have that desire. But we all know that's not going to work out that way. And one of the things that they have yet to learn is how weak they really are This is something that is part of spiritual maturity. It is immature Christians who think that they're really strong and that they can withstand just about any temptation. It's the mature believer that recognizes how weak he truly is. Jesus said In Matthew 26, 41, watch and pray that you enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. All of us have weak flesh. There's no exceptions here to that. We are all vulnerable to temptation, to failing the Lord. Our flesh is weak Our body is but dust. Our knowledge is very limited. The most knowledgeable person here who knows the Word of God better than anyone else is still relatively ignorant of spiritual truth. And there is a sense in which we are always weak, but there are times when we are much more vulnerable to spiritual failure. And that was the case of the disciples that very evening. We often forsake the Lord because we're ignorant of our weakness. But thirdly And in connection with that, we often forsake the Lord because we are not prepared for Satan's attack. Satan was very active on this night. We read in John 13, 27 that while at the Passover feast, Satan entered into the heart of Judas Iscariots. And in Luke chapter 22, we read of the conversation our Lord had with Peter in Luke chapter 22 and verse 33. Actually, verse 31. The Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you as weak, but I have prayed for thee That thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. And in verse 33 He speaks here of the the you here refers to you all, including all of the disciples. Verse 32, excuse me, refers to all of the disciples. You see, the devil desired to destroy not just Peter, but all of the twelve. He was going to sift all the disciples that night. Sifting is the process where the husk of a seed is separated from the seed itself. And I think what this imagery is saying is that the devil was trying to separate the disciples from their faith in Christ. This is always what he's trying to do in our lives. Chaff is often used in Scripture as a picture of the lost. We find that in Psalm 1. It says, the ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. Satan is trying through trials and tests And a crisis to destroy our faith and separate us from Christ and the body of believers. He is trying to destroy us spiritually. He plays for keeps. But the devil would fail because Christ was still shepherding his flock, and his prayers would prevail. And Luke chapter 22, the same chapter just read from in verse 50, we read this. And one of them smote the servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear. And Jesus answered and said, Suffer ye thus far. And he touched his ear and healed him. Then Jesus said unto the chief priests and captains of the temple and the elders which were come to him. Be ye come out as against a thief with swords and staves? When I was daily with you in the temple, ye stretched forth no hands against me. But this is your hour and the power of darkness. The Lord is saying that behind their malice and their coming to arrest them in the night was the power of Satan. And Matthew and Mark record at that very moment is when the disciples fled. The devil roared, and the disciples ran for it. And so Peter would write several decades later, be sober. Be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. But there's a fourth reason the disciples often forsake their Lord, and that is because they are disappointed with God. This week began for the disciples with the triumphal entry. I think that they assumed that their day had finally come. In the upper room discourse, the Lord told them that he was going away, but they still struggle to understand what he meant. Now the Lord confronts the vast multitude that has come to arrest him, and John records That when they came, the Lord exhibited his power when he cried out, I am, and they fell backwards. Perhaps they thought that this was the moment when Jesus was going to demonstrate his power, he was going to defeat his foes, and he would soon be set up to reign as a king in Jerusalem. But instead, he allowed them to arrest him and lead him away. And I think that they were very disappointed in this. We know When we read that account in Luke of the two on the road to Emmaus, that the followers of Christ, not just the twelve, but the other believers there in Jerusalem, were profoundly disappointed. when our Lord was crucified. All that they had hoped for and longed for seemed to be destroyed. And that night the disciples that were there in the garden must have felt that all of their dreams Were smashed and destroyed. Their master was in chains. They were already in a sorrowful mood. In the upper room, we read that the mood was somber. Jesus revealed two troubling things. He told them that one of them would betray him, and he told them that he was going away. And that's why he began that address by saying, let not your heart be troubled. And now, as the evening has gone on, their Lord and Master has been arrested. What they had been looking forward to for three years was unraveling before their eyes. There was some sacrifice on the part of these disciples. During most of that three years, it seems that they were away from home. We know at least one of them, Peter, was married. He left his business, he left his family, we assume, to follow the master as he traveled around Galilee and other regions of Judea. They'd invested three years of their lives. They had learned so much, and now it seemed that all of it was coming to an end. And they were profoundly disappointed. How many Christians, if they were honest, though they may not say it in a public gathering, but in an office somewhere they will. That they are disappointed with God. Often it's because they came to Christ with false expectations, thinking that if they came to Him, that all their problems would evaporate. Their family would be healed, their health would improve, their finances would stabilize. But many years later, after walking with Christ, they still have health problems. and a difficult marriage and children who disobey. And there are many Christians who forsake the Lord. Stop going to church. Stop serving him because they feel somehow that the Lord has failed them. But of course they are wrong. The Lord does not fail his people. The Lord does not forsake them. And so often I think those who have done this will be profoundly ashamed and embarrassed someday when they see how God has been working, when they see the big plan, when they see how He has blessed them and the joys that they have in heaven someday. They will be profoundly grieved that they, in their short-sighted, myopic view of the world, walked away. But there is one final reason that the disciples forsook their Lord this night, and that is because we often respond in fear. And not faith. The disciples were not acting in faith this night. The word of God says, whatever is not of faith is sin. It is not that the Lord wanted them to stand up and fight for him and take on this cohort of soldiers that have come. Remember he said to Peter, those who live by the sword will die by the sword. Although it may be hard for us to put this all together, I think the Lord would have been comforted with their presence that night. You may say, well, why would he have been comforted? He knows he's going to be crucified and he's the Son of God and we know that he's triumphant even on the cross, yes. But don't forget, just a short time earlier, he cried out for his disciples to pray for him. We have trouble understanding Jesus sometimes because he is the God man, and so often we think of him as a It's just God who would have no sympathy, no need for support or for the presence of familiar faces during his times of trial But when we go to the Garden of Gethsemane, we see someone who desired the presence and the prayers of his people. And so they failed to stay with him. And Jesus would die in the isolation of Calvary, in the darkness there. Not only would he be forsaken by his disciples in a sinful way But we know that he would be forsaken by his father, because this was part of the plan of salvation. And he would cry out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Jesus died alone. And the disciples sinned by failing to trust in him. Their running away revealed their panic. And their panic was an evidence of their unbelief. Their actions demonstrated that they did not really believe that their master was in control of the proceedings. The fact is that when we face a crisis, whatever kind of crisis that may be, we come to a fork in the road. And we will inevitably take one of two paths. We will either respond in faith or we will respond in fear. And so often we take the latter road. We panic. We believe that God has failed us. We believe that we have to take matters into our own hands. We have to take evasive actions. We have to Preserve what we have, and we live in fear. But there was no reason for them to be afraid. Because Christ was in control. So often we focus on our problem rather than on the power of God that is available to us. When it comes down to between trusting the Lord or being terrified, we usually choose to be terrified. But God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love. And of sound mind. I so often use those words that I just mentioned, and that imagery when I'm counseling people. You will either take the path of faith and trust in God, or you will take the path of fear It's one or the other. So the disciples, due to their unbelief and their fear, forsake the Lord in his hour of need. But you know what? The Lord did not forsake his disciples. He prepared them for it. Remember, he forewarned them. He provided hope for them. He protected them. He said to the soldiers, let them go their way. He did not want them to be arrested. And he pardoned them. He forgave them for their failure that night. Gethsemane was a place of failure for the disciples. Here they slept when they should have prayed. Here they were terrified when they should have trusted. But in just a few hours the Lord would die for their sins. And for all of his followers who have forsaken him Jesus was forsaken, but he never forsakes his own, because he has promised in his word, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. What a great Savior we have. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you forgive, pardon, and restore fearful disciples like us who so frequently forsake you. When we should trust you, we pray, Lord, that you would take the words that we've considered tonight and use them for good in our lives. Lord, it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.