If your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to the book of Colossians? Colossians chapter 3 and verse 17 Colossians three, seventeen says, and whatsoever ye do in word or deed Do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by Him. Several years ago, I was walking through a large bookstore It was a Barnes and Noble or Books a Million or something like that. And you know, in those places they have tables in the centers, aisles that are on sale. And there was a book title that caught my attention. It was entitled The 100, A Ranking of the Most Influential People in History I took the book off the table and opened up to the table of contents because I wanted to check and make certain that they had Jesus Christ as number one. Because whether you believe that Jesus is who he claimed to be, he is certainly the most influential human being who has ever lived. You think about it that fact that he has more followers than anyone else, I realize that Uh many of those who would call themselves Christians are probably not truly Christian, but have a defective version of Christianity. Nevertheless , They would claim to be followers of Christ, and the same could be said of other world religions that many of their supposed followers are not real followers as well And the fact is that our calendar is based on him. And his name is the most well-known name in history. And so I expected that he would certainly be number one, and other historians, many historians throughout history, have written books of a similar nature and have always assigned him the top spot. This book was written by a man named Michael Hart, and to my dismay, he placed Muhammad as the most influential person who ever lived. And I read a brief paragraph defending his choice, and he said that Muhammad has a greater influence on the lifestyle of his followers. than Jesus Christ has on the lifestyle of his followers. Because, as you know, Muslims have a very carefully prescribed lifestyle. They pray five times a day towards Mecca and they make pilgrimages to Mecca and they have other requirements that they follow very carefully. Although I strongly disagree with Michael Hart's rankings, I do suspect, unfortunately, that he is correct that the average Muslim's lifestyle Is more impacted by Muhammad than the average Christian's life is controlled by the Lord Jesus. There are many reasons for this. However, it's important to realize that Jesus does not claim less authority in our lives than Muhammad does in the lives of his deluded followers. Just consider a few of these texts. Jesus said, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross. And follow me. He says at the conclusion of Matthew 11, take my yoke upon you and learn of me. We look at that text as a wonderful reassuring text because it speaks of rest and indeed it is but we must not minimize the fact that a yoke is restrictive and speaks of a burden Jesus said, no man having put his hand to the plough and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. He said, if you love me, keep my commandments and ye are my friends if ye do whatsoever I command you. And I could go on and on. I think you get the point. Jesus claims absolute authority over the lives of his followers. And our text this evening reminds us of this truth. It is a summary text where Paul is tying up loose ends of what he's been saying. In chapter 3. We have in verse 1 we have the hinge of the two parts of the book. Remember, the Apostle Paul almost always has in the first half of his books doctrine Teaching, instruction, axiomatic principles, and in the second half, he has our duty, the application of those truths, practical Christian living. And before he moves on to what are called the household commands, beginning in verse 18, he summarizes what he's been saying about this matter of Christian liberty, about sanctification. He's been talking, for instance, in verse 5 about mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. Put to death these things in your life. And then he goes on and talks about, as he does in Ephesians as well, putting off all of these things, verse 8, anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filth, and communication out of your mouth. And then he talks about in verse 10, about putting on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him. And then he goes on to talk about in this section about the essential unity in the body of Christ, where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bond, nor free, but Christ is all and in all. And once again he calls us to put on these virtues of grace, of vows of mercy or compassion, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering. It sounds very much like the fruit of the Spirit's. Forbearing one another and forgiving one another. Verse 14, above all these things, put on charity or love. which is the bond of perfectness or completeness or maturity. You want to know if you're mature, how loving are you? And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful. And then verse 16 He really gives us a very uh summary and beautiful glimpse of early Christian worship. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. He's here describing to them what it means to be a mature Christian, but not just as an individual, but what it looks like to be a mature body of Christ. where each one is ministering to the other and each one is enhancing and encouraging the worship of the other. And then he concludes this paragraph in verse 17 with a valuable description of the Christian life. And whatsoever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him. So I'm going to briefly tonight look on how to live the Christian life. Some of this is going to be similar to what I said this morning, and some of it is going to flesh out more things that I said this morning that I did not have time to really touch on. First of all, would you notice that the Christian life should influence every aspect of our lives? And whatsoever ye do in word or deed. This expression word and deed is an expression that refers to the totality of our lives. Jesus is described by the two on the road to Emmaus as a prophet, mighty indeed and word. That means everything in his life pointed to his identity as a prophet of God. And you'll notice that Paul, after giving the household commands following this text in verses 18 through 22, is going to summarize that section. with something that sounds very similar to verse 17. Look at verse 23. And whatsoever you do, do it heartily as the Lord and not unto men. These verses are very similar to other summary verses, concise statements that give us the essence of the Christian life, like in 1 Corinthians 1031, whether therefore you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God And very similar to our text this morning, where we read, Be holy in all manner of conversation or of behavior. I am not seeking to repeat myself, but we need to be reminded that Christ is the Lord of our lives. And our relationship with Christ is not a segment of our lives. One reason I wanted us to turn to this text tonight to sort of compliment the message this morning is because this message personalizes it a little bit. This text reminds us of our relationship to Christ. It's important for us to remember that the Christian life is not to be lived by a series of principles or propositions. It is valuable to draw and glean principles from the Word of God. They are there. They are instructive. They are helpful. There are propositions. There is doctrinal truth that's found in the pages of Scripture. And many people are attracted to this. They want to boil the Bible down to a list of doctrines. a list of abstract truths. They want to boil the Bible down perhaps to a list of principles by which we are to live. And so whenever we encounter a situation in life, we look at these life principles and we say, all right, number four comes into play here. But it's important for us to realize that the Christian life is all about our relationship with Christ. And if we're not careful and we just want to look at the doctrines of Scripture, and of course I'm not at all against doctrine. One of the great problems we have today is there's not enough doctrine in preaching. But the Bible is not a book of doctrines. God could have given us a systematic theology textbook where it just went through the essential doctrines, one proposition after another. Or he could have given us a little handbook on how to live life to its fullest, where we have these different truths for every aspect of whether it be our family life. our finances, our personal life, our emotional health, all of these basic principles listed there would have been a whole lot shorter than 1,189 chapters. But that's not how God has communicated his truth to us. And we must never forget the Christian life is all about Christ. In this very chapter, in Colossians chapter 3, we are reminded of this. Notice how Paul begins this story. This is Colossians equivalent of Romans 12, 1 and 2. If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affections on things above, not on things on the earth, for ye are dead, and your life, look at this, is hid with Christ in God. Now look at verse 4. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. You notice in verses 3 and verses 4, verse 4, it says that the essence of the Christian life is that we are following Christ, that He is our life. To many professing Christians, this is not the case. I pray for our church family to everyone that is in our directory. I try to make sure that I cover every person every week. There's been times that has not happened, but that is my regular schedule. One of the most common things that I pray for about people is that God would give them full assurance and that God would keep them from a cultural Christianity. That gives them a sense that they're okay, but yet they don't really have saving faith That is the thing that I pray about the most. You know what I mean by cultural Christianity? I mean that they have a Christianity in the sense that they are not a Hindu, a Muslim, or a Buddhist. And part of the way they identify themselves is that I'm in the United States of America. I'm I'm uh uh conservative, and I'm Christian, like most of my other friends that fall into this demographic. And to them, being a Christian is in their mind and in their lifestyle on the same level as being a Ravens fan or their loyalty to John Deere Tractors. It's on about the same level. And that's the way they think of Christianity. And if you hear them talk, that's the way they talk about it. They don't talk about the Lord. They don't talk about Christ. They may talk about that I used to attend this church and now I attend this church and I used to go to this church. And you look at the churches and they and they teach completely different doctrinal truths. One believes the Bible is the word of God, the other does not. But to them a church is a church. And they go sporadically, yeah, of course I'm a Christian. What do you think I am? That is not how the New Testament describes Christianity. When I was a kid growing up, you often heard evangelists. pose this thought-provoking question. If you were put on trial for being a Christian, would there be enough evidence to convict you? Let me give you some questions one after another in regards to that. Would the mailman be able to testify from the Christian publications that you received That you are a follower of Jesus Christ. Would your neighbor neighbors be able to say that you've invited them to church? Would they be able to say that you have prayed with them or offered them Christian counsel during a tragedy? Would your neighbors be able to say that your family is different from theirs? Would someone looking at your financial statement clearly see that you contribute significant sums of money to the advancement of the gospel? Would your co-workers be able to say that you are an honest, hardworking, self-identified Christian? Would your employees be able to testify that you treat them with Christian love? and consideration. Does your C D and DVD collection reflect your Christian values? Do the downloads on your computer testify that you are a new man in Christ Jesus? Do your Facebook post in pictures reveal that you're a devoted follower of Jesus Christ? Does your home and its decorations and orderliness testify that indeed Christ is the head of this household Will your obituary and last will and testament loudly proclaim to the world that you are a follower of Jesus Christ? I always think of connection with this the testimony of G. Campbell Morgan , this famous preacher. His father was a Baptist minister of the strict sort, he said. And when he first got married in his twenties, and uh started in the ministry as a pastor. He and his wife invited his father over to their home. It was a very little home. They didn't have much at all to begin with, but they made it as nice as they possibly could, and they were so excited because, you know, they wanted to have the patriarch's approval. And he walked through the home and he went through every room and he nodded his head and they said, Dad, what do you think? And he said, very nice, very orderly, very beautiful. But if I were to come into your home, there's nothing here that would tell me this is a Christian family. There's nothing here that really speaks of Christ in a very demonstrative way. And G. Campbell Morgan said that struck to the core of his being. And when his father left, he put up all kinds of Bible verses and everything else so that no one could walk in that door without knowing this is a Christian home. The Christian life is comprehensive in its scope. And secondly, would you notice from our text that the Christian life is to be lived for Christ. It says in this very concise statement, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus. This is the Christian ethic. And it is a very concise statement. I mentioned this in my sermon this morning, that the New Testament doesn't give many rules for living the Christian life. We have not been given detailed, specific regulations. And perhaps this is alarming to you. This is one reason why Christians differ in how they live the Christian life, because we don't have a rule book, as it were, that outlines every single thing in our Christian experience. Unfortunately, many Christians today interpret this fact to mean that they can basically do whatever they want, unless you can show them a specific Bible verse that absolutely categorically condemns their behavior, they're going to keep going in that direction. But that is not the approach that God wants us to take to Scripture Let me answer a little more fully than I had time to this morning. Why is it that God has given us timeless principles instead of detailed legislation? The first thing I would say is because we can easily follow a list of rules without being motivated by our love for God or Christ. It is very easy to mindlessly follow a list of rules. This is what I do. This is what Christians do. I don't know why. I don't know how, I don't give any thought to it, but this is what we're supposed to do. So I'm going to do it. This is what the Pharisees did. And they added to it, they built a hedge about the law. They talked about things like the Sabbath day. Yeah, we're not supposed to work on the Sabbath day, but how do you define work? Well We have seven different categories and we have like 20-some applications under each of those categories when it comes to preparation of food or traveling or carrying something, how heavy it should be. People want to know questions like this. People come to me and ask questions like this all the time. And they they came to the Pharisees with questions like that. So they said, all right, we're going to put it all down in a book. Well spell it out so you don't have any questions. You know exactly, all right. I can I can carry something that weighs about two pounds, but when you get over two pounds, now you're working. And to a certain type of mind, that's very comforting. I know exactly where the boundaries are. I don't have to wonder. I don't have to feel guilty. I just have to follow this program. The only problem is that in time, those well-intended Hedge about the law became the law. And it became as authoritative as the Word of God's. That's why Jesus talked about that by your traditions, you have replaced God's word with man's word. And you know what happened? They lost complete A complete understanding of why God gave things like the Sabbath, of what God's intent was, of doing it for the Lord, it just became something that everyone had to do to be a good Jewish person. And so it was not motivated by love for God at all. A second reason That God has given principles is because principles require maturity and their application. You don't leave your three-year-old at home and say. . . Just do the right thing. Do what would make mommy proud. Your three-year-old does not have the maturity to make those kinds of deliberations to make the right kinds of decisions. And so you can't do things that way. I mentioned this this morning. That God wants us as people who have received much more revelation than believers did in the Old Testament. to live in light of that revelation and to look at it to know our God well enough to make the right choices in life. We are to be deliberative and reflective and think about things What would God want me to do in this situation? It's not entirely clear to me. What would he want me to do? And our consideration should not be, well, I don't know that I can think of offhand a Bible verse that would condemn this, so I guess it's okay. No, there might be other principles involved that I need to consider. And that requires maturity. A third reason is because principles require discernment in their application. The Lord wants us to learn to discern his will. He doesn't want us just to blindly look at a chart or handbook, but to prayerfully seek his will. He wants us to think about How he has revealed himself. This is a significant part of growing up spiritually, of being mature. That we think about these things. Maybe we talk about it with our brother and sister in Christ. We discuss this with our spouse. How would God want us to spend this money? Where does the Lord want us to live? How are we going to structure our lives? These are very important things. And we shouldn't just say, well, how do other people, our age and our culture, do things? No. What does God want us to do? Now, what does it mean to do all in the name of the Lord Jesus? It means, first of all, that everything that we do in life should be consistent with the character of the Lord Jesus Christ. In Scripture, a person's name often represents their character. So the question is, do my choices reflect Christ? Would I be comfortable Letting people know that I am a Christian. Would I be comfortable if the Lord Jesus heard me say these words? Would I be embarrassed if the Lord Jesus Christ was with me in this room physically and he saw me watching this movie? Does my dress magnify the name of Christ or mock the name of Christ? Does my language identify me as a Christian or does it identify me as a man of the world? Is the music on my iPod compatible with the teaching of Christ? Could I pray over this activity in the name of Christ, or would that seem out of place? Many years ago, when I was a young man going through college, I worked in the summers during construction work. For a construction company. My father worked for an electrical company. He worked for a large company in Frederick. And my father was a foreman and he had a take-home vehicle And I remember one day the owner of the company , whom no one could stand, he was very arrogant. And we had uh this huge meeting with all the employees And he said to the men, because he was concerned that their their trucks and their vans, he saw them out in the parking lot, he saw them going down the road. and they were dusty and they were dirty and they had mud on them. And he said, listen, if you want to have the privilege of driving a company truck or van, you've got to keep it clean. And he said, because that's my name on the side that's going down the road. Now it was a little bit of an arrogant thing to say. But I think about it, when we name the name of Christ, it comes with it this obligation. That we be careful that we do not bring mockery upon his name. 2 Timothy 2. 19 says, Let everyone that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. You see, when you really understand what the scripture teaches, living in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ does not give you a license to live a loose lifestyle, but it gives you the liberty to live a life that's pleasing to God's Living in the name of the Lord Jesus also means that everything that we do in life should be done for the glory of God. I mentioned earlier 1 Corinthians 10 31, whether therefore ye eat or drink, Or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. It means that we should be willing to make great sacrifices for Christ. Turn with me to Mark chapter 15. Mark chapter 15, I'm going to show you two examples of this. I'm sorry, Mark chapter fourteen. Mark chapter 14, verse 3. Says, and being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at meat, there came a woman having an alabaster box of ointment of Spike nerd, very precious, and she broke the box and poured it on his head. And there were some that had indignation within themselves and said, Why was this waste of the ointment made? For it might have been sold for more than three hundred pence and had been given to the poor, and they murmured against her. And Jesus said, Let her alone. Why trouble ye her? She hath wrought a good work for me. For ye have the poor with you always, and whensoever ye will that ye may do them good, but me ye have not always. She hath done what she could. She has come aforehand to anoint my body. to the bearing. Verily I say unto you, wheresoever the gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, this also that she hath done shall be spoken for a memorial of her. What Mary did here was a great sacrifice, probably her life's savings. But the Lord Jesus commended her for it. Living in the name of the Lord Jesus means that we will make sacrifices for Christ. One of the factors that has led to the great expansion of the gospel and nations where people are persecuted for their faith. is because of the sacrifices that they have made. And people look at them. I heard from a missionary this week about this of this group over in Korea. that were followers of Christ, and some of them were put to death, and others were imprisoned. And the authorities thought that they were going to be able completely to destroy the inroads of Christianity that were made by missionaries. But when the other people saw that these people were willing to joyfully lay down their lives for Christ, all of a sudden many people flocked to receive Christ. Now turn with me to Mark chapter nine. In Mark chapter nine and verse thirty-six. And he took a child And set him in the midst of them, and when he had taken him in his arms, he said unto them, Whosoever shall receive one of such children in my name receiveth me. And whosoever shall receive me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me. And now look down with me at verse 41. For whosoever shall give you a cup of water to drink in my name, because ye belong to Christ, verily I say unto you, he shall not lose his reward. We see here That even a small token of service for God is not forgotten Mary's great sacrifice that was like her life savings, that was recorded. That has been spread throughout the world. That great act was not forgotten, but lest you think it's only the really great acts that are remembered. We see here that giving a drink of water in his name is remembered and will be rewarded. And so living in the name of Christ means that everyday activities like washing dishes or serving in the nursery or raking leaves or shoveling snow for the elderly Can demonstrate the love of Christ in a tangible way. This is how we can find true meaning in life. Not by seeking to amass more and more things. Not by trying to gather more and more pleasures out of life, but by serving the Lord and knowing that even in the little things we can bring glory to his name. Our entire life can be a life of worship. And thirdly, we must live the Christian life in a way that demonstrates it's filled with gratitude. Look with me. Colossians 3 at the very end of verse 17. It says, giving thanks to God and the Father by him. This is the third time in as many verses that Paul has mentioned the importance of an attitude filled with the grace. of thanksgiving. Notice in verse 15, we have at the conclusion of that verse, be ye thankful. In verse 16, we read, with grace in your hearts to the Lord. And here in verse 17, it concludes again with giving thanks to God. So why is Paul making such an emphasis? All three of these terms have the word grace within the word itself. The word for thanksgiving or thanks really just comes from the root word for grace. And the idea here, the connection here is people who truly understand the grace of God, the unmerited favor that has been given to them are people who are filled with an attitude of thanksgiving. They don't go around like so many Christians do saying, why me? Why is all this difficulty and affliction and problems come into my life, Lord? Why me? Instead they go around saying To God, why me? Why have you been so good to me? That you've blessed me so much. These are the people who recognize that they deserve only the wrath of God. But by the grace of God, they have been saved. This is why your attitude is a lot more important than you might have imagined before. Your attitude reflects in an unmistakable way what you believe about God and why you worship and serve the Lord. Many professing Christians serve God out of a sense of duty or fear or tradition. This is what I do. They don't think about it as being for the Lord, perhaps. They don't really enjoy it. But this is my job. This is what I have to do. Many professing Christians have boiled the Christian life down to a short list of things they have taught they must not do. and a short list of things that they must do. They must attend church. They must put money in the offering plate. They must serve in their local church in some capacity. And they tried to avoid the most scandalous fins. And so they do so not because they want to, but because they're afraid not to. They're afraid of what people might think of them, of what people might say about them. Or they even think this way, if I don't put money in the offering plate, my hot water heater will spring a leak or something bad like that. Or if I stop coming to church, I might lose my job. And they believe that God is somehow going to get them unless they tow the line and put in a minimum amount of obedience. But I want you to know that is the way pagan people worship and serve their gods. That is why Paul says, for instance, in 2 Corinthians 9, 7. that no one is to give grudgingly or of necessity, for God loveth a cheerful giver. Do not misunderstand me. I'm not saying that we shouldn't worry about coming to church or giving to the Lord that these things are unimportant. What I am saying is that our heart is really important. Why we do things that we do are very significant to God It's all about bringing glory to his name. When you see someone and they are doing things out of fear or out of tradition or because they feel they have to You're not impressed with their God. You're not impressed with their faith. You in no way say, maybe I should think more about what this person person seems to believe because there's something to it. Look at what it does to their life. No. You want to re recoil from that. You say, I don't want what they have. I don't want that kind of faith. that makes me miserable, that traps me in a lifestyle of unhappiness One of the things that we find in Scripture is it's not so much what you do, but why you do what you do. And your attitude often reflects why you do what you do. I read a story many years ago that I will never forget. It's about a woman. Who got married at a young age to a man that she did not know very well. He was very harsh and unloving. He abused her. He Verbally would insult her on a regular basis. And he had some very stringent demands that she had to meet Of the time that she had to have dinner on the table. Of how she had to keep the house. Of how she had to cater to him when he came home. Her relationship with him was sheer torture. He was a despot. He was a brutal man. Mercifully, after just a few years, he died. And sometime after that, she was introduced to a loving man who married her. One day, after she had been married to this man , For some time, she put on an old sweater in her closet that she hadn't worn for some time. And in the pocket she found a crumpled-up piece of paper. that she had written years before. And that piece of paper contained a list of the man 's of her first husband. It was written in abusive language. It was written in a very insulting way At first she was very alarmed by it, but then as she carefully observed it, she realized that nearly everything on that list that he was demanding of her, she was doing for her current husband. But her motive was completely different. She wasn't doing it because she was afraid she was going to be beaten or reprimanded. She was doing it because she loved him and she wanted to do it. This is the way that God wants us to serve Him. We serve Him out of love. We serve Him because we want to. We serve Him because He is our Lord and Savior who gave His life. for us. This is the kind of living that magnifies Christ, that brings glory to his name. Let's close in prayer this evening. Father, we thank you that you have given us such a wonderful Savior. We thank you that He is worthy of our lives. He's worthy of our service. He's worthy of our sacrifices. I pray that you would help us. To live each day for his glory. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen