If you have your Bibles, please, you can be turning with me to Matthew chapter 6. Matthew chapter 6. When I was in high school many moons ago, I played soccer for a small Christian school I learned many things from that experience. There's one event I will never forget. We were playing once in a soccer match against a school that was about four or five times larger than we were. And uh it was not a very pleasant outing. I think the score was 12 to nothing at the end. And um Being a Christian school, they tried to do things in a spiritual way, and I'm sure that whoever devised this practice had the best of attempts, but one of the things that they did that was their practice. every game is that when they scored a goal, they gave thanks to God for it. And uh the the the the the front line would gather there not too far from where they scored the goal, and they would say, you know, thank you, Lord, that we were able to score this goal. And that would be that. Well, as the game went on, and as they just kept destroying us and scoring goal after goal after goal, it became an absolute joke. The prayer started to be like, Lord, I thank you that we're so much better than this other team. I thank you that we are able to just destroy them today. And uh it went on the whole afternoon. Now, I don't think the coach could hear what they were praying, but we certainly could, and they were using it as a way to demoralize us. Obviously, they didn't need that additional tool, but they used it nonetheless. And I learned that day that it's possible to sin even in your prayers. Did you know that we are so fallen that we can sin even in our prayers? We can sin in several different ways. We can pray in a very um selfish way that does not honor God that is just re uh exalting ourselves and only focused on our needs and we never bring the needs of others before the Lord. We can pray in a way in front of others that wounds them Or perhaps the most common way that we sin in our prayers is we can pray without any awareness that we're praying to God, but our focus is only on those who are overhearing our prayers. We're praying for the ears of men rather than for the ear of God. This morning I want us to begin a new series, a brief series. on what is commonly known as the Lord's Prayer. And we're going to get a running start, as I like to do. Last week, I preached you about the many problems that we face in life. And the fact of the matter is, as I look out every Sunday on this assembly, I see so many people with heavy burdens on their hearts. Issues that are matters of life and death regarding themselves or their very close loved ones And one of the things I did not focus on last week is that it's the Lord's desire that our problems drive us to prayer. They drive us to our knees so that we bring our requests before the Lord's. The fact is we are in desperate need of prayer. Our nation is in trouble. Our churches are weak. Our world is turning, it seems increasingly away from the one true God to either an atheistic secular view of the world where there is no God and where religious values, the the the the the the Values of the Word of God are not considered in any affair at all, or the world is turning to follow the false prophet Muhammad. It seems to be one or the other. The fact of the matter is, we all desperately need to be people of prayer. I've never yet met a Christian Who really understood what the Bible taught about prayer, who felt that they prayed enough. And most people will nod their head and say, Yes, I need to pray more. I need to be better in interceding for others and praying for my own needs. Well the question is, where should we turn for that instruction? And I would suggest to you that there is no better place, obviously, than the Word of God, and especially in the teaching of our Lord, as found here in Matthew chapter 6. We have in Jesus Christ, the greatest teacher on prayer the world has ever known, and the greatest example of prayer the world has ever known. There has never been another human being who prayed as effectively and as consistently and as earnestly as the Lord Jesus Christ. In Luke chapter 11, we read of the Lord praying before his disciples, and when he finished praying, they said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray. If you ever wondered about that request, it's interesting to note. That's the only time that the disciples ever specifically requested that the Lord teach them something. And the thing they requested was, Lord, teach us to pray. Now you should not take from that that they had no idea of how a person prays. They were Jewish young men who've been brought up in a culture where all children were taught to pray to Jehovah. They heard prayers all their lives in the synagogue. They knew some things about prayer. They were not pagan people who had no idea of this concept. But when they heard the Lord Jesus Christ pray, they felt like they had never really prayed before. And they said, Lord, teach us to pray. What we find a few verses later after our text this morning is what is commonly known as the Lord's Prayer. It's uh perhaps the words that have been uh quoted more often than any other words in the history of the world It's found here in Matthew chapter 6. There's also another version of it in Luke chapter 11, the incident that I just related to you, the Lord gave that prayer again at another time, probably about a year later, slightly different. The Lord repeated himself as all good teachers do. But I want us to look at the prayer here in Matthew 6, and I want us to see the broader context for this prayer. This great prayer is embedded in what is known as the Sermon on the Mounts, the most complete sermon that we have in Scripture of our Lord Jesus Christ. And the theme of this great sermon is the righteous living of kingdom citizens. Throughout this sermon, it's our Lord's contention that his followers are to be radically different from people in the world. Their character is different, their influence is different, their values are different, and their religious activities are different. And that's what he's focusing in on the first 18 verses of Matthew chapter 6. He focuses in on three activities. First of all, alms giving almsgiving in verses 2 through 4. And then at the end of this he has fasting, verses 16 through 18, but the largest section, right in the middle, is that of prayer, verses 5 through 15. You'll notice that the instructions concerning prayer are both central and the longest part of this instruction. And that is because prayer is absolutely vital to our spiritual life Now in each of these traditional Jewish practices, which are also of course part of our Christian heritage, he mentions, he assumes that his followers will do this because he begins each of these with this formula, when you do this. And then he follows this regular pattern. He first of all tells you how you should not do this. And then he tells you how you should do this practice. And then he tells you why you should do it, because the Lord will reward you. So this morning we come to the first of these elements, and that is how not to pray. And he specifically here is going to mention two ways not to pray. That may seem incredible to you. We might just say, you shouldn't ever criticize anybody's prayer. It's just good that they're praying. Well, you can take that up with the Lord because he says there are some ways that are not right as far as prayer. In verses 5 through 6, he talks about the prayer of the hypocrites. And in verses 7 through 8, he speaks of the prayer of the heathen. The first is a dangerous problem for those who know God well. The second is a dangerous problem for those who don't know him well at all. There's a lot here that we need to consider, and so we're going to look at just the first of these admonitions this morning as we begin the series. And I want you to consider this, that Christians must avoid praying like hypocrites And I have two points I want you to consider. First of all, we must not pray to impress others. Look with me at verse 5. And when thou prayest. Thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues in the corner of the street, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. Let's be very clear about what the Lord is condemning here. First of all, the Lord is not saying that Christians must avoid praying while standing up. He 'd mention standing up here, but that was the normal Jewish posture of prayer. Some people in the history of churches have placed a great emphasis on the posture of your prayer. But the fact of the matter, as you read through scripture, you'll find people praying face down on the ground, kneeling, standing, seated, every position you can imagine. That's not what the Lord is focusing in on here. Jesus, secondly, is not saying that it's wrong to pray in public for others to hear. How do we know that? Because Jesus often prayed in public and many other biblical characters. And it is in many ways commended in Scripture. And Jesus certainly is not saying that Christians should avoid gathering for public prayer. If you were to read just verse 6 where it talks about secret prayer of entering into your closet and that was the only verse you had in the Bible in prayer, that's what you might think. But we see the early church in the book of Acts gathering for prayer meetings and people are praying out loud and we see it in other places in Scripture. That's not what the Lord is condemning here. The fact of the matter is we need more time praying together as a body of believers. I don't want to get off on a tangent here. But by the way, we have a prayer meeting here Wednesday night at seven. And can I be honest with you, our numbers are dwindling because the modern church places very little emphasis on prayer, especially gathered prayer of believers We think of prayer almost exclusively as just an individual thing between me and God. But you know how this verse, how the traditional Lord's Prayer begins? It says, our Father who art in heaven, right? It doesn't say my Father who art in heaven. It says our Father. It speaks of the community of believers praying together. It is good to have the body of Christ gather together and pray. We see in the book of Acts in chapter 4 that when they faced persecution, the church gathered and they prayed, and it says that the The place was shaken. girl I always love reading that passage. There's power in prayer, and the dynamic is a little different when the people of God gather together for prayer. than just when you're praying all by yourself. Now what very clear that the Lord is condemning here is found in those little words in verse 5 where it says that they may be seen of men or heard of men as well, of course. Praying to impress others rather than really to address God. The term hypocrite comes from the ancient Greeks who were very fond of plays. And their actors would wear a mask that would depict a certain character. And sometimes the same actor would play several different roles in the play. He would go backstage and change his mask and come back out And that mass was the origin of our English word hypocrite, down over the face, is the idea of the word. And the Lord here is saying that some of these Jewish leaders in Jesus' day were like playing a role. It was like a performance when they prayed. They had carefully rehearsed in many cases what they were going to say. They would say it often with their hands extended up to the heavens like this. It was something that people could not avoid seeing. It might be out on the street corner, it might be in the temple or in the synagogue, but it was in a very prominent place so that all could see. And people would come by and people would be impressed. They would say, Wow, I could never pray like that. I could never put together all those phrases and all of those scriptural allusions and just Put them together in one coherent form. I could never do that. These are really men of God. We have an example of this. You don't need to turn there. I'm going to. We have an example of this kind of public prayer in Luke chapter 18. Verse 9 it says, And he spake this parable unto them which trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others Two men went into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee and the other a publican. And the Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjusts, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. This is the kind of prayer that Pharisees would offer. They would compare themselves with others and say, Lord, I thank you that I'm not like the heathen sinful people round me. And there was pride and selfishness and arrogance in their very prayers. But did you know that this kind of prayer does have reward? The Lord says they have, verse 5, the last phrase, they have their reward. What is that reward? It's the applause of men. It's the naive who are impressed and say, wow, that guy can really pray. So you see there's a real danger even in doing spiritual duties. How does this apply to us? A simple test would be this. Do you pray in public like you do in private? Do you pray earnestly, carefully? just like you would in public, or are you changing everything for the ears of people Or do you pray in private at all? And only in public? You see, our public prayers are to be like the tip of the iceberg just a little portion, but all of that is the overflow of our private prayers to God's. Whenever I come to this passage, I always remember a story that Pastor Aaron told me years ago. When he was an assistant pastor down in Florida, he went out to eat with a family in their church and they went out to the meal and To eat, and the father said, All right, everyone, let's bow our heads and have a word of prayer. And the son said, Dad, why are we praying? You never pray before we eat. And his face turned several shades of red in embarrassment. He was praying for the ears of the pastor. That was not his normal practice. This is an insidious thing. It happens sometimes very subtly without our even realizing what's going on. I was talking to a pastor and he was telling me the story that years and years ago he attended a wedding and a reception afterwards and there was a man there, Christian man from the church, and Someone called on him to pray and ask for God's blessing of a couple there at that reception, and he did so. And he did so very ablely. And people were all that night were going up to him saying, man, that was some kind of a prayer. You really know how to pray. And he said that after that , this man just soaked that in that after that, whenever there was a special occasion, he would be there, and he was looking for an opportunity to pray. Because he had a prepared prayer. And then when he would pray, he would go around and circulate around and say, ask people, what did you think of my prayer tonight? Pretty good, huh? It's an insidious thing. Something that's spiritual, talking to God, and through our warped hearts we can twist it into something that's ugly and prideful and sinful. Our prayers must be for the Lord and not for the ears of others. As I was preparing this message, The thought occurred to me, and perhaps it's occurred to you, that the person that this verse is most applicable to is me. The pastor who stands up and prays every Sunday morning. And there is a danger in that for any spiritual leader who leads the people of God in prayer, that he forgets that he's talking to God. And turns his attention to men. So I'll put this out there. If you're blessed by my praying, Don't tell me. Okay? I'm serious. Don't tell me. The devil could use that as a snare So if it's a blessing to you, that's great. But don't let me know about it. But there's a positive thing that I want us to see in this passage. He has the negative. Now look at the positive in verse 6. But when thou prayest, enter into thy closet. And when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy father which is in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. We must pray privately to gods. This doesn't forbid public prayers, but it does commend to us private prayers. How essential this is to our spiritual lives. Think of the Him. Oh, what peace we often forfeit. Oh, what needless pain we bear all because we do not carry everything to God in prayer. This verse makes reference to a closet. The ancient Jewish people and their little one-room home did not have multiple walk-in closets like you do for their clothing. Their dwellings in many cases were the size of your closets. But they had a little storage area, almost like a wardrobe where they might keep things. And it was about the only place there was any privacy in the house. And the ancient peoples and most people and third world countries have zero privacy. So if you were living in one of those dwellings and you wanted to pray apart from the family, that's the only place you could go. Into this little storage container, as it were. And shut out the world, he says, close the door. This is a very important discipline of the Christian life and one I fear that we often neglect I want you to know that Jesus practiced what he preached. Did you know that? I want to run through some scriptures rapidly in order so you just keep moving back. I want you to turn with me ahead now to Matthew 14, 23. We're in chapter 6. Turn to chapter 14. Look with me at verse 23. Matthew 14, 23, and when he had sent the multitude away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray. And when the evening was come, he was there alone. Jesus goes up on a mountain to pray, and he's there for a considerable amount of time. Turn with me now ahead to the next book in the Bible, Mark, chapter 1. Look with me in Mark chapter one, verse thirty-five Mark 1 35 And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he went out and departed into a solitary place and there prayed. He got up when it was still dark, and he went out. To seek the Lord. Turn with me ahead now to Mark chapter 6. Mark chapter 6, verse 46. Mark 6, 46, and when he had sent them away, he departed into a mountain to pray. I'm not going to have you turn to the ones in Luke. Let me just quote them. Luke 5, 16. And he withdrew himself into the wilderness and prayed. Luke 6. 12. And it came to pass in those days that he went out into a mountain to pray and continued all night in prayer to God. Jesus was a man of prayer, and this is so amazing to me. Think about it. If Jesus, the sinless Son of God, felt the need to get alone and pour out his heart, to his heavenly father, how much more should we be people of prayer? You see, the more that we Get alone with God in prayer, the more we will become like the Lord Jesus Christ. As I mentioned earlier, just what every Christian I've ever spoken to recognizes their weaknesses. in this area. You preach about prayer, you talk to them about their prayer life, and they hang their head and they say, yeah, I need to pray more. What are some practical steps that we can take to improve our lives? Our prayer lives. This is the beginning of the year. We're putting out reading schedules. Wouldn't it be great if this year you could improve your prayer life? And really consistently exercise this spiritual discipline. Let me mention a few things here. Number one, you must be intentional. That is, it will not happen by accident. It's not just going to creep up on you and say, wow, what do you know? I'm praying every day now. It's not going to work that way. You've got to plan. You've got to be intentional. You've got to be disciplined. In our modern forms of Christianity, we've almost become completely turned off to anything that speaks of discipline or hard work. The fact of the matter is there's a lot of discipline necessary in the Christian life. This is one of those areas that your flesh is going to fight you on tooth and nail. You try to set aside time to pray. Often you're going to find everything inside of you recoiling against that, thinking of a hundred other things you need to be doing or could be doing, or you would find more enjoyable perhaps. And then there's all those distractions that can come up. That's why the Lord says, get in your closet, get away from your distractions. You have to recognize that when you try to go to the Lord in prayer, you're engaging in spiritual warfare. And the devil just forces us to do everything they can to stop that in your life. May I suggest, number two, that you select a private place for prayer. A special place where you pray individually to the Lord. Okay? Now for some of you, I don't know that this is the best, but it might be the best you can do. For some of you, that might be on your car. Obviously, you're not going to close your eyes when you do that. But in your commute. It might be on some back porch. It might be in a little room out of the way in your home. It might be a shed. It needs to be a place where you can shut out the world and be free of distractions. If you go to a place and it's filled with distractions, you're going to be distracted. We live in an age of instant communication. Can I just be real clear about this? If I try to get alone and have a time of prayer and I take my cell phone with me, it never happens. You need to probably leave that away for a time. You have to put out those distractions. In my office I have a sign that I little thing that I printed out many, many years ago, long before I became a pastor here. It's a little saying by a great theologian named Anselm, who lived in the 11th century. And this is what he says, come now, little man, put aside your business for a while. Take refuge for a little from your tumultuous thoughts Cast off your cares and let your burdensome distractions wait. Take some time for God. Rest a while in Him. Enter into the chamber of your mind and put out everything except God. and whatever helps you to seek him. Close the door and seek him. Say now to God with all your heart, I seek thy face, O Lord, thy face I seek. You need to have a place that you go to. It might be in your home, it might be in your car, but you need to have a place where you go, and that is your place to pray to God's. I'm going to suggest something even more beyond that. And this may sound mystical and strange to you. Not not of course that that place that you go to somehow is a gateway to heaven and it's um uh somehow different or you can't use that space for anything else. I'm not saying that. But I want to suggest that you also have a place that you go away to occasionally to spend time in prayer, away from the house. away from the family, away from your distractions. Like we see exemplified in the life of our Lord. Remember how he went up on a mountain? I'm not saying it has to be a mountain. But it might be a mountain. It might be a place that you can drive to in about 15 or 20 minutes, or maybe it's an hour away, someplace where you can go when your heart is burdened or where you can go periodically when you feel that your spirit is dry and listless and there's nothing happening spiritually in your life, what do you do? You need to spend concerted amount of time getting alone with God and pouring out your heart to Him in prayer. Have you ever done that? I found there are many Christians that have it. You're really missing something. You desperately need that in your Christian life. I have secret places I go to. You may say, where are they? I'm not going to tell you. There are secrets. It's good to have places where you can go and meet with God and shut out the world and the universe for those minutes or those hours is just you and the Lord. That's all that exists. There are some of you here that are facing incredible decisions. That are going to alter the entire rest of your life. There are some of you here who are facing life and death matters in your life. I wouldn't think I need to suggest this, but you know what? I want to suggest you get alone with God. These are really important things. And a simple phrase, Lord, help me with this, or Lord, would you work this out, or Lord, would you heal this person? Lord, would you save my that's not enough. You need to get alone with the Lord. Speak to him. Let me say, as far as your daily prayer, you must schedule a time for prayer. For many people, that's early in the morning before their day begins. It's probably the best time, but for some people, that doesn't work well for them. I do believe that there are some people who are mourning people and some people who are not. But you need to have a time where that is in your schedule, where you're meeting with God, and nothing's going to interrupt that. If you don't schedule that time, it will never happen. It's interesting to notice That he says there is a reward here, doesn't he? He says the Lord will reward you openly in Matthew 6, 6. Theologians and commentators question, what does that mean to reward you openly? What's this reward he's talking about? Let me give you several suggestions. Some say that just as the Pharisees and those religious hypocrites had their earthly reward, the approval of men. So the heavenly the reward here spoken of is a heavenly reward that someday in the presence of the saints you will be rewarded, you will be blessed, and you'll be so glad that you went to God in prayer. That's one suggestion. Perhaps a more obvious suggestion would be answered prayer. Answered prayer. You've got a burden, you've got a great need. Take it to the Lord in prayer, and God will answer your prayer, and people will see that God has answered your prayer. That's a wonderful thing. To find and to hear that God has answered your prayer. It's a testimony to others. But most commentators would say that what's in view here, the reward is communion with God Himself. You see, God is the greatest reward that mankind can ever enjoy. Do you remember what the Lord said to Abraham? I am thy shield and thy exceeding great rewards. We don't go to God so that He gives some goodies to us, some blessing to us. He is the greatest blessing. But it says there in Matthew 6. 6 that it will be obvious apparent to others So what does that mean? It means that when we consistently spend quality time with God's And we really are in his word, and we really are in prayer, and we're not just saying some words, but that we really connect with him. And we do that as part of our Christian lives, as part of the very fabric of our makeup of who we are, and we do that week after week, year after year, throughout the course of our lives. You know what happens? People see a change in us. Because you can't spend real time with God without being changed to become more like Him. So when we have that prayer closet and we spend time with God in prayer, people will see that we have been with Him. It will change your outlook on everything. How vital this is for us. How many needs do you have in your life, your children, your parents, your own life? People at work, people you're witnessing to, relatives that are ill, how many are the problems that we have? We need to take them to the Lord in prayer But as we'll see, prayer is not just a matter of our bringing our laundry list of needs. It must begin with our worship and our communion and our adoration of God. One man who took up this admonition in Matthew 6. 6 very seriously. was the father of the famous missionary John Payton. John Payton was a Scottish missionary who went to islands in the Pacific that were yet un Civilized. There were cannibals who lived there. He and his wife went there with the gospel, and over decades of ministry, God did a mighty work, and many thousands of people were saved. And in Peyton's biography, he talks about his godly father and the example that he set, especially in prayer. He says this in his biography, the closet was a very small room. That was the sanctuary of our cottage home. Twice daily, generally after each meal, we saw our father retire and shut the door, and we children got to understand by a sort of spiritual instinct that prayers were being poured out on our behalf We occasionally heard the pathetic echoes of a trembling voice pleading as it were for life. The outside world may not know the source of our father's radiant smile, but we knew. It was a reflection of the divine presence in which he lived. And that father's prayers made an impact on that son. And he became a great missionary that God used in a mighty way. You see, prayer changes things for one thing that changes us. And it's my prayer that in the weeks ahead, God would call us again to this essential discipline of prayer. May God help us. Let's pray. Father, how desperately we need to commune more with you. Lord, I want to pray at the outset of this series that you would use these words, these scriptures, Father. To draw us to you, not that we would come to the altar of prayer, kicking and screaming reluctantly or driven by guilt, but Father, that we would see What a great privilege this is. What an avenue we have available to us. Pray that we would seek this. Wonderful reward that is mentioned here of communion with God, of being transformed by this communion into the image of our Lord Jesus Christ. Help us, Father. To become a people of prayer. And Father, for those who are here who are not a people of prayer because they do not know you, you are not their Father, I pray that today they would seek the Lord while he may be found. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.