It's going to be with you all tonight. Let me start us in a word of prayer this evening. Lord, we thank you that we can gather to hear your word preached, Father. Be with me in spirit, Lord, as I bring your word and give us ears to hear and hearts to admonish what you have for us this evening, Father. Let my words Be glorifying to you, Father. Anything that is not, let it fall from the ears. Lord, we ask all this in your son 's name. Amen. Robert Murray McSheen once said that if you want to humble a Christian, ask them about their prayer life. So, if I were to ask you about your prayer life, what would you say? Maybe yours is a little like mine. You desire to pray better. You desire that the devotion of your heart reached your lips in a better way. I wish that I could capture the majesty of our Lord in my prayer, but I stutter, I stammer. Or I find myself wrestling in sin, distracted, cold, fumbling for words, hoping that what is coming out of my mouth is pleasing to the Lord For some of you, that might have been a harder question than you prepared to be asked this evening, but if there's one aspect of the Christian life that gives most Christians pause, it's prayer. According to a recent poll, only about half of Protestant Christians pray daily. And of those polled, 75 % of professing Christians pray at all. In light of this, it raises the question: why is true, deep, consistent prayer hard for us? Well, I think there's two reasons why prayer is hard for us or difficult, and I believe both are present with us every day, yet deeply theological. First, what we believe about ourselves impacts our prayer, and by that I simply mean our sinfulness. As fallen creatures are approached to God in prayer is marred by sin, by weakness , by distraction. Our prayers fail to achieve what God has intended for us in this great gift, in this act. To echo the words of the hymn, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. When we're tired, distracted, or sick, true prayer can be a struggle for many of us. And if it's not that, it's just straight sinful pride. Pride keeps us from approaching the throne of God with any sort of humility or meekness, and even the necessity of prayer comes into question. We believe that life becomes all about grabbing yourself by the bootstraps and pulling yourself up, and we can do it ourselves. And then a practical atheism sets in, and prayer becomes decorative to the Christian life at best. All of these concerns demonstrate that prayer takes an effort. Anything of value takes effort, and prayer takes thoughtful care. spirit-filled discipline to be exercised at its greatest, and yet sin is crouching at the door waiting to take it from us. But second, I believe what we believe about God impacts our prayer. See, prayer reflects our sanctification. In a sense, in contrast to our sinfulness, our prayers reflect the truest and deepest thoughts we have about God. As one theologian noted, our entire theology is conveyed before the world when we pray. What we believe about God, his power, his sovereignty, his might, who we are, and his disposition to us, and why he has that disposition, are all exposed in prayer. In exalting him to the highest glory or failing to ascribe him the glory due, this all impacts our prayer. As philosopher Roger Sprutten said, God is defined by the act of worship far more than he is by any theology. What he means by that is your words lat matter little about what you know about God. That knowledge does not manifest itself in your worship. And it's arguable to say that the center of our personal worship to God is prayer. We also ask ourselves things like, will prayer really change the situation? Or is prayer effective? And we are fundamentally in that asking questions about the character of God we are praying to. So, what is the cure of these two dispositions of man? Well, first, we need a spirit of God and his word to enlarge in our hearts about the God we pray to. We are coming into the presence of a holy, mighty King and wonderful God. We must know the God we're praying to with an intimacy that far extends where we are That we are informed by Jesus' sacrifice and the glory of God, that we are praying to the mighty God of the Scriptures. And second, we need to have an accurate scriptural view of who we are in light of our sinfulness and our dependence on God in prayer. When we see clearly our depravity and our inability to do anything without the Lord's grace, then we can come to the Lord with a heart that yearns and desires for communion. So where are we to turn for these faithful dispositions, for these cure of this? Well tonight, as the Lord wills, I am starting a series on the Lord's Prayer from Matthew 6. The Lord's Prayer is found in Matthew, is found in the Sermon on the Mount. The Sermon on the Mount is Jesus' longest recorded sermon on record. It's the first of five sermons in the book of Matthew, and the content of the Sermon on the Mount contains some of the most treasured Teachings we have from our Lord. The salt in the light, a tooth for a tooth. If your right eye caused you to sin, pluck it out. Don't lay up treasures where moth and rust destroy. Don't be anxious, and that's just a few of the highlights The Sermon on the Mount is a powerful section of Scripture, yet nestled in the middle of this entire sermon is the Lord's Prayer. This is the Lord's clear instruction on how to pray for his disciples. While we have many other examples of prayer in the Old Testament and the New Testament. The Lord's prayer must be elevated, not put on equal weight. It's the Lord's own teaching on how to pray. This is the Lord's provision for his people. You see, when the disciples saw Christ, and they saw his dependence, his faith, his works, they marveled because they saw the connection between his faith and his prayer. They saw, even as we do today, there's this dynamic connection between our faith and our prayer life. And whether we like it or not, our prayer life acts as a thermometer to our faith. The Lord's Prayer itself is broken down into two parts, each with three different petitions. The first three Are about God and his sovereign reign, his glory, his purposes, in a sense, who God is. The second three petitions are about man Our dependence, our need, categorically who we are. These six petitions make up the whole prayer. In the course of this series, I hope to explore each one of these petitions in detail to understand what the Lord has for us as we understand prayer and the Lord's command to us to pray. Yet tonight I want to start with an introduction into the Lord's Prayer, much like our Lord's own introduction in the Sermon on the Mount, and we'll turn to chapter 6 of the book of Matthew to begin. So please turn with me. to the book of uh Matthew chapter six if you haven't already. So what we'll notice quickly when we turn to chapter 6 of the book of Matthew is that the Lord's Prayer does not come in the middle of a discourse on spiritual how-tos. Yet rather it comes in the middle of a long, extended rebuke to a group of religious people the Lord simply calls the hypocrites. Because of this, as we begin our study tonight, we're confronted with the reality that before the Lord taught his disciples how to pray, he taught them how not to pray. based on the practices of these hypocrites. So in the passage tonight I want to explore these two dangers that the Lord exposes In prayer that can affect all believers. And the Lord instructs his people before he delivers the Lord's Prayer. He wants to get these dangers out of the way. So when he delivers the Lord's Prayer, we see it with clear eyes. And these two dangers are, one, the love of public adoration, and two, the love of formalism. So let's look at the first one together: the love of public adoration. Well, see, with the Lord is gracious to us, that in both of these dangers, as He exposed them to us tonight, His teaching follows a clear format. Both give the exhortation to the error, followed by a correction in the form of an admonition. In this act, he's both making clear the error as well as the underlying theology to correct the issue. Let's read the first of these together. Matthew 6, verses 5 and 6. And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others Truly I say to you, they have received their reward, but when you pray, go into your room, shut the door, and pray to your Father who is in secret, and your father who sees in secret will reward you. Well what jumps out to me, as I'm sure to you, is this acclamation, don't be a hypocrite. See, in this section of the sermon that contains the Lord's Prayer, it actually starts right in the beginning of chapter 6. If you look briefly, you'll see this. The Lord is teaching in chapter 6 on the three practices of the faith. The first is almsgiving, the second, prayer, and the third fasting. That makes up a bigger picture of chapter 6. But all three of these practices were marred by the same sinful human tendency. Hypocrisy. Let's look briefly at the text. You can see in verses 1 and 2 of chapter 6, he discusses the hypocrites in reference to the almsgiving. Again in chapter 5, where we're focused tonight, and again in verse 16, in regards to fasting. There's a clear pattern to these teachings Even the phrasing to Jesus' teachings. Jesus calls out the hypocrite and his practices, and he shares that they have received their reward. Then he gives the disciples the right practice, which is done in secret before the Father. But as we approach this, we have to understand when Jesus talks about the hypocrite, he's not talking about something that generally we're familiar with. See, in our modern use of the word hypocrite, we think about someone who says one thing and does another, right? Especially when they judge others for failing to meet the same standards which they uphold. Well that that true is sinful, but that's not exactly what Jesus is talking about in this context. So this phrase hypocrite in terms of this time period was someone who engaged in the theater. In a sense, they were an actor. It was someone who was play-acting. What they were doing was not real. It was a fake, a sham. It was an external show, in this case, a show of piety. We might say it was not something that truly came from their heart It was in all sense of the word, an act. See, the early Christians only had one example for their prayers. As Christianity started to grow, it was that of the traditional Jewish prayer that they took their example from. Yet by this time the Jews had distorted prayer greatly. The prayers that they did pray were routine and heartless. You see, by tradition, the Jews, they would repeat the same prayers multiple times a day. For a Jew to repeat the Shema three times a day was common practice. But you can imagine if you repeated something three times a day since you were five, by the time you're thirty, it may have lost its impact to you. It becomes rote. And this is what happened to the Jews. They repeated it so many times from memory, they could repeat it without really listening to the words they were saying. It just was a sentence to them. Of course, where this ends up is that these prayers were now distorted, and it was so obviously a hypocrisy. It was a show without any substance. It says that these Jews prayed in the synagogues and the street corners, which in a sense was not sinful. This was a normal place of prayer Yet the Greek here for Street Corner is not some back alley street. It is a main thoroughfare. They were praying in the biggest possible street possible that they could be seen. Which makes sense, because if you're gonna not be praying to God, you're gonna be praying to man and you wanna be in the biggest place possible to pray to man. But in the verse, Jesus' accusation is clear. These hypocrites, they're not praying because they're seeking the Lord. They're praying for the approval and adoration of man They pray not to have their prayers heard by the one Creator God, but to have their prayers heard and adored by man. These hypocrites had turned prayer into a show. They loved what it meant for them socially, falling into judgment before the Lord. The Lord says they have received their reward. Their reward was the fame they achieved with man, but make it clear that God does not hear that kind of prayer. Yet before we fall into judgment, it's easy for us as well to fall into this kind of behavior. As I was reflecting on this, I was thinking about the current, you know, the current holidays we've just gone through, which seem a little distant now. But thanksgiving started as a solemn devotional remembrance to God for his deliverance through what the pilgrims had done to honor him in a new land. Through great trial and tribulation, his glorious provision and the survival of the pilgrims. But look at us now We parade giant balloons down a street, stuff ourselves well beyond full, and the repentance we might feel comes from eating a bit too much. You see, it might not be quick, but sin and Satan loves to take anything that is a devotion to God and distort it towards the love of man and selfishness. We do it sometimes many times without even thinking about it or being distracted by sin, and over time it loses its value. And if we're not careful, it comes as close as us as our prayer. So how can we guard ourselves against this tendency to shift our focus towards man rather than God. Well, Jesus gives us the answer right in the sermon, right in the scripture, and we can elaborate on it a little bit He says to pray in secret before the Father when no one will see you. Here are three ways we can think about this admonition. First, we can pray more alone. This doesn't seem strange, but when you're in the habit of private prayer, when it's only you and God, You'll be free of the temptation to pray with any regard with those who are around you. This is, of course, Jesus' own application. He knew what it was needed was to free ourselves from the distractions and the temptations to get to the heart of prayer, which is communion with God. I love how GC Ryle says this about private prayer. He says, I believe that spiritual as well as natural greatness depends in a high degree on the faithful use of means which in everyone's reach. He's referring to prayer. When a man is once converted to God, his progress and holiness will be much in accordance with his own diligent use Of God's means. And I assert confidently that the principal means by which most believers have become great in the church and grow in faith is the habit of diligent private prayer. It is in private prayer that we gain focus, that our prayers, our words are reaching the very throne of God. That by the grace of God and Jesus to sacrifice, our words are reaching God directly Without any human intercession, the veil is torn. There's only one mediator between God and man is the Lord Jesus Christ, and that our prayers are reaching the creator of all of heaven and of earth. It's one of the greatest pleasures we have as Christians to know that in assurance of our faith that our God hears us. That we need no one to preach or to speak to him for us. It's not of our own merit, but Christ's. Private prayer brings the true purpose of prayer, communion with God, to the forefront. Second, you can pray consistently with one person Might be your spouse, could be a friend, could be a coworker. Yet if your heart is prone to try to impress people, eventually you're going to fail to impress that person. The heart of people pleasers thrives on fooling as many people as they can. This repetition can stifle your pursuit. of pride. And thirdly, confess your sins in prayer. Of course, this can be distorted as well and seem self-effacing. But true deep confession of sins will expose your true nature before men. It's really hard to be prideful in confessing your sins. When we confess our sins, we start to truly see ourselves as God sees us, and we take the air out of any pride we might feel. These are three simple decisions we can make when we pray. And it can refocus our hearts as we come to the Lord, and it can take away this temptation. For the love of man or the adoration of man in our prayers. But now I want to move to the second danger in our text tonight We see that the loving the praise of man can defeat us in prayer, and we turn to Jesus' second related admonition, which is the love of formalism. You see, the second danger in prayer is the love of formalism. But to break that down a little bit more, what he's talking about is the wrong belief in how prayer works. Again, Jesus gives the exhortation and the error and the admonition. In verses 7 -8, he says, When you pray, Do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words. Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him. So, your eyes are probably drawn right to that phrase in the beginning, the empty uh the uh keeping up empty phrases Your version might say vain repetitions, this idea, but the idea here is actually in reference to the pagan rituals of the day You see, in the pagan rituals, the words you said and the tone and the cadence was how they believed that their prayers would be answered. It worked like some kind of incantation to God. The pagans believed that if they got the words right and the choice of words right, their prayers would work every time. Of course they didn't work. This is the basis of many animistic beliefs throughout the world. We can think of sorcery or magic, like if you've got the right spell. As well as Buddhism, Hinduism, and Islam, even some forms of mystic Judaism hold this belief. But if you can get the words and the prayer right, it'll be answered every time. Yet at the core of this belief is that the power of prayer belongs to the prayer, not the recipient. At the core of this belief, the power belongs to the prayer, not the recipient. See, Jesus warns them: don't put your faith in the words that you might speak, but put them in the one who controls the universe. If if we get the words right, the tone right, that our prayers would just happen. This is how so-called faith healers work. They get into their cantation of the word the names of God, expecting that this is all going to have some kind of invoking of divine healing power. But this is not the prayer the Father hears. Now, where Jesus goes with this next line might be a bit surprising. We might think that Jesus would hear the true contrite heart We think of the Pharisee and the tax collector in Luke, how the Pharisee had a boastful prayer and the tax collector had a meek repentant prayer. But the story doesn't say that the tax collector's prayer was heard. It highlights that his faith is what saved him. But here's what Jesus says. He says your father knows what you need before you ask him. Wow, what are we supposed to do with that? If we're honest, it probably causes us to pause a little bit and think about this. And likely, if you're like me, when I did this study, it raises two questions. Well, if the Father knows what we need before we ask him, Why do we pray at all? And does prayer matter or work? Well, first, Scripture clearly calls us to prayer, and it's an act of obedience. Let me read you some verses. Ask and it will be given you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be open for you. For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds. The one who knocks it will be opened. Or Matthew 21, and whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive if you have faith. Or John 14, whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. Or 1 John. This is the confidence that we have towards him that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have requests that we have asked of him. Or even in Jeremiah in the Old Testament, then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will hear you. You will seek me and find me, while you seek me with all of your heart. And even Paul and Philippians, do not be anxious about anything. But in prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. Scripture clearly demonstrates the command for us to pray to Him and that He hears those prayers. But the command to pray is in most part our acknowledgement of God's glory and who He is. God is due all glory and praise in what we do and in our prayer life. So you may need to reorient your thinking for a minute. If prayer is simply about getting your petitions answered, yet prayer is primarily about glorifying the God in which you serve. See one of the challenges is when we equate prayer with petitions. Have you ever prayed to God without asking him for something? Have you just given him praise or thanksgiving for who he is in prayer? When Paul talks about praying without ceasing, it isn't a long laundry list of needs. It's glorifying the God in which he serves, continually giving him praise. The command to pray to God is about God's glory first and foremost We obey the command because God is worthy of all praise. That is why we pray to Him. But the next question. Well, if everything is known to God, will our prayer change anything? Why pray? Will our prayer really change God's will? Well, this is an important and theological question. I want to be careful and thorough as I answer this concern. But first, what we need to wrestle with first is that when we change our minds as humans It's because we realize maybe our thinking was wrong, or there's some new information, or we didn't see the whole picture, or there's something else coming to light. But God is omniscient, meaning that there's nothing new to God. He knows everything. He knows what you're going to pray before you pray it. God does not change because he's the immutable, constant God who knows everything. No amount of our petitions are going to change God's mind about anything His ways have been set before the beginning of time, so no, your prayer will not change God's will. But second, and very importantly, this does not mean that prayer is not effective. You see, it's the Father's good pleasure that through human intercession on our behalf the Father works out his decreed purposes. Just like when we evangelize or share the gospel, God chooses to act through those as we obey Him, and the same works in prayer. See, in prayer, God chooses to involve us in his work, bringing through his perfect will, because of prayer, through prayer. And thirdly, prayer also has great working in us. As John Stott noted, when we come before God, our purpose in prayer is not to inform him or persuade God. But to come before Him sincerely, purposely, conscientiously, and devotedly. When we come before the Lord in humble prayer, making known our hearts and desires, we then become transformed. First, our our hearts are transformed as we grow and yearn with a desire to seek Him, know Him, and love Him more in prayer. That our hearts would ascribe to him the glory due to him in prayer. It's hard to pray to God if you don't love him. And through prayer, we grow in love of God. But also that in prayer we would bear our hearts in petitions before Him, that we would be changed That we would be unashamed of our desires before a just and holy God, that in a sense our hearts would align to His. So many times we hear of prayers that we pray and we think to ourselves, I'm not sure that's aligned to God's will. But through prayer, we learn and we grow to align our petitions and our desires to God's will. And three, that we would be prepared in thanksgiving to receive his good will in great gratitude and thanksgiving See, prayer reminds us that all things come from God. In his goodness, in his graciousness, and prayer prepares us to receive that goodwill. That we would be thankful through prayer, no matter what the outcome. So as I think back to this verse and what the Lord is responding to his disciples when he says this, in verse 8 about the Lord, the Father knows what you need before you ask him. I believe he's saying a message of instructive comfort to his disciples He's saying this. He's saying, pray to me. Because your prayer tells me of your heart for me. I am God. I already know what you need. I see everything that's going on. I see your weeping. I see your rejoicing. I see the challenges. I see the joys. I know what you need, and I'm already working. Praying to me tells me that you're my child, dependent, lowly, needy, and I will put you under my wing as I have promised to do for those who love me. See in this verse he's reinforcing that the power in prayer is his and his alone. No right recipe or incantation will move the hand of God. Our prayers have no power outside the sovereign will of God So why pray for an illness to recede, or a person to be saved, or any other need in life? Because prayer glorifies God and benefits us in that order. It reveals to us our need for Him and our weakness. It acknowledges who He is and His sovereign power. And prepares us for whatever God will do in His perfect will, effectively changing us into His image in the process. Of course I'll tell you. God's a gracious God, glorious God to give us this time of prayer. So how do we correct or protect ourselves? Against this formalism or misunderstanding of the purpose of prayer. Well, there are five applications I want you to consider tonight. This should go without saying, but it needs to be said, that claimant prayers are an offense to God. Telling God what He will do is a dangerous and wrong presumption upon the Lord. You can pray confidently according to His expressed will and promises in Scripture, but never pray in a way that you are commanding the Lord to do. anything. He is not a genie, but he's the sovereign Almighty God. Many try to pray, I have faith, the the Lord will save my friend. That is a dangerous, arrogant presumption on the Lord who's already set forth his plans and purposes. Do not claim God's power in your prayer. But second, come to prayer without pretense So you are praying to the Almighty God of the universe who knows everything. He knows all about you. He knows what you believe about him. He knows what's going on in your life. Pretense is the posturing as if you have some ability to keep the truth from God, like he doesn't know about this corner of your life. That's what pretense means. It's futile to come to God in pretense, like he doesn't see what's going on in your life He knows if you're angry. He knows if you're tired. He knows the sin you committed in the last ten minutes. He knows what you've been thinking about prior to prayer. In effect, that having some flourish of words that doesn't match your heart because it sounds godly is not a prayer pleasing to the Lord. This is pretense. It's the root of deception before the Lord. You should come in humility, meekness, and openness to the Lord, because He sees you for who you really are. Thirdly, examine your prayers for wrote phrases. See, it's our natural tendency to hold on to words and phrases that best reflect our thinking. Well, the challenge is, though, when those phrases, like the Pharisees, lose their importance because they can repeat it so many times, they end up losing their meaning to us. So if you always start or end your prayer with the same words, maybe consider if that truly has meaning to you anymore. Or if it's just how you kick off a prayer. Study the prayers of the Bible. Challenge yourself to look for other names of God. Deepen your heart and knowledge of the Lord that your expression and your life in Christ can be as varied as the way you speak to Him. Don't speak words that have no meaning to yourself. This is dangerous. But I want to say just a few words, positive words, about repetition. You see, not all repetition is bad. For example, we adore the words of the marriage liturgy. We quote them, right, until deaths do us part. In many cases, repetition is the means in which a truth can be burned into our minds and allow us to meditate on it. This is a way we are training, like doing memory work, a repetition, for truths of the faith us that are most precious. But again, it's a matter of the heart. Also in prayer, there's nothing wrong with the cross fix, if you know what that is, like the Acts Prayer or the Pray Prayer. These help us organize our thoughts. They mirror some of the best prayers in the Bible. In fact, I would encourage you to study these. Also, there's nothing wrong with reciting a written prayer, yours or others. It is a matter of heart disposition. You know, we sing songs other people wrote to the Lord. Like singing a hymn, it can put feelings into words and needs that your own ability lacks. Also, organizing your thoughts and prayers on paper avoids us using filters or trite statements because we can be concerned with the outward appearance. It allows us to bring our heart and bear our heart before the Lord privately. You see, our spouses love when we tell them that we love them every day. But I think most of them will testify for this, if you write them a love letter or a note. It could become treasured. But if you gave him that same note every day, it would lose its effect very quickly. Lastly, you can pray confidently that the Lord knows what you need. One of the greatest surges of the faith is that God hears us and is with us. You never have to wonder if God is hearing your prayers. He says, Behold, I am with you until the end of the age. This means that when we pray for our needs, The healing of a friend, a situation around the world, we know that God is pleased when we are ascribing to him the glory that he deserves as the one who controls the outcome of that situation. Knowing that he has ordained the prayers of his people in a way that will make his will manifest. Yet whether our prayer is answered in the way that we want or not, we acknowledge that he is God. And that his will is good and perfect in every way. So in closing In the passage tonight, the Lord has shown us these two dangers of prayer that can affect all believers: the love of public adoration, and we love the response of our fellow man in prayer. That our audience becomes man rather than God. And our focus becomes our own glory rather than the Lord's And second, the love of formalism is the danger of coming to prayer with a wrong understanding of how prayer works. Jesus illustrates that it is not the right words or phrases that move the hand of God, but rather that God is all powerful, that the power of prayer resides with God and not man. That is God's rightful place to be given glory and prayer as the sovereign of the universe. And we come to the Lord not to persuade Him or influence Him, but to worship Him, to adore Him To express our dependence and our obedience on him. And although God is sovereign, is not changed by the petitions of man, by his good pleasure, he works out his purposes through the To the prayers of man, to his glory alone. The Lord is so merciful to lay out these two dangers for us as we hear, as we enter into the Lord's Prayer. Let us take these two dangers to heart tonight. Probe your own heart to see if any of these errors exist and confess them before the Lord The Lord is clear that those who pray in this way already have their reward. These are prayers the Lord does not hear. This should be a solemn and frightful warning to us. That through the difficulty of prayer we can know how to pray, and he gives us this guy, but he tells us clearly how not to, that we can come to him in confidence. How we pray to the Lord matters. My hope is that in this study, that my heart as well as yours will be challenged in your prayer life I know that I need this as much as I would say that I don't. That we can come to the Lord without pretense. without ascribing the glory to the Lord and adore him in our personal and public prayer life. That our communion before the Lord in prayer would strengthen us in faith. As a centerpiece of our worship to the Lord. Let me close in prayer. Father, thank you for your gracious instruction and your awesome glory. Father, I pray that through this study that we will become people who pray to you in all meekness and humility, knowing the majesty of our God and our own lowliness. I ask that your word work in our hearts that those who hear that they might draw closer to you in prayer, that you might delight in the people who seek your face in adoration and obedience in this study. Father, help us to adore you and to worship you in prayer and to consider your sovereignty in all things, for yours is the power and the glory forever. Amen.