Would you turn with me in your Bibles tonight to Romans chapter 14? Romans chapter 14. Tonight will be the third message in a series that we've titled Welcome one another, how to experience gospel unity with brethren who differ on matters of conscience. Give you a moment to find your place, and then I'll give you a brief introduction to our message. In the early sixteenth century Europe, during the rise of the Protestant Reformation, two men came to prominence. Their names were Martin Luther, the son of a German copper miner, and John Calvin, the son of a bishop's secretary in France. Both John Calvin and Martin Luther were soundly converted to faith in Christ. Both of these men labored in their study of Scripture. Both of these men were used by God greatly to turn a people from darkness to light. And both of these men contended for the essential doctrines. of the gospel. We call these essential doctrines the five solas. You are familiar with these. Grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone. Scripture alone. Now let me quiz you. What's the last one? The glory of God alone. But when it came to the mode of worship, both of these men starkly disagreed. John Calvin took the position that if the scriptures do not explicitly approve an aspect of worship, Then the church should not do it. In Calvin's book, The Necessity of Reforming the Church, he said, God disapproves of all modes of worship not expressly sanctioned by his word This view became known throughout church history as the regulative principle in worship. Many Reformed churches who follow a strict application of the regulative principle do not allow for any instrumental um or any instrumentation in their worship. So no piano, no organ, no strings, no brass Because in the New Testament you find no mention of instruments being used. Therefore, because it is not explicitly stated in the New Testament, one could reason that it should not be used in church The same is true for choirs or soloists. There are churches today who sing congregationally with no piano or instrumentation, just congregational singing. Martin Luther, on the other hand, reasoned this way. If an element is not prohibited by Scripture, then it is indifferent and may be used in worship This became known as the normative principle in worship. Churches who follow the normative principle allow for instrumentation, choirs, and soloists, the use of PowerPoint. There is a wide spectrum of what should and should not be permitted within the normative principle. But my point is this. Here you have two men, right? John Calvin, Martin Luther, who loved the Lord. They knew the Lord. I don't think anyone should question that. They suffered personally for the sake of the gospel, and they were both used greatly by God, and yet they disagreed on non-essential issues. Wherever there is a body of believers, there will be differences of conscience and persuasion on matters of opinion. How do we experience the unity of Christ when such differences do exist? Do we segregate and form our own club within the church? Do we disassociate from one another and disag uh and form uh groups in whom we do disagree uh agree with, excuse me Do we engage in arguments and try to persuade others of our own opinion? Paul's answer to this is a resounding no. We follow the instruction that is given to us in Romans 14. We must welcome one another as Christ has welcomed us for the glory and praise of God. Let me remind us of the progress that we've made in the series thus far. In the first message, we gave attention to verse 1 alone, because it is Paul's thesis or governing idea for chapter 14. In the second message, we considered verses 2 through 4, where Paul raises the first topic that was causing division in the Church of Rome, specifically the abstaining of meat. Or from meat, rather. Tonight, we will cover the second topic under discussion, the observance of certain days. This is verses 5 through 12. I want you to see tonight that a Christian should not cast judgment on a brother or a sister in matters of conscience because both believers share the common goal of living for the Lord. Let's begin with our passage, chapter 14, verses 5 through 12. This is the second issue causing division in the church, the observance of days. Let's read together. One person esteems one day as better than the other, while the other esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats eats in honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God, while the one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord and give thanks to God. For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself. For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lords. For to this end Christ died and lived again, that he might be Lord of both the dead and of the living. Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you? Why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God, for it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then each of us will give an account of himself to God. Before we get into the text, I want to make a general observation throughout Romans 14. There are principles here that we've discovered as we've moved through this chapter that guide us in our thinking in how we work through issues of conscience. Some of these principles I'm labeling as horizontal in nature And what I mean by horizontal is that they instruct us in how we are to relate to other brothers and sisters of Christ within our church. Okay? They're focused on that plane. But there are other principles in this chapter that I call vertical principles. And that is, they help me in terms of thinking about my relationship to God in these issues of conscience. Okay, they're not so much having other brothers and sisters in view as much as my response to the Lord and my responsibility to the Lord. The believers in Rome had their horizontal relationships all messed up. Okay? The weak were judging the strong, and the strong on the other side were despising the weak. And so Paul counsels them towards gospel unity by first correcting their vertical focus. Okay, this was off. But there is a deeper issue, and that is this focus here So in this passage, we're going to look at three principles, three vertical principles or truths that we need to apply to ourselves. when working through these tertiary issues. And then in a month or so to come when we get to our next passage, we'll look at principles that govern more of our relationship towards one another. Okay? So that's where we are and that's where we're going. So look, let's look at our first principle, our first point tonight. Number one, Christians must be fully convinced in their own conscience. When making choices in matters that Scripture does not expressly command or forbid. Look with me at verse 5. Please look with me in your Bible down at verse 5. It says this. One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. Verse 5 informs us that there were believers in the Church of Rome who treated certain days as more sacred than others These believers are probably the same people who abstained from eating meat back in verse 2, last month's message. These, as you may remember, are Jewish believers, converted most likely out of Judaism, and therefore have a conscience that has been greatly shaped by the ceremonial elements of the Mosaic law. Paul calls these believers the week. Now, what are some of these sacred days that they were elevating over other days of the year? Well, most likely there is the Sabbath. That would be one day, of course, out of every week that would be elevated over others. Within Judaism, there are also many festivals and holy days, such as the Passover, Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement. Shavot, or the uh Pentecost, as we call it, the feast of trumpets, the feast of tabernacles, or the feast of booths. And thirdly, there were regular days of fasting. And of course, there are many others that I could have mentioned that we're not going to take time to. referred to tonight. But suffice it to say, Paul does not specifically identify which days were at matters of dispute. All that we know is that some believers, who are most likely the weak, regarded some days In special honor to the Lord, while other believers, most likely the strong, those who are Gentiles, regarded every day as a day that should be in honor of the Lord. That makes sense to us. Now, I think it's instructive here for us to observe how Paul does not respond to them. Look down at your verse. Paul does not choose a side in this matter. He does not command or commend toward one direction or the other. Second, he doesn't call for a compromise. He doesn't say to one group, you know, you need to just take a few holy days off of your calendar. And then to another group, you need to add a few days to your calendar. He doesn't call for a compromise. He does not adapt, adopt an attitude of passivity. He doesn't say, ah , this issue doesn't really matter. I'm not going to make a call on it. Just do what you want as long as everyone gets along. He doesn't respond that way either. What does Paul say in verse 5? The very last half of the verse is he says this. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. Let me ask you, how should two Christians who disagree on a tertiary issue work towards unity? They must individually come to a settled persuasion in their own conscience on the matter. Does that surprise you? Paul is saying to the weak, you need to be persuaded in your own mind. And Paul says to the strong, you need to be persuaded. in your own mind on this. Now I want to make three observations. First, this is a command. The expression rendered fully persuaded in the SV is one word in Greek. It occurs five times in the New Testament and it means to be fully convinced. or fully assured. Paul uses this term when he describes Abraham's faith in Romans 4 when he says that Abraham was fully persuaded that God, that what God had promised he was also able to perform. Paul is summoning these believers to be fully persuaded about their position on the observance of days. Second, this command engages the believer's conscience. The call to be fully persuaded in one's own mind is a call to have a settled personal conviction about a matter. In other words, Paul is saying each person needs to act according to their conscience. Third, this command places an emphasis on the believer's individual responsibility. Notice the expression each one and his own mind. Paul is not saying that you should be trying to go going around persuading other believers. But rather be sure that in your own conscience you are confident before the Lord in this matter Now I want to answer two questions that may come to mind. I don't have a lot of time to give to these two questions, but I think they're worth considering. What exactly are we to be persuaded of? He says each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. Convinced of what? Well, Paul is not saying that you should just be self-confident about your own viewpoint. How many of us have a tendency to just be confident about what we think is right? That's not what Paul is saying. In view of the context of verse 6, which puts significant emphasis on the honor of the Lord, I believe Paul is saying that we should be fully convinced that our decision in this area of liberty truly honors the Lord. Not that it's just what I want to do or even what I think you know, is is consistent with what I believe is right, but but that it honors the Lord, and I am persuaded of that. You see the distinction. Second, why must we be fully persuaded that our decision honors the Lord? Why can't we just. Be passive about this. Well, consider chapter 14, verse 22. The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. For whoever doubts, is condemned if he uh if he eats, because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin The Word of God teaches us that it is possible for a Christian to sin by going against their conscience. If a believer thinks that his activity might be sinful, but proceeds to do it anyway. He is acting um he is not acting in faith. He is going against his conscience and therefore Is sinning against the Lord. Let me illustrate this. In my late teens and early 20s, I worked as a waiter in a restaurant that did not serve alcohol. But not long after the restaurant was then acquired by another company, and the new ownership in time purchased a liquor license. I talked to the owner about my convictions, and he permitted me to refrain from serving alcoholic beverages. Instead, I would ask another waiter to serve the bar orders to my tables. And I would give my coworker the tip from those drinks. And so my conscience was clear. I did not serve alcohol and I did not benefit financially from it. But after a few years went by, my conscience became more and more disturbed. I felt like a hypocrite. Let me explain why. Here I was asking my coworkers to do something that I wasn't willing to do myself because of my faith. All the while, at the same time, I'm witnessing to them and seeking to compel them to repent of their sin. Some of these people struggled with addictions, some of them uh struggled with being uh a drunkard. And here am I. thinking to myself, what must it look like to come across what how how must it come across to them when this guy who is witnessing to them, telling them, you know, they need to repent and and turn to faith in Christ Meanwhile, I'm not willing to serve this alcohol, but I'm I'm paying them to do it for me. I felt in my own conscience that this was inconsistent and it greatly troubled me, and my greatest fear is that it would somehow somehow distort their view of Christ and their view of the gospel. Well, after much prayer and searching the scriptures, I came to a settled persuasion. I believed that it would best honor the Lord and serve the gospel for me to step away from that job. One of my family members who worked there and is also a believer did not share that same conviction and continued working there. And that's okay. Within literally hours of finalizing this decision, my pastor, out of nowhere, without any knowledge of this situation. within just hours, invited me to serve at my church in Pennsylvania as a full-time pastoral intern, which continued for three consecutive summers and greatly shaped the trajectory of my life. My point is this. We will all face issues where the scripture does not clearly command or forbid in one direction or the other. But each of us must seek the Lord, search the word, and come to be fully persuaded in what we believe most honors the Lord. Principle number one is this that we've covered. Christians must be fully convinced in their own conscience when making choices in matters that Scripture does not expressly command or forbid. Now, that means then, follow me here. That means then that it is entirely possible for a believer to arrive at a completely different persuasion in their conscience if each person is to be convinced in their own mind. How is that permissible? How can it be okay for one believer to say, I'm going to observe a feast in honor of the Lord, and for another believer over here to say, I'm not going to observe that feast? Or for one Christian to say, I believe God wants me to leave this job, and for another Christian working in the same office, or in my case, the same restaurant, to say, I believe God wants me to keep this job. How can two different convictions be held at the same time and both be acceptable to the Lord? That's the question we're getting at. Well that brings me to point number two, our second principle. Christians must make the honor of the Lord their primary goal when making choices on matters that Scripture does not expressly command or forbid. Look with me at verse 9. You'll see this pi this this principle just rise right out of the text in verses 6 through 9. The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. That's their motive. The one who eats eats in honor of the Lord since he gives thanks to God. That's the evidence of it. While the one who abstains abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God. For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself. For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's For to this end Christ died and lived again that he might be both Lord of the dead and of the living. This next section of Scripture is divided into three units of thought. Please follow me very carefully here. This is Paul he dives very, very deep in these few verses, six through nine. He plums the depths of God's wisdom. And at the very foundation of it all is the cross of Christ. But his logic is tight and he moves very deep very quickly. So let's try to trace this as best we can. Verse 6 states Paul's practical explanation for why both the weak and the strong can have different convictions. It's practical in nature. This is verse 6. Verse 7 Is is philosophical in nature. Paul's philosophy of life is stated here in verse 7. Paul grounds his practical counsel in verse 6 in his philosophy of life, which he introduces with the word for. So verse 7 is philosophical in a sense. Verse 8 Is soundly theological. It is rooted in the theology of the atonement. Paul grounds his philosophy of life in his theology of the cross. This is verse 8. And he begins his explanation again with the word for. So verse 8 is theological. Paul is going to counsel believers. how to make decisions in tertiary matters by grounding those decisions in the gospel itself. In other words, the cross of Christ lies at the foundation of why we choose what to do as Christians. even in matters of conscience. And I love this because here again we see the wisdom of God springing forth from where? From the cross of Christ. Let me show you this. Follow me in verse 6. It says this: the one who observes the day observes it, notice this phrase, in honor of the Lord. The one who eats, eats in honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God. While the one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God. Now you might be tempted to fall asleep here, but let me ask you, what phrase did I repeat? three times in that one sentence. In honor of the Lord. That is the dominant recurring phrase. And actually seven times in verses six through eight, Paul speaks of the Lord himself. He says, we honor the Lord, we live for the Lord, we even die to the Lord. To honor the Lord in this context is to make a decision with the primary concern, the primary factor being the glory of God In other words, Paul is getting us to think this way. What option will bring God the most glory in this decision that I'm facing? The expression to the Lord is a dative of advantage, and that simply means that Paul is counseling us to think about tertiary decisions with this question in mind. What option Will be to Christ's advantage. What option will be to Christ's advantage? The person who abstains from eating meat, you know what their primary concern is? It's the same person who chooses to abstain from eating meat. It's that God would be honored and glorified. That is their motive, and they give thanks for that. The person who does the very opposite and chooses not to eat meat, they share the same ultimate goal: to honor the Lord. Even though these two groups, the strong and the weak, have totally different outworkings of their position, the common denominator is that they are both concerned ultimately and motivated ultimately by the honor of the Lord. That's the heart behind both of these groups of Christians. And folks, this is how two believers who have different positions on tertiary issues can both be acceptable at the same time. to the Lord when they both share this same common denominator, the honor of the Lord. Let me illustrate this for you. How might we see this principle lived out in our church here at Calvary? Well, let me imagine two families. deciding whether or not to participate in Halloween. Alright, we're past Halloween. That was back in October. We're past elections. Okay. All right. Imagine with me family A. We're going to call them Family A. Family A searches the scriptures evaluates where their children are at in their spiritual understanding, and considers some of the associations of this event Halloween. And Family A decides to abstain from participating. They are persuaded in their conscience that it would be most glorifying to the Lord to not be involved. When October 31st rolls around, you will find their porch light out. the door closed and the family down the basement playing games and spending time together. And they are doing that with thanksgiving to the Lord. Family B, on the other hand, has also prayed about their involvement in Halloween. They have also sought to apply the scriptures and to think through the matter carefully But they have come to a completely different conclusion than Family A. They see Halloween as an opportunity to share gospel tracts. with dozens of neighbors and build redemptive relationships in their community. This scenario is most likely hypothetical. But with a church as large as ours, I am certain that both of these views are represented at Calvary. What is the common denominator between the two families? Even though their positions are different, they are both primarily concerned about the honor of the Lord and their decision. Do you see? And therefore, both family A and family B are pleasing to the Lord, though they hold contrasting positions, just like the weak and the strong in our passage tonight. They both have the opportunity to honor the Lord and please the Lord if they're landing on this decision out of a motive of honoring him. Now, let's follow Paul's train of thought here. He's not finished. Why is the honor of the Lord the primary concern of the Christian life? Why are Christians concerned about God being honored through their life and through every decision? Look at verse 7. For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself. For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then whether we live or whether we die, we die, or we we we die to the Lord. The Christian seeks the glory of God in every decision of life because his or her whole life is lived for the advantage of Christ. This is Paul's philosophy of life, as it were. We don't live to please ourselves. We don't make decisions to promote our own interests. That's how the world lives. That's how your neighbor lives. That's how they think. That's how your coworkers think. They're out for whatever benefits them. But Christian, that's not how you think. Your concern is how is Christ glorified This is the philosophy of the Christian life. Paul sums it up in Philippians 1. 21 when he says, For me to live is Christ. That's it. John says, he must increase, but I must decrease. This is the refrain of a new song that God has put in the heart of a believer. He must increase, but I must decrease. Not only is our life to be lived for the advantage of Christ, but so is our death, he says here. Look at the end of verse 7 with me, and you if you would. Verse 7, none of us dies to himself. For if we live, we live to the Lord. And if we die, we die to the Lord. Do you realize that God intends for you to bring glory to him through your death I I think this is something that at least as a young younger I can't say young person anymore, at least I don't feel I can say younger person. That younger person, not young person, I don't think I have thought as but as much about in my in my life. But But now I'm I'm halfway through, almost halfway through my 30s, and I'm thinking more and more about the end of my life. God wants us to glorify him in our death. Jesus says to Peter at the end of John's Gospel, I listen to this, I say to you, When you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted. But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go. And then he says this. This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God. And after saying this, he said to him, Follow me. Brothers and sisters, our primary concern as we think about our own departure from this life should not be the security of our finances. or the comfort and location of our care, but rather how might we glorify God in our death. This is the underlying motive of the Christian life. For me to live or for me to die, it's all for Christ. Now, Paul's not done with this train of logic. We've got to go one step further. So if you're st I encourage you just hang on. We're going to come out the other tunnel, the other end of the tunnel. Why does the Christian make it his great aim to live and die for the honor of the Lord? Why does the Christian think this way? Why does he live this way? Well, look with me at verse 9. Paul gives further explanation. For to this end Christ died. and lives, lived again, that he might be Lord of both the dead and the living. This is a profound statement, and I think you could take an entire message to explore the significance and the meaning of this one verse. We're not going to do that, but I'm going to try to summarize it for us here. Verse 9 is the theological grounds for Christ's Lordship. Paul's point is that Christ is Lord over all men, both those who live and those who are dead. And the basis upon which God the Father has established Christ's lordship is Christ's own death and resurrection. Do we have a cross reference for this? Yes, we do. Consider Philippians two, eight through eleven. And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. even the death of the cross. And on that basis, on that grounds, verse 9, therefore God has highly exalted him. and bestowed on him a name that is above every name, so at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in things in heaven and things on earth and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess That Jesus Christ, catch this, is Lord. The Lordship of Christ is grounded upon the the the the death of Christ on the cross Romans 1. 4 says that Christ was declared to be the Son of God by the resurrection of the dead. Jesus Christ died and rose again so that he would be Lord over all. The dead and the living. Therefore, we live for him who died for us. For the love of Christ controls us because we have concluded this, that one has died for all, therefore all have died. and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and rose again. The death of Christ establishes his lordship over all of us. We live for him because he died for us. This is the foundation of it all. This is why in every decision of life, even the ones that are not clearly spelled out in the pages of Scripture, Decisions that the scripture does not necessarily condemn or command. Your fundamental desire is to honor the Lord because that's what all of your life is about. You live not for yourself, but for Christ. Why? Because Christ God died for you. And he is your Lord. Do you see how these decisions are not rooted out of selfishness or selfish ambition or what makes me happy, but how can I glorify Christ because of the cross The wisdom of God springs from the cross. Christ is made unto us the wisdom of God. Therefore, the decision that we must make in matters of conscience must be governed by one supreme motive. the glory and honor of Christ. So this is where we've been thus far. Principle number one, just so you're tracking with me, principle number one, point number one. Christians must be fully convinced in their own conscience when making choices in matters that Scripture does not expressly command or forbid. Principle number two, Christians must make the honor of the Lord their primary goal when making decisions on matters that Scripture does not expressly command or forbid. Now we come finally tonight to point number three. Christians must remember that they are individually accountable to the Lord. for their decisions on matters that Scripture does not expressly command or forbid. Look with me at verses 10 through 12. Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God. For it is written, as I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then each of us will give an account of himself to God. Paul brings the opening paragraph of verses 1 to 12. Which is what we've covered now, beginning with the first message in this series and now concluding with the third message. He opens this paragraph by calling both the weak and the strong to cease from being critical of each other in view of the judgment seat of God. Remember that it is the tendency of the weak to look how at the strong, to cast what. judgment and it is the tendency of the strong to do what to the weak to begins with a D Despise despise right Paul says, Why are you doing this? I would have loved to have heard the tone that he used in his voice. Of course, when he was writing, he wasn't probably speaking in that sense, but I would have loved to hear Paul say this to the Romans. Why are you doing this? He's essentially saying, stop. And and you might say, well, why, Paul? And his reasoning is this, we will all appear before the Lord to give an account. And then look, he cites Isaiah. 4523, which I imagine Pastor Aaron has probably covered not that long ago. A proof text. For this eschatological doctrine. He says this, as I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me and every tongue shall confess to God. The doctrine of final things teaches us that each believer will answer personally to the Lord for their life. Now I want to make one major point regarding verses 10 through 12, so please follow me here. This is not the first time. Think with me, this is not the first time That Paul has raised the topic of final judgment and accountability to the Lord in in the end times. Do you remember covering verse 4 from last message? Look up at verse 4. Remember we covered this? Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls, and he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. Is Paul just repeating himself in verses 10 through 12? Why does he bring up this the same general topic twice in this conversation? In verse 4, Paul says that you should stop judging each other, the weak and the strong, because that's not your place. Do you remember I made that point? You're not judge. That's out of line for you. You're taking on a prerogative, a divine prerogative that does not belong to you. Are you that person's master? Are you your brother or sister's master? No, you're not. You're a fellow servant. That position To cast judgment belongs only to God. That was his point in verse 4 in bringing up final judgment. But that's not his point in verses 10 through 12. The emphasis in verses 10 through 12 is that you should stop judging your brother or sister because you yourself must give account to the Lord. The emphasis here is on our individual accountability to God. This is what God highlights in the Isaiah 45 quotation in verse 12 when it says, so then look at it with me. So then each of us will give an account of himself to God. Every knee will bow. Every tongue will confess. So what's the conclusion? Well, you need to remember before you judge your brother or sister that you are going to have to give an account to the Lord. So stop judging them. That's his point as he wraps up verses 1 through 12. So the conclusion. Paul's counsel can be summarized this way. Instead of casting judgment on another believer, Christians need to be certain of their position in their own conscience before the Lord. Remember how I said this council is primarily vertical, not horizontal. Okay? Paul is saying in his first principle, his first point of counsel is that instead of trying to persuade other Christians of your point viewpoint, You need to make sure that in your conscience you are fully persuaded that your decision where you land on this matter of opinion honors the Lord. Okay? And then his second point is this. Instead of calling into question your brothers or sisters' spirituality or casting judgment on them whether they're really doing uh what they've chosen to do out of a love for the Lord. You need to make sure that what you've chosen to do is motivated and your position is motivated supremely by the honor of Christ. Do you see how he's aligning the vertical focus here? Has what I is what I am choosing to do in this matter of of opinion of opinion or matter of conscience or a tertiary matter. Am I motivated To do this, uh whatever position I've landed on for the honor of Christ. And then thirdly, instead of sitting in judgment on my brother or sister, Christians need to recognize that they themselves will stand before the Lord and give an account. So I need to make sure that that I'm living, before I cast judgment on my brother or sister, I need to make sure that I'm living with a view towards giving an account to God. Do you see the the vertical council here and aligning these people's thinking so that they can then relate rightly to their brethren? In summary, Paul is seeking to rightly align the weak and the strong under the Lordship of Christ so that they will be rightly aligned with each other. I'm going to draw some application tonight as we come to a conclusion. I would like to apply principle number one. Do you remember what principle number one is? It's to be fully convinced in your own mind, right? Some of you have a tendency to go around trying to convince everyone about your own opinions. On, again, what we're calling tertiary matters. Paul says, Paul's counsel is very simple. It can be summed up in two words. Can you guess what they are? Stop it. Thank you, Brother Paul, Don Paul. Stop it. That that's it. That's it. You need to be persuaded in your own mind, not theirs. Okay? Get out of their brain. Stay in yours. Alright, that that's essentially what be persuaded in your own mind. On the other hand, some of you don't have that kind of personality at all. You are actually very non-convert -confrontational. You don't like to make a stir. You just like to go along with a crowd. And Paul says to you, you need to be persuaded in your own mind. Let me illustrate this to flesh out what I mean by this. Let's say you're in your mid-twenties, and your friends invite you to go out to a movie with them, but you suspect that this movie will not honor the Lord. But because you don't want to make an issue about it, or maybe you're embarrassed to bring this up, you just passively go along with everyone else and what they want to do. But internally your conscience is really not at peace about this. Paul says to you, you must, this is a command, you must be persuaded in your own mind And you need to stick with that conviction. If your conscience, if you are not confident that viewing that movie at the theater is glorifying to the Lord and honoring to the Lord, then then you should remain um convinced in your own opinion about this. Okay? You need to be fully convinced in your own mind what pleases the Lord. Now that brings up point number two. Principle number two is this, that we are to honor the Lord above all. Christians must assume That their brother or sister who may disagree with them on a tertiary issue is doing so out of a desire to honor the Lord. One of the most destructive attitudes in the church is to assume that your brother or sister does not love the Lord or is not spiritually minded. Okay. You might have a brother or sister who has decided to take a different position than you do on a tertiary issue. What you should not do is assume that because they have disagreed with you in that decision that they don't know the Lord or love the Lord, Does Paul think back to our passage tonight regarding those who chose to abstain from uh certain days and s and and and did not celebrate certain days uh or did not um or chose to eat meat and those who uh chose to eat meat and and did celebrate celebrate these these festival days, okay? So the weak and the strong. Does he cast a skepticism on either one of them? No, he assumes the best of both of them that the weak are doing it out of a motive to honor the Lord, and the strong are doing it out of a motive to honor the Lord. We should not look at our brethren who disagree with us or have a difference of opinion and assume the worst about them, that they're not motivated by the honor of the Lord. That's not Paul's example. And we need to take counsel from that. Finally, we need to be careful about our own motives in areas of liberty. in the honor of the Lord. How do you know? Let me ask this. There there are many areas in life where the scripture does not expressly command or forbid what we're calling tertiary issues. issues of conscience, where there's liberty in these things. How do we know that a certain decision honors the Lord? Have you ever been troubled by that? How do you think through that? Well, let's think about our passage because there's some instruction here. Remember that Paul says the person who abstains. They give thanks to God. And the person who partakes, they also give thanks to God. Let me ask you this. In the decisions that you're making in these tertiary issues, are you able, with a clear conscience To just be thankful and to give thanks before you participate or view or engage in that activity. I think this is a great way to as a test to see what I am choosing to do is this honoring to the Lord. Just ask yourself before you do it, can I, in my conscience, pause for a moment, say, Lord, With unhindered conscience, I am thankful that you allow me to do this. Before you watch that movie , with your knowledge of who God is, his character. Can you pause in your spirit and say, Lord, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to watch this, and I can engage this with a free conscience? If you can do that, then you can go forward with the confidence that you're doing that, you're watching that for the honor of the Lord. But if your conscience Shrinks from that. And you can't with confidence go the Lord before the Lord and really thank him for whatever it is that that you're considering going to do. then then I think you need to pause for a minute and really evaluate your motive. Am I doing this for God's honor? Or am I driven by just making this decision because it's what I want? versus God's glory. Okay? Alright, my time is up. That brings us to our conclusion. We've covered some very helpful and I think very practical counsel to us. Let's take this as we move into uh this week and the next week as we encounter things where you know we're we may have disagreement with brethren who who hold different positions than us or we're we're faced with decisions that that we're not sure about. Let's apply these truths. to our life and to our relationships and to our walk with the Lord. And may He give us great joy as we welcome one another for the glory and praise of our Savior.