Turn your Bibles, please, to John chapter 6. John chapter 6, we're going to be looking at the passage we read together just a moment ago. Juan Ponce de León was a Spanish explorer and conquistador who was the first European to set foot on Puerto Rico and Florida. In fact, he named Florida in 1513 when he landed near St. Augustine. Now what is fascinating about Ponce de Leon Is that what he's famous for is something he never did. When I was growing up, I would always heard that Ponce de Leon came to Florida Searching for the fountain of youth. Have you heard that before? I'm glad I'm not the only one. Well, historians have checked this out, and there's absolutely no record anywhere That he went searching for the fountain of youth. But sometime after he died, a man wrote a book seeking to discredit him as a fool And said that Ponce de Leon went all through Florida looking for the fountain of youth. Not true. However, man does have a natural yearning in his heart. For life that never ends. We have a culture that's obsessed with staying young Exercise supplements, many other things, trying to stay young But of course, the end result is inevitable. As someone once said, death is very impressive statistics We will all die unless the Lord returns before we die. Everlasting life is one of the key concepts in the Gospel of John. It's scattered in some of the other Gospels, but it's really a theme in this book. It's found several times in the Bread of Life Discourse that's recorded here in John chapter 6. And I want you to notice as we kind of conclude the teaching section of this sermon this morning, that there are three key verses that reiterate the theme of this sermon, and I want you to notice this. Look with me, first of all, verse 35. Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. And then another summary verse, verse 51. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my. flesh. And then verse 58. This is the bread that came down from heaven, not like the bread the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live Forever. So what is this message all about We see this metaphor, this analogy of the bread of life, also called the living bread, also called the bread that comes down from heaven, and they all point to Christ. As our source of eternal life. The one who eats this bread will never die. But most people who heard those words audibly by our Lord that day in Capernaum walked away. In the paragraph that follows this one, we have our the people's response. And we read that they turned back and no longer walked with him. They said, no, thank you. And they walked away. They didn't accept his claim that he came down from heaven. Look at verse 41. So the Jews grumbled about him because he said, I'm the bread that came down from heaven. And in verse 51, Jesus, for the first time in this address, uses the word flesh. Notice what he says. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. That might sound strange to you. It sounded strange to the people who first heard it. And that's why we read The Jews then disputed among themselves, how can this man give us his flesh to eat? That's odd. That's strange, they thought They turned away from it. And so what he's going to say in the verses that follow is an explanation. And he's not going to back off from this disturbing imagery. In fact, he's going to double down. He's going to continue to speak about eating his flesh. and drinking his blood. Look at me at we look with me at verses 53 and following. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life. in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food and my blood is true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him. Now I have to tell you, I've never heard a sermon preached from this text before And I've never seen a plaque up like in a kitchen somewhere that had these verses on them. Because the imagery is disturbing. But it's the Word of God, and it has a very important lesson for us. It's not suggesting cannibalism. What is Jesus saying to these people at Capernaum? Before we really, really get into the details of it, we need to address the overall interpretation. There have been many over the centuries who, in looking at these verses, have seen a reference to communion or the Lord's Supper. In fact, This paragraph is claimed as the key text for the Roman Catholic doctrine of transubstantiation. This false teaching claims that the body and blood of Christ are truly present in the elements of the Lord's table. I won't give you a long metaphysical explanation of how they say that happens, but they believe That the bread and the cup actually are the body and the blood of Christ. Now, there are many Protestants who do not believe in the Catholic doctrine of the Mass, but they still believe that this passage teaches that communion is a life-giving sacrament. In fact, this may be the most common way this passage has been understood through the centuries. But I hope to show you that this is a false interpretation. Let me give you four reasons why that is. Number one, there is nothing in the context of this sermon to suggest that Jesus is referring to the Lord's Supper. It's very easy when we read Scripture to read things back into it from our vantage points. But let me remind you that Jesus had not instituted the Lord's supper at this point. It's nowhere mentioned in the Gospel of John. How were these people to understand what he meant? Unless he had already given them instruction about this. We always have to think when we interpret Scripture of what was meant for the original audience Not what we think it might mean in the 21st century, but what did those people that day in Capernaum think that it meant? And the fact is, there would have been no way they would have understood this to be symbolic or language about the Lord's Supper. Number two, the language of flesh that he uses repeatedly in this is never used in the biblical description of the Lord's Supper. He always says, speaks in those passages about his body, but he never speaks of his flesh. Number three, consider this. Why would Jesus explain the meaning of the Lord's Supper to a group of people who were almost entirely unbelievers? They respond in unbelief and they leave. Why would he give them this instruction about something that is for Christians to do when they are non-Christians? 1 Corinthians 11 is very clear that this is an observance for believing people. And finally, number four, if this passage refers to communion , Then partaking of communion is an essential way that one is converted. Because look at the clear language in verses 53 and 54. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. And verse 54, whoever feeds from my flesh And drinks my blood, has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. And there are millions of people, hundreds of millions of people, who believe that this is the essence of Christianity. That sometime on the weekend you go to a service and you partake of what's called the Mass And that is the basis of your claim to eternal life. Because these verses say, if you eat and you drink, you will live forever. But Christianity cannot be reduced to a ritual. And this is at odds with everything else that Jesus teaches in Scripture. We are so we are so easily drawn to doing something to save ourselves, right? We don't like the fact that it's something internal, that it's something spiritual, that it's something that God does within us. We want to be able to do something so we can check it off our list. Did that. I partook of the sacrament and now I'm good. God receives me and accepts me Doesn't really matter how I live the rest of the week, I'm good to go. And perhaps Baptists don't think that way, but we might think instead I've been dunked in a tank of water. I'm good to go. Or I walked an aisle, or I said a prayer. And therefore, I have absolute confidence that I am a Christian. Do not misunderstand me. And I'm going to mention this later in this message. There is a place when we put our faith and trust in Christ, but the basis of our assurance is not that I did something. It's that Christ did something for me. So if this passage, this figurative language is not talking about communion, what is Jesus getting at? What is he talking about? This is something that anybody can understand if you read carefully enough and you look at the language that is used here. Notice how in verses 53 and 54 First of all, it begins with the words truly, truly. It had this title, the Son of Man. And you have this promise, I will raise him up at the last day. Does he use words like that earlier in this very sermon? Yes, he does. Look with me at verse 47 , the next time where he says, truly, truly, truly I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. Back up to verse 40, we find this phrase again. For this is the will of my Father that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. You see, if you let these words interpret themselves, he's using this figurative language as metaphors for believing. Eating and drinking are pictures of what it means to trust in Christ. And there are at least two connections here. One is there's personal appropriation. You have to eat for yourself, right? It's something personal that you do for yourself. Someone can eat for you. You have to do that for yourself. And it's absolutely essential for life. No one can take go on a diet that says, you know what, my new diet plan is I'm just not going to eat anything ever. Well, you'll lose weight, but you will die as well. Because you have to eat to live. And it's the same with trusting in Christ. If you don't appropriate and take in Christ, if you don't trust in Christ, you will perish eternally. But if you do trust in Christ, you will have everlasting life. So I want to preach you this morning on feeding on the bread that gives eternal life. And I have three points I want you to consider this morning. Number one, only those who believe in the sacrificial death of Christ will receive the gift of eternal life. Look with me at verse 52, please. The Jews disputed among themselves, saying, how can this man give us his flesh to eat? This is not the first time they've disputed. In verse 41, it says, so the Jews grumbled about him, because he said, I am the bread that came down from heaven. They said, he didn't come down from heaven. We know his parents, Mary and Joseph. Who is he trying to kid? And now they're complaining. What does he mean to eat his flesh? The rest of this paragraph is Jesus' answer to that objection. And notice that Jesus doesn't soften his language. In verse 53 says, for my flesh is true food and my blood is true drink. He doesn't soften his language, he intensifies it. They were already a little put off with his reference to eating his flesh, but then they are more offended by his reference to drinking his blood. The drinking of blood was forbidden in the Old Testament law in like a dozen different places. It was a common practice in the ancient world, but the Jewish people would not drink blood. And so when Jesus talks about drinking his blood, it's almost like he's inviting them to violate their precious scriptures. So why does Jesus use this imagery? He's making connection with the entirety of the Old Testament that has prepared the way for his coming. When it talks about eating his flesh, undoubtedly I think he's thinking of the Passover celebration You remember what we read in Exodus rights, that final plague, the death of the firstborn. But the Jewish people, if they celebrated the Passover and they ate the Passover lamb and they smeared its blood on the doorpost, the angel of death would pass over and their firstborn would not die. But if they didn't follow those instructions, the firstborn would die. What do you suppose if someone said, you know. I hear what Moses is saying, but lamb's not really my dish. I'll sit down at the table, but I'm not going to eat. I'm not going to ingest that food. then it would be an act of disobedience and unbelief. So this is this is a real picture of what it means to appropriate and trust. And the blood, you cannot read the Old Testament without reading about blood everywhere, right? Read the book of Leviticus sometime. I worry about you who are easily disturbed by blood that you're skipping over the book of Leviticus because it's everywhere there. It's been said that the tabernacle was more like a butcher's shop than it was a house of worship. The blood of all those sacrifices that was shed was all preparing a way for the death of Christ because blood in Scripture is a picture of death. Life poured out in death. The Hebrew word for blood, damim, when it's in the plural form , Speaks of blood that's been shed violently. And so this picture of drinking blood is A picture of someone appropriating and trusting in the shed blood of Christ on their behalf What happens if a person rejects Christ's sacrifice for sin? Look at The end of verse 353, you have no life in you. That is, you do not possess eternal life. This is the negative aspect of the truth. But there is a positive one as well. Look at verse 54. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life. We have both sides of the coin, the negative and the positive. And then this promise, I will raise him up at the last day. If you've been with us in this series, you know what that means. This is John's unique way. of referring to the completion of our salvation. He's the only writer who uses this term, and he uses it three times. in this sermon. He uses it here. Now look at verse 44. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him And I will raise him up the last day. And then verse 40, for this is the will of my Father that everyone who looks in the Son and believes in him should have eternal life. And I will raise him up on the last day. This means that God will complete what he has started. The work of redemption that he has started in you, he will complete. He will bring it to pass. And that will be symbolized by you being your body being raised on the last day. And verse 55. is a word of explanation. It explains how Jesus can make this amazing offer. Notice how this verse begins with the word For, which means it's connected and it's a word of explanation. For my flesh is true food and my blood is true drink. Notice the personal pronouns, my flesh, my blood. This is true only of the Son of Man. I've mentioned to you before that this word true that's often used by John is a very important word. It means that which is authentic or real. And John uses it in an eschatological sense as the fulfillment of types and symbols of the Old Testament. The flesh of those Passover lambs and the blood of all those sacrifices, they were all just types, symbols, but the real The real food, the real sacrifice is in the death of Christ. He's already said similar things like this in the discourse. Look with me up at verse 27. He says, do not work for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his And then again in verse 32, look at this. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my father gives you the true bread from heaven. That manna was just something that sustained their life for a short time, but it was a picture of the true bread of life that would come With the incarnation of Christ. You see, Jesus is the real food, the true bread, the real drink that brings life to dead sinners. And it's only through his sacrificial death that we are saved. Those who do not believe That Jesus died in their place and are not trusting in his sacrifice on the cross cannot be saved. Because this is The pathway, the method that God has chosen to save sinners like us Only those who believe in the sacrificial death of Christ will receive eternal life. Secondly, only those who continue to believe in Christ will receive the gift of eternal life. Now, listen to me carefully on this. I don't want you to be confused. In verse 53, the verb for eat speaks of an event in the past. This is, I think, in a reference to a person's conversion In John chapter 5 and verse 24, just the previous chapter, we read these words by Jesus. Truly, truly I say to you, whoever hears my words and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into condemnation or judgment, but has passed from death unto life. Every true believer at some moment in their life passed from death unto unto life. That's what this passage says. Now some Christians can pinpoint exactly when that was. A person like that was John Wesley, the founder of the Methodist. He talks about the fact that he went to Aldersgate Street where a man was reading the uh commentary that had within the front part of it the the testimony and salvation of Martin Luther. And he says that his heart was strangely warm. This was on May 24th, 1738. He says that about a quarter to nine, his heart was changed. And he would never be the same again. Not every Christian can identify that moment, but every Christian was saved at a moment in time. But I want you to know, and this is the important thing, this is not the end of what it means to trust in Christ. A lot of churches and a lot of people put such a focus on that moment of conversion That they neglect other scriptures that tell us that we must continue to trust and follow the Lord. We must continue to go to him for spiritual nourishment and sustenance the rest of our days. John is going to express this eating with a different Greek word and also a different verb tense This distinction is brought out carefully in the ESV translation. You'll notice it goes from eating now to feeds. With an S on the N. We see this in verse 54. Look with me at this. Whoever feeds from my flesh. And then again in verse 56, whoever feeds on my flesh, and then again in verse 57, so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. And then verse 58 whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. Now, what exactly is the significance of this unusual Greek verb that is translated here, feeds? It means someone who eats noisily Do you know any noisy eaters? Why do I see all these wives looking at their husbands? Alright? Some people are very annoyed and very rude at people Who eat in an aggressive manner, we'll put it that way, and who make noise while they're eating. What are we to take from this? I think that when a person is making noise while they eat, it usually is an indication that they really like what they're eating. It doesn't necessarily mean that they're trying to be rude, but it means that they're really enjoying this. Oh, this is so good. They're delighting in it. And this is the idea Christians feast on Christ. We don't go to him because it's a chore and it's a ritual that we have to do and we have to check up our box. No, we we commune with Christ, we pray to him, we read as we're We sing his praises because we delight to do so. It's like eating a wonderful meal. And the tense of the verb that's used throughout here for this verb feeding is of something that began in the past but continues in the presence Verse 56, whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him. We persevere. It's not that we we ate one time in the past a meal and now we don't have to worry about ever trusting in Christ again because we got that taken care of. A lot of gospel preaching churches, in my estimation growing up, were a little unbalanced on this. I'm talking about Baptist churches. We're a Baptist church. I'm critiquing ourselves. And that is there was such an emphasis on once saved, always saved, on eternal security. That people were constantly drilled into your head. If there's nothing else you remember, just remember that you can never lose your salvation. Which, by the way, is true. If you've truly been born again. The problem is so often a person's profession of faith was made an ironclad guarantee that they were truly born again. And that's not the case. Just because a person walked an aisle or said a prayer does not mean they've truly been born again. They may not have truly trusted in Christ. They may not have repented of their sin. They may not have understood what they were doing. You can't say, if you did this, remember our tendency as fallen people is we want something we can do that guarantees we're good with God. If you do this, then you're saved. And then little Johnny makes a profession of faith when he's five years old. And for the rest of his life, he has absolutely no interest in spiritual things. And when he comes of age, he wants nothing to do with Christianity, and he lives a wicked life the rest of his days. Just like every other lost person who's living for themselves. But some will say, well, you know, he did make that profession of faith. He did say that prayer at that camp when he was five years old. I think he's going to be in heaven someday. That's not what the Word of God teaches. It's not what it teaches, friends. We do not work our way to heaven. And a lot of times the way the reason the churches have shied away from ever teaching that you must persevere in faith is it sounds like a work. But if you are persevering in faith, it's only because God is keeping you. But because it sounds like a work, we shy away from that because we don't want to be said that we're Encouraging people to earn their salvation, which I absolutely agree with. But those who are truly born again will persevere. They will continue to come and feed on Christ throughout their lives. They won't eat once and then say, never again. They will continue to feast on him. Now, verse 56 should remind you of a famous chapter in the Bible when it talks about here abiding in me and I in him. That should remind you, if you know your Bible, of John chapter 15. Which Lord of Willing will come in a year or two. Turn with me to John chapter 15, please. John chapter 15. These are precious words our Lord gave to his disciples the night before he was crucified. I am the true vine, and my father is the vine dresser. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit. He prunes that it may bear more fruit. Already you are clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me and I in you as the branch cannot bear fruit. by itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine. You are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him He it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me, he is thrown away like a branch and withers and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned. If you abide in me and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. By this my Father is glorified that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples. As the Father hath loved me, so I have loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. These things I have spoken unto you, that my joy might be in you, and that your joy might be in Full. you. We have here a picture of that close relationship that the believer should have with Christ. Of abiding in him. We abide in him, and he abides in us. And the results of this abiding In verses 4 and 5 and 8 is fruit, fruit like answered prayer. And we read that we will experience love and fullness of joy. But I'll save any further comments to when we come to this chapter. I would just conclude with this. Abiding in Christ is the essence of the Christian life. It's the essence of the Christian life. Now turn back with me, please, to John chapter 6. We need to conclude this paragraph. Verse 57, as the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. What is Jesus saying in this verse? Well, the reference to living Father should remind you of the fact that Jesus, that God is a living God. Exodus chapter 3 and verse 14, we read that he revealed himself to Moses as the great I am. He is the self-existent one. All life, both physical and spiritual, comes from him. And in John chapter 5 and verse 26, we read this interesting verse. For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself. God the Father has given this to his Son so that whoever feeds on Christ will live, because in Christ is life. In the sermon, he brings out this theme of life again and again. He says, I am the bread of life. And John 4, he said to the woman at the well that he is the living water that satisfies the thirsty soul. In John chapter 10 and verse 10, we read that he came that his people might have life and have it abundantly. In John chapter 11, Jesus says, I'm the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me shall never die. And in John 14 and verse 6, Jesus says, I'm the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. You see, since Jesus has life in himself, those who feed on him by faith will live forever. So how does one appropriate the gift of eternal life? You must believe in the sacrificial death of Christ. You must compl continue to believe or abide in Christ. And thirdly, Only those who believe that Jesus is the Son of God will receive the gift of eternal life. Look at the concluding verse here, verse 58. This is a summary of the entire message. This is the bread that came down from heaven, not like the bread the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. Notice Jesus switches back from talking about his flesh to talking about himself as bread which came down from heaven. This expression is found seven times in this discourse. I'm not going to take you through them all, but verse 33 and verse 38 in verses 41 and 42, in verses 50 and 51, and finally here in verse 58, this speaks of Jesus' divine origin. The second person of the Trinity did not begin his existence in Bethlehem. No, he is the eternal Son of God. But he took on flesh. That he might be the Savior of the world and die for us. You see, only faith in Christ as the Son of God will save. I want you to think about what these people in that synagogue believed. that day about Jesus. In the earlier comments that they make, we read that they believe that he was a great prophet. No doubt about that. They believed that he was a miracle worker because he fed many of them the day before in the feeding of the 5,000 But they balked at the idea that he was the Son of God who came down from heaven. Only those who trust in a Savior who is fully God and fully man can be saved. In John chapter 1 and verse 18, we read that the only divine son can make the Father known. The only way you can really know God is through his Son And in John chapter 20 and verse 31, the purpose statement of this great gospel of John we read, but these are written so that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you might have life in His name. Now look again at verse 58. Notice that once again the Lord is contrasting himself as the bread of life with the manna that was given in the wilderness. That's where he started at the beginning of this message. He says, not like the bread the fathers ate and died. That Exodus generation who complained just like these people They ate the manna that God provided, but eventually they all died in the wilderness. A few of them, Joshua and Caleb, made it into the promised land, but they died, of course. in time as well. You see, the bread that came from heaven, the Lord Jesus Christ is infinitely superior. to the manna that God gave to his people in the wilderness. Let me mention two ways. Number one, the Old Testament manna only fed the Jewish people in the wilderness. But the bread of God who comes down from heaven, according to verse 33, gives life to the world, to all kinds of people. Secondly, the Old Testament man has sustained the physical life of people, but they still died. But whoever feeds on this bread, this bread of life, will live forever. This is an open-ended promise that is made throughout this sermon. I want you to notice this. Just listen to all of these whoevers and every ones. Verse 35, whoever comes to me will not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. And then verse 40, everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life. Verse 51, if anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. Verse 58, whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. forever. You see, he's inviting these people to believe. And what's so powerful about this is that he knows that they will not believe, in large part. Because he knows he's mentioned this earlier. So let me ask you, have you received the gift of eternal life? I did ask you if you had a nebulous kind of faith that Jesus was a really good man. I think there are a lot of people in the world today, especially in countries like America where the gospel has been preached many times. That are like the people in the synagogue. They have high views of Jesus. And they've gotten really close. But they haven't appropriated him for themselves. They haven't eaten of the bread of life. As it were, to use this analogy, they They've seen the bread and they've smelled the freshness of that bread, but they haven't tasted it. They haven't taken it in. They haven't gotten any benefit from it, any nourishment from it. They haven't appropriated it by faith. And maybe you're here this morning, and this would be true of you. You have a form of godliness. You might even call yourself a Christian. And in a cultural sense, perhaps you are. You're not a Buddhist. You're not a Hindu. You're not a Muslim. And you live in people that talk about Jesus and think highly of him But do you have the bread of life? Have you come to feed upon him? That he is your trust? Do you delight in him? Do you cling to him? Do you trust in him? This is the only path to eternal life. And just as Jesus constantly in this sermon throughout This wide invitation, so I say to you, whoever comes to Christ will not hunger, and whoever believes in him will never thirst. Let me make two quick points of application as we conclude. Beware of trusting in something you did as the basis of your salvation. You should have a testimony. Everyone who's born again should have a testimony. I used to be like this, but God intervened. And I had a a change at this point in my life, and now I'm different. Before, during, after. But the basis of your salvation should not be I said a prayer I walked an aisle. Sunday school teacher wrote this date in my Bible, and that's what I'm trusting in. No, you must trust in Christ. You must trust in what Christ has done for you, not what you did in response to what he did. As Baptists, we object to those who trust in their baptism or their attendance at Mass is the basis of their salvation, and rightly so. But we must beware that we don't trust in something that we did if there's no evidence and if we're not continuing to trust in him and feed on him. This is the Christian life. Throughout our Christian life, we must continually abide in Him and come to Him for spiritual nourishment and strength. The best evidence of a living faith is that you are trusting in Christ today. Christians should feed, secondly, on Christ by continually coming to Him. The Christian life is a life of continually coming. Earlier in this message, I mentioned in this message of Christ, he talks about coming in faith. This is what the Christian life is all about. We continually come back to him. We continually recognize that we're weak and we still fall into sin And we still come short, and we still feel guilt, and we still feel shame, and we still feel faithless at times, and so we must continually come back to Christ. And feed on him and remind ourselves of the gospel and what he has done for us What does that sound like? Well, as I was preparing this message, I was thinking about the song that we often sing, and it has these three verses that begin this way. I run to Christ when chased by fear. and find a refuge sure. I run to Christ when worn by life and find my soul refreshed And I run to Christ when stalked by sin and find a sure escape This is the way Christians live. We continually run to Christ. We continually come to Him. We continually feed on Him. We continually trust in Him. Because We are absolutely dependent on him because he is our life. May God help us. To do this, to cling to him, to remain in him, to abide in him, to rest in him. Let's close in prayer. Father, I pray that you would use this portion of your word that is difficult for us to comprehend at first glance. I pray, Father, for those who are here this morning who have never truly tasted and seen that the Lord is good. who have never trusted in him. I pray that today they would come to place their trust in the bread of life. the only one who can give them eternal life. And Father, for your dear people who struggle and fall and face discouragement, I pray that they would be exhorted to continue to come. And feed on Christ and find strength in Him. Our only hope. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.