Alright, we are turning back to our attention to the book of Habakkuk. I started preaching from Habakkuk about a month ago, and then we Got the news that we were able to meet outdoors and so I switched to something else that I thought would be more appropriate for a few weeks, but I would like to come back to this minor prophet of Habakkuk. And we're going to pick up today in Habakkuk chapter 1 and verse 12 Over the years, many people have told me that they have questions for God. A pastor several years ago Ask his people to submit in a box anonymous questions that they would like to ask the Lord. And these are some of the questions that he received. Why won't you change the heart of my husband, who turned his back on the Lord years ago? Or why won't you heal my son? Or why did you let my parents get a divorce? Or why did you let my daughter get assaulted? Or why did you let my grandpa die? Those are real questions from real people They're personal questions. They're hard questions. Every one of those questions involves suffering. And every one of those questions has at its root the idea that somehow God has been unfair, unjust , hasn't fulfilled his promises. It's interesting to note that The questions we ask God tend not to be, why have you been so good to me? Why have you been so gracious to me? Why have you blessed me so abundantly? Sometimes we say those things, but I suspect the reason we don't say those ask those questions more often is because of our own fallen nature. The fact of the matter is, the Bible is filled with individuals who ask hard questions of the Lord. You remember that Job questioned God in his suffering? David questions God when he was a fugitive in the wilderness. And John the Baptist even questioned if Jesus was the Messiah when he was in prison. And then there was that obscure prophet Habakkuk. Who wrestled with God. Twenty-six hundred years ago, the prophet Habakkuk was ministering to the people of Judah. Let me remind you something of the nature of the book of Habakkuk. It's rather unique among the prophetic literature that we have in the Old Testament. It's not really a prophecy of the future. It's not a preaching of the times. It is a record of a personal struggle. The book is structured like really a conversation where Habakkuk is praying to God and then God responds to them. And then Habra Habakkuk comes with something else he has to say to God, another question, then God responds. The whole book is really a dialogue. Habakkuk is struggling to understand what God is doing in the world in this book. Because in his mind, none of it makes any sense. I think maybe you can relate to that You look at the world and you say, God, I know you have a plan. I know you have something you're doing, but I cannot understand what you are doing. And what Habakkuk was struggling with is that there was a period of spiritual decline in Judah Kings that supported the worship of Yahweh were no longer in charge. The people had lapsed back into idolatry. Their cities became known for their violence and unrest. And it seemed like the wicked were prospering and the righteous were suffering, and Habakkuk could not understand why God was not doing something about it. And so in verses 1 through 4, he brings his complaint before God. And then in verses 5 through 11 of this opening chapter, God answers Abakuch by giving him a glimpse of the future. He tells his prophet that soon he would raise up Babylon, a world power That would come and invade the land and bring great judgment to the wicked people of Judah. This is not the answer that Habakkuk was looking for. He wanted God to bring revival. He wanted God to bring up a righteous king and more prophets and for the people to turn their hearts to God. But instead, God was going to bring judgment. And so beginning in verse 12, the passage that we read together, Habakkuk brings a new complaint to the Lord. The essence of his complaint is this. How can God use a pagan people like Babylon to punish his wayward children in Judah? because the executioners were more guilty than the condemned. How is that just And there's indirectly another complaint that's found in this passage, and that is that the Lord's punishment for Judah's sin seems excessive. I mean it is true that they have been idolatrous and unjust and violence, but does that mean they deserve wholesale destruction for their entire nation to be destroyed and people to be carried off into captivity, that seems a bit much from Habakkuk 's perspective. And so Habakkuk brings the second complaint because he feels that God is not being just and fair in his judgment. Now the circumstances in our world today are radically different from what they were in this little corner of the world 2600 years ago. But the underlying dilemma is the same. Does God really care about me? Is God going to answer my prayers? Is God just in the way he deals with people? Is God really in control of events in the world because things seem out of control. I think the most common comment that I've received from people in the last two weeks and even going further back than that is the world's really a mess, isn't it? The world's really a mess. It is. And that's exactly the way Habakkuk felt in his day. So you have often turmoil and catastrophe that comes upon the world, like it was in Habakkuk day, like it is in our day right now. And then you also have the struggle within our personal lives. And that is the struggle to overcome some devastating illness or some great disappointment or some setback or some loss of a loved one These are real events of crisis that really come into all of our lives at one time or another. What do you do when you don't know what to do? What do you do when you are frankly stunned and numb from a crisis or an event that comes into your life. I want to find in this passage, this paragraph that we're looking at today Three steps, and this is very basic, this is elementary, this is theology 101. Three steps to find stability. in a crisis. And in order to put things more memorably, because it might be more difficult for you to take notes in outdoor setting. I'm going to use alliteration and then flesh that out in a little more comprehensive way. But if I were to put this into three words, it would be when you don't know what to do, you should think You should talk and you should trust. So let's look at the first of these. When you don't know what to do, you should think or remind yourself of who God is. This is the first step to bringing your mind to focus, is to bring your mind to meditate on the one constant in a universe of change. And that is our God. This is our rock of refuge, the foundation of our lives. This is exactly what Habakkuk is doing in this prayer. in which he is going to extol the attributes of the God who has revealed himself to his people. Look with me at verse 12. He says, Art thou not from everlasting, O Lord my God? Mine Holy One, we shall not die. O Lord, thou hast ordained them for judgment. And O mighty God, Thou hast established them for correction. He goes on to say, Thou art of pure eyes than to behold evil, and canst not look on iniquity. Wherefore lookest thou upon them that deal treacherously, and holdest thou thy tongue when the wicked devoureth a man that is more righteous than he. I want to bring out five attributes of God That the prophet Habakkuk focuses his mind upon. The first is that God is eternal. He says, art not thou from everlasting. When you wonder why God is making you wake and why he does not act immediately in your crisis, it's important to realize that God is eternal. His understanding of time is different from yours. He's not, he's playing the long game, if I can put it that way. He is a patient God. It's kind of like viewing a parade. We're on the street level, and we see one event in our lives and in history come by after another. If we were to look at recent events, we saw the parade, and it's still going in front of us, of the coronavirus. And now we have the parade of social unrest surrounding the death of George Floyd that is erupted not only in our nation but around the world. These are the floats that are passing in front of us right now. But God has the perspective from the skyscraper where he can see out the window, as it were, the beginning of the parade and the end of the parade and all the floats in between. He's eternal. These things are not surprising or shocking or disturbing to him because he is control of all things. He is eternal. And we need to rest our troubled hearts in that reality. Secondly, we see that God is holy. He refers to him as the Holy One. Although Habakkuk is having difficulty understanding how a holy God could use a pagan people, he confesses that indeed God is holy. He's utterly separate from all of his creation. He is unique. He's transcendent. He's free from all defilements. It's described in verse 13 as of pure eyes than to behold evil. Sometimes people get stuck on this, and I've had people ask me before, well If God has to pure eyes and behold evil, then how can he even look at us? How can he even look at the world? The Bible also tells us that he knows everything that's taking place, so how can he do this? This the what this means is that God cannot look at evil and approve of it. That's the implication It's not that he can't look at evil or he would not be able to really look at any of us. So understand what he's saying there. God is holy. And implicit in here, although the word is not used, we find in his affirmation of faith that God is faithful. He says, we shall not die in verse 12. And he reminds himself that God has ordained the wicked for judgment, that God will establish correction. God is faithful. The idea of the Babylonian Empire, these very powerful people coming and invading the land was terrifying. Judah was just a tiny little outpost. They were they were nothing compared to mighty Babylon And Babylon had the military power to wipe Judah off the face of the map. And so Habakkuk and the people of Judah were terrified at this prospect. But Habakkuk reminds himself that God has established a covenant with his people. And so he says, in faith we shall not die. We are not going to be annihilated. Things look really bad. We are no match for them. But somehow God will be faithful to his promise. Somehow God will protect us. Somehow God will defend us. And this is something that we need to remember in our crisis. God is faithful. When we find ourselves and our spirit troubled and shaken, By surprising things, by disturbing things, we need to remind ourselves of the promises of God. We need to remind ourselves how the story will end, what the Lord will do. And that will bring stability and comfort to our hearts. And then he speaks of God being sovereign. Again, the word here is not used, but he says, if you'll notice these phrases in verse 12, he says, Oh Lord, thou hast ordained, and then he says a little bit later, thou hast established. Habakkuk in a sense is talking to himself. He's reminding himself of God's absolute sovereignty. These powerful idolatrous people were actually under his control. They were pawns in this great chess game of the worlds. It's not just that God allowed Babylon to invade Judah. He ordained that this would take place. The Lord was not threatened by Babylon in any sense. He raised them up to do his bidding and he would bring them down in his time. In fact, Babylon would have a very short reign of power. That would only last for a few decades. The sovereignty of God is the great comfort of people in tumultuous times. We need to remember that within that word sovereign is the smaller word reign, a king reigning. God is still the king of all the earth. He is still reigning. He is still in control. And we need to remind ourselves even when it seems like the world is out of control. And finally, we see that God is omnipotent. He refers to him and he says, O mighty God, in verse 12. And embedded within this imagery is that of a rock. In Israel, there are many rocks, large and small. And so it's understandable how this became a symbol of stability. It's a very common imagery in the Old Testament of running to the rock, of hiding in the rock, of finding refuge in the rock. But the imagery of a rock may sound very abstract to us, but it should not, because in the New Testament we read that our rock is Christ. In 1 Corinthians 10 and in the book of 1 Peter and in Romans, we're told that the rock is Christ. He is our rock of ages. And to those who believe he is precious, he is the stabilizing force of our lives. But all of these marvelous attributes will mean nothing. If we do not have a personal relationship with this great God, you'll notice he says, he speaks of him as my God, mine holy one. Habakkuk has a knowledge of this God. You see, a crisis does not make or break your relationship with God. No, it reveals the nature of your relationship with God. We sometimes will speak of a person going through a crisis that people will say that they lost their faith. Well, the fact is they didn't really lose their faith. No, the crisis revealed the weakness, the shallowness, the superficiality of their faith. So the first thing I would say is that when you don't know what to do, you need to remind yourself of who God is. You need to think. And secondly When you don't know what to do, you should talk to God. What we have here is a record of this prophet's prayer. Continues in verses 13. Through seventeen. And this prayer is primarily Habakkuk reverently bringing his questions to God I want you to notice from this that we must speak reverently to God Notice he refers to God as O Lord my God and as Holy One and O Lord. He recognizes again and again that God is in control. Some people grow bitter in a crisis and hurl blasphemous accusations at God, but not Habakkuk. He remembers that the Lord is in his holy temple. But what is most prominent in this prayer is The fact that Habakkuk speaks frankly to God. There's a very frank exchange in these verses. Habakkuk is candid about how things look from his perspective. He speaks reverently, but he's saying, Lord, I don't understand what you're doing. I want to mention five complaints. That he brings in this prayer to God. First of all, he says what you're doing doesn't seem holy Verse 13 he says, Thou art our pure eyes and to behold evil, and canst now look on iniquity. Wherefore lookest thou upon them that deal treacherously? And holdest thou tongue when the wicked devoureth the man that is more righteous than he. And here he is saying that these Babylonians are horrible, wicked, cruel, idolatrous people. And they are coming against your own people who, although they're not perfect, are more righteous than they are. Lord, this this doesn't seem Holy. How can a holy God use an unholy people? What a bold thing to say. Habakkuk, of course, is mistaken. God is not violating some principle of holiness and using the Babylonians to punish the people of Judah. Jewish this Jewish prophet is thinking to himself, why would God have anything to do with those Gentiles? But Jehovah is not a provincial God, and he can use whomever he desires. When I was a young man, it was very, very common for preachers to say that God would only use a holy vessel. I heard many a sermon like that, and the intent of that sermon was very admirable. It was that indeed God does delight to use people who are consecrated. in their lives to him. But the fact of the matter is that if God only used holy vessels, he wouldn't use any of us. Because we all come short. We all have our flaws. God delights to use people who are consecrated to him, but he can use any wicked person to accomplish his will in whatever way he pleases to. The second complaint is that what you're doing doesn't seem just, or perhaps we would want to say fair. He essentially is saying here, I know the people of Judah are wicked, but not nearly as wicked as these pagan Babylonians. Indeed, the Babylonians were wicked people. They were the ultimate pagans. But Habakkuk has failed to consider two things about this comparison. First of all, God has been warning the people of Judah for generations. About their wicked idolatry and coming judgment. But they have rejected his servants, the prophets. And secondly, it's important for us to realize that God never revealed himself to the Babylonians in the same way as he did the people of Judah. To these people he had given his covenant and his laws, and he had redeemed them by a strong arm from Egypt. God had not made such promises to the people of Babylon. They did not have the revelation of the one true God. And so you should not be shocked and surprised that they were idolatrous and wicked and cruel and immoral. For they had not received those special promises like the people of Judah. And then thirdly, he complains, what you're doing doesn't seem faithful. Look with me at verse 14. And make us men as the fishes of the sea, as the creeping things that have no ruler over. them. This is interesting. The Hebrew word for man in verse 14 could be translated mankind The second half of verse 14 describes a tactic of the Babylonians, and that is that they would remove the leaders of a conquered land. They would either take him into exile like they did Daniel and his friends, or they would execute them because the Babylonians knew That if a nation did not have any leadership, they would not mount strong resistance. Habakkuk complaint was this If we are your covenant people, why would you let these pagans devour your own people? It's very important for us to know that when we make have questions for God, that we must never come on the basis that somehow God is indebted to us. No, God is not indebted to us. We are indebted to Him. But God is always faithful. The problem When something occurs in our life that doesn't seem fair, that doesn't seem in line with God's character, it's always in our perception. It is never with God. Now then he says, what you're doing doesn't seem to bring you glory. Here he talks in verses 15 and following. Notice what it says. They take all of them with the angle. They catch them in their net and gather them in their drag. Therefore they rejoice and are glad. Now, at first glance, this may appear to you to be imagery that God is dealing with his people like, or the Babylonians are dealing with their captives like a fisherman. But the fact of the matter is this is more literal than you may know. The angle here is a reference to a hook. And this is not figurative language. We know this because we have ancient carvings Done in stone of the Babylonians and how they would deal with their captives. They would put hooks through the noses and lips of their captives. Like putting fish on a stringer, and they would attach ropes to these hooks. And so one man would be riding a horse, and behind him there would be all of these people, these captives, with hooks through their noses and their lips. And so if anyone didn't keep up or try to run away, the pain of that hook would keep them back. They were treated like animals. And we also know that when they would capture people, sometimes they would throw these huge nets out. from from horseback and capture people just like a fisherman. So this is not imagery. This was reality. And it's a picture of the cruel and dehumanizing way the Babylonians dealt with their captives. This is how all genocide begins. People wonder how the Nazis could kill six million Jews, and the answer is because they no longer regarded them as people. And that was the way it was with the Babylonians. At the end of verse 15, he speaks of the victor's joy and gladness, the idea It wasn't bad enough that the Babylonians were so cruel and so inhuman to their captives, but they would mock them and laugh about them. And it was a big celebration as they would march in these parades to their home territory with thousands of people behind them on ropes with hooks connecting them. And so Habakkuk is asking, how will this gross paganism bring you glory? All this it's doing is like bringing glory to their false gods, and the idea here is is in that they would uh Uh it says, therefore they sacrificed verse sixteen unto their net and burned incense unto their drag, because by them their portion is fat and their meat plenteous. The idea is that they would be like in a parade where they're bringing their weapons. And it's almost like they're worshiping their weapons, which they think have been empowered by their pagan gods to defeat their enemies. You can see why Habakkuk is wondering how this can be to God's glory. And then he says in verse 17 that what you're doing doesn't seem merciful. In verse 17 he says, Shall they therefore empty their net and not spare continually to slay the nations? Habakkuk is anticipating the great devastation that would come upon The people, but they would show no mercy. And it wouldn't end with Judah. The mighty Babylonians would go on to conquer all the nations in this region. And he's saying to God, when will this end? How can this be merciful? You are God of mercy. You are God of loving kindness and compassion. And yet the Babylonians will be so cruel to their captives. You see, this man is struggling to understand. He's taking what he knows about God. He's trying to apply it to what he sees in the world, and it doesn't seem to fit. But the problem is not with God. The problem is that we don't know everything that God knows. And we don't see things clearly. This is where we must often rest as we try to unravel the providence of God. When God brings devastation into our families, when He brings death and disease and hardship, and it doesn't seem like it's working out spiritually for the good of anyone. We are so tempted to say, Lord, have you abandoned us? Are your promises not true? But the problem is always that we do not know all of the factors. We don't see the big picture We don't understand how God is working not just in our lives, but the lives of those around us, and how God will use this for his glory in some unknown way in the future. So when you don't know what to do, when God doesn't make sense, you should first of all think about who God is. Secondly, you should talk to God. You should openly and candidly Bring your problems to him in prayer. And thirdly, and most importantly, when you don't know what to do, you must trust in the Lord. The key verse in the book of Habakkuk is in the last phrase of verse 4 where it says, the just shall live by his faith. And of course, this phrase is taken up in the New Testament on three occasions and greatly expounded and fully explained because this is such a vital and important principle for us to understand. Now the chapter and verse divisions are not inspired in our Bibles. They were added much later. And really this season of prayer ends with chapter two and verse one because in chapter two and verse two is when the Lord responds To Habakkuk's complaint. Notice what it says in chapter 2 and verse 1. Habakkuk says, I will stand upon my watch. And set me upon the tower, and will watch to see what he will say unto me, and what I shall answer when I am reproved. So how does a person respond in faith in a crisis? First of all, you should do what God has called you to do. Now, Pastor Childs, our former pastor, used to tell a joke about this verse that Habakkuk was the smallest man in the Bible because it says that he could stand upon his watch. But I think you understand that this is talking about him as a prophet, and he has a watch, like a watchman on the tower, looking out over the landscape for any approaching enemy. The prophets were to warn people of danger to come. You'll notice this determination here. He says, I will stand upon my watch and set me upon the tower and watch to see what he will say unto me. There's a determination that is in view here. Abakah perhaps didn't feel like continuing to work as a prophet He didn't really want to continue with his calling because he was so disturbed, but he is going to continue to do what God has called him to do He is going to be faithful. He is going to trust in the Lord that God will in his time answer his questions. So often when people face a struggle, a crisis, when they can't discern what God is doing, They are tempted to just quit doing what God has called them to do. Sometimes they quit coming to church. They quit reading their Bibles. They stop praying. They don't fellowship with other Christians. They just withdraw into a world of despair and doubts. But what we must do is continue to do what God has called us to do. Continue to be faithful. Continue to seek Him. Continue to study His Word and to pray. And secondly, you should listen to what God is saying to you in the crisis. He says in this verse, chapter 2 and verse 1, I will watch to see what he will say unto me. God still speaks to us. He speaks to us in his word. He speaks to us in different ways from his word. He may speak to you in a crisis from your devotional reading. In fact, often Often, when we are in a crisis, in a time of turmoil, you will find that God will speak to you more clearly from his word than in any other time in your life. There are some psalms that will come alive to you when you are suffering, that never touched your heart when days were going well for you. You should listen for God to speak to you in His Word. It may come from your reading of the scriptures. It may come from a godly friend. sharing a passage of scripture with you. It may come from the preaching of the word of God. You should listen for the voice of the Lord. Notice that Habakkuk expects God to answer him in his time. He speaks of waiting on the Lord here. Waiting on the Lord is one of the most difficult spiritual exercises for the believer, especially in a time of suffering. But if we trust in the Lord, we can wait on the Lord. And then you notice that he sh submits to God's will in the crisis, and this is what we must do. He says, When I am reproved, this is a humble man. He knows The problem's not with God, it's with him and his perception that God is going to correct him and reprove him and open his eyes to the truth. And he is ready to receive that. He submits his will to the Lord's plan. Habakkuk was a great prophet. But this matter of submitting to the will of God reminds us of a greater prophet, the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who would come and fully do the will of his Father. And he would say in the Garden of Gethsemane, not my will but thine be done. How you respond in a crisis says volumes about you. The Puritans used to point out the difference between The skin on one's foot and the leather of a shoe. They are both skin, but one will wear away from friction while the other will only grow thicker and stronger due to the challenge. What is the difference? The skin on one's foot is alive, but the leather on your shoe is dead. When difficult circumstances come into our lives, when periods of doubt assail us, it is like constant friction that we either wear away our faith. Or build up our faith. The question is, do you have a living faith that will respond to the trials of life not by walking away from God? But by drawing near to God. This is what God wants to accomplish and all the trials that we face, not to destroy us Not to weaken our face, but to build it up. I often compare it to lifting of weights. If you've ever lifted weights before, sometimes when people decide they're going to really work out and go to the gym, they'll go, and the first time that they go, they will overdo it And the next day, a really strong man will hardly be able to bring a glass to his mouth because his muscles are so fatigued. But the only way to build strong muscles is to tear them down and to weaken them so that they draw on the body's resources to grow stronger. And so it is in our spiritual lives. God brings the weight of crisis and difficulty into our lives, not to crush us, not to ultimately weaken us. But to strengthen our faith so that we rely more on God and draw more power from Him and are built up in our faith May God help us during the time of uncertainty and crisis that we face on a global scale, on a national scale, and on a personal scale. to draw us closer to him. And if it doesn't draw us closer to him , It may be because we don't have a true and living faith. We're like that leather on the bottom of a shoe that just gets worn away with the trials of life. May God help us to examine our hearts and trust in the Lord. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it's all sufficient. We thank you that even in times of doubt and despair, we can look to you. And we know that you will be faithful. Help us, Father, to come to trust in you more. Help us, Father, to respond to our crisis by thinking of you, by talking to you. And by trusting in you, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen