Good evening. Would you turn with me to Romans chapter fourteen? Romans and the fourteenth chapter, and as soon as I hear the pages ceasing to rustle, then we'll bow our heads and go to the Lord in a brief word of prayer. Romans chapter fourteen, we'll begin at verse one. Let's go ahead and pray. Father, we come to you this evening and Lord, we just give you praise. What a wonderful morning we had together, where we were able to got to gather in in one service. and the praise that we enjoyed lifting up to your name as one united body in Christ. Lord, we thank you for this morning and the wonderful encouragement that we heard from your word, the challenge to take the gospel to the ends of the earth to be a witness for you. And Lord, I pray now as we Settle now our hearts and return again to your word that you would show us how the gospel informs every area of our life, even our relationships. uh with other believers, Lord, it it informs uh how we are to think and interact. And I pray that the gospel that we proclaim to to others, to the lost, would teach us again tonight what it is to walk in a way like our Savior, to think like him, to speak like him, to interact with our brothers and sisters in Christ like him. So, Father, we ask for your guidance as we turn to your word now. We ask for the filling of your spirit and for your illumination as we consider your truth. In your name we pray. Amen. So last month we began this series in Romans 14, and I've titled this series, Welcome One Another. Subtitled How to Experience Gospel Unity with Brethren Who Differ in Matters of Conscience. Tonight is the second message in this series. God's people have different convictions regarding the application of God's word to matters of life when they are not clearly spelled out in Scripture Differing convictions on matters of conscience can quickly lead to a spirit of criticism, judgmentalism, and division among genuine Christians in the same church How do we then demonstrate the love of Christ in community with each other when we don't always share the same conscience standards? That is the issue that Romans 14 addresses. Now, by way of introduction tonight, I would like to spend a few minutes recovering some of the key ideas and principles from our last message. I realized that was last month and I believe it was one of the early or beginning Sundays of of last month and we're not only a month later but towards the end of this month. So it's been uh several weeks My plan is, as we move through this series, to kind of deposit principles, general principles to you from this passage. that you can then take and apply to specific circumstances in your life and in your relationship. So I'm not going to be going through the catalog of disputable matters or tertiary issues. and taking positions on those. That's not what this series is for. It's to give you general principles that you can take and apply to those issues in your life specifically. So let's uh recover a couple of the major ideas from our last message. First, the command to welcome one another is a gospel mandate. This is a central command in this passage in Romans 14. It's given in verse 1. And it's brought to again as a bookend, a conclusion in chapter 15, verse 7. This is the major idea to receive one another. This is uh this command flows out from the gospel itself as you consider the context of the Gospel uh uh uh the book of Romans. Chapter 1 all the way through chapter 11 is filled with uh explanations and and um uh illuminations of of gospel truth. And so this these truths that we hold in chapter 14 really sit at the top of this pinnacle. of of gospel truth. These this command to welcome one another flows out and is required by the gospel. Second, we saw that the church is made up of Christians who have differing conscience convictions. This is a reality. Some believers are described as having a weak conscience and others a strong conscience. But this this dynamic, this reality exists in every church. Third, we saw that the scriptures distinguish between first-level issues and what we might call tertiary issues or matters of opinion. In 1 Corinthians 15, 3, Paul refers to certain truths being of first importance. These are gospel doctrines and mandates. things that you must believe in order to be a Christian, or ways that God calls you to live in order to be a genuine follower of Christ. A person must believe the content of the gospel and repent of their sin in order to be saved. These are non -negotiables. I think we understand that. Tertiary issues, or what Paul describes in Romans 14, verse 1, he refers to as matters of opinion. These are things that Christians can have different convictions on. But those issues should not and must not hinder Christian fellowship. Fourth, we saw that we must fully embrace believers in our church with whom we disagree as Christ has embraced us. If we fail to do this, we betray our Lord and Savior who first welcomed us in the gospel. In our passage, or in our last message, we focused entirely on chapter 14, verse 1. And you might recall that that verse is really the thesis statement. Of the entire section, this entire unit on this topic. Tonight we are going to consider the first issue of conscience that Paul addresses. in the Church of Rome. And that is, of course, the abstaining of meat. My thesis statement for this message, my big idea is this. Christians must not despise or cast judgment on one another in matters of conscience. Because such an indictment against another believer usurps God's divine prerogative as judge Now, that's kind of a mouthful. Um it's uh it's a little cumbersome So I thought I would summarize it in what I would call Carroll County lingo. Okay, so I'm gonna summarize this a little bit more concisely Christian, stop judging your brother in matters of conscience because that's not your place. Does that stick? Is that a little easier to grab a hold of? Alright, that is the major point of this passage, and we're going to develop that. Would you go with me now? to verse 1 if you're not already there. Verse 1 through 4, we're going to read this together. Follow along with me in the word as you would. As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains, and let not the one who abstains Pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. Now before we go any further, I want to give you the structure of our passage, the way my mind works when I come to a portion of Scripture. is I I find it very helpful to see the general outline of a passage before I get into the the details. It kind of helps me know where I am. and where I'm going. So I'm just going to give you a very brief general outline for this passage. If you look at verse 2, verse 2 introduces what I would call the situation, the situation that Paul is addressing, namely meat offered to idols, excuse me, abstaining from meat. Verse 3 contains Paul's counsel, his counsel to believers regarding that particular situation. And then verse 4 is the theological grounds or the basis for Paul's counsel that he gives in the verse above it. Okay? So you could think of it this way. Verse 2 answers this question. What's going on? What is the disagreement under consideration? That's what verse 2 answers. Verse 3 answers this question. How should these believers in Rome respond? How should they respond to this situation? And then verse 4 answers this question. Why should they respond that way? Okay? It provides the grounds, the basis for the response that Paul calls for. So let's begin with point one. Would you look with me At verse 2, I want you to consider the first disputable matter that Paul mentions in Romans 14. We are going to develop verse 2 by asking four questions regarding Verse 2. First, first question. What is the issue dividing the weak and the strong in the Church of Rome? Look at verse 2 with me. It says, one person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables. In this assembly, there were those who were confident. That's the idea of belief here. They were confident. that they could eat anything and please the Lord in doing so. They were fully persuaded, you could say, of their position. Paul speaks of these believers as the strong. While at the same time, there were Christians in the same church who, out of the same concern to please the Lord, did the exact opposite. They completely abstained from eating meat And Paul speaks of these believers as weak in conscience. Second , why do you think the weak chose to abstain from eating meat altogether? Why do you think they took that position? Well, Romans does not provide enough historical background to know the precise details of this situation. But here are four possible scenarios. First, the weak could be Gentile Christians who abstain from meat and wine, particularly on certain fast days influenced by neighboring pagan religions. That's one possibility. Second, the weak could be both Jewish and Gentile Christians who practiced an ascetic lifestyle for just reasons that we cannot determine. Some have suggested this. Third possibility, the weak could be Jewish Christians who, like the Corinthians, believed that it was wrong to eat meat that was sold in the marketplace. And possibly tainted by idolatry. You're familiar with this. Out of the three possibilities thus far, this third scenario is more likely than the previous two. However, Though there are many parallels between Paul's dealing with meat offered to idols in 1 Corinthians 8 through 10, as you recall, and Romans 14. There are some significant dissimilarities between the two scenarios, the greatest of them being that there is no mention of food offered to idols in Romans 14. Though idolatry may have been a contributing factor, I think there were additional complexities to the situation. What I found is that the dominant view throughout church history The view that accounts best for the biblical data is that the weak in Romans 14 refers primarily to Jewish Christians. who were still very, very concerned about keeping some of the dietary rules of the Mosaic Law. Now, third question. What are some dietary rules of the Mosaic Law? Turn with me to Leviticus chapter 11, if you would. Leviticus chapter 11. Verse 1. This would be one of those passages that you come across in your reading plan. And you get through it, but you don't always feel warm and filled inside. But you know that it's profitable, right? So you read it in faith. Well, we're coming to one of those passages, and I trust that it will shed some insight and really help develop the passage before us in Romans 14. It says this, verse 1, and the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying to them, Speak to the people of Israel, saying, These are the living things that you may eat among all the animals that are on the earth. Whatever parts of the hoof it is cloven-footed. and choose the cud among the animals you may eat. Nevertheless, among those that chew the cud or part the hoof, you shall not eat. The camel, because it chews the cud, but does not part the hoof, is unclean to you. The Lord identifies pigs, animals, rabbits, and any creature that does not chew the cud or split the hoof as being unclean according to the criteria in this passage and Deuteronomy 14 as well. The Mosaic law did not require the total abstinence of meat. Okay, God wasn't saying you can't eat any meat. He's just saying you can't eat these particular animals because they are unclean. However, many God-fearing Jews would take a position of total abstinence if they could not be certain that the meat available to them was clean according to the Mosaic Law. Or if there was a chance that that meat was offered to idols, they would take a position of total abstinence, right? Why why risk possibly eating something that is unclean? Now, do we have scriptural proof of this? I want you to dig deep into the catalog of your Old Testament knowledge and think. Is there any example that you can come up with of someone abstaining from eating meat because of the possibility that that meat would be unclean? How about Daniel chapter one? You call, you remember when Daniel was brought before For the king of Babylon, he refused to eat the king's meat out of a concern that he would defile himself. Instead, as you remember, he ate only vegetables. This was a position of total abstinence, much like what we see in Romans 14. The primary concern among the Roman Christians is that their meat was unclean. Same terminology. And that's how we make this connection to the Mosaic Law. We see this in Romans 14, verse 14 The strong, on the other hand, were most likely Gentile Christians whose consciences were not at all troubled by eating whatever kind of meat they liked Because they were never accustomed to keeping the Mosaic law. And now, with the shedding of Christ's blood and the inauguration of the new covenant, Gentiles Neither Gentile nor Jews were bound to keep the dietary restrictions of the Mosaic law Can you just appreciate for a moment how difficult it would be for a Jewish Christian to eat something that his conscience for all of his life Regarded as unclean and sinful. Just consider a 30 or 40-year-old Jewish woman Who for her entire life carefully kept the dietary laws of her forefathers. Her father and mother ate this way. Her grandmother and grandfather ate this way. Her great-grandmother and great-grandfather ate this way. As far back as she knows, her family culture was shaped. By this these dietary laws. And now all of a sudden, upon believing on Christ All of that is done away. Could you imagine how it would be hard for her conscience to actually eat some of those foods and not question, Lord, am I really is this displeasing to you? Can I really do this? Does that make sense to you? Can you fathom how difficult that would be? Well, you might be thinking, you know, I really don't see why it's such a big deal. Actually, why couldn't they just realize that Christ died and we've turned the chapter and now you can eat these foods? Just get over it, right? I mean, we if if if you're being honest, you you might feel that way yourself. Just get over it. Turn the chapter. New corner. Well, let me point out to you that to persuade the Apostle Peter of this liberty required a direct revelation from God Himself. Not once, not twice, but three times. Do you know what instance I'm referring to? It was when the Lord presented before him a variety of animals on a blanket in a vision that were once formally considered unclean. Do you remember what Peter said? He said, by no means, Lord, I will not eat. I'm not going to eat these things For I have never eaten anything that is common or unclean. And the voice came to him. It was the voice of the Lord came a second time and said this. What God has made clean, do not call common. This happened three times. Peter didn't get it on the first round. He didn't get it on the second round. It took three times and a direct voice from the Lord saying, don't call this unclean. You may eat this. Now I make this point, I recognize that the main point of that uh revelation was uh to persuade Peter that Gentiles are now uh considered part of and recipients of the new covenant, okay? But there are certainly implications in terms of Peter's new relationship to foods and the dietary law of the Mosaic Covenant. So if it was hard for Peter If it was difficult for Peter to come to this persuasion and accept this in his own conscience. then certainly it would be for the believers in Rome. If a an apostle who knew the gospel as well as he did If it took a revelation from the Lord to persuade him of this, certainly believers in Rome, Jewish believers in Rome would have difficulty. So we've developed here attention. the tension now between the weak and the strong. Is this scenario clear in your mind? Do you see why Paul is needing to address this? Do you see why there would be this disagreement among Jewish believers and Gentile believers regarding what they may eat and what they can't eat. Let's move on to point number two. I want us now to consider Paul's counsel to the weak and the strong in verse 3. Paul's counsel. Look at verse 3 with me. Let not one who eats despise the one who abstains, and let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats. In this verse, Paul gives two commands, two imperatives. The first command is addressed to the strong, to those who have confidence to eat meat And he says to them this, do not despise your brother who abstains. What does he mean when he says despise? Well, it is to look down on someone. It is to belittle them or disregard them. It is to demonstrate by your attitude or demeanor that they are of little worth. I want you to realize that this is the natural tendency of those who take a position of liberty in tertiary issues. Many times I have heard individuals and even entire families or entire churches speak in this way of other believers or individuals. How many times have you heard someone call another believer a legalist? Oh, they're just they're just a legalist. And they're saying that because that other believer holds a stricter position on a tertiary issue than they do. Have you ever said that church, that family, that person is just so legalistic And really what you mean is they are stricter on maybe music or dress or certain standards. They're more strict than you are. This is exactly what Paul is commanding us not to do. So let me just go on a rabbit trail for a moment. What is a biblical definition of a legalist? Think for a minute. What is a biblical definition of a legalist? A legalist is someone who attempts to merit salvation by their own works or behavior. It is someone who is essentially trying to add to the gospel. You could say it's its works righteousness. Therefore, a true legalist is someone who isn't even saved. They are believing essentially a false gospel. That's a legalist. A legalist is not someone who is trusting in Christ alone for their salvation, but has a stricter standard than you do on tertiary matters. because they are just trying to walk carefully and please the Lord. Does that make sense? Now I want to ask you tonight Do you ever find in your spirit or in your words criticism towards other believers in our church who have stricter standards than you do? Do you ever find yourself, it could be, it could be, it teens, it could be your own parent It could be one of the pastors here on staff. It could be another family. It could be maybe your school, if you go to a Christian school. And the way you speak about them. You you, as it were, in Paul's terminology, you despise them because they have uh positions that are more restrained than you do on tertiary issues. Do you ever find your your words, your spirit, your demeanor? despising them, speaking ill of them. Paul is saying, I'm going to use Carroll County language again. Stop it. Stop it, okay? You need to stop despising your brother who abstains. Don't despise your brother who abstains Now, he has just addressed who? Who is he addressing there? Was he addressing the weak or the strong? He was addressing the strong. Okay, now he's going to turn to the other group of believers. Okay? Look with me now. Paul says, do not pass judgment. on the one who eats. Do you see each group of believers, whether you are part of the strong category or the weak category, Each group of believers has a propensity to sin against the other, but in different ways. It just looks different, just packaged differently. Paul says to the weak, do not pass judgment on the one who eats. That's their tendency. To judge another believer is to find fault with, to criticize or even to condemn that individual. It is to call into question a believer's sincerity. love for the Lord and even their salvation because he or she doesn't have as strict a standard as you do on certain tertiary issues. Just as one group has the propensity to regard the other as petty and legalistic, the second group has a propensity to judge the other as ungodly and undevout. So let me ask the other category of believers here this evening. Let me ask you, do you have a tendency to look at other Christians who believe the same gospel as you do, but are not as strict as you? And think of yourself as spiritually superior to them. Do you question their love for the Lord? Do you even go as far as to question their salvation? This is the propensity of the week. Paul says, do not pass judgment on the one who eats. In our passage, there are two distinct groups of Christians. However, I think it's possible, and I said this last month, I think it's possible for a believer to actually be guilty of both of these attitudes. I know in my own heart I can see a person who is stricter than I am on certain matters and think of them as being way too uptight and legalistic. But in the same day, I can see another believer who exercises more liberty in an area than I do and think, oh, they don't really love the Lord. So I think it's actually depending on the topic , you can have both of these attitudes, and both of them are wrong. Both of them are ungodly. Let me take a pause here because I feel like we need an illustration. As a preacher, sometimes you just get to a point in your message where you feel like we we just need an illustration. So I'm going to offer one here. And I want to show you how some of these principles are at work and apply them. A couple of years ago, in about 2017, I went on a missions trip. It was a musical missions trip to Europe. I was there for uh about two months and we traveled to ten different countries. We were in multiple churches of uh varying uh persuasion and denomination. Of course they were all Christian churches. They all believed, preached the gospel. We were in some Brethren churches, which over in Europe look more like Baptist churches in the US. But in Europe, some of the Baptist Union churches are very, very liberal. And we would not associate with them because some of them aren't even preaching the gospel. Well, we were going to this one church in Switzerland. And we were told prior to coming that some of the ladies, I shouldn't say some of the ladies, all of the ladies in that church were persuaded That to wear their hair down was considered provocative and immodest. In addition to that, to where any makeup was considered sensual. And uh to not wear hose was just deemed um inappropriate. So Our ladies, our girls on our team made sure that their hair was up, that there was no makeup on, and we went to the store and made sure that all the girls had hose to wear. Okay. Now I bring up this illustration because I think it's safe enough to bring it up in our assembly here without offending anyone. I was not persuaded that wearing uh a woman wearing her hair down is immodest. And I can tell by many of you here tonight, you're not persuaded of that position either, right? Um actually I tell my wife I really, really enjoy it when she wears her hair down and uh and and whatnot. So Let me ask you, in that situation, how could our team have a sinful response? What would be a sinful response? Well, it would certainly look like making fun of this church that held such a position. Certainly if we refer to them as being legalists and even suggested that they don't really understand the gospel, that would be sinful. That would be taking on the spirit that Paul is is really addressing in Romans 14. But this little church that we visited, they also have the capacity of sinning, don't they? How could they be tempted to sin against our team? Well, if they judged us as not loving the Lord, as not being sincere and devout Christians because we didn't share some of those convictions on a tertiary issue. Do you see how both parties can sin against the other? Now, there's more principles that that play into this and we're going to decover more principles in Romans chapter 14 that speak to this situation. Suffice it to say, just to close out the story, I'll tell you what happened. Our ladies, uh, they put their hair up, they put their hose on, they put their took their makeup off, I should say, and we went and ministered and we gave no offense. And nothing was ever said. We had the liberty to preach and sing of Christ, and God was glorified. But that's a situation that illustrates how one group could judge the other or the opposite group judge the the former. Does that make sense? Alright, let's let's move on. Let's head now to point number three. In verse four Paul now lays the theological foundation for his practical instruction in verse 3. So we've considered thus far the disputable matter. In verse 2, we've considered Paul's instruction to the weak and the strong, verse 3. And in verse 4, now he lays the theological foundation for his practical instruction in verse 3. So would you look with me at the end of verse 3? It says this, for God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another It is before his own master that he stands or falls, and he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. You see the word for at the end of verse 3. For often introduces an explanatory statement. Paul's about to explain. Explain why Christians must not despise and judge one another. And he gives two reasons. Are you ready for these? The first reason is grounded in the gospel itself. A Christian must not judge another believer in tertiary matters because God has welcomed him. That's the first reason. The heart of the gospel is that Christ died for sinners. As a result, the Father has fully accepted those who have repented and believed in his Son. This is a great reality that we need to comprehend. When a person comes to faith in Jesus Christ, they are fully accepted in the beloved. They are fully received by the Father. I think of no other passage that speaks of this with such profound and deep language as Ephesians 1. Uh chapter one verses one through seven. It says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places, even as he chose us in him before the foundations of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love he predestined us for adoption to himself. as sons through Jesus Christ according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace with which he blessed us in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace. You just get the sense by reading this passage that God has just taken us up in Christ and dispensed us. all of his love and kindness upon him upon us. And that's exactly what he has done in the gospel. We are recipients of every blessing in Christ. If you are a Christian, you are fully received and embraced by God. He has lavished on you his infinite love. Because this is a gospel reality, when we judge and criticize our brother or sister, We act ignorantly of God's love shown to us and to them. Let me ask you, regarding that brother or that family that you are tempted to judge or to criticize or to call legalistic. Are you really better than them? It has been said that all ground is even ground at the foot of the cross. How can you judge your brother or your sister when you are equally undeserving of the grace of God? Do you see the inconsistency in your thinking? How it runs contrary to the gospel? You are failing to allow the gospel to shape how you think. Towards your brother or sister. That's why Paul says in chapter 15, verse 7, therefore, welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you. He's welcomed you. How dare you not welcome your brother who stands at the cross with you? guilty as you, condemned as you, and yet given as much grace and love from God in Christ as you. Furthermore, if God has welcomed your brother, who are you not to welcome him? Paul argues from the greater to the lesser, are you more righteous than God? Are you more, can I put it this way, godlier than God? Are you greater than God? No, it stands to reason that since God has fully welcomed your brother, so must you. The second reason for why we must not judge our brother in disputable matters is because the authority to judge belongs to God only. Look at verse 4 again. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. Not only must we relate to one another in light of the gospel, but we must also relate to one another in view of future judgment. Paul makes use of a contemporary illustration in his day. In Romans in Roman culture, it was not uncommon for a man of stature to own many servants. Each servant answered to his own master. First century readers would have understood how ridiculous it would be for someone to judge a servant who belonged to someone else. You just don't do that. Let me give you maybe a contemporary illustration that doesn't parallel this perfectly, but I think it's it's relatable to all of us. How many of you have walked into a grocery store? And you see children misbehaving. They're just out of control. Mom is over, you know, buying cereal, and they're, you know, just ransacking the store. Okay? And and the the parent, the inner parent in you wants to go over and immediately exact discipline and whip those kids into shape, right? But you don't do that. Why? They're not your kids, right? If they were your kids, you would do that, but they're not your kids. you don't have authority over them. Well Paul is making the point that the scripture teaches that each believer must give an account of himself to God in the day of judgment. We are accountable to God for the decisions that we make in this life. We are all servants of one master. We are his servants. We report, as it were, to God. So to judge your brother or sister actually assumes a position that doesn't belong to you. You are not a judge. You're not a master. You're a fellow servant. I love how Paul concludes this thought here. He says, and we will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. If you are questioning whether or not your brother will be approved by the Lord on the day of judgment, whether he will stand or fall before the Lord, Paul says this. Your brother that you're tempted to judge, to criticize, to critique, he will be upheld. How does Paul have such an assurance of that? Next phrase. For the Lord is able to make him stand. You see, your brother or your sister will pass the scrutiny of God's evaluation because God will enable him to do so. Because your brother is clothed in the same righteousness of Christ as you. And the Lord will uphold him. He will pass the scrutiny of the bar of God. So, what's the conclusion? Stop judging your brother. That's just not your place. The Lord will take care of him, and he will stand before the Lord Now, I would like to conclude with a little quiz. Okay? So put your thinking caps on. I have some questions for you, but please don't answer them audibly. So I want to remain our uh keep to keep our decorum here. My first question is this. Who was theologically correct in their possession position, excuse me, whether or not to eat meat in Romans 14? Who do you think was theologically correct? Well, the answer is it was the strong. Those who chose to eat meat. First Timothy 4:4 says, For everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving. One of the characteristics of the weak, according to 1 Corinthians 8, 1 through 7, is that they lack theological knowledge, and therefore their conscience takes a position that is not theologically correct. However, even though the weak were not theologically correct, their choice to abstain from meat was not heretical either. Now, at what point would it become heretical? At what point would abstaining from meat become A heretical, at what point would it become drifting into a false gospel? Well, we see this in the Colossian heresy. We see this principle at work in the book of Galatians, when the Galatians were told that they had to add circumcision. to their faith in Christ. Paul calls that out in no uncertain terms as a false gospel, an aberrant gospel. Okay? If they were to move in such a direction where they said, in order to be a Christian, you have to abstain from eating meat, at that point you've got a false gospel. Okay. But they weren't doing that. They were refraining from eating they were refraining from eating meat, but they were not adding that as a requirement to the gospel. If they would have, Paul would address them just like he did the Galatians and the Colossians. Okay? Second observation. How does, or I should say second question, how does Paul deal with the weak? How does he deal with them? Does he tell them to just get over their sensitive conscience? Does he belittle them for their lack of theological knowledge Does he say, guys, don't you remember Peter's vision? Don't you remember the blanket? Come on, get with the program. You can eat meat. Just go for it. Is that how he treats them? No. Surprisingly, Paul allows them to maintain their position of abstinence. Why is this? What we will discover later in chapter 14 is that it is sin for a Christian to violate his or her conscience, even if the activity itself is not sin. Do you realize that? The weak and the strong can both eat meat because it is not prohibited by God. But it could be sin for the weak to eat meat if according to their conscience they think it is sin. Therefore, Paul does not force them to eat meat against their conscience. Now, what does no excuse me now that does not suggest that the weak should remain with a misinformed conscience Paul labels them weak in faith. That label is not flattery, is it? How would you like to be referred to as in the category of being weak in faith? It's not flattering. It's not a banner they would like to hold up. It actually suggests that there's a need for maturity. That there's a need for growth. Paul does not categorize himself in that way. He refers to himself as part of the strong in chapter 15. But suffice it to say that Paul allows the weak to maintain their position. Third question How are the weak and the strong capable of sinning against each other? How are they capable of sinning against each other? Well, The strong sin against the weak by despising them, regarding them as legalistic, petty, and perhaps too rigid and sensitive. The weak sin against the strong by judging them and regarding them as careless in their walk, unspiritual or unholy. And may even call into question the sincerity of their faith. And so whether you find yourself looking at someone and saying, uh. You know, they they're just being they're being so strict, so petty, and you're tempted to despise them, or whether you're in the category of um You're like, wow, I you know this person, this believer over here, I can't believe they they do this. I can't believe they you know they um uh uh allow themselves to participate in this. I would never do that. Okay, you have to guard yourself from standing in judgment on them, on these tertiary issues. This is essential And so the key point from our passage tonight as we work through Romans 14 is this. Brother, sister Stop judging. Stop despising your other brother or sister with whom you don't share the same. conviction on these matters of opinion. This is the point. So I want to close. I have just a couple of minutes left. And I'd like to close with another another story , another example. Okay. Now, through this series, we're eventually going to get to some some situations that I think are more relevant to us here at Calvary. But I'm I'm using illustrations and examples that I feel like are safe and I'm not going to offend anyone, okay? So back in the 1980s or 70s, Pastor Lehman could answer better to this than I could. In in our in our in our fundamental circles It was considered, and you ask Pastor, he will affirm this, it was considered a worldly thing for a man to sport facial hair. In ministry. If you were a pastor, if you were a missionary, you didn't grow a beard, you didn't grow a goatee, you didn't grow a mustache. That was considered ungodly. And if you did do that, if you went against the tide and you let those whiskers whiskers go, um you were Uh from what I'm told, my I I didn't live this era, so I'm I'm speaking from what my dad has told me. Uh my dad was ordained, my dad was in ministry, uh, and he and he was in these circles. You were regarded as as a hippie minister, okay? You were sidelined as as really someone who's trying to um uh basically cross the line and appeal to the world. This was a real we laugh at this now because, you know, at Calvary Three of our four pastors have have facial hair, okay? And I don't think I know that Pastor Lehman does not hold this uh uh uh position, okay We laugh at it now, but you go back 40 years ago, and this was a major issue. Okay, now I bring this up because this is safe. I uh I'm sharing this and I can even tell by our demeanor, we're chuckling. We don't think this is a big deal. But dear brothers and sisters, there are things that I could bring up that I'm not going to right now that immediately This room would would would chill because we realize there are brothers and sisters who have differing opinions on these topics right here in this room. Okay And we we need to guard ourselves. We are the body, the blood-bought body of Christ. We need to love each other. We need to live out the gospel. We need to recognize that yes, we have differing convictions. On various matters of opinion, tertiary issues. But we ought not to judge each other. We ought not to despise one another. We need to love and do what Paul tells us to do. Welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you.