If you were Bibles, would you open them please to Ephesians chapter 5? Ephesians chapter 5. Beginning of the 20th century, there was a brilliant German-born mathematician by the name of Charles Steinmetz. He was also a pioneer in electrical engineering. He helped to develop the modern concept of the battery. Henry Ford heard about this man and decided he was the one who would design the generators for his famous factory. These were massive machines connected together, very, very complicated. And one day the generators ground to a halt And the entire assembly line was stopped. The repairmen came in, but working as diligently as they could, they could not figure out what the problem was. They couldn't fix it. And so Ford finally in his desperation, losing a great deal of money every day, called the man who designed these generators, the famous Charlie Steimitz. And he came to the factory there. He tinkered with the machines for a few hours. And then he threw the switch. And everything started up. Later that week, Henry Ford got the bill for his services. And it was $10,000. Now at the turn of the century, $10,000 was a lot of money. Some of us still think it's a lot of money, but it was really a lot of money over a hundred years ago. And the very tight-fisted Henry Ford was furious and demanded an itemized invoice. And so Steimet sent him back this invoice. Tinkering with the generators, ten dollars. Knowing where to tinker, nine thousand nine hundred and ninety dollars. I think all of us admire people with great skill and know-how. We often consider them the wise. And wisdom is indeed a very valuable commodity. It's a precious ability that we all need. You know, when people ask me how they can pray for me, I usually ask them to pray that God would give me wisdom. Because every day I face situations where I scratch my head and I say, I'm not quite sure what to do in this situation. I really don't know exactly what the answer is. And so I'm very keenly aware of the need for wisdom. And the Bible promises that God delights to give wisdom to those who ask for it. Sometimes you will encounter people who will think of the Bible as an impractical book. They view it as an irrelevant relic of the past. But the fact is, the Bible is the most practical book that has ever been written. It doesn't just tell us how to prepare to die and how to prepare for the afterlife, but it tells us how to live. in the world today. Now the fact of the matter is that everyone wants to be thought of as wise. No one sets out in their life to be a fool. We want to be thought of as clever and insightful and practical. And that is something that we should all seek after. But it's something that so many people fail to find. And perhaps one reason for that is because we really don't know what it means to be wise. We often miss the mark in our understanding. We confuse wisdom with intellectual capacity. Many people think that if they get a high score and a college entrance exam or earn several degrees from a famous institution, that they are certainly a wise person But some of the most intelligent people the world has ever known have been fools and their personal lives were an absolute mess. Others think of wisdom as the discernment that comes with life experience. And indeed, this is perhaps closer to the mark. But unfortunately, a person can live a really long life and still make many foolish decisions at the end of their life. Others think of wisdom as nothing more than common sense. But a person can be very practical and very logical and yet waste their life on worthless pursuits. Just like us, people in the ancient world were entranced with the concept of wisdom. It's interesting to note that every culture in the ancient world had their wisdom literature. This was true of the Hebrew people as well. We have books of the Bible, like the book of Proverbs, which is perhaps the most famous example, or even the book of Ecclesiastes, or or Job, these are known as wisdom literature, as are some of the Psalms. And the primary word that is used for wisdom In the Hebrew language is a word that means skill. The capacity to do something thoughtfully And very well. It was used of a woman who was very skillful at needlework. The Bible says she worked wisely with her hands. It was even used to describe the ants who store up their food in the summer that they might have something to eat in the winter. And so a wise person is an individual who lives skillfully and thoughtfully. You see, the ancient peoples correctly perceived that a person's quality of life was usually determined by the choices that they made. And so a wise person is a person who makes the right choices in life. Not that they're perfect. But the really big decisions, they make the right choices. But how does one determine What to do in life when you come to a fork in the road? How do you decide the way you would structure your life and what you should pursue? These are very important and monumental questions. The Bible answers that question by saying, first of all, the only way that we can be wise is by knowing God. It says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the holy is understanding. The only way that we can really make right choices in life is if we know the one who has designed and planned our lives. And in the New Testament we read, in Christ are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. But how do we put this into practice? How do we live wisely in this day and age? I think And this passage that we read together from Ephesians chapter 5, we find some very significant answers We find here that the Christian lifestyle is to be a life of wisdom, a life that magnifies God, a demonstration that in Christ we have found the secret to life all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. So I want to preach to you this morning from verses 15 through 17 on how to live wisely And the first point I want you to see from our text in verse 15 is that Christians who live wisely are careful about the choices they make. Look with me at verse 15. He says, see then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. Now I want us to find our bearings in the book of Ephesians. The first three chapters of this book deal primarily with doctrine. And the last three with the Christian's duty. And this begins in chapter 4 and verse 1, where Paul calls on Christians to walk worthy of their calling. In verse 17 of chapter 4, he says that to walk worthy is to walk in contrast to the lifestyle of those who are lost. And at the beginning of chapter 5, you'll notice he says in verse 2, walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us and given himself for us. as an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savor. He's saying to walk wisely is to live a life that is fully yielded to God's. And if you'll notice in verse 8 of this chapter, he says, For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. Paul is very fond of using this term walk to refer to a person's lifestyle. And now in verse 15, he says that we are to walk circumspectly. Now that is not a word that we use every day. I doubt that we have any parents here who have told your children, before you cross the street, look circumspectly. Although that would be a good word to use. The Greek word has the idea of looking carefully or accurately or precisely. This is a call for us to approach the Christian life seriously Because of the world's philosophy and the message of the world that bombarms us, bombards our minds, we tend to think of this world as a playground, but the scripture describes it as a battleground. It's serious business. I once heard a, this word illustrated in a way that I will never forget, is that of a cat walking on top of a wall. That's covered with broken shards of glass. And every Paul was put down very carefully. That is the way we are to live the Christian life. Not that we are to live it with a spirit spirit of fear and anxiety. The Bible forbids such a mindset. But every step must be taken with care. This is an admonition, a call for us to live seriously and soberly and thoughtfully. Where we are to analyze our actions and examine our hearts. Notice that this verse begins with this concluding statement, verse 15, see then that you walk circumspectly. So it ties into what comes before it. So something about what he has previously said will give us a clue about what it means to live the Christian life in a careful and in a serious manner. And that takes me up to verse 2 of this chapter. I want to read this extended portion, and I want you not to zone out, but to listen carefully to what Paul is calling us to. And I want you to see how relevant this is. He says, and walk in love as Christ also hath loved us. and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savor, but fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness let it not be once named among you as becometh saints, neither filthiness nor foolish talking, nor jesting which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks. For this ye know that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no man deceive you with vain words For because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. Be not ye therefore partakers with them. For ye were sometimes darkness, but now ye are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light, for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth, proving what is acceptable. unto the Lord, and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them, for it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret, but all things are reproved, are made manifest by the light, for whatsoever doth make manifest is light. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest Arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. And then we come to this. See then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. So to live a life of a fool is to live the lifestyle that he has described in the preceding verses. The fact is that the folks that Paul ministered to in the first century and that Gentile world had come from a lifestyle of paganism, a lifestyle where immorality and idolatry were an everyday part of their existence. And if that was not a big enough problem, false teachers who were were going around saying that it did not matter what choices you made with your body because your spirit is what mattered. So a person can live a very immoral lifestyle. That was no cause for concern. The important thing was where is your heart and your spirit? That's why Paul says in these verses, like verse 6, let no man deceive you with vain words. Because false teachers were doing that. They were going around saying that you could be a good Christian and still live the pagan immoral lifestyle of lost people. And Paul says that's not the case. Now it's hard for us to perhaps imagine this, but the fact is that The world that Paul was writing to in the first century, in the Gentile world , was even more depraved than ours is. Now we are rapidly moving in that direction. And I'm not going to give you illustrations or examples of this, but trust me, it was worse off in the Gentile world of the first century than it is in our society and in our nation today. And so in some ways this passage becomes even more applicable for us living in the 21st century. We see here that living carefully means, among other things, that we must swim against the sensual current of our society. We have to be very careful that we do not allow the fleshly values of the world to permeate our lives. What a great challenge this is for us living in the 21st century. This is something that I have to deal with all the time. All the time. We live in the day of the internet and smartphones and Wi-Fi and every public building. so that literally everyone has access to the absolute worst aspects of our culture and society. We can't go back to the good old days when none of that existed. In some ways it would be nice if we could, but that's not possible. We can't go back to that day and age where finding pornography and things like this was something that was kind of hard to find and difficult. So we have to adjust our lifestyle to the world in which we live. We have to put up safeguards and barriers. And accountability. And we have to be honest about this. We live in a challenging age. But the truth of God's word remains the same. We cannot live in that world And embrace Christ and think the two are compatible. You know, it's so easy to become desensitized It really is. Have you ever experienced this before? I remember the first time I ever realized this was when I came back from going away to college. I went to a Christian college and Colleges I went to, you know, we didn't have any TVs anywhere. We we we didn't have radios really. I mean people had them, but we didn't listen. to anything and so when I came back at Christmas time after four months of being away and I went home and the TV came on It was like almost shocking to me what was on TV. And my parents had good standards and things. They weren't just watching anything. But it was a shock to me because I hadn't faced anything like that in four months. It's so easy for us to become desensitized. So that we, well, I guess we'll allow this, and I guess we'll allow this, and I guess we'll allow this, and you find yourself ten miles away from where you were a few years ago. Just kind of we become desensitized to the sensual, sexualized culture in which we live. But God has called us to something different. He's called us to walk circumspectly. This is the way a wise person lives. So we must not live. In the foolish manner, the way most people do in the world. As I was preparing for this message, I was reading a sermon on this text by famous preacher of the past, G. Campbell Morgan, and I had forgotten about the story he shared of when he was a young man. J. Kim O'Morgan 's father was a very strict Baptist pastor. In fact, he called him a Puritan. And in 1890, he was married, began his first pastorate. And he and his wife established a little home. And his father came to visit. He walked through all the rooms in their little house without comment. And then after a reflective pause, he said, yes, it's very nice. But nobody will know walking through this home whether you belong to God or the devil. And those words struck in his heart like an arrow. And after his father left, Morgan says he went through his home and he made sure that in every room in that house there was some witness for Christ, some evidence that the person who resides here is a Christian. Now this is a very perhaps mundane thing. I want to extend this and apply this more broadly. If someone were to visit your home and they were to walk around and Look at the books that you have laying around and what's up on the wall and what's on your refrigerator and everything else. If they were to do so and they were a very observant person, would they be able to tell That you are Christian. Or they have absolutely no idea that that was the case. Do your entertainment choices reflect that you are a child of light? Could your mailman discern from the mail that you get that you are a Christian? Do your coworkers realize that you are living for different goals than they are? Do your neighbors realize that you're not just religious, but that you have been bought with a price? Is your lifestyle radically different from those who are lost around you? We have to be so careful with our testimony. The whole concept of being a witness or having a testimony almost seems anachronistic today. I don't hear much of that in modern Christian literature But we are to be careful about the choices that we make because they reflect on our identity In Christ, we are to walk circumspectly and not as fools. In verse 10 Paul says, proving what is acceptable. Or it could be translated well pleasing unto the Lord. We are to make choices that are pleasing to gods. So are your choices pleasing to the Lord? Is your life structured to give him glory? Christians who walk wisely in the world are careful. about the choices they make. And secondly, would you notice with me in verse 16 that Christians who live wisely make the most of their opportunities? It says, redeeming the time Because the days are evil. Now I want you to notice that Paul in this verse is providing explanation and application of what he has just said. in verse 15. In verse 15 he says this very broad principle, see then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wives. And it's as if Paul hears the objection. Well, what do you mean by walking circumspectly, Paul? And Paul says, let me give you an example. Let's consider your use of time. Now the word redeeming here as the idea of buying back. And it's interesting to note that the Greek word used here for time is not the most common word chronos that we get the word chronology from, but it's a word that has a reference to the time of opportunity. We speak of a window closing and opening because there are certain things that we can only do at certain times. And that's the idea here. A wise person makes the most of every opportunity. Just like a bargain hunter snaps up great deals. So we as Christians should seize the day in order to serve Christ. This is a very important concept, and so I want to spend a little bit of time trying to apply this principle. I want to first of all try to apply this macroscopically, or that is the big picture. And every season of life, wherever you find yourself this morning, There are opportunities that are presenting themselves at that season of life that will not be there in the future. But there are also obstacles and hindrances. Let me try to explain this to you. When people are young and single, they often think that when I am married, I will settle down and serve the Lord. But when they get married and have young children, they soon discover that they are very, very busy. And so they postpone their good intentions until their kids have grown up. And when their kids grow up, they find that they are still very busy driving them around to sporting events and other activities and So they push back their intended service even further. And when the children leave home, they are still very busy taking care of their aging parents and perhaps tending their grandchildren. And they also discover as the years go on, they lose their energy and their enthusiasm to go out and do certain things. They just want to relax. And take it easy. I have talked to so many Christians over the years in many different seasons of life who have said, you know what, Pastor? When we get to hear, man, we're going to be gung-ho. Oh, we're going to be so busy serving the Lord. We're going to be teaching this class. We're going to be knocking on doors, we're going to be doing this and doing that. You just wait. When we get to that season of life, but when they get to that season of life, guess what? There are other things other pressures, other responsibilities that they have, and there's never, ever a convenient time. to serve the Lord and to be a witness for him. Now do not misunderstand me. I am not saying that you should you know, neglect your family, neglect your wife, neglect your children in order to serve the Lord. There's some have have done that, but to be honest with you, it's not a huge problem today. And what's interesting is so often people want to say, you know, Pastor, we just don't have any time. Don't have any time. But you know what? We've never ever had people like today that have so much discretionary time When you take away, think of all the time-saving devices we have. We have automobiles and we have wash machines and vacuum cleaners and And on and on the list goes of things that save us time that our forefathers did not enjoy. And if we are brutally honest, we have hours and hours and hours of discretionary time every single day that we invest right here Just in my relaxation and entertainment and recharge. You know, our ancestors, if they could visit us in our homes, our great-great-grandparents, they would be shocked They would say, you just sit around the house all day. For them, entertainment was something that maybe they enjoyed like once a week or once a month, the rest of the time they're working, working, working, working, working to survive And we think we've got a brutal schedule if we only get in three hours of viewing in a given evening. I'm just slammed. I'm so busy. In every season of life, there always will be excuses as to why you can't serve the Lord, be a witness for him, invest in the lives of others. But there also always are opportunities. You know, when your children are young You have great opportunities to witness and encourage younger parents. I can remember when my kids were really little and they were running up and down our neighborhood and Every day, you know, they wanted to be playing with the kids in the neighborhood, and I would go out with them and and and and so forth, and their other parents would be there. And I got to talk to other parents. I got a lot of wonderful witnessing opportunities. I got to learn some about these homes and I got to share the gospel. Now when I'm out there walking, you know, by myself, there's a strange man out here. But there's something that when you've got kids with you, you're all right. You're acceptable. That window of opportunities that I had, you know, 15 years ago or whatever, that's closed. That's closed. But there are other opportunities that are available now that weren't open then. It's always going to be that way. If you're retired, there are opportunities you have for service that you didn't have before. On and on the list goes. Or you could do this on a microscopic level. Think of it this way: every day of your life. You should be looking for opportunities to be a witness and serve the Lord. I challenge you to do this every morning when you get up and you have some time with the Lord, or maybe you're driving to work in the morning. I want you to pray and ask the Lord to bring somebody along your path that you can minister to. It may be somebody at work. It may be somebody at neighborhood. It may be somebody that's a parent on the sports team that your kids are on. It may be someone that you encounter at the grocery store. Ask the Lord to bring someone along your path that you can minister to and be sensitive to that. You will be shocked at how the Lord answers that prayer. The Lord often provides opportunities, but we fail to see them because we are living with a selfish focus We're living about what I want and what I want to accomplish and all the things that I want to provide for my home and my car and my family. And we don't redeem the time. God has called us to live wisely and not to live like lost people because to live for things, to live for more money for a better job, for a bigger house, is to live like the lost neighbors that surround you. But you have been called to live as a child of lights. Notice that we're given a reason why we are to redeem the time. It says, because the days are evil. Now what does that mean? Well, it means among other things that indeed, as was the case in the first century, our witness may be opposed. And chapter two of this chapter it talks about the fact that We had our conversation in time past, verse 3, in the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. In Ephesians chapter 6, the chapter following where we are this morning, it talks about the evil day and spiritual warfare and having done all to stand. The idea is that Satan will hinder our efforts. And so we must redeem the time. Because time goes by so quickly. But most commentators and scholars think that what Paul is really getting at when he says, Redeem the time because the days are evil, he is essentially saying Our time is short on this earth. Every day, have you ever thought about this? You've only been given a certain number of days to live on this earth. You don't know what that is. I don't know what that is. But every day that passes, you have one less. We often think of our life, we don't think of our life in those terms. We don't like to, it's uncomfortable. We don't like to contemplate our mortality. But the fact is you have a finite number of days that you will live on this earth. Opportunity that you have to serve the Lord. And every day that passes, it gets less and less and less. So the point is we have to take advantage of every moment of every day. We don't have the luxury of killing time. We sang about this this morning. Work for the night is coming. When man's work is o'er, you're not going to be working anymore. That is based on the words of Christ in the Gospels. He was very aware that his time on earth was brief and short Work for the night is coming. You know, the people that have made the greatest difference And the world have been people who live for eternity. Some of you know that I love to read biographies of great Christians of the past. And in my reading, I've discovered that people who have made the greatest difference have been people who lived in light of eternity, who recognize that their life is short, it's fleeting. Have you not found this to be true? Do you find yourself looking in the mirror and saying, where have the years gone? Who is that old man staring back at me? Life goes by so quickly. And how easily we can fall into a pattern. of just wilding away the hours and not serving the Lord. I have this poem up. It's actually not open anymore. I've got it in my closet, I think, but I had it up for many years. It says this written by great Scottish preacher, Horatius Bonar, great hymn writer. He says, 'Tis not for man to trifle. Life is brief. And sin is here. Our age is but the falling of a leaf, a dropping tear. We have no time to sport away the hours. All must be in earnest. in a world like ours. Not many lives, but only one have we. One. Only one. How sacred should that one life ever be? That narrow span. Day after day filled up with blessed toil, hour after hour, bringing in new spoil. I think one of the wisest men who ever lived was a man named Jonathan Edwards, the famous revivalist preacher in the 1700s. He wrote, as a young man of 19, a series of resolutions that he wanted to live by. Some 72 of them, I believe Let me read several of these, listen to this theme. He said, resolve never to lose one moment of time, but to improve it the most profitable way I possibly can. Resolve never to do anything which I should be afraid to do if it were the last hour of my life. Resolve that I will live so as I shall wish I had done when I come to die. resolved never to do anything which I should be afraid to do if I expected it would not be above an hour before I should hear the last trump. Now this is not saying that a Christian can never relax. This is not saying that a Christian can never have, enjoy some recreation or conversation with a friend or even watch a TV program. It's not saying that. Because those things are designed to help us relax and unwind so that we have more energy to do what God has called us to do the next day. But so often in our society today, we don't have that balanced recreation and entertainment doesn't become just a tiny little portion of our day. It becomes the bulk of our discretionary time. And we get completely out of sorts with that. God has called us As Christians to redeem the time, and this is the wise way in which we must live. And finally, Christians who live wisely seek to do the will of God. Look at verse 17. He concludes this section this way. Wherefore be not unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is. Now, why does he say that? Because it's very possible that a Christian will spend their time on earth in a foolish way. And so he says, understand what the will of the Lord is. Now Paul here is not talking about the will of God. the way we commonly do. Paul's not addressing the questions that people puzzle over, like whom should I marry? Or what career path should I pursue? Or should we move into a home or should we go further out? This is not what Paul means here by the will of God. Paul here is referring to the will of God as revealed in his word. There are two implications that arise out of this last phrase in verse 17. Where he says, understand what the will of the Lord is. First of all, we must know God 's will. Good decisions stem from good information. Have you ever made a catastrophic choice because you were missing a piece of information? Maybe it was a weather forecast. Maybe it was the road conditions that you were traveling on or an accident had occurred. And if you knew that bit of information, you would have changed your route, your course. and it would have saved you many hours of frustration. But you didn't know that. And so you made a foolish choice. How is it that in life we can make the right choices? One of the answers is by knowing God and knowing Him in this book. Knowing what God has said so that when we come even to areas that the Bible does not specifically address We know what God's will for us is because we know the author of the book. Because we have read it and read it and read it. It permeates our thinking that we have these principles and we know how to take them and apply them to a given situation so that we do God's will. And this leads me to the second implication here, and that is that we must want to do God 's will. When I first started out in the ministry, I found myself counseling a lot of people who wanted to know what God's will was. And I thought that the great problem was ignorance. They just didn't know what God wanted them to do. But now as someone who is a little more seasoned in the ministry and have talked with countless hundreds of people facing these dilemmas, I think the major problem is, if we're honest, is that we don't want to do the will of God. We really don't want to do the will of God. I find this to be the case because so often even when the Word of God is crystal clear as to the course of action a person should take, they find some ingenious way. of claiming that this is not what God wants them to do. They will find some strange article in the internet written by someone Who is a false teacher, and they will say, see, this verse is not saying that. This verse is saying that I can do this and be a good Christian. This is how Christians can attend church all of their lives and still make catastrophic choices because they don't really want to please the Lord. If you don't really want to please the Lord, you cannot be surprised when you keep making foolish decisions. The Bible says again, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. The starting point for living a life of wisdom is knowing the God of all wisdom. And we can only know him through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to invite you, if you can, to turn with me. to Matthew chapter 7. Matthew chapter 7, this is the conclusion of what is known as the Sermon on the Mount This is our Lord's call to respond to the message that he has preached. He says in Matthew 7, verse 24, listen to these words carefully. Matthew 7, 24. Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man which built his house upon a rock. And the rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. And every one that heareth these things of mine and doeth them not shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand, and the rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell. And great was the fall of it. Those who build their lives upon the rock The Lord Jesus Christ that mentions here specifically his teaching, but his teaching was a reflection of who he is. Those who build their lives upon him will withstand the storms of life. The howling winds that will inevitably come, they will be able to stand strong. They will not be swept away. That is the path of the wise man. But when you build your life, when you structure your lifestyle on the shifting sands of human opinion, of conventional wisdom , When the storms of life come, you will have no foundation. And you will be blown away. I encourage you this morning to seek the Lord. The only way to live a life of wisdom. is to live a life rooted and grounded in the Lord Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. A truly wise person is a person who wants to do God's will. The wisest human being who ever walked on this earth was the Lord Jesus Christ. And he is the one that the psalmist said about, I delight to do thy will, O Lord And in the Garden of Gethsemane, and that great hour of testing, he was able to cry out, not my will, but thine be done. That is a life of wisdom. The only way you can make the right choices in life is to be in a right relationship with God. And so in every choice that we make, we must ask ourselves, what would God want me to do? Which of these options will glorify the Lord Which of these options would truly be redeeming the time? What path will magnify Christ? Which choice will demonstrate that Christ is my treasure? Which of the investments that I am making will last for eternity? There was once an old Scottish woman Who went through the countryside selling ribbons and thread and shoestring. She was quite eccentric and everybody in the county knew who she was. She was famous for when she would come to a crossroads out in the country of roads going in different directions. She would take a stick and she would throw it up in the air. And whatever direction that stick went in, that's the direction that she went. One day, however, she was seen tossing the stick up several times. And a bypasser asked her, why do you toss the stick up more than once? She said, because it keeps pointing to the left, and I want to go to the right. And so she kept throwing it up until it gave her the answers she wanted. How often we are as Christians like this foolish woman. where we demand to have our own way rather than yielding to a God who has a better plan for us. Let us be a people who walk in wisdom, who seek to do God's will. Let's close in prayer. Father. We thank you for your word. We thank you that it's a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. We pray that something that is said this morning would strike the heart of someone seeking the Lord. Pray that you would help us to realize that we can never live a life of wisdom without knowing you. And help Father those of us who are your children. To seek to walk in wisdom, to not be carried away by the foolish notions of this world The sensual values values, the materialism. Father, help us not to do this. Help us to redeem the time. Help us to work for the night is coming when no man can work. Help us, Father, to live wisely for your glory. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.