Have your Bibles, you can turn with me to Matthew chapter 6. It'll probably be the last time you hear me say that for a very long time, because we are coming to the conclusion of our study. on the Lord's Prayer. You know, conclusions are important things. When I took speech class, they said it's important that you have a good conclusion. Because this is the last thing that people hear. When I studied homiletics, the art and science of preaching God's Word, I was told that conclusions are important. You need to bring people to the point of decision. And of course, this is true in many other realms, whether it be a job interview. Or something like a symphony that takes all of the various elements and themes of that piece of music and weaves them together to a climactic finish. And I would suggest to you the conclusions are important in our prayers as well. And this morning we come to the final phrase. of what is commonly known as the Lord's Prayer. It reads, For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. This prayer concludes by reminding us that we are addressing a great God who is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. Now I want to take just a brief moment to explain why some of you may be a little confused as you follow in your Bible. Some of you Do not have this ending in your version of the Bible. And I suspect that you do have it printed in the margin or perhaps in a footnote somewhere And this is due to the fact that some early Greek manuscripts do not contain this concluding phrase. It's also absent from the other. version of the Lord's Prayer that we have in Luke 11, which is a condensed version done on a different occasion. And so the editors of these Bible versions have thought best to leave it out. However, I think there are some good reasons that we should consider it together this morning. First of all, this concluding phrase is found in some very ancient versions of the prayer. This is not some late edition. It's found in some of the earliest New Testament versions of the Bible that we possess. It's found in a very early manual of discipleship known as the Didiche, which dates from the early second centuries, and Christians have prayed this ending now for over 1900 years. It's also a conclusion a fitting way to conclude this model prayer I've mentioned throughout this study that's taken up most of this year so far. That this is a pattern prayer, a pattern for a time of our daily prayer when we bring our petitions before the Lord. It's not saying that every brief prayer that we have must contain all these elements. But when we do set aside time to pray to God, in order to have a balanced prayer, we should have all of the elements that are found in this particular prayer. And to end our prayers without some sort of doxology seems unnatural and unlike most other prayers that we find in both the Old and New Testaments. One preacher of the past said that no Christian wants to end his prayer with the word evil. And if you do not have this ending, that's indeed how it will end. But most importantly, I want you to know that this conclusion is entirely biblical. Every phrase of this concluding prayer is found elsewhere in Scripture And it's very similar to doxologies that we find throughout the Word of God. One such prayer is found in David's conclusion of his Dedicatory prayer of the temple in 1 Chronicles 29-11, he says, Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory. And the majesty for all that is in heaven and in the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. And there are many other prayers that are similar to this in Scripture. And the reality is that no one can dogmatically say that this concluding doxology was not part of the original prayer, and so we are going to examine it this morning. I think this conclusion provides a valuable pattern for us and how we can end our daily prayers. And what I want you to notice is that just as we began our prayer with God, our Father who art in heaven, so we conclude our prayers with God. This is not a matter of saying the right words. It's a matter of having the right spirit, the right attitude, the right heart. And so I want to speak to you this morning on how we as Christians should conclude our prayers. And I have three main points I want you to consider with me this morning. First of all, we should conclude our prayers with a spirit of confidence. I want you to notice the connection in this prayer. The final petition is Deliver us from evil. And then we go right in, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Now I mentioned when we studied that last phrase that most scholars think that this is a reference to Satan when it says, deliver us from evil. It could be rendered the evil one. And many scholars think the Lord is thinking back on his recent time of temptation in the wilderness. In fact Just a couple chapters earlier in Matthew chapter 4, you read of that, when the Lord was 40 days and 40 nights tempted of the devil. And do you know what the devil offered him during that time of temptation? He offered him a kingdom, he offered him power, and he offered him glory. But these were not really his to give, because it is God, as we read here in this conclusion, who actually possesses the kingdom and the power and the glory. This is something that we must remember every day as we face spiritual combat. We must not be frightened and afraid. We must recognize that God is a sovereign king. And that he is in control. And though Satan is powerful and he seems to be controlling the world, yet ultimately God is the one who is in control. And he will ultimately triumph because the kingdom, the power, and the glory belong to him and not to Satan. And so we must pray with confidence. We must not pray as those who are victims , those who have been defeated As those who are being swept away by the evil tide of this world know we know the end of the story. And so we pray as those, yes, who are oppressed in this wicked age and in this world that we live, but as those who know that we will ultimately be victorious. Because our King, our God, has all power and all glory at his disposal. Now I want you to notice something else in this final phrase that should fill us with confidence when we pray, and that is that this concluding phrase begins with the word for. And that, of course, is a linking word that helps explain all that comes before it. The prayer concludes with, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. I think that this final phrase, in a sense, is the basis or the ground of all the petitions that have come before us. How can we pray that God's name would be hallowed, that his kingdom would come, that his will would be done That He would provide our daily bread, that He would not That He would forgive us our sins as we forgive those who are indebted to us, that He would not lead us into temptation but deliver us from evil. How can we pray these petitions with confidence? What's the point of it? Because God possesses everything. He is a powerful being. He is almighty. He is omnipotent. This is a very important thing for us to consider in our prayer life. What you believe will determine how you pray. So if your prayers are weak and hesitant and infrequent, it may just be because you don't really believe that God is omnipotent which is a fancy word that just means he's all powerful. But the scripture reinforces this truth again and again. As we walk through the pages of Scripture. Let me remind you of a few incidents in Scripture. One of the first times we encounter this is when Abraham is worried about Lot. His wayward nephew, and he's praying for him because he's living in the city of destruction, the city of Sodom and Gomorrah, and he's interceding for him and for his family. And the Lord says to Abraham, Is there anything too hard for the Lord 's? Job at the end of his suffering makes this proclamation, I know that thou canst do everything. And when the prophet Jeremiah comes to a crisis on his life, when he knows that the city of Jerusalem is about to be destroyed by the Babylonians, and he's been warning people about coming judgment, but they turn a deaf ear to him. And he is very, very disturbed about this. He prays this way, Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heavens and the earth by thy great power and stretched out arm, and there is nothing too hard for thee. And when the angel comes to Mary and tells her that her cousin Elizabeth, who is quite advanced in years, will give birth to a baby boy despite her old age. The angel concludes that declaration with these words, for with God nothing shall be impossible. So let me ask you, do you really believe that God is impotent, omnipotent? Do you really believe that God can answer your difficult prayers. It's interesting that often the Lord taught and made this connection between God's omnipotence And spurring us on to prayer. I want you to stay in this book of Matthew. I want you to turn ahead with me, if you would, to Matthew 17. Matthew chapter 17. And I want to read, begin reading at verse 14. This is right after the Lord's transfiguration. Matthew 17, 14. And when they were come to the multitude, there came to him a certain man kneeling down to him and saying, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is a lunatic. and sore vexed for oft times he falleth into the fire and oft into the water. And I brought him to the disciples, and they could not cure him. Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring him hither to me. And Jesus rebuked the devil, and he departed out of him, and the child was cured from that very hour. Then came the disciples to Jesus apart and said, Why could not we cast him out? And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief. For verily I say unto you, if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, remove hence to yonder place, and it shall remove, and nothing shall be impossible unto you What a teachable moment this was. The disciples were obviously very embarrassed. Jesus and the three leading disciples are up on the mountain. This desperate man brings his son who's possessed with a demon. To the disciples. They had cast out demons many times before, but it didn't work here. And how embarrassing that must have been. Here they are commanding him, come out, and the child's not any better. And the Lord, when he hears of this, he rebukes them. And he says the reason that they were unsuccessful was because of their unbelief. And he makes a connection between their unbelief and their prayer. And then he says something amazing that if they had faith the size of a grain of mustard seed and that that that seed was about the smallest thing they could conceive of. It's a tiny little thing. It's like a little dot If you had that much faith and you acted on that faith and it was the will of God, God would do something spectacular. God can do the impossible. Now this is not teaching. Name it, claim it. Because obviously in the context of Scripture, it has to be something within the will of God. But the Lord said things like this again and again. Turn with me ahead now to Matthew 21. Matthew 21, and I want to look at verse 19. This is at the very end of his ministry. And when he saw a fig tree in the way, he came to it and found nothing thereon, but leaves only, and said unto it, Let no fruit grow on thee henceforth forever. And presently the fig tree withered away. And when the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, How soon is the fig tree withered away? Jesus answered and said unto them, Verily I say unto you, if ye have faith and doubt not, ye shall not only do this which is done to the fig tree, but also if ye shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed and be thou cast into the sea, it shall be done. And all things whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive. An amazing promise. And I want to show you what the Lord taught his disciples the night before his death. He's going to amplify and repeat these. promises in the upper room. Turn with me if you would to John chapter 14. And verse 13. We're going to move rapidly through this. John 14, 13. And whatsoever you shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask anything in my name, I will do it. A wonderful promise. Look with me at chapter 15 and verse 7. Next chapter over. If you abide in me and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Look with me at verse 16 of this same chapter. Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you and ordained you that ye should go and bring forth fruit. And that your fruit should remain, and whatsoever you shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. And then in chapter 16 and verse 23 And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Verily, verily I say unto you, whatsoever ye shall ask, the Father in my name, he will give you. Do you see how he gave these wonderful promises again and again and again and again in reference to our prayers? Now these prayers do not teach you you can get whatever you want. You can ask for your favorite sports car Or for your favorite team to win the championship, and these these promises guarantee it'll happen Because if you notice the wording carefully, it had to be for God's glory, it had to be in the name of Jesus, in accordance with his priorities and what he is doing. But I think that we tend to discount these promises too quickly And we look at them and we say, yeah, that that might work like on the situations that aren't that complicated, that aren't that difficult, that aren't as impossible as this one, but certainly they can't apply to the situation I am facing. But in these passages we've read, we've seen these words like impossible again and again So what matters have you stopped praying for because you just think they're virtually impossible? Perhaps you have stopped praying for the salvation of a family member. You witnessed to them years and years ago, and they rejected it. You determined that you were going to pray for them, and so you prayed for their salvation, and you kept it up for a while, and you you prayed daily and then it fell off to maybe weekly and then maybe monthly, and now you haven't prayed for that individual for years Because you just don't really think that God can do it. That's unbelief. Maybe you stop praying for the healing of a loved one with a chronic condition because the situation is just so dire, according to the doctors. that you think it would make no point to really pray for that. Perhaps you're praying for a wayward child who's was taught right and wrong and was taught the scriptures and you brought them to church but they turned away, they've rejected that, they want nothing to do with God or with his word. And you prayed for them for a while, but now you see how hard their heart is and how determined they are and their ways and how antagonistic they are to anything you say about God or about his truth. And so you just say, you know what, that's just the way it's going to be. I just need to accept it. They're never going to come to Christ, and so I'm never going to talk about it again or pray about it. My friend, we need to trust in these promises. We need to cling to these, and these should affect our prayer life. John Newton, the great hymn writer who wrote Amazing Grace, wrote, of course, many other hymns. And one of his hymns has this Phrase in it that I just love, thou art coming to a king. Large petitions with thee bring. He whose grace and power are such, none can ever ask too much. This model prayer reminds us that our God is a great king who is powerful and all-glorious and able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. And therefore we must pray with a spirit of confidence. But would you know with me, secondly, that we should conclude our prayers with a heart of submission. With a heart of submission. This benediction follows after six or seven uh petitions, depending on how you count them. And one of the things that I've tried to emphasize in our study of this prayer is that our prayers must not be reduced to just a recitation of our personal needs. And it so quickly can degenerate to that point where we just come to God and we have a grocery list of needs, be with this person, be with that person. Help me to have more finances. Help my car not to break down. Help me to get a better job. And we just bring all of our needs to him. And that is all our prayer is about. It's about us. That is not prayer that glorifies God. No, the first three petitions Our primary concern should be this: that God's name would be hallowed, that it would be set apart, that it would be Held up and be unique and magnified throughout the world, that his kingdom would come, that God's will would be done on earth as it is in heaven. These are the priorities That should well up in our hearts when we come to God in prayer. Before we bring our needs, we must worship. And now we see not only do our prayers begin with worship, but they end with worship. And the Lord knows that we need indeed that be rescued from ourselves. It's so easy for us to fall into this man-centered perspective, even in our prayers to God's. It's so natural for us without even realizing to reverse the roles. And so instead of us Coming to God as his servants and saying, thy will be done. We want to switch the roles. We want him to serve us. Our prayers so often speak volumes about where we are spiritually. They reveal what we truly believe. You don't need to turn here, but I want to give you one famous example in Scripture that the Lord gave in Luke chapter 18. He talks about two men that went up into the temple to pray, verse 10. The one was a Pharisee and the other a publican. And the Pharisees stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I think that I am not as other men are extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. One man is full of himself. His prayer is really all about himself. And thank you, I'm not like this guy over here. Thank you that I'm so disciplined that I am so pious and so religious. And the other man just cries out, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. So what do your prayers say about you? If we had a transcript, written transcript of all your prayers over this last week, print them out on a sheet of paper. What would they say about you? Would they reveal that you are a man or a woman of faith? Would they show that you pray with grave concern over the needs of others? Or they demonstrate that you rarely pray and only when you face a personal crisis and only for yourself or those who bring happiness or joy into your life. You see, this concluding prayer reminds us that life is not all about us, but about God. It's been said that the most significant word And this doxology is the word thine, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. This is a possessive pronoun. is to remind us to keep our focus on God's kingdom and God's power and God's glory. How desperately we need to be reminded of this because our requests are really so often, if we are honest, and we really analyze our prayers, they're about our kingdom and our power and our glory. You might say, what do you mean by that? I don't pray that way. We all kind of have our own little kingdoms, don't we? The areas that we want to have control over and sovereignty over are little territories , little kingdoms at work, little kingdoms in our neighborhood, little kingdoms at church. And we want to have control there. We don't want people to fight against our sovereignty in those little areas. And so often our prayers are about those encroachments to our sovereignty. We have this word power here or authority. How much of our prayers are really rooted in the fact that other people are making our lives miserable and are not doing what we want them to do? And we want God to work it out so that they do what we want them to do, so that our life is more comfortable and more pleasant. Is it too much to ask? And then there's this matter of glory. How much of our disappointment and our concerns are because we're not appreciated. We're not values. We're not loved and admired the way we think we deserve to be. We're not really. We're taken for granted at work. We're taken for granted at home. We're taken for granted at church. People don't realize all that I do and how valuable and how essential my services are. And so we pray. without realizing it really so often for our glory that we would be admired. But this is not the way we must pray, of course. Our prayers must not be an act of manipulation, but an exercise in submission. When we say to God , I've prayed my heart to you, but it's your kingdom. It's your power. It's your glory. It's not mine. Do what you will. This is why we must pray as Jesus did in the garden. Not my will, but thine be done. Oh, how often are our real struggles with submitting to God's will really accomplished in prayer? This is very hard to do at times. When you have to pray for something and it's really a matter of life and death , you're praying for someone who's very dear to you. And you begging God, you're constantly throughout the day praying that God would spare their life, that God would heal them, that God would restore them to health. And you're putting your whole heart into it, but how hard is it for you to say, Not my will, but thine be done? Recognizing that what you so desperately want may not be what God wants. And what is his will? When you pray for a situation and you know, depending on how it plays out, it's going to change your life. It is very hard in those moments to say, not my will, but thine be done. You see, prayer is an act of self-denial and submission. This is why genuine prayer is so hard to do. This is why everything in the world fights against it. Satan and his hosts will provide a thousand excuses of why now is not a good time to pray The lies of the world that bombard us from every angle will convince us that prayer is futile, that we need to try to work it out, we need to devise a plan. And your flesh will vigorously fight against spending any time in prayer You see, the prayer is to enter into combat. This is why sometimes the scriptures use a term for prayer that speaks of wrestlers engaged in hand-to-hand combats. It is a real contest of wills. But this is how spiritual progress is made. It's one in the prayer closet. It's one as we yield our will, our desperate pleas to God, and we say, not my will, but thine be done. And until we really come to that broken place , we put ourselves under his sovereignty, and we do so not reluctantly, not with a great sigh of resignation. but with a glad submission until we come to that place we haven't truly prayed. But there's a third point I want to end with this morning and to conclude our entire series. And that is that we conclude our prayers with a voice of praise. We must not forget that this is a doxology. I wonder if you know what a doxology is. The Greek word for glory is doxa. And a doxology is a conclusion Or song, or a psalm, or something that brings glory to God. It is when we praise the Lord. The scriptures teach, believe it or not, that we were made to praise the Lord. Did you know that's the ultimate point of your existence to bring glory to God? Not glory to yourself, not comfort at ease, but to bring glory to God's This is why I think many Christian people, when they find themselves in the house of God and the people of God are raising their voice, and they are part of that community of faith and they are singing praises to God that it's not an exercise of duty But it is something that they do joyfully from their hearts, and they feel to themselves, this is what I was meant to do. This is what I really want to do. That's because you were made to praise the Lord. One writer says that prayer and praise are like the two wings of a bird. And you can't really soar in your spiritual life without both of them functioning properly. This is how our prayers should end, not with sorrowful resignation, but with joyful acclamation. And if our prayers are God-centered, they will be filled with praise. There's very much a matter of trust in this. How is it that we can leave very difficult personal matters with the Lord's? And say, thy will be done. It's only when we truly know God and we truly trust in Him to choose what is best. Did you know that it's difficult for a godly man or a godly woman to pray for any length of time without somehow automatically lapsing into praise? This is true. This is why so often you read through the book of Psalms, you will find that, especially in the Davidic Psalms, that David begins his psalm with a complaint. with his problems, with his overwhelming enemies that are coming into his life, with the obstacles that surround him. And he's pleading for God to work and for God to act and for God to deliver him. But by the end of the psalm, what is he doing? He's praising God. He's remembering what God has done for him. And he's acknowledging and expressing his faith in such a way that he knows that God will hear him. And that God will protect him and that God will deliver him and God will accomplish his purposes. You see prayer that changes Things changes us. It changes our perspective. It changes our hearts The great British preacher Martin Lloyd-Jones said that the measure of our spirituality is the amount of thanksgiving in our prayers. You see, our prayer should automatically point our thoughts to God and to our eternal future with Him. You see, the things that are mentioned here of God's kingdom and God's power and God's glory, they will last forever. These are the essential elements of our eternity with God in heaven. And you see, if you know the Lord, you will enjoy his everlasting glory. I find it amazing how often in Scripture you will find the connection of glory and eternity put side by side in these doxologies. A doxology where we praise God. It kind of naturally is a road that leads us to the horizon and to eternity. We're looking ahead as far as our eye can see, and there we see the end of the landscape, and that leads to eternity. We have things like this at the end of Romans 11, for of him and through him and to him are all things, to whom be glory forever. Amen. We have in 1 Timothy 1 and verse 17, the passage, by the way, that was instrumental in bringing Jonathan Edwards to Christ, it says, now unto the King, eternal. immortal, invisible, the only wise God, the honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. The end of Jude, to the only wise God, our Savior, be glory and majesty, dominion and power both now and forever. Amen. And in Revelation chapter 5, we read this, and every creature which is in heaven and on earth and under the earth and such as are in the sea. And all that are in them heard I saying, Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb for ever and ever You see, we cannot properly think of the glory of God without also thinking of eternity in our future with Him. So this is how we must conclude our prayers. We must remind ourselves of our glorious future. You see, as Christians, our prayers end with praise, just like our lives will end with praise. So are you longing for that day? Are you eager to see the King in his glory? Perhaps if you were honest, the answer would be no. It sounds rather bizarre to you, the idea of spending eternity and glory with the King of the universe, singing his praises. My friend, it's very likely the way the reason you feel that way is because you don't know him, because if you knew him, you'd be looking forward to it. The Lord is to seek his glory and to eagerly anticipate spending eternity with him This is one of the most profound thoughts that we can encounter in life, and that is this thought of eternity. Boggles the mind. One writer said that when he was a little boy, his mom tried to get across this idea of eternity. And she said, picture this bird that they were looking at out in the yard and picture that bird flying hundreds of thousands of miles to the moon and with its beak taking a little bit of tusk and then flying back to earth and putting them down here in our yard and then going back with another trip. and going back and forth until all of the moon was finally here on earth. And she said, and when that has occurred, only the first day of eternity has begun. boggles our mind. Even those who don't believe in God find it the most astounding thought. Forever. And yet they know logically there must be, because if there's an end, what's after that? Mathematicians Speak of infinity. But they know that it is beyond the realm of computation. It is something that is more theological than mathematics. The Bible teaches that everyone will live somewhere forever. And just as clearly as the Bible speaks of the eternal place of glory, it also speaks of the eternal place of of misery for those who have rejected Christ. I know that this doctrine is under assault for today and is mocked at by most educated people. But this is what Jesus taught. You cannot trust in Christ and reject the doctrine of an eternal hell because this is what Jesus taught. The most famous verse in the Bible, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. But have everlasting life. And that term perish there is a reference to hell. Because that is the ultimate death. So why will you perish? Jesus died for sinners. It says in Hebrews chapter 2, to bring many sons to glory. He died that you might live. He died that you might come and enjoy his presence forever and sing his praises. This is the whole point of our existence. My question to you is, have you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ? Has there been a time when you have been born again, when you have passed from death unto life? This is the only way we can really pray this prayer with any meaning. This is the only way that we can really do combat with the forces of evil that degrade our culture. This is the only way that we can truly know God is because we have a relationship with Him through Jesus Christ who died in our place. And it's the only way that we can live a life of praise. Because you can't praise what you don't know. As we conclude this series, I urge you to seek the Lord if you do not know Him. You will never regret it. Respond to God's truth. Respond in faith. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Let's close in prayer. Father. We thank you that you have given us your son. And we thank you that your son has taught us to pray. And that he's given us a pattern prayer that has all the elements that help to balance out our petitions before you. I pray that you would help us to be a praying people. Father, help our prayers to be different because we have gone through this study. Help us, Father, not just to be those who hear the word, but help us to be doers of the word, for this is the one who is blessed in this deed. O Father, make us men and women of prayer. Help us to be those who live for eternity. And Father, for those under the sound of my voice who are yet lost in their sins, I pray. That you would put within their heart a desperate sense that they must be saved. And they pray that they would seek you today before they leave this building For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.