Give your Bibles, would you turn with me to the passage we read, Psalm 100? This time of year we often think of the first Thanksgiving. I want to begin by reading something from William Bradford, who wrote an account of the founding of Plymouth Plantation. This famous book, Bradford, reveals how he hopes the people will recall their pilgrimage to New England in 1620. He writes, Our fathers were Englishmen which came over this great ocean and were ready to perish in this wilderness. But they cried unto the Lord, And he heard their voice and looked on their adversity. Let them praise the Lord because he is good and his mercy endures forever. This is an amazing confession of faith when you realize that about half of those who journeyed across the sea would perish that first year. It was after that time of suffering that they gave thanks to God and what we know as the first thanksgiving. Imagine how people would respond today to such hardship. Undoubtedly, the surviving pilgrims would hire a lawyer, and Mr. Bradford would be imprisoned and maligned in the press for his dangerous and reckless leadership of these people. The Mayflower would be impounded, and undoubtedly there would be a class action lawsuit. But these pilgrims did not proclaim to the world that they were victims But they gave thanks to God and proclaimed that He is good. We read together and sang together Psalm 100. I hope you made that connection. This morning, Spurgeon said that the most sublime experience on this side of heaven is for a large number of the people of God to sing the 100th psalm. I don't know if we're a large number of people, but we've got a fair amount here. And it sounded good as we sang praises to God this morning. Psalm 100 is one of the better-known psalms. I'm sure that many of you have memorized it or have it kind of memorized. The inscription tells us that it's a psalm of praise. It was sung as worshipers entered into the temple. But this psalm was not just for the Jewish people. It has a global reach. It says, make a joyful noise unto the Lord all ye lands. It anticipates the day when the knowledge of the Lord will cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. The Psalm has a very clear twofold pattern. There are two calls to worship and two reasons given why we should worship. I want you to see this twofold pattern. First of all, we have the call to worship. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord all ye lands. Verse 2, serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. And then in verse 3, he's going to give some reasons why we should shout, serve, and sing to the Lord. First of all, because he is God. Know the Lord, he is God. He starts with the most basic reason. Why should we praise and thank the Lord? Well, because he's God. And then he goes on. He says, it is he that hath made us. God is our creator. And therefore, he is worthy of our praise and worship. And thirdly, because we are his people, the sheep of his pasture, this speaks of the covenant relationship that we have with our Father. In verse 4, we have what is essentially the second stanza of this hymn of praise. We have another call to worship. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving. And into his courts with praise. Dave Larson mentioned something, I think it was Wednesday night perhaps of when this building was kind of half done and the drywall had not been put up yet. We had a a little brief mini service in here when there was just a concrete floor and We passed out permanent markers and people went around and they wrote verses on different uh uh lentil posts and and uh on on different two by fours all through the building. And when they tear this building down someday or they remodel it, they'll see those verses. And on the other side of the entrance, The main entrance here, I wrote right across on there, enter into his gates with thanksgiving, taken here from Psalm 100, speaking of the attitude that we should have. when we come before the Lord. And into his courts with praise, be thankful unto him and bless his name. Now verse 5 is going to give us some reasons why we should do that. For the Lord is good His mercy is everlasting, and the word mercy there is one of the most important Hebrew terms in the Old Testament. It speaks of God's loving loyalty. And then it says his truth, and this term has the idea of faithfulness. His faithfulness endureth to all generations. And so it is appropriate for us as the people of God to gather together and worship Him with thanksgiving because of who He is and what He has done for us. Now I'm not going to expound this psalm any further this morning. Instead, I want to point out that we as the people of God have been called on here and in many other passages to be overwhelmingly thankful for the goodness of God in our lives. Notice this connection. Verse 4 says, enter into his gates with thanksgiving. And the first reason given in verse 5 is, for the Lord is good. I wonder if that is a truth that you wholeheartedly agree with to the very depths of your being, that God is good. The fact is that there are many Christian people who, though they may not say it out loud in a public setting like this, they struggle with that. In fact, there are people here undoubtedly that have struggled with this time of year. It's Thanksgiving, and everyone seems to be in a pretty good mood, and they're giving thanks for all their blessings, and yet there are people who in their hearts struggle because they don't feel they have that much to be thankful for and their mind is fixated on some problem, some disappointment, some difficulty that has been a shadow in their life. This verse teaches us, however, that God is inherently good and that the problem that we have when we struggle with this is not with God and how he is treated with us, but the problem is how we have interpreted his dealings with us in our lives. The longer I live and the longer I serve as a pastor, the more I see that this is a huge problem with many people. Some great disappointment, some disaster, perhaps the death of a loved one, of a spouse, of a child Or some great disappointment in a relationship early on, or some problem financially, or some physical disability that they have. And they struggle the rest of their days, feeling somehow that they have been shortchanged by God, that God has not been fair to them. Because look around, a lot of other people don't struggle with what I struggle with. And perhaps you would say, I know I should be thankful, and I should believe that God is good and that He has been good to me, but I just don't feel that way. So this Sunday morning after Thanksgiving, we're going to step back from this psalm, the psalm of praise, and look at this larger issue from the Word of God. And I want to speak to you this morning on how to see God's goodness in your life or how to develop a spirit of thanksgiving. And I have three main points that I want to make from various passages in the Scripture. The first thing I would say to you is this, you must refuse to compare your life circumstances with others. And I want to look at three passages under this heading this morning First, we're going to consider the circumstances of the lost, and then we're going to talk about circumstances regarding God's payment or reward of God's servants, and then the suffering of God's servants. To begin with, I want you to turn with me one book back to the book of Job. Turn with me, please, to Job chapter 21. Job chapter 21. I want to begin reading at verse 7. This is a very interesting lament. I think you'll get the flow of the passage very quickly. Look at Job 21, verse 7. Wherefore do the wicked live, become old, yea, are mighty in power, their seed is established in their sight with them. And their offspring before their eyes, their houses are safe from fear, neither is the rod of God upon them. Their bull gendereth and faileth not, their cow calbeth and casteth not her calf. They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their children dance. They take the timbrel and harp and rejoice at the sound of the organ. They spend their days in wealth, and in a moment they go down to the grave. This is a very interesting passage of scripture, kind of a remote corner of God's word that we rarely consider. But what the writer here is expressing is that often the ungodly, the wicked, seem to have a good life. In fact, in many cases, they seem to have a better life than Christians do. The picture here is of an idyllic setting, of a healthy family, of financial security. of people who live a long and prosperous and happy life, and then they die suddenly, they don't suffer and linger on. You'll find the same complaint in Psalm 37 and in Psalm 73 and another of other passages. You see, this is not the way we would run the universe, is it? We would have it so that as soon as someone does something wrong, something really bad would happen to them. And the way we would run the universe is it would be really easy to see who are God's people and who are not, because God's people would be incredibly blessed. They would have all this wealth and security. Their families would be all strong, close-knit, doing well, and then the ungodly would all just be struggling to get by. They would be poor, they would have disease, they would have difficulty, and it would be very apparent that it's a wise thing to serve the Lord. But that's not the way things work in the universe. We see the Hollywood celebrities. Who seem to be living the happy life, who seem to have everything going for them, and so many Christian people struggle with difficulties This is something that causes some Christians to struggle. They wonder if serving the God, serving God is really worth it. if it really pays off, if this is really the abundant life that Jesus spoke of. Because as they compare their experience and their hardship, with their neighbor, their unsaved, ungodly neighbor who never goes to church, they seem to be doing better than they are. But this is not just a problem when we compare ourselves with unbelievers. It's also a problem, perhaps more acutely a problem when we compare ourselves with other believers. Turn with me now to Matthew chapter 20. Matthew chapter 20 A very interesting parable the Lord tells here. I think it's important for us. to understand the context in which it was set. Look with me a few verses earlier at Matthew 19 verse 27. The Lord has been speaking to them and teaching them, dealt with the person we know as the rich young ruler And verse 27. Then answered Peter and said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken all and followed thee. What shall we have therefore? That's a pretty bold thing to ask. What are we going to get for following you, Lord? Verse 28. And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, that ye which have followed me in the regeneration, when the Son of Man shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And every one that hath forsaken houses or brother or sisters or fathers or mothers or wife or children or lands for my name's sake shall receive a hundredfold and shall inherit everlasting life. But many that are first shall be last, and the last shall be first. He says essentially to Peter, you are going to be rewarded and blessed far beyond your imagination. But he's going to go back and deal with the wrong attitude that Peter had. What do we get out of this? that kind of mercenary spirit. And so he gives this parable. Notice what he says here in the first two verses from For the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is a householder which went out early in the morning to hire laborers into his vineyard. And when he had agreed with the laborers for a penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard. vineyard. This would have been a scene and a story that they would readily have identified with because it was so common in their culture. This is a vineyard at harvest time. And what we have here are day laborers who work for cash. We still have day laborers today that come to certain regions when it's harvest time and they're hired just for a day or two to harvest those goods. Most unskilled laborers at this time worked from sunup to sundown, which was roughly from 6 a. m. to 6 p. m. So the first workers that we read of here would have been hired around 6 o'clock in the morning. But soon the owner realizes that he is going to need more laborers if he's going to get the harvest in in one day. And so he goes out, it says at the third hour, that would be our equivalent of 9 a. m. And he hires some more day laborers. But then as he sees the rate at which the working, he realizes he needs more. And so he goes back again at noon And he hires some more workers, and they are working earnestly and hard, but he sees it's still not going to get done. So he goes back again at 3 p. m. That late in the day, and it hires more workers. But as they are working and the sun is beginning to go down, he realizes they're still not going to get it done. And let me remind you in this day they did not have electricity, they could not have gone out and rented some lamps from some rental place to get the job done. No, his only option was to go back one more time as late as 5 p. m. and get some more workers. These workers would have been the bottom of the barrel, the guys who never get hired. People who had not as much to give and perhaps they were injured or disabled or they were elderly, uh and but they needed the work, and so he hired them because he wanted this to get done. And at the end of the day, they would all line up in a straight row to receive their wages. And he began with the people that he had most recently hired. And he went down the line and he reached into his bag and he pulled out a denarius, rendered here a penny, which was the common and agreed upon wage for a common worker for a day. And he gives them what was the going rate, we would say. It says in verse 11 of this passage, and when they had received it, They murmured against the good man of the house, saying, These last have wrought but one hour, and thou hast made them equal unto us which have borne the burden and heat. of the day. What I always find fascinating is that these people never would have complained if they didn't know what the other people were being paid. The only reason they were upset is because they saw what other people were being paid. And so they're complaining, they're murmuring. The problem was that they compared themselves with others. It didn't seem fair. Some of them there had worked for 12 hours. Twelve hours of work in the heat of the day, probably without any break. And then there were other who's who came in as the sun was setting. It wasn't hot. There was now a nice cool evening breeze, and they worked maybe for 45 minutes or something, and they got the same amounts. Doesn't seem right. I like the way the owner of the vineyard responds. He says three things. Look with me at verse 13. But he answered one of them and said, Friend, I do thee no wrong. Didst thou not agree with me for a penny? He says, I I haven't cheated you. I've done nothing wrong. How much did we agree upon at the beginning of the day? A denarius. And how much did I give you? I gave you a denarius. I fulfilled my word to you. I gave what I said I would. So so why are you angry with me? So the first thing he says to them is this, I am just. He's going to say something else in verse 15. He says, Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with my own? What's he saying here? He's saying I'm sovereign. I own all of this. This bag of money, it's mine. I can do with it what I want to do. It's none of your business how much I pay other people. This is my vineyard, my harvest, my money. It's important for us to remember in life that God doesn't answer to us. We answer to God. God does deal with people differently. But that's his business. That's not our business. That's not something that we should complain about. But there's a third thing that he says. Look at the end of verse 15. Is thine eye evil because I am good? He's saying, I am a good man, representing God here, of course. I am a good God I have fulfilled, I'm just, I'm sovereign, and I'm good. The vineyard owner is saying, when he says this last part of verse 15, Is thine I evil because I am good? Sounds kind of confusing to us. Let me put it this way. We might say today, your complaint says more about you than it does about me. Your attitude problem says more about you than it does about the God that you're angry at. Because God hasn't changed. God is good as he's always been good. And he has been good to you. Let me remind you that none of these men deserved to be hired. He wasn't obligated to hire any of them. And if he had not gone there that day into the marketplace, and hire those workers who even work for 12 hours, they would have had no wage at the end of the day. They would have had nothing to help feed their families. But he was good in helping them. It was a blessing to them Now I want you to turn with me to another New Testament passage. Turn with me, please, to John chapter 21. Last chapter of John is kind of like Postscript. It records our Lord's dealing with Peter After the resurrection in Galilee, a very famous, beautiful scene in Scripture. I want to pick up in this interview in verse 18, John 21, 18. The Lord makes this prophecy after calling Peter to serve him With that haunting question, lovest thou me? And then that command, feed my sheep, or shepherd my sheep. In verse 18 he says, Verily, verily I say unto thee, when thou wast young, thou girdest thyself and walkest whither thou wouldst. But when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee and carry thee whither thou wouldst not. This is kind of ambiguous language. But we know in verse 19, this spake he signifying by what death he should glorify God. And it seems to be a reference to the fact that Peter would be crucified. And then the Lord says to him, follow me. Verse 19. Verse 20, then Peter turning about seeth the disciple whom Jesus loved, referring to John, following, which also lean on his breast at supper, and said, Lord. Which is he that betrayeth thee? Peter, seeeth thou him, saith to Jesus, Lord, what shall this man do? There was sort of a rivalry among the disciples, I believe, between Peter, who was the bold. impulsive leader of the 12 and then the reflective, contemplative, more careful John They were the two most respected men among the twelve, and they were undoubtedly good friends. And so it's natural that Peter wonders what's going to happen to this guy. You've just told me that I'm going to die the death of a martyr. This is part of your plan for my life. And perhaps Peter suspected that John would be favored by Jesus. I mean, after all, he was the one that was right next to him, with his head resting on his chest in the upper room. Perhaps he's thinking, you know, I bet that guy John 's going to have a better ending than I will. You know, I I've just been told that I'm going to probably die in a pretty gruesome way So I'd really like to know what kind of suffering is John going to have to endure? He looks back at John and asks the Lord about this man. In the King James text, the words shall and do are italics because They were added by the translators to smooth out this awkward-sounding question, but it could be literally readed, and this man, what? Peter wants to know how much suffering John will face. What kind of death will he endure? Jesus' response is quick and pointed, verse 22. Jesus saith unto him, I will, if I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? Follow thou me Now again, if we were to put this into our language today, we would say, that's none of your business. You don't need to know that. You don't need to know how he's going to die or how much suffering he's going to face. There's no profit in making that comparison. And so the Lord does not answer that question. So have you ever noticed that sufferings and problems do not seem to be evenly distributed? Have you ever made that observation? This is true in many realms. You know, we have a prayer sheet. And there are some families who are always on our prayer sheet And we pray for them. And there's some families that are never on our prayer sheet. How do you account for that? Some people really struggle with this. They assume that God must be punishing them or that God is playing favorites. But both explanations are false. God in his infinite wisdom has a different plan for different disciples. I'm convinced that much of the struggle that people have to see the goodness of God is due to their foolishly comparing themselves with others. And this can be a real problem even among the people of God, even as we gather to worship. You come to church without your spouse, you'll be tempted to view The husbands and wives together is an indication that God has somehow failed you. If you're unable to have children, you may find large families almost to be an offensive reminder of your plight. If you're unemployed, the work-related stories that you hear in the lobby might make you feel uncomfortable and perhaps even out of place. This is why 2 Corinthians 10 and verse 12 tells us that comparing ourselves with others is not wise. In fact, it is foolish. God never claims that he treats everyone the same, but he is good to everyone. One of the reasons why it's so foolish to compare yourselves with others is you can't really make that comparison. You don't really know what other people are experiencing. You only see some outward things. You don't know what's going on in their hearts. You don't know what things they struggle with. You don't know the problems they might have in their family. The health issues that they may keep to themselves. You're not aware of those things. And so for you to make a comparison is invalid because you don't know what suffering, what difficulties, what disappointments they have really faced in life. And that's not what God has called you to do. He says, follow thou me. He's called us to follow him. And so you should stop looking at others and count your blessings. We must not be covetous or envious or jealous of others. Instead, we must be content because if you're a child of God, you have Christ. And what else do you need? Now the second thing I want you to consider as we seek to develop a spirit of thanksgiving is first of all, you must refuse to compare yourselves with others. Secondly You must recognize that everything that you enjoy is an undeserved gift from God. Turn with me, please, to the book of James. James chapter 1. This is towards the very end of your New Testament. James chapter 1 and verse 17. James 1. 17. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. James presents this truth in a very emphatic way. Notice he uses the word every twice to express the fact that there are no exceptions to what he's saying. He says that every good gift, every perfect gift is from above, which was a Jewish way of saying from God. Because they would refrain from using his name, they would often speak of blessings coming from above. Every good thing in your life ultimately comes from God. I want you to think about that for a second. One of the reasons why we doubt God's goodness is because we're so often blind. to the manifestations of this goodness that are in our lives. We're kind of like little children. We can learn so much from children. They never think about where their home comes from, or their bed , or their food, or their toys, or all the things that they enjoy. They never stop and wonder and say, I wonder who provided all this? Who's paying for all of this? That never enters their minds. It's just there for them to enjoy. I'm sure many parents have had similar experiences to this. Try to teach your children when they're young about money and how Mommy or daddy work and they earn money and they put it in the bank and then they they budget and they plan on how they're going to spend their money. Perhaps you've had times when Your child wanted something at a store, and you would say to them, we don't have money to that. We don't have money for that And I remember once hearing one of my children say, well then let's go to the ATM and get some. Seems like a simple solution, right? There's that bank there, and they just give out money so that you can buy whatever you want We often are like this. We forget that all that we enjoy has been provided for us by someone, by our Heavenly Father. We go through our routines without ever thinking that God, as the psalmist says, is daily loading us with benefits. The idea is that it's like much more than you could ever carry or hold. I mean you're just being Sent all of these blessings every day. Every new day is a gift from God. God 's creation is a reminder that God is good. Psalm 33 in verse 5 says, the earth is full of the goodness of God. Did you know that when you look out at earth and you see the way it works and you say the beautiful way that God has designed things, you can deduce from that that the Creator our God is a good God. It's manifest in creation. Every sunrise, every sunset is a revelation of the goodness of God. Every meal that you enjoy is a gift from God. This is, by the way, one reason why it's a good practice to give thanks to the Lord, as Christians have always done, because every mouthful is a gift from him. Have you ever stopped and thought about how much you own? You own a house? Or renting a house? Do you have a car? I don't think anybody walked here this morning. You drove here, or someone brought you. How many pairs of shoes do you own? Some of you have quite a collection, undoubtedly. I see some husbands shaking their heads. You should come and look in the closet, Pastor. You have food at home in your pantry and your refrigerator? Of course you do. There is no one here that is worried that they're going to starve to death this week, especially after Thanksgiving. No one's thinking like that. You know, we have no idea of how good we have it. We're like spoiled children. Most people in the history of the world, their great struggle in life, the great thing that they feared was that they were going to starve to death, that there would come some famine. that all their crops and everything would be gone and they would have no way to provide for their family and they would starve to death, and millions of people in the history of the world have. We never give it a second thought. We always have food. Can you see? You have the capacity to see, to hear , to walk? These are great blessings that many people do not have. Many people in other parts of the world, there's a much higher rate of people who are blind and people who are deaf because they don't have the medical or nutritional advantages that we do. And it's been that way in the history of the world. Can you read? I don't think we have any illiterate people here, none that I know of. Many people in the world cannot read. And many people who have lived on this planet Never had the advantage of learning to read. They were never educated. They knew very, very little. Their understanding of the world and how it works and how large it is and of different cultures and different places. They knew nothing of that. We have the ability to read. We can read God's word. We have all the blessings of family. So many of us have wonderful spouses and you have children. And I haven't even talked about all of the blessings that far overshadow this, the blessings that we have in Christ. And we just happen in the providence of God to be living in the most prosperous nation in the history of the world. What an incredible blessings that we have. All of these things are gifts from God. The hymn writer was correct when he wrote, All good things around us are sent from heaven above. So thank the Lord. Thank the Lord for all that He has done. And notice that all of these blessings are described as gifts. That is, we didn't earn them. They are all of grace. When we become angry and bitter at God at the circumstances in our lives, we are disclosing that somehow We feel that we deserve better and that somehow we have earned a better state of existence than what we enjoy. But that is contrary to the teaching of God's Word. Now perhaps there's some people here saying, you know, you keep talking about all these gifts and all these blessings. I want you to know that I worked really, really hard. I work really, really hard to provide a home for my family and to buy those cars and that clothing and that food. And I've been working hard my whole life. You keep talking about this as a gift from God. This is what I have earned. Well, let me ask you a few questions Who gave you a mind to learn your career? Where did your brain come from? It came from God. How did you come to be born into a nation where you have all these opportunities to pursue whatever avenue you want and whatever career that you want You had no say in where you were placed and the family to whom you were born. And who gave you the health? So that you could work the way you do year after year after year in your profession. God gave you that health. God gave you those blessings. God gave you that training. God gave you that mind. God gave you the family advantages that you enjoy. God gave you this providential blessing of being born in the United States of America. All of those things were undeserved. and unearned. You see, God has indeed crowned every one of us with his loving kindness and tender mercies. This is why it is wise for us, as we sang together today, to count our blessings. But you know, all of these blessings pale in comparison to knowing that our sins have been forgiven. And that we have a home in heaven. The true blessings that will last for eternity come from knowing the good shepherd who has given his life for the sheep. Do you want to see God's goodness in your life? Stop comparing yourselves with others. And recognize that all that you enjoy is an undeserved gift from God. And thirdly, you must remember to wait for the end of the story. Turn with me to James chapter 5, we're in the same book. James 5, look with me at verse 11. James 5, 11. James writes, Behold, we count them happy or blessed, which endure. Ye have heard of the patience of Job and have seen the end of the Lord, for the Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercy. This is the only mention of Job in the New Testament. Job, of course, has a lengthy book named after him. Job is proverbial for the incredible sufferings that he endured. I don't have time to do justice to this incredible story. But let me remind you of the main outlines of that story. There was a contest in heaven between Satan and the Lord. The Lord told Satan, look at my servant Job. He's an upright, godly man serving me in the fear of God. And Satan says, huh. Only reason he's serving you like that is because you've showered him with blessings. You've been so good to him. Of course he's going to serve you because you've been so good to him. But he says, you take away his blessings , and he will stop worshiping and serving you. Job accuses him of mercenary motives. of only serving the Lord because the Lord has blessed him. And so the Lord Takes the devil up on this challenge and says, All right, let's find out. The Lord, of course, knew how it would end. And so Satan comes down in a moment, Job loses his vast wealth. His herds, which were the embodiment of his wealth, some to the Sabaeans, others to the Chaldeans, and some to Lightning. A great wind came and killed his seven sons and three daughters. And Job's response was exemplary. He says, The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And then we come to round two. The same contest transpires again. And the Lord says, you see, I told you, this man truly loves me. And Satan takes a dark view of it and says, This guy's even more selfish than I thought. Apparently, he doesn't care about his children that he's lost. He's so callous. But I tell you what, if you touch him physically, if you make him suffer, He will turn away from you. And so the Lord gives him permission again. And this time. . Satan covers Job's body with painful boils. His wife was not much of a help to him. She told him to curse God and die. And Job sat in the ashes and scraped his festering boils with a broken piece of pottery. I think that one of the reasons that James uses him as an example is because no one can read the story of Job and say, well, you know, my suffering 's a whole lot worse than his. He really had it pretty easy. No, he had great tragedy in his life. So Job lost his wealth and his health and his family and his standing among his peers, but he never lost his faith. Now what's interesting to us is that Job, or excuse me, James refers to the story of Job as an example that the Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercy. That's amazing because it doesn't seem like God was being very merciful or very pitiful towards Job when he was going through this incredible difficulties and suffering. But the answer, of course, here is that we only see that in light of the end of the story. That's what he says in verse 11. You have seen the end of the Lord, that the Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercy. So I'm going to invite you to turn back with me now to the book of Job. I want us to look at Job 42, the last chapter, the conclusion of this book. We were In this book a little while ago, we're going to return to it, Job chapter 42. And we have this Concluding statement. Job forty-two and verse ten And the Lord turned the captivity of Job when he prayed for his friends. Also the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before. Then came there unto him all his brethren and all his sisters and all they that had been of his acquaintance before. And they eat bread with him in the house, and they bemoaned him and comforted him over all the evil that the Lord had brought upon him. Every man also gave him a piece of money, and every one an earring of gold. Verse twelve. So the Lord blessed The latter end of Job more than his beginning And it mentions that he had 14,000 sheep and six thousand camels and a thousand yoke of oxen and a thousand she asses and also had seven sons and three daughters, and preachers have often made The striking comment that when you look at the numbers at the beginning of the book, at the end of the book, you'll see that all of the his flocks and all of his herds and all of his wealth was doubled. But there's one thing that wasn't doubled, and that was the number of his children. He had the same number of children again, and the implication is that he never lost his children. That's why they were not really doubled. Not that they didn't die. but that he would spend eternity with them. So this is the ultimate happy ending. And we like happy endings But perhaps you're here this morning and you say, but my life doesn't have that kind of happy ending. I haven't had all that I've lost doubled. I don't have my my life is not surrounded by well-wishers and family members who are comforting me and encouraging me. I don't have a happy ending to my life. Well, the fact is that if you're a child of God, you have not experienced the end of your story yet. Satan will do everything he can to convince you that God has been unfair to you. We saw his character revealed in those accusations in the book of Job. He will try to convince you that God has not been good, that God has not been faithful, that God has not been fair, that God has treated other people much better than he's treated you. But this is all a lie coming from the Father of lies. The fact is, as I've often said, that when we are in glory, Just one moment, gazing upon the beauty of our Savior, all of our trials and tribulations will be forgotten. will be far distant in the past. Our hearts will no longer be troubled with the seeming inequities of life. And we will know from the depths of our being that God is good. But you can only experience this happy end of the story if you know The Lord Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. The psalmist puts it this way, O taste and see that the Lord is good. Have you tasted? Have you experienced? Have you taken for yourself? Have you received it for yourself and known that God is indeed good and that the Savior is the Good Shepherd? Who has given his life for the sheep? All of God's people will praise his name for eternity. And proclaim that he is good. And our voices will be filled with eternal thanksgiving. And perhaps if you're here this morning and you have no sense of the goodness of God, you feel that your heart is not overwhelmed with Thanksgiving at the blessings that God has given to you. It could be it's because you have never tasted and seen that the Lord is good. And you need to come and see yourself as an undeserving sinner. And you need to take by faith the gift. of salvation that is offered through the death and resurrection of Christ. And you need to appropriate it for yourself. And then and only then will you be able to rejoice with a full heart with the people of God and truly know that the end of your story will be happy. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you that you are a good God. You have been so good to us. You've blessed us abundantly. Help us to be a thankful people. Help us to refrain from comparing our situations with others or thinking for a moment that you've been unfair to us. Help us, Father, to count our blessings and to wait for the end of the story when you will bless us and show your goodness to us. in a way that blows us away and embarrasses us and reminds us that you are God, who is truly good. Thank you, Father, for your word, and for this time of worship this morning. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen