You have your Bibles, would you turn with me to Hebrews chapter 3? Hebrews chapter 3. Most of you have probably heard of the name of Ted Turner. He is the person most responsible for creating the 24-hour news cycle because he has had an idea of having a 24-hour news channel He called it CNN. And he became very wealthy, a billionaire. He was the owner of the Atlanta Braves, the husband of Jane Fonda, and at one time he owned more land in America than any other individual. He was also an outspoken opponent of Christianity. He once said that Christianity is for losers. He's also famous for saying life is a game And money is how we keep score. What you may not know is that Ted Turner was bought brought up in a fundamental Christian home. In fact, he says that as a young person, he prayed to receive Christ seven or eight times, even once at a Billy Graham rally. As a teenager, he read through the Bible twice and believed that God had called him to be a missionary. But when his godly older sister, who was two years older than him, became seriously ill. He vowed that he would pray an hour a day for her healing. And he kept that vow. But when he was 17 years old, she died. And he became disillusioned with God. And he said that the more he strayed from his faith, the better he felt. until the day came that he completely renounced his previous faith as nonsense. This morning we come to a text that directly addresses the uncomfortable reality of apostasy. Look with me at Hebrews chapter 3 and verse 12. Take heed, brethren. Lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing from the living God. That word that's translated departing. is the Greek word that is the origin of our English word apostasy. It could be read In apostasizing from the living God. The word apostasy means to fall away It refers to a person who once claimed to be a follower of Christ, but now has renounced their faith and gone back to their old life. Apostasy is sort of like repentance in reverse. In repentance, a person turns to God away from their sin. But in apostasy, a person turns away from God and goes back to their sin. To some Christians Interpret apostasy as evidence that a person can lose their salvation. But I don't believe that for a moment because the Bible is filled with promises. that when God truly starts a work of grace in a person's heart, he will bring it to completion. So, how should we understand those who seem to be followers of Christ, who seem to be sincere, who seem at least for a time to be faithful, but then leave the Christian community? I think the answer is found in 1 John 2 and verse 19. They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us, but they went out that it might be made manifest that they were not all of us. Those who finally abandoned Christ reveal that they were never truly disciples of Christ. Now the book of the Bible that most clearly addresses the reality of apostasy is the book of Hebrews. And the reason that the unknown author raises this issue is because these first century Jews were beginning to face persecution and it was about to become severe. And so some of them were considering renouncing their faith and going back to Judaism because that seemed to be a safe option. And so the spiritual shepherd who penned the words of this book shows them from numerous Old Testament passages that Jesus is better than the angels, he's better than Moses, or anything that Judaism had to offer He pleads with them and exhorts them like a preacher, and he also warns them sternly but lovingly not to fall away. This morning we find ourselves in one of those famous warning passages. I mentioned to you at the outset of our study that there are five such passages in the book of Hebrews. And right now we are in the second of those warning passages. This really begins with the last phrase. in verse six of this chapter, where it says, Whose house we are if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end. The book of Hebrews teaches the doctrine of the perseverance of the believer more clearly than any other New Testament book. It is true that we become Christians the moment we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. But it's also true that if we have been born again, we will continue to trust and follow Christ. You'll notice the last words in verse 6 are firm until the end. Now look with me at verse 14. For we are made partakers of Christ if we hold the beginning of our confidence steadfast unto the end. This is a very similar statement. So the author here is showing that this is a major thing because he's repeating this thesis. You have to hold fast, firm until the end. So to teach that a person doesn't need to continue in the faith to be a Christian is unbiblical and very dangerous. Now, verses 7 through 11 of this chapter that we considered last Sunday are a direct quotation from Psalm 95, verses 7 through 11. Let me remind you of what this passage says. Wherefore, as the Holy Ghost saith, today if you will hear his voice, Harden not your hearts as in the provocation and the day of temptation in the wilderness, when your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years. Wherefore I was grieved with that generation and said, They do always err in their hearts, and they have not known my ways, so I swear in my wrath that they shall not enter into my rest. The reason why the author of Hebrews recites this passage is that he wants his readers to know that just because they got off to a good start in their Christian lives does not mean that they will have a happy conclusion. Because the Exus generation had a spectacular beginning. Being let go as a result of the ten plagues and going through and being rescued at the Red Sea, and yet they perished in unbelief, at least most of them did. And so the message that he is trying to convey to them in this paragraph is this, don't harden your hearts like the Exodus generation. This idea is repeated three times. in this section. Now the author of Hebrews will have more to say about the lessons we can learn from this negative example of the wilderness wanderings. But before he moves on with more exposition, which we will in verses 15 and following, he pauses to make direct application to his readers. Because like a good preacher, he's not going to hold off in his exhortation and application until the very end. He is going to intersperse it throughout his sermon. And that's what he pauses to do here. So this morning we're going to look at just two verses. Verses 12 and verse 13. And these are going to provide for us two halves, if you will, or two faces of a coin. And I want to preach you this morning on how to avoid spiritual disaster. Because that's what occurred to that Exodus generation. These are words of application we're considering this morning, and so I'm going to be making a lot of application. And we have two halves. Verse 12 tells us essentially that we must watch or guard our own hearts. And verse 13 is going to tell us we have to watch and guard the hearts of others in our Christian community. So these are the two parts, the two ways that we are to avoid spiritual disaster. Let's look at this now more carefully. Look with me at verse 12. It says, Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing from the living God. So first of all, you must watch over your own heart. Lest it become hardened. This is a solemn application right after a disturbing story. What is this verse calling us to do? It's calling us to take heed. This phrase can be translated in different ways. Take care. Watch out. Take heed. Beware. But perhaps the best rendering would be see to it. I say that because the Greek verb that's used here literally means to see. In fact, look at the last verse in this chapter, verse 19. He summarizes the end of this chapter this way. So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief. The word see there is the same verb that's translated take heed in verse 12. And this is intentional by the author to mark off the section at the beginning and the middle. A beginning and the end, excuse me. So this verse of exhortation begins with a call to perpetual vigilance. Now, what exactly is he calling his reader to do? He is calling on them, what we read in Proverbs, to guard their hearts with all diligence. It means that we are to examine, evaluate, and reflect on a regular basis on the state of our hearts. We are to seek to intentionally. Delve into our inner person and understand where we are with God. This may sound strange to you because we don't do much of it in our day and age. But it is entirely scriptural. In Psalm 139, verses 23 and 24, the psalm as the Psalm this way. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. In 2 Corinthians 13, 5 we read, examine yourselves whether ye be in the faith. And before we partake of communion, like Lord willing, we will tonight, we are told in 1 Corinthians chapter 11 and verse 28, let a man examine himself And so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. And it goes on to say, for if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. So self-examination is a spiritual discipline that we should practice. Where we take stock of our walk with God John Flavell was a great Puritan preacher of the 17th century. He wrote a classic book entitled, Keeping the Hearts. And in this excellent book, he encourages every believer to ask at the end of every day as they are about to go to sleep, oh my heart, where have you been today? Where you think back over your day and you think back and you review your thoughts and your attitudes and your affections. and you ask yourself, how has my heart been today? Have I had the heart of an atheist who has existed as if there is no God? Or has my heart been set on the Lord's? And of course, if you discover that your heart is drifting from God, you must take drastic measures like spending more time in prayer, getting an accountability partner, or seeking the intervention of a spiritual shepherd. But we tend to avoid examining our hearts, don't we? Why is that? Because it's uncomfortable. And it may bring bad news and we would prefer not to look at bad news. But who is to take heed to this warning? What does it say in our text? Take heed, brethren. Now I've mentioned before this is not just talking to men, this is talking about the sisters as well. Men and women, boys and girls, all who profess to follow Christ are called here. To see to their hearts, to watch over their hearts. Now let me ask you a question. Do you really believe this? Because my fear is that many people here this morning do not. I think you might be very tempted to exempt yourself and say, I think. That you need to preach this, Pastor, because there are a lot of phony believers out there who are not really saved. But you don't have to worry about me. I mean, I know I was saved. I mean, when I got saved, I cried some tears. And I believe the Bible teaches once saved, always saved. So You preach away about that perseverance of the saints and the importance of guarding your heart, but that has no relevance to me. I want you to know if that's the way you're thinking, you're in a dangerous situation. Because this is for everyone who claims to be a follower of Christ. As I have said before, I do believe that a true child of God will never finally fall away from grace. But one of the marks of a true child of God is that they obey God's word, and this portion of God's word calls us to examine our hearts. So you can't reverse that and say, I don't need to examine my heart because I'm a child of God, because the word of God says a true child of God will examine their hearts There's no exceptions to this warning. I'm not an exception to this. There's no one That gets to the place where they say, you know what? I have advanced so far in my Christian life, I don't have to worry about my heart anymore. You only get there when you're in glory someday, my friend. Do you remember what Paul said? With that meeting of the Ephesian elders, these men who were pastors in that large city of Ephesus, he says unto them, Take heed therefore unto yourselves and to all the flock. He says the first thing that a minister of the gospel must do is he must take heed to his own spiritual well-being. Because if your heart's not right with God, you're not going to be able to minister to others effectively. And what do you make of these words to young Timothy, who was a pastor? Take heed unto thyself and under the doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this thou shalt save thyself and them that hear thee. I mean, it almost seems to imply that a pastor could perish eternally. It doesn't imply that. It says that that is possible. No one is exempt. I have to say to you with great sorrow that I have known men that I went to seminary with who were excellent preachers. Who appeared to be godly men, who today are atheists, who've renounced everything that they once preached, and live wicked lives. No one can say this does not apply to me. You see, this is not some theoretical or hypothetical warning. It's a clear and present danger. So whatever you do, don't think for a moment that this warning is not for you. What are we to be concerned about? What are we to look out for? Verse 12, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief. Let's try to define this. What is an evil heart? Well, the writer's probably going back to the account of the Israelites responding in unbelief and thus refusing to enter Canaan. In Numbers 14, 35, the Lord calls the Israelites in the wilderness this evil congregation. Very strong language. Why did the Lord call them evil? Because they responded in unbelief. We looked at several passages last week in the Old Testament to confirm this. I'm not going to read these lengthy passages to Let me give you the highlights. the same thing. In Deuteronomy 132, Moses says, you did not believe the Lord your God who went in the way before you. In Deuteronomy 9. 23, when God said to go up and possess the land, he says, you believed him not, nor hearkened to his word. And Psalm 106 and verse 24, reviewing this incident, it says, they believed not his word. And I want you to notice how this paragraph in Hebrews begins and ends with a reference to unbelief. In verse 12, he speaks of an evil heart of unbelief. And if you look at verse 19 at the end of this chapter, the very last word is the word unbelief. Belief, because the author of this book wanted his readers and his hearers to remember and focus on that word. Now let me carefully define what we mean by unbelief. The unbelief mentioned here is not so much a reference to our doubts or our struggle to trust in God. I'm not suggesting that doubting God is no big deal. It is indeed sinful. But that is not so much what is being described here. No, the unbelief here is a reference to a defiant refusal to believe. It speaks of rebellion against God. As I mentioned last week, unbelief always inevitably leads to disobedience. And what made this unbelief all the more egregious is that this excess generation experienced the incredible miracles from God. They witnessed those ten plagues that we read about in the book of Exodus. They experienced that amazing deliverance at the Red Sea. They received manna raining from heaven and water out of the rock, and they could see at any time the cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night A physical manifestation of the holy presence of God. And yet, despite all of this revelation and all of these acts of care and protection and goodness They responded in unbelief. The point is they didn't want to trust God. Have you ever tried to convince someone of something they didn't want to believe? It doesn't matter what approach you take, if they've set their mind they're not going to believe it, no evidence you provide is enough. They are going to find a way creatively to reject it The children of Israel saw the mighty power of God, and yet they responded in unbelief because they didn't want to obey his voice. They were sinning against what they know to be true. This is why the scriptures say on two occasions In Psalm 14. 1 and Psalm 53. 1, the fool has said in his heart, there is no God. Why does God say that? Because everyone instinctively and intuitively knows there is a higher power that they must answer to. And so when they pronounce to everyone in sophisticated circles that they are an atheist, they are proclaiming something that deep down inside they don't truly believe. They may want it dearly to be true, but they don't truly believe that that is the case. And so they are a fool. Now, why are we to guard our hearts? Let's go back to our admonition here. It's because when we sin against the truth and against God's goodness and God's revelation and God's grace to us again and again and again and again, our hearts in time become rock hard. And why did this generation of people respond in this way? Because simply they wanted to live life on their own terms. They believed that they would be happier If they followed their plan for their life, then God's plan for their life. This is why people always go astray. This is why people renounce their faith, because they think that God is keeping them somehow back from all of the happiness and joy that the world has to offer them, and they simply will not continue to live the difficult life they feel they're living. and being deprived of that happiness. And these individuals, this generation had become Calous and indifferent to the warnings and pleadings of God. And what happens when people over years become more and more callous? More and more defiant, less and less receptive to warnings and to God's intervention in their life. You know what eventually happens? They depart from the living God. Now let me ask you a question. Why doesn't it just say here that they depart from God? Why does it say the living God? I think the answer is because this author is writing to a Jewish audience who would immediately make a connection with that. We won't take the time to look at it, but there's like a dozen references in the Old Testament that speak of the living God, and it's using that term in contrast To the dead or non-existent gods of the pagan nations, the Gentile peoples. You see, the Jews were so proud and so happy that they had a relationship, a covenant with the true and living God, while the Gentiles worshiped gods that they made up out of their own imagination. That was the basis of their idolatry. But the pastor who wrote this book is saying to them that if they abandon their faith in this hour of crisis, they are no better off than the pagan Gentiles who are ignorant of God's Because the living God is the God who truly exists, the God who has revealed Himself in the pages of Scripture. God is not a theological construct or a philosophical concept. He is the God who has always been and always will be. He is the great I am. He is the God to whom every human being must answer. And the author of Hebrews is going to use this title several more times in this book. Let me show you. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 14. Hebrews 9, 14. He argues here, how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offer himself without spot? To God purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living Gods This is why we have been saved. This is why our sins have been washed away and satisfied through the death of Christ, so that we can serve the living and true God. Now turn with me to Hebrews 10, 31. This is quite a verse at the end of a warning passage. It says, it's a fearful thing. to fall into the hands of the living God. This is one reason why so many people want to believe there is no God. Because they cannot conceive of this reality. of answering to a God of all power and holiness. Now turn with me to Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 22 Notice what he says, but ye are come unto Mount Zion and unto the city of the living God. the heavenly Jerusalem and to an innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly and church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of just men. made perfect and to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better things than that of Abel. Oh, here it's used in a positive Exhortation that someday we will go to be with the living God and with our blessed Savior. And so you see that throughout this book, the author of Hebrews uses this title both to warn and to console his reader. You see, if you truly believe that God exists, you will not want to depart from him. No, instead, you will seek him with all your heart Every time we sin, we are responding in unbelief. We are living like an atheist. This is why we must guard our hearts, because our hearts are so prone to wander, prone to leave the God we love. So how are we to avoid spiritual disaster? First of all, we must examine our own hearts. We must guard our own hearts. We must keep a check on our own hearts because our hearts so quickly become cold and hard and our hearts are deceptive Your heart can find out a hundred different excuses as to why your sin is not really sin. or it's not really that bad, or it's really not a violation of God's word, and it's really a reasonable and right thing for you to do. People are so imaginative and so creative in their ways to rationalize their sin, and it's your deceptive heart that does that. So contrary to popular opinion, you must not listen to your hearts. I've heard so many Christians over the years give advice To other people, and they say, just listen to your heart. Don't listen to your heart. Listen to God's word. Your heart is deceptive. A second, look with me at verse 13. It says, but exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. Notice that verse 13 begins with the word but, because the author here is making a clear contrast. What is that contrast? Well, verse 12 was a negative warning. Guard your heart. Watch over your hearts. But verse 13 is a more positive exhortation. What are we told to do in this verse? We are told to exhort one another. Now I'm going to get to what that means. But before I explain what that means, I want to delve into five Things that this instruction to exhort one another presupposes. In other words, you can't do that, you can't obey that instruction unless this is true. Number one, it assumes that every believer is a functioning part of a body of believers. Christians who fail to be part of a local body of believers are placing themselves in a very dangerous position Spiritual isolation is deadly. There are many people in our nation who, because of their circumstances, live alone. And people who live alone are doing something that's dangerous. Because something can happen to them and there's no one there to help them or call for help. It's a dangerous thing. It's also a dangerous thing spiritually to be alone. I know this is the American way. We're independent in our thinking. The scriptures continually call us to more of a communal understanding of the Christian life, but we like the more lone ranger approach. I don't need anyone, I can take care of myself. Thank you very much. But the scriptures tell you that you can't take care of yourself. You need your brother and sister involved in your life And the irony is, of course, that often people who are struggling spiritually, the first thing they do is they stop coming to church. And that's when they really need the ministry of the brothers and sisters and the ministry of the word. They just cut off a means of grace that God would like to use to heal their broken hearts. And they isolate themselves further. And that is deadly for your spiritual life. Don't even consider it. Secondly, this verse implies that your brothers in Christ know you well enough to perceive that your heart is becoming insensitive to the will of God. That means that we have to develop real relationships in our church We must do more than just explain, exchange pleasant greetings in the lobby or talk about the NFL playoffs or our favorite recipe. We must actually talk about personal and spiritual matters. Number three, the verse implies that we care enough for our brother and sister that we are willing to have uncomfortable conversations with them. Do you like having uncomfortable conversations with people? I hate it. God has a sense of humor because that's what I do all the time. Uncomfortable conversations. But this is not just something that pastors are to do. This is every believer's responsibility. Number four, this verse implies that keeping our hearts from becoming hardened is a group project. That is, you can't do it all alone. Yes, every person is responsible to guard their own hearts, but they must also look beyond themselves to one another. Number five, this verse implies that we should all be approachable and teachable to the concerns of our Christian brothers and sisters. So let me ask you this morning, are you open and teachable? Can you come up to a brother and say, I notice that you seem to be down today? Can I pray for you? Or would you immediately respond, I'm fine, or mind your own business. No, no, you need the ministry of that brother. Could you say, I haven't seen you at church for some time. Is everything all right? Or would you respond to that inquiry? Mind your own business. Guess what? According to this verse, you are their business. This is what Christ has called us to do. Now, with those presuppositions out of the way , I want us to look at this primary exhortation here, and that is that we are to exhort one another. The Greek word behind the verb translated exhort here is a very common word. It's used like 108 times in our New Testaments. And can have different nuances of meaning depending on the context. It's a very flexible word. It literally means to call alongside, and it's one of the titles for the Holy Spirit. He's the Paraclet. This is the verb parakaleo. It's translated in the King James Version as to beseech, to comfort, to exhort, to desire, to pray, to entreat. Has different ideas. But how should we understand it in this context? After my study this week, I think the best choice would be to view it as To encourage one another. For years I thought that this verse was basically calling on us to rebuke our brother or sister when we sensed that they were going astray. And indeed, there is a place for that. But after studying the context more thoroughly, I've become convinced that the prominent idea is a more positive one, and that is of encouraging or strengthening spiritually one another. This verse is calling us to speak warm, encouraging words that fortifies the faith of another. And I want you to notice that this encouragement is to be mutual. It means that we don't just minister to others, but they minister to us as well. You must never arrogantly presume I'm one of the spiritual ones. I go and I help all of these people who are struggling. But I, of course, need no help. No. We are all a work in progress. We all need the ministry of our brothers. And sisters, this happens when we truly fellowship with one another. The faith of both individuals or of a whole group of individuals, Christians, who are truly fellowshipping Who are really encouraging and strengthening and praying and exhorting and reading scriptures to one another is to build up everyone there, not just one person who's struggling. You see, we all need one another. It's a team effort. Now I want you to turn with me to a very similar verse in Hebrews. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 10, please. Hebrews chapter 10. I would like to begin reading at verse 24. This is a verse that pastors like to use when attendance is down. Hebrews ten twenty-four. It says, and let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is. But exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching Now Lord willing in time, in the distant future, I will go through this verse What I find what's fascinating in this verse is it doesn't say, don't forsake the gathering of yourselves together, because you desperately need to hear the word of God proclaimed. That would have been true. But that's not what it says. It says that we're not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together because We need to exhort one another as you see the day approaching, that is because the time is short. This is an amazing thing. The writer says that if you don't gather with the body of believers, you will miss the mutual exhortation that occurs when the church gathers together. This is why staying home and watching service on livestream is not a good long-term strategy for your family. Livestream is both a blessing and a curse. It is a blessing that when your children are sick, Or you are far away, or the roads are impassable, your driveway is not cleared, that you can still hear the preaching of the word and worship with us. And that's why we offer it. But it's also a curse because people can stay home and now many of you have figured out how to put the service on your big screen TV Not on your little phone, but on the big screen TV. And you can sit back with your coffee and you can relax and you can watch the whole service and kind of give a little commentary on the service as you go along. And it's very comfortable. And you can convince yourself, I went to church today. I worship the Lord, but my friend, you have not gathered with the people of God. There is no substitute for that. Now I'm going to make an application that could get me in trouble. There are people watching at home today who I think should be here. We have gone through a unprecedented difficult time with COVID. And I do not take it lightly. It has made some of our people profoundly ill, and some of them are still struggling to recover. And I realize that I don't know your medical condition. I don't know the factors that make you more susceptible to this virus. And my words here are not addressed primarily to our elderly population, but to young, healthy, vibrant people who are not here this morning. Because I fear that you've gotten into the habit of not coming to church. My question to you is, have you balanced Your physical safety with your spiritual well-being. Because you cannot go weeks and months and years without gathering with the people of God, without it having a very negative impact on your spiritual life. Have you weighed off the the benefits and rewards cost of that? the risk and rewards, have you made that equation? We must not be people who just consider our physical safety and that's all that's important to us because that's the way lost people evaluate things. Christ's plan for his people is that they would gather on the Lord's Day Yes, that they would hear the word of God and they would blend their voices and song, but that they would exhort one another and encourage one another and strengthen one another in their faith and their walk with God. That is God, one of God's remedies here in his word to keep us from falling and from our hearts becoming hardened. And so I would exhort you to consider what God says in this word and apply it to your situation. Now how are we to encourage one another? It says here, daily, while it is called today, and here the authors taking off on that first word and that famous quotation from Psalm 95. And he's really emphasizing this in the text. And what he w the reason why he's saying this must be done in a timely manner is lest any of you be hardened, that is, that the hardening of a person's heart can take place fairly quickly. How often have I seen individuals that in just a few weeks' time they go from being open and receptive to to correction and the word of God till they become completely rock hard and resolute that they will not listen. Because their mind is continually processing and thinking and meditating on things. And if they continue to feed their mind with lies, that are antithetical to God's truth, they will come resolutely to a position that this is what I want to do, this is what I'm going to do no matter what. And so we have to get to people sooner. Often I have been called in to talk to people. Who has become aware of that they're planning to do something that the Bible clearly condemns. And often when I'm called in to talk to them , It's too late. And I always think to myself, I wish I would have known about this six months a year ago. When when when they were still evaluating and thinking and considering and planning, and I could have taken the word of God and tried to speak sense to them from the word, but now they have a plan, they are resolute, they are defiant, nothing I can say, nothing I can warn them with will change the course that they're on. So this is why we are told to do this quickly today So let me make this application. Every Sunday, you should be intentionally looking for an opportunity to encourage the faith of another. And to receive encouragement from others. You see, Christian fellowship is not only pleasant, it's essential for your spiritual health. So don't come to church late and run out the door when it is over. One of the things I love about Calvary Baptist Church is that we do have a culture of fellowship When this service ends, I want you to know that an hour from now, there will still be people in here. It's like that every Sunday. And tonight, when our service ends, after we celebrate the Lord's table, an hour from then, there will still be a considerable number of people in here. in these aisles here and out in that lobby they're talking and fellowshipping and sharing their lives with one another But I wish there were more. Now I know that some of you are not as social as others. I know that some of you hate small talk. Can I make an admission? I'm one of those people. I I'm I'm one of those. I'm with you. I'm with you on that. I I I have to remind myself You need this. You need this fellowship. You need to talk to these people. You need to listen. You need to exhort. You need. I have to remind myself of that. And we all need to remind ourselves of that. So I encourage you to seek to make real connections. You know, there's a tendency in our nation that churches that there's fewer and fewer smaller churches and more and more mega churches where you know their their coat room is larger than this sanctuary. Huge churches. And one of the reasons people tell us that they're so attractive, you don't have to get to know anybody You can go there as a spectator and walk out, you don't know anybody around you, no one's gonna say, Hey, how you doing? They don't know your name You can go there in anonymity and you can leave right afterwards and you can enjoy the show, but you do not have to interact with anyone. That is not what God desires for his church. He wants you to interact. He wants our lives to become woven together with one another. So that when someone is hurting, we're there to pick them up. When someone was stumbling, we help them back on their feet. We are there for one another. But now I want us to consider the last phrase in verse 13, which speaks of the means by which people are hardened. It says through the deceitfulness of sin. The Bible consistently teaches that sin deceives people. In 2 Corinthians 11, 3, Paul says that the serpent beguiled, or the word there, is deceived Eve. What was the big lie? The big lie that the serpent gave to Eve in the garden was that she would be happier if she lived independently of God's. The lie was that God didn't really have her best interest in hearts. And that she would be so much better if she just ran life on her own terms. Because after all, she knew what was best for her. This is the great lie that people believe when they harden their hearts and they depart from the living God 's I don't want that, they say. I don't want to do things God's way. I want to live life my way. I don't want to be held accountable by anyone. I don't want to live that boring life. I want to have a life that fulfills my dreams and my aspirations and my ambitions where I can be all that I am intended to be. And they may even sometimes make it a spiritual thing. God would want me to be happy. God wouldn't want me to be miserable like I am now. And they twist Scripture to excuse their sinful plans. We read in the parable of the sower of the deceitfulness of riches choking the words And the idea there is of a person who initially responds to the gospel, but then demonstrates that they were never truly born again. Why is it? Because the deceitfulness of riches. Just stop any spiritual work in their hearts. How powerful is this deception in our consumeristic culture? How quickly we think that accumulating bigger and better things can satisfy our souls. But this is all a lie from the Father of lies. Ephesians 4. 22 speaks of deceitful lust or deceitful desires. Your fallen desires are deceptive in that they promise more than they can deliver. Later in this book of Hebrews, we read that there is pleasure in sin for a season, but it's only for a brief season. Beware of letting your heart desire what God has forbidden. This is the first step to spiritual disaster. that you allow your mind to entertain these things and to think about these things and to fantasize about these things and to plan for these things. But let me tie everything up with this final thought. Why is it that we need to exhort one another on a regular basis? It is because it's so easy for our hearts to become hardened. Because we have been deceived by sin. And you know what the problem is when you're deceived by sin? So often you don't see it. You don't see it. Because every single one of us has spiritual blind spots. Things that we're not aware of, that we don't see, but they're very real. But our brothers and sisters might see them and might discern them. I've had to deal several times with people who are diabetic and have very, very low blood sugar. Do you know situations like this? Sometimes they become agitated, defiant, and mean, and you can see by the color and by the perspiration. That they desperately need some glucose. They need some sugar right now because they're not thinking right. And I have tried to help people before like this, and they've told me to get lost. But I still gave them some juice to drink right away. Said, no, just drink this And instantly their whole demeanor changes. And they're not telling me to get lost now. They weren't able, I shouldn't say, well, you know, that's your choice. You can do whatever, sir you think is fit. No, because they're not thinking correctly They're blinded. Their mind cannot process at that moment reality. And the fact is there are times when our brothers and sisters are not processing things right. They have had their hearts' affections cleave to some idol, and they desperately want to hold on to it. And so you have to talk to them with love and with humility, but earnestly. That if they do not release this, they will perish. This is what this passage is calling us to do: to guard our hearts. And to look out for our brothers and sisters, because we all have our blind spots. But I must conclude by asking you if you know the true and living God. The only way you can know him is through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. You must recognize that you're a sinner in need of a Savior. You must understand that your good deeds can never save you from your sin. There must be an acceptable offering for your sin, a pleasing sacrifice, and that can only be found in Christ. Christ died for sinners. He died as our substitute. That is the heart of the gospel. And when Jesus died on the cross, he paid the penalty for our sins. You see, this our sins that have separated us from God. And so when we come to God for forgiveness, we must turn from our sins and repentance. But we can only receive the gift of salvation by faith alone. In Hebrews 11:6 it says, But without faith it is impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is. And that he is the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. If you want to be saved, you cannot casually seek the Lord. You must seek him earnestly with all your heart. And if you come, he will save you. Won't you seek him today? Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We pray that you would use it in practical ways in our lives. to keep us from hardening our hearts and allowing those around us to harden their hearts and to depart Heart from God. Keep us, Father, from all the deceptions of our own hearts and the world. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.