If your Bibles at home, I'd invite you please to turn with me to Luke chapter 24. Luke chapter 24. I never read of the story of the two on the road to Emmaus without remembering a painting that hung in the living room of my childhood home. Picture was uh of two disciples with the Lord by their side, and he was explaining the scriptures to them. Painting depicts a beautiful pastoral scene with a setting sun casting a warm glow over the whole countryside. Looking back on it now, I can see that it had some errors in it because the landscape, the dress, and everything in it were very European and do not look at all like Israel. But uh it was a beautiful painting. On this Easter morning, I'd like us to consider how the Lord dealt with these two discouraged followers. Lord appears to them. On Easter Sunday, this is the fourth of ten resurrection appearances. The first was to Mary Magdalene and then A few moments later to the other women who came to visit the tomb, and then third was Simon Peter. We have no record of what was said there, but we know that it occurred that morning. This fourth appearance, it seems, took place about mid-afternoon on Resurrection Sunday. It's only found in Luke's gospel. And I have to confess to you that it is my favorite resurrection account. Now I want you to notice why Luke includes This account here in his gospel. Luke is very orderly, very logical, very systematic in his presentation. And so I want to read Luke's account of the resurrection leading up to this appearance. Luke 24, verse 1. Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared. and certain others with them, and they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre. And they entered it and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. And it came to pass as they were much perplexed thereabout. Behold, two men stood by them in shining garments, and as they were afraid and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen. Remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, saying, The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again. And they remembered his words and returned from the sepulchre and told all those things unto the eleven and to all the rest. It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary, the mother of James, and other women that were with them, which told these things unto the apostles. And their words seemed to them as idle tales. And they believed them not. Now it's hard for us to grasp the reaction of the apostles. They didn't believe. They count by these ladies. It's hard for us to grasp this because we already know the end of the story. We know that Jesus indeed had risen from the dead at this point. And so we wonder how the disciples could be so full of unbelief. What would make them so skeptical? It's difficult for us to put ourselves in their shoes. So Luke provides An example of two believers. These are representative of people who were very committed followers of Christ. They were not among the twelve, but they were very, very committed And yet they had the same response, response of unbelief The Bible is clear that all of the disciples were skeptical at first, and it was only when They had the irrefutable evidence of a risen Lord in their midst that they came to believe. And the same was true of these two on the road to Emmaus. In verse 17, Jesus asked These individuals, why they are so sad. The term that's translated sad there is used just one other time in the New Testament. It's in Matt Matthew chapter six and verse sixteen, where Jesus speak to the Pharisees, says, Moreover, when you fast, be not as the hypocrites of a sad countenance, for they disfigure their faces that they may appear unto men. The idea is that this term conveys a sadness that is reflected in a person's countenance. You can just look at them and say, something's not right. They have heard something that's distressing to them today. These two disciples were unmistakably gloomy and sullen. Now, why were they so sad? Well, the root of their sadness was their unbelief. If they had believed like the other disciples, the promises of God, they would not be so sad. But the disciples and these two, and all the other early believers that we know of Had the same response of unbelief. And the fact of the matter is so much of our sadness and our depression Is due to our unbelief. We fail to rest in the promises of God The fact is there are many today that find themselves very despondent on this Easter Sunday I mentioned in my prayer that this Easter Sunday is unlike any other that anyone alive has ever experienced. Most Christians around the world are not attending church this morning, even though this is Resurrection Sunday, when more people are in churches than any other day of the year. We are out of our normal routines. Many of us are used to going to a sunrise service. We're used to singing the hymns that were sung this morning that remind us and bring back memories of of other Easter Sundays that we've enjoyed with our families. They're not going to a large family gathering to enjoy a feast as we have always done. No, they are behind locked doors, just like the first disciples. And many are filled with fear, sorrow. And some degree of unbelief, just like the first apostles. Some are grieving the loss of a loved one, just like these followers from Emmaus. Many are confused and distressed about what the future might hold. That is something that the early disciples wrestled with. The whole world came caving in, and they had no idea what the future would be like. Everything in their lives and in ours seems turned upside down. My point is that this Easter morning we have an opportunity to better understand. How the first disciples felt before they came to believe that Jesus was risen indeed. Perhaps you find yourself in a dark place this morning. Maybe your job prospects are uncertain. Maybe your retirement has been decimated. Perhaps the health of of your parents or your grandparents is very much in jeopardy. Perhaps you feel isolated and lonely this morning. I want you to know that this passage reveals to us that the risen Lord delights to bring joy. to discouraged disciples. And what we see in this passage is the way that the Lord works in our hearts is that he rekindles our faith. Or for those of you who may be watching, we could say he kindles faith in our hearts. And I believe this resurrection account reveals to us how the Lord does this. Now the key verse. And this rather lengthy resurrection account is found in verse 31 at the conclusion of this very interesting engagement with the Lord when these two followers of Christ said one to another, Did not our hearts burn within us While he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures, and that's why I want to preach to you on how the risen Lord rekindles our faith. Now look with me at the beginning of this account in verse 13. And behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus. Which was from Jerusalem about three score furlongs, or we would say seven miles. And they talked together of all these things which had happened. And it came to pass that when they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were holdened that they should not know him. The first thing the Lord does is he intrudes into our lives. And that's what we have a record of here in this account. Who were the two on the road to Omaeus people want to know? Well the short answer is we do not know. They were not part of the twelve, but they seem to have known them well. They seem to have had close Contacts with the disciples. The text would seem to indicate that they were in Jerusalem on that resurrection morning and had communication with disciples concerning these early morning appearances. But in the afternoon they left the great city and headed towards their humble village of Emmaus. In verse 18, we discover that one of the two is named Cleopas. He's not mentioned elsewhere in scripture. There is another man named Clopus, one letter difference, and some people try to make an equation there, but most scholars think that's a stretch. His companion is also a mystery. Some say it was his wife, others that it was Luke, the author of this gospel, and there are many, many other suggestions. But again, all of this is pure speculation. We have to rest in the fact that we simply do not know much about these two individuals. The village of Emmaus also cannot be located with certainty today. It was an obscure settlement that has been lost through the passing of time. It was about seven miles from the city of Jerusalem. These two men are involved in an animated discussion when all of a sudden a stranger interrupts their conversation. In verse 15, we read this beautiful phrase, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. Jesus intentionally intervened in their distress. What we see in this account is that the Lord delights to help those who are in darkness and are Trying to figure things out. They're seeking more lights. Notice how Jesus engages their conversation, verse 17. He says, what manner of communications are these that you have one to another as you walk and are sad? I suspect they were a little startled. It seemed as if he came out of nowhere. I try to picture this in his mind. Did he come up like behind them? Or do they just turn and he's right there next to their side? We're not told. But all of a sudden there's another person there and he's commenting on how they look and asking them what they're talking about. Their response in verse 18 was, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem and hast not known the things which are come to pass in these days? Leapha says in our vernacular, where have you been? And again, there's something that we can relate to in this first accounts. If you came up upon people talking in earnest conversation today and you were to ask them today, what are you talking about? What do you think their answer would be? We're talking about the coronavirus or something related to that. Because just as there was only one topic of conversation in Jerusalem that day. So today there's only one topic of conversation in our world. All of Jerusalem was buzzing over the reports of a resurrected Christ. And it's very clear that these men did not believe those initial reports. In verse twenty two they speak of certain women of our company that as followers of Christ made us astonished when they were early at the sepulchre, and when they found not his body they came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels which said he was alive, and certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre and found that even as the women had said, but they saw him not Despite these accounts coming in from several sources, they didn't believe it 's What did they believe? Well, number one, they believed that Jesus was dead. In verse 19 They speak of Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet, mighty in deed and word before God and all the people. Notice the past tense, he was a prophet, not he is a prophet. Perhaps they never realized how much Jesus meant to them until he was gone. And since his death on Calvary, their lives seemed futile and meaningless. Secondly, they believed that Jesus was the victim of a great miscarriage of justice, which was true. Look at verse 20. They say in how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and have crucified him. You can almost hear the anger in his voice as he recounts this. Their own leaders, their own religious authorities condemned him to die. And they're angry about this. To think that Jesus, the kindest, gentlest man they'd ever known, was executed like a common criminal was very disturbing to them. And thirdly, they believed that all their hopes had been destroyed. Look with me at verse twenty-one. They say, But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel. And the word trusted there is literally the word hoped. We hoped. This was our hope. This is what we were resting in. This is what gave meaning to our lives. This is why we were followers of Jesus Christ. And now it's all gone. Their dreams were gone forever. They must have felt like fools. Perhaps they were in Jerusalem a week earlier at the triumphal entry. They were one of the crowd who yelled, Hosanna! As the king rode into Jerusalem. And they thought that this was the moment when he was going to ascend his throne, and they would be part of his initial followers And he would throw off the oppression of Rome, and Israel would be returned to her glory. But it didn't happen that way. Instead, he died like a common criminal on a Roman cross. So what they had initially believed and their experience, we would say, did not match up. There are many followers of Christ, professed followers of Christ, who struggle with this I'm sure there are people watching today that when you prayed to receive Christ, when you put your trust in him years ago, you thought that your life Would be a life of joy and of peace and of meaning, and your obstacles would vanish, and and your your life would be a wonderful experience, and it hasn't turned out that way. You've had disappointment after disappointment. You've had difficulty. You've had death in your family. You've had a troubled marriage. You've had an unsuccessful career, perhaps. And perhaps you have found yourself a bit skeptical, a bit jaded, and your faith is weak. So often the reason why we feel this way is because we are not looking at things in the right perspective. Just like these early disciples, their problem was they didn't see things as they truly were. They didn't realize they were talking to the risen Lord themselves. And so often the reason why we are despondent and discouraged and feel that God has let us down is because we're not seeing things clearly. The Lord still intrudes into our lives to get our attention. Whenever I think of this, I think of that famous quote By the Oxford professor C. S. Lewis, who said, God whispers to us in our pleasures, speaks to us in our conscience, but shouts to us in our pain. It is his megaphone to rouse a death world. And I've thought about that quote many times the last few weeks. If ever the Lord was getting The attention of the world and using his megaphone to say to everyone, there is a God, and there is something called death, and there is something beyond the grave. And you need to be aware of this. You need to think about the meaning of your life. It is certainly the day that we live in today. And so the Lord is getting all of our attention. And he wants us to listen to him. And consider the great facts of the gospel. Secondly, the risen Lord rekindles our faith. By rebuking us for our unbelief. Look with me at verses twenty-five and twenty-six. Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe, all the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? Now just imagine this scene. The strange man interrupts their private conversation. And now he is calling them names and rebuking them. The term full here has the idea of being dull. You know, no one likes to be called dull. And the insinuation that you're somehow not being very intelligent, even unintelligent people don't like being called unintelligent. No one likes that. So this must have taken them back a little bit. He calls them slow of heart to believe all. The implication is that they believed some things, but they didn't believe all. And his the idea of his statement is that there was an abundance of evidence. It wasn't just in one Prophet. It wasn't just in one obscure corner of the Old Testament, but all throughout the Old Testament, the Bible spoke of the things that were occurring before their very eyes. They like some things they found in the Old Testament. They like the parts about a reigning Messiah. But they rejected the parts about a suffering savior. They use the word of God selectively. Let me ask you, do you ever do that? You like the parts about the promises of God, but not the warnings of God. You like the verses about the love of God, but not the wrath of God. So often we treat the Bible like an all-you-can-eat buffet where we go through and we take the parts that we like and we leave everything else there. But we must not do that. We must receive all of God's truth by faith. Notice the Lord's disappointment with them in verse 26. He says, Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? He's saying to them, You should have known this. This is what I taught. This is what the scriptures teach. The root of the problem was unbelief. And so often, this is the reason why we are discouraged and in despair. Because the we think it's because of the events in our lives. And perhaps you're there at home today and you're saying, well, you know. Pastor, if you had the same circumstances in your life, you would be depressed as well. But I want you to think of this important distinction. It's not the circumstances in your life that depress you or that lead to despair. It's the way you interpret those circumstances. You see, these men were looking at the circumstances of their life in a completely wrong light that they would probably later laugh at. Because they didn't have all the facts. They didn't have the right perspective. It's the way we interpret the events of our life that determines our outlook. So often the disappointing events in our lives are actually blessings in disguise. The greatest illustration of this is Christ's death on the cross. This event was so upsetting to these disciples, but it would later become the source of their future joy. You see, they viewed the death of Christ as a tragedy, but it was not a tragedy. It was a triumph. It was not the end of their dreams. It was the culmination of God's plan of redemption. Their problem was a lack of faith. They failed to believe all that Jesus had clearly taught them and all that was in God's word. The only way that we can make sense of our lives is by interpreting the events that we encounter through the lens of Scripture. So let me ask you very specifically, how are you processing this COVID-19 crisis? Does this pandemic make you question the goodness and power of God? Do you suspect that God does not exist because he does not respond to the global crisis or your personal need in the way that you think he should Let me suggest that God is much greater than your man-centered presuppositions. He's not your servant, he's your sovereign Has it ever occurred to you that God may be destroying your financial stability because there's no other way that you would come to humbly seek Him? We must view this crisis and other circumstances in our lives through the lens of faith and realize that God has a good purpose in what Is going. God is bringing us to our knees so that we will look up to Him. It is His loving rebuke, that rekindles our faith. Thirdly, the risen Lord rekindles our faith by opening the scriptures to us. Look with me at verse 27. And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself What a priceless privilege these two enjoyed. What would you give to hear this sermon, to hear the Lord Himself explain From the Old Testament, everything about Himself in those scriptures. This must have been an amazing thing. You know, throughout the history of the world, there have been many great Easter sermons. Preachers and pastors put the most effort and the most time into their Easter messages. Why won't you know this was the greatest Easter sermon ever preached, and it had an audience of two. Wonder what that message was like. Well I imagine he began with Genesis 3. 15, the seed of the woman. And he demonstrated to these troubled believers that he was the one who would crush the head of the serpent. I'm sure he turned to Genesis 12. And spoke of the one in the Abrahamic covenant who would bless all the nations. I think he explained to them that he was the Shiloh who would come from the tribe of Judah mentioned in Genesis 49. That he was the fulfillment of the Passover mentioned in Exodus 12, that he was the Lamb and all the sacrifices mentioned in the book of Leviticus that he was the scepter that would arise out of Israel in Numbers 2417 He was the ultimate prophet that Moses referred to who would do all that God told him in Deuteronomy 18, 15. He was the angel of the Lord of hosts in the book of Joshua. He was the faithful priest in 1 Samuel chapter 2. He was the anointed one of Psalm 2 and the crucified one of Psalm 22 and the Good Shepherd. in Psalm 23. He was the beloved in the book of Song of Solomon, the suffering servant in Isaiah 53, the branch in Ezekiel, and the pierced one in Zechariah. I think it may have been a long sermon, and I suspect that they were walking very slowly But time seemed to stand still as their hearts burned within them. Their passion for Christ was ignited by this exposition of the word. You know when your soul has been revived because the word of God becomes alive to you again. But how can you practically do this? There are many Christians who have the experience of reading God's Word, and it becomes just a chore It becomes a duty. They gain no joy from it. They gained no real insight or spiritual nourishment from it. How do we keep our time in the Word fresh? The answer is you must see Christ in all the scriptures. The sign I'm told for the Bible is Jesus' book. Indeed, it is the book of Jesus. Apart from Christ, you will never make sense of this book In verse 27, the word expounded there in the Greek text is the origin of our English word hermeneutic, which is the science of biblical interpretation. The only way that we can really interpret the scriptures is by seeing Christ in the Word of God What did he explain to them? Well, they began to see, I think, as he opened up the word to them that day that the cross was not an accident. It was the culmination of God's great plan of redemption that went all the way back to the first human beings, Adam and Eve. You see, his death was not the end of their hopes, but the realization of their dreams of a redeemer. What they had interpreted as bad news was in fact good news. We see here that God's word is the key to interpreting all the events of our lives. Now I want to ask you an important question. Why did the Lord keep his identity hidden from these two followers for so long? This passage has a statement at the beginning of it and at the end that's very interesting to us. Look with me at verse 16. It says, But their eyes were holden That they should not know him. And the idea is that the Lord Himself did this. Now, if you turn to verse 31, it says their eyes were opened, and they knew him. So this passage has these bookmarks, these bookends at the end of the beginning and the end of this revelation that speak of their eyes being closed and their eyes being opened. So my question to you is this, why didn't the Lord just meet them on the road liking to the disciples in the upper room? And instantly they would exclaim, It is the Lord! Why didn't he instantly reveal himself to them? All their fears and sorrows would be gone in an instant. Why did the Lord make them wait until they finally were in their home and he was dining with them Well, I can't say dogmatically for certain because the Bible does not provide that information, but I think it was because he wanted their faith. To be rooted in the Word of God, not in the experience they enjoyed that afternoon They would never again probably have the Lord walking in their presence in that way, but they would still have his word. That they could study and read and commune with Him through the Word. And He wanted them to adjust their behavior to that mode of revelation. You might be listening this morning and think, if I live back then and I saw the risen Lord, then I would believe. But I want you to know that we have a more sure word of prophecy than our experience, and that is we have the Word of God, and in this word We can have a relationship with the living the living Lord Fourthly, I want you to see that the risen Lord rekindles our faith by making himself known to us. Verses 28 and following record this. And they drew nigh unto the village whither they went, and he made as though he would have gone further. But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us, for it is towards evening and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them. And it came to pass as he sat at meat With them he took bread and blessed it and break it and gave it to them, and their eyes were opened, and they knew him, and he vanished out of their sight. In verse 28, we read that the Lord made as if he would have gone further. I want you to know that he was not pretending. If these two had not constrained him to come in to their home, he would have passed them by. They would have forfeited this never-to-be forgotten events. And their culture to turn away a guest And the evening was unthinkable. And of course they wanted to hear more, and so they insisted that he come in and dine with them. And when they invite him into their home, something unusual occurs. It's very easy to read this passage and not realize it. It says, as he sat at meet with them, verse 30, he took bread and blessed it and broke it and gave it to them. This is what the host would do. Here he is in their home, but he is assuming the role of host. Now, why did this occur? Perhaps they asked him to be their host because of the amazing way he had unfolded the scriptures to them, or maybe the Lord took the initiative because he wanted to disclose himself to them in this manner. Whatever the case, it was while he was breaking the bread that their eyes became open to the truth of his identity It says in verse 31, and their eyes were opened, and they knew him, and he vanished out of their sights. And then we have in verse 35 another portrayal of this. It says, and how he was known of them and breaking of bread Now, I have a question for you. Why did the Lord leave them the instant they recognized him? That must have been a little bit of a disappointment to them. They would have loved if he would have stayed there throughout the night, and I can just see they would be so excited they would just ask him one question after another. And and and they would have spent as much time with him as they possibly could. But the instant they knew it's the Lord, he was gone. Why did he do that? I think it's because they had everything they needed to know. They better understood how to interpret and understand their Old Testament scriptures that everything pointed to him And now they knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that Jesus had indeed risen from the dead, and that's all they needed to know. Now what was it that caused them to make the identification that this was indeed Jesus? Some say it was his prayer Maybe the Lord began his prayer with our Father. And they said, Oh, that's the way Jesus taught us to pray. Another suggestion is it was the way he broke the bread. Perhaps they were there When he fed the five thousand from a little boy's lunch, and he had a characteristic way of doing that, and they recognized that The most common explanation that I've encountered is that when he was breaking the bread, their eyes were naturally drawn to his hands, and they saw the nail prints in his hands, and they knew it was their Lord. But I want us to see the most important thing, is that the Lord wanted them to know it was Him, and He gave them His presence. This is what the Lord's people desperately need. The presence of the Lord. In Revelation chapter 3 and verse 20, We read these inviting words from the risen Savior of his desire to commune with his people. He said, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come into him and will sup with him and he with me. Let me ask you, are you enjoying that kind of fellowship with Christ? You see, Christianity is not about coming to church on Christmas or Easter. It's not about trying to be good. It's about a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you have a personal relationship with Jesus? Perhaps you're wondering how this takes place. Well, first you must recognize that you are a sinner, that you daily break God's law, either in deed or in word or in your thoughts. You must understand that the penalty for your sin is death. That is not just physical death, but eternal death, ultimate death in the lake of fire. But just as Jesus came to rescue these two individuals on the road to Emmaus, so the Lord intervenes in human history. Jesus, the Son of God, came and lived among us. He lived a perfect life, always obeying the law of God. And he died on the old rugged cross that we might be saved. Jesus died in our place as our righteous substitute so that God could declare us to be not guilty, but righteous. And Jesus didn't stay in that tomb. No, he rose from the dead, demonstrating to all the world that he was who he claimed to be, the Son of God, and that his Father had received his perfect sacrifice. So let me ask you this morning, has there ever been a time in your life when you have repented of your sins and believed the gospel? In John chapter 5 and verse 24, it's described as passing from death unto life. This is Resurrection Sunday. And the Bible tells us that when a person is truly born again, when they are converted, that They go from spiritual death to spiritual life. It is like there is a resurrection that occurs in that instance. And all of this is because of our Savior who came and died and rose again. You see, we don't worship an ideal Or a great historical figure. Yes, Jesus was a historical figure. But we must always remember he is also the living Lord, who is even at the right hand of the Father this morning. We don't worship someone who lived long ago. We worship someone who lives today, who is reigning today If you're watching at home this morning and don't understand the joy of knowing Christ, the joy of knowing that your sins are forgiven. I would urge you to seek the Lord today. I would urge you to reflect on the claims of the gospel, that we are all sinners. And sinners in need of a Savior. Jesus came and died that we might live with Him forever someday. We'd be delighted to talk to you and explain to you after the service how you can have a personal relationship with Christ. And when you come to believe in Christ You will have a joy that you have not possessed before. A joy of knowing that your sins are forgiven and whatever occurs in your life, whatever difficulties, whatever might come into your situation, you know that you will live with Christ forever, with the risen Lord. And that fellowship that those two on the road to Emmaus enjoyed, that afternoon will be a fellowship that we will joy for eternity with our Lord and Savior. Won't you seek him today? Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that we serve a risen Savior And that he's in the world today working, drawing sinners to himself. We pray that you would draw sinners to yourself even through the preaching of your word this morning. That we might rejoice in you, for it in Jesus' name we pray. Amen