Turn with me to Judges chapter 8. I'm told that the Greeks had a race, an event, and one of their Olympic Games that was unique. The winner was not the runner who would finish first. But it was the runner who would finish first, but still had his torch that was lit. It's important to start right in life. But it's imperative to end well. The fact is that finishing strong in the Christian life is easier said than done. I think that most Christians. Who've been walking with the Lord for a number of years, just assume that they will continue to be faithful and be fervent and walking with the Lord right up till the very end. But history would tell us it's not automatic. It's very easy, even for mature believers who have known the Lord for many years. to drift away at the end of their life. We see many examples of this in Scripture. There were many of the good kings of Judah who at the height of their success fell away from the Lord. Have you ever heard of good King Asa? We read of him in 2 Chronicles chapter 16 that he hired the Syrians to fight with him against Israel. And God was displeased with this. This was an alliance that was unholy. He was relying on pagan nations to fight against his own brethren, the northern tribes. And God was not pleased. We hear of King Asa of Judah, who also , or King Jehoshaphat had excuse me, who also formed an alliance. And in 2 Chronicles 18 we read that God was displeased with him. And then King Hezekiah, he did something very foolish. In order to impress diplomats that had come to visit him from Babylon, he showed them the wealth of the temple. And all the gold artifacts and everything that they had. And he showed them all the treasures of Israel. And they took note of that. And the Bible says what he did was foolish. And when they came to conquer Israel, they went in and took all the gold and all the wonderful articles that he had showed to them. And of course, we also think most especially of King David, a man after God's own heart, the sweet psalmist of Israel. A man who wrote a vast portion of the Word of God, and yet we know that at the height of his excess he drifted away and drifted into incredibly serious sin. Why does God's word record these embarrassing occurrences in the lives of heroes? The answer, of course, is they provide a warning to us. They serve as a cautionary tale. And apart from the scripture, we have known from experience these things to occur. Have you ever known Christian friends or family members who had a great beginning to their Christian life? but ended horribly. I'm sure that you have. All of us have known people who once claimed to be Christians, but for some reason walked away from God. I remember many years ago when I was a young man in my home church, there was a man who was the head deacon of that church. He was very respected. He was a leader. He was a teacher. But he got involved in some sin, and he hasn't been in church in over 30 years. My junior high Sunday school teacher, several years after he taught me Went away from the Lord and today and for many years has claimed to be an atheist. Several of my friends who are preparing for the ministry with me in college and in seminary, who were very gifted, today are living the lives of unbelievers. But what is more common is not people who necessarily abandon their faith entirely, but Christians who lose their zeal for the Lord and become worldly and disobedient. And no longer are serving the Lord. The fact is, it is very easy to become cynical, complacent, and callous to the things of God as you grow older. There's a certain idealism and hope and optimism that comes with youth that tends to evaporate as you go through life and you experience many disappointments. Tonight as we conclude our study of the life of Gideon, we come to the sad ending. Throughout our study of the life of Gideon, we have seen that he is Obviously less than perfect, and perhaps that's what makes him so interesting to us. He's very, very human. Remember when we first encountered him was in chapter 6 And we read in chapter 6 and verse 11, it says, there came an angel of the Lord and sat under an oak. which was an Oprah that pertained unto Joash the Azareite and his son Gideon threshed wheat by the wine press to hide it from the Midianites. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him and said unto him, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. And Gideon said unto him, O my Lord, if the Lord be with us, why then is all this befallen us? And where be all his miracles? which our fathers told us of, saying, did not the Lord bring us from Egypt? But now the Lord has forsaken us and delivered us into the hand of the Midianites. The Lord patiently deals with Gideon, shows him signs, confirms his faith. Takes him one step at a time. And finally, Gideon is ready to face the impossible challenge. of going up against 135,000 Midianite soldiers with 300 men. And by God's grace, he indeed became a mighty man of valor. I like to remember Gideon for his finest moment, and that is found in Judges chapter 7 and verse 15, remember it's the eve of battle. He's still afraid. The Lord knows that he tells him to go down. with his one of his soldiers and to overhear what the Midianites are saying. And Gideon's faith is confirmed as he hears the fact that they are actually afraid. They've heard of Gideon. And the one has this dream and the other interprets it and it confirms his faith. And it says in verse 15, and so when Gideon heard the telling of the dream , and the interpretation thereof that he worshiped and returned into the host of Israel and said, Arise, for the Lord hath delivered into your hands the host of Midian. He worships and then he rallies the people of God to go and do the impossible. It'd be wonderful if that was the end of the story of Gideon. But shortly after his marvelous victory, we see the seeds of his future spiritual defeat I want to preach to you this evening briefly on how not to finish well, or three things we must refuse to do. The first thing I want you to notice with me as we work our way through chapter 8 is that we must refuse to be disillusioned by the people of God. Right after the battle, we find two examples of Gideon facing disunity and contention among the people of God that he was fighting to deliver. Look with me at chapter 8 and verse 1. And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou served us thus? That thou called us not when thou winst to fight with the Midianites? And they did chide with him sharply. And he said unto them, What have I done now in comparison with you? Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abizer? God hath delivered into your hands the princes of Midian, Oreb, and Zeb, and what was I able to do in comparison of you? Then their anger was abated towards him when he had said that. And Gideon came to Jordan and passed over he and the 300 men that were with him, faint, yet pursuing them. Now I spoke briefly about this incident the last time we studied the life of Gideon. Let me remind you of a few things. The tribe of Ephraim obviously felt slighted because they were not invited to the big battle. So why didn't Gideon initially call on them? He used them for the mopping up exercises at the very end of this battle. Two suggestions have been offered by commentator commentators. One, it's very likely that Gideon did not invite them because he knew that they would not have come. They were the largest tribe. They were the most prominent tribe. They were very proud. And they weren't going to take orders from a lowly tribe. And so Gideon wisely did not invite them. We know that later in the book of Judges, they failed to follow a judge by the name of Jephthah. And so they probably would not have submitted to his leadership. Another reason that Gideon did not invite them is that they would have caused contention and division. They obviously had an e uh show uh an example of jealousy and wounded pride, and so Gideon handles this crisis with diplomacy. However, it was still discouraging to witness The people of God criticizing him and complaining, even as God had given them a great victory. Now the next incident is even more serious. We read about Gideon and his men pursuing vast distances, pursuing the enemy that has escaped. And it says they came in verse 5 unto the men of Succath, and they said, Give, I pray you the loaves of bread unto the people that follow me, for they be faint, and I am pursuing after Ziba and Zamuna, kings of Midian. And the princes of Sukkot said, Are the hands of Ziba and Zamuna now in thy hand that we should give bread unto thy army? The point here is that they're saying, listen, we're not going to give you food. We're not going to give you any aid or any help because you haven't won the battle yet. And if we help you out, and the Midianites come back, they're going to punish us for helping you. So sorry, sorry, Gideon. We're not going to support you in this. Gideon was not very happy about this. And Gideon said, therefore, when the Lord hath delivered Ziba and Zamuna into mine hand, then I will tear your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness. and with briars. He's talking about making lashes that would serve as a whip. And he would use that to punish them. It says in verse 8, and he went up thence to Peniel and spake unto them likewise, and the men of Penil answered him as the men of Succath had answered him. And he spake unto the men of Penil, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower And he was true to his word. Look with me at verse thirteen, and Gideon, the son of Joash, returned from battle before the sun was up, and he called a young man of the men of Succath and inquired of him, and described unto him the princes of Succath and the elders thereof, even three score and seventeen men. And he came unto the men of Succath and said unto them, Behold, Zeba and Zamuna with whom ye did upbraid me, saying, Are the hands of Ziba and Zalmuda now in thy hand, that we should give bread unto the men that are weary? And he took the elders of the city and the thorns of the wilderness and briars, and with them he taught the men of Succas And he beat down the tower of Penel and slew the men of the city. Now why was Gideon so passionate? and chasing down these remaining Midianites. Verses 18 and 19 give us a clue to answer that question. Then he said unto Zeba and Zelmuna, what manner of men were they whom you slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they, each one resembled the children of a king. And he said, They were my brother, and even the sons of my mother. As the Lord liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not slay you. Apparently in the battle, the Midianites took Gideon's brothers as captives. Perhaps they were holding them as hostages for some negotiating leverage with Gideon. But when their cause was hopeless and they saw that the battle was lost, they killed them. And so many scholars speculate that Gideon was no longer looking for victory for the people of God, but was instead now seeking personal revenge. And we see the conclusion of this tale in verse twenty. He says, And he said unto Jethur, his firstborn, Up and slay them, referring to these kings. But the youth drew not his sword, for he feared because he was yet a youth. Now Ziba and Zelmuna said, Rise up and fall upon us, for as the man is, so is his strength. And Giddin arose and slew Zeba and Zelmuna, and took away the ornaments that were on their camels' necks. Gideon here is justly angered at the lack of support that he has received from his own countrymen. But in his disappointment, he's gone from being a spirit-filled warrior to a flesh-driven conqueror. He has quickly transitioned from being a fearful, weak person to someone who is brutal. He's going from being humble to proud. The conclusion I'm going to draw from this, as many preachers have in the past, is that one of the greatest challenges to your Christian faith, believe it or not. Is other believers. Did you know that? Other Christians are a great blessing. The fellowship of the brethren can strengthen us and encourage us as God intends that it should. But it's also true that Christians can be a great challenge to your own spiritual growth. Because if you step out to serve the Lord and you follow the Lord and you obey Him, even fearfully and reluctantly, you will find that there will be opposition that comes, and many times it will come from the people of God. From people that you would not expect, from you would not think that. Many soldiers of Christ are taken in the field of battle by friendly fire. This happens in many ways. I've known people, I've seen this happen with time where people decide they want to teach a Sunday school class and they're really fearful and and and and maybe they receive some training and some encouragement and some books. And finally they go and they teach a class, and one person will take them aside after the class and just give them withering criticism. And it just breaks their spirit. They were hesitant to do it to begin with. And they did the best they could. But they're criticized profoundly by this. This exact scenario has happened countless times, and some people never ever go back to serving the Lord and that realm again. How many times I've heard of young missionaries who, after several years of raising support, finally take their family, they go to a foreign field, they work with another missionary family or two, and they find that there's very little love there. And they find that they're regarded as an outsider. And they can understand the opposition of the world. They can understand the opposition of the people they're trying to reach. But the opposition from other missionaries, from other Christians, this happens all the time. This is perhaps the number one reason why pastors quit the ministry. Did you know that? And that is a huge problem They enter the ministry with much hope and expectation, only to find that the persistent complaints of a handful of people in the church make their service nearly impossible. It just eats at them day after day until they finally quit. Now let me just say quickly that it works the other way as well. How many people I have run into who were once faithful members of a church, were very involved, were very active. But their pastor said something or did something that greatly hurt them and it was never resolved. And they left that church and they stopped going to church altogether. And you can talk to them now, they haven't been in church in 20 years. And if you talk to them, they'll bring up that incident like it happened yesterday. Disillusioned by the people of God. Sometimes this takes the form, unfortunately, of scandalous behavior, pastor in a church with people idolized and perhaps looked up to And that he's involved in some type of scandalous behavior and people don't understand They think I thought that God was speaking through him to me. Maybe it's not true. Maybe it's all just an illusion. And they stopped going to church altogether. They stopped worshiping the Lord altogether. We all have been disappointed by others. But it's one thing to be disappointed. It's another thing to be disillusioned where you just become cynical and hardened and callous and hurts. And your attempts to serve the Lord so that you just say, you know what? It's not worth it. I'm not going to do it anymore. This is a reminder to us that we have to keep our focus on the Lord. If you look at people , If you focus on people, if you just follow people, even the best of people, you will be disappointed. We are all flawed. We are all weak. There's no one who is a rock who will never waver, who will never succumb to any temptation. And if you think that you don't know your own heart very well. So we must look to the Lord and not to others and not be disillusioned by the fact that others will criticize. And we'll say hurtful things as we seek to serve the Lord. Secondly, I would like you to notice that we must refuse to become proud because of the blessings of God. Did you know that one of the most dangerous things a Christian can experience is success? Failure has slain its thousands, but success has slain its tens of thousands. And one day Gideon went from being a nobody to a somebody. Remember how he described himself at the beginning of the story in Judges chapter 6. It says, and the Lord looked upon him and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites. Have not I sent thee? And he said unto him, Oh My Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? Behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house. But now he's a national hero. Just imagine how people would talk of his incredible victory This man who led 300 warriors against 135,000 men, that's the stuff of legends. Do you think that may have changed Gideon's perception of himself? The fact is that the people were so impressed that they wanted to make him a king. Look with me at chapter 8. I want you to look with me at verses 22 and 23. And the men of Israel said unto Gideon, Rule thou over us. Both thou and thy son and thy son's son also, for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian. And Gideon said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you, for the Lord shall rule over you. Let me pause there for a second. What they are proposing is that Gideon start a dynasty. Right? That's what we call that. That king who rules and then his son rules and then his son rules and then his son rules. That's the way it's always been done. That's what kings want to have, a sense of eternality that they will continue to reign through their descendants. It's the greatest honor that a people could give to a ruler. And you know what? If you were to ask someone what's the best biblical answer that a person could give in that situation, you know what? You couldn't do better than what Gideon says here. But I want you to know that I'm not so sure this was really a great answer. And I have to explain this to you a little bit. In ancient Near Eastern culture, it was customary to initially turn down any generous offer that you received. Most really well informed scholars Say that's what's going on here. We understand this right. Someone gives you a lavish gift And what do we think it's polite to say? Oh, you shouldn't have. You didn't have to do that. I wish you hadn't done this. I'll take that off your hands. Thank you very much. Now the reason why I say this, there are many reasons that would suggest that he was not really being straightforward when he said this, but this was just a cultural way. of being humble and showing deference. Look what he says unto them in verse 24. And Gidding said unto them, I would desire a request of you that you would give me every man the earrings of his prey. For they had golden earrings because they were Ishmaelites. And they answered, We will willingly give them, and they spread a garment and cast therein every man the earrings of his prey, that is, of all the soldiers that they had just killed. And the weight of the golden earrings that he requested was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, beside ornaments and collars and purple raiment that was on the kingdom of many, and besides the chains that were about their camels' necks. These are the spoils of war. So he says, listen, I don't want to be your king. I don't want to reign over you. But you know, if you want a little parting gift, that would be fine. This was a vast fortune, by the way. It's hard to tell, depends on what kind of shekel they used. It was anywhere from like 42 to 70 pounds of gold, not counting the other things. Certainly well over a million dollars by our evaluation today. Let me show you some other evidence that Gideon essentially ruled as a king We're going to come back to this very important verse in verse 27, but just for now look at what it says, and Gideon made an ephod thereof and put it in his city, even in Orpha. And all Israel went thither a whoring after it, which thing became a snare unto Gideon and to his house. He first of all establishes a royal place of worship. You see, ancient kings liked to think that they could manipulate the gods to bless them, and so they would erect their own personal shrine or temple near their own palaces. And that's essentially what Gideon is doing here. So he has a royal place of worship, number one. Number two, he has a royal palace of sorts. Look at verse 29. And Zerubbabel, the son of Joash, went and dwelt in his own house. The idea is he set up his headquarters, his palace here, where people would come to see him. Then we unfortunately we read of a royal harem. Look with me at verse 30. And Gideon had threescore and ten sons, that seventy sons of his body begotten, for he had many wives. And then we read fourthly of a royal title. Look at verse 31. And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bare him a son, whose name he called Abimelech. Now, to be tactical, Abemelech is not a name, it's a title. You will find it several times in Scripture. The word on the end, Melech. is a root that means king like Melchizedek, right? And the AB on the front is a word that means father like Abba, right? So what this title means is my father is king. So why would he name his son that? Because he was essentially serving as king That's why I say when he said, Oh, I don't want to rule over you, the Lord's going to be your king We should not accept that as something straightforward that he was saying. He was just being humble and trying to show cultural deference, but he was very well accepting any accolades that they wanted to give to him. Gideon lived like a king the rest of his life off of this one victory that God had granted to him. He no longer felt like he needed the Lord. There was no sense of his own weakness or desperate dependence on God's. The fact is that can happen to an individual. It can also happen to an entire group of people. Turn with me to Deuteronomy chapter 6. I'm going to show you this happening to the people of Israel. Deuteronomy chapter 6. I'm going to begin reading at verse 4. These are some of the most familiar verses in the Old Testament. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy might, and these words which I command thee this day. shall be in thine heart, and thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shall talk of them when thou sittest in thy house and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou riseth up, and thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thy hand, and they shall be as frontless between thy eyes, and thou shalt write them upon the host post of thy house and on thy gates. And it shall be when the Lord thy God shall have brought thee into the land which ye swear unto thy father, to Abraham, and to Isaac and to Jacob, to give thee great and goodly cities which thou buildest not. and houses full of all good things which thou fillest not, and wells dig which thou diggest not, and vineyards and olive trees which thou plantest not. When thou shalt have eaten and be full, then beware lest thou forget the Lord which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage What I'm saying to you is it's very easy when God blesses us and we have everything that we need. Like we have in the United States of America to drift away from the Lord because we don't think that we need him. This is how individuals fall as well. This is what happened to those kings like Esa and Jehoshaphat and Hezekiah and David. They fell at the height of their power. They fell when they were successful, when they had conquered all of their enemies. That's why David didn't have to go out to war anymore, because he had established, he had victory, he had an empire. He didn't have to fight anymore. He had achieved everything he wanted to achieve. The scriptures say that pride coeth before destruction and a halty spirit before the fall. We also read, wherefore let him that thinketh he stand, take heed lest he fall. Some of you remember a time, perhaps when you were first married, when you had to struggle to put food on the table. You had to pray and trust the Lord to meet your needs. And prayer seemed real and effective and fervent. But now perhaps that's no longer the case. Because we don't really think that we need the Lord. We have everything that we need. I found that most men who fall in the ministry and disgrace themselves do so when they have been very successful Not when they are struggling to survive, but when things are great, when they're at the height of their powers and their ministries are booming, that's when they fall It's so easy to think that because God has used us in some way or blessed us in some fashion. That somehow we can go the rest of the way ourselves, and we become proud and we think that we have done it and that we no longer need the Lord. If you want to finish the Christian life with joy, you must refuse to become disillusioned with the people of God. You must refuse to become prideful. Because of the blessings of God, and thirdly, we must refuse to live in disobedience to the word of God. Gideon 's response to his grace victory was not only arrogant, it was disobedience. God didn't want him to live like a king, but the people wanted this. They wanted to be like all the other nations that had royal chariots and luxurious palaces. People have always liked pomp and ceremony. They find it impressive. And Gideon was more than willing to comply with their wishes. But this was not God's will for him. This was during the period that we call the theocracy when God was directly their ruler. God never wanted his leaders to use their positions to serve themselves. But that's exactly what Gideon and many of the kings who followed him would do. God of course knew that someday there would be a monarchy in Israel and he even gave guidelines for this. I would invite you please to turn with me to the book of Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy chapter 17. I don't know if you've noticed these verses before or not. Deuteronomy 17, verse 15. It says, Thou shalt not in any wise set him king over thee, whom the Lord thy God shall choose one from among thy brethren. Shalt thou set king over thee, thou mayest not set a stranger over thee which is not thy brother, saying here that he should not be a foreigner. But he shall not multiply horses to himself, nor cause the people to return to Egypt to the end that he should multiply horses. For as much as the Lord hath said unto you, ye shall henceforth return no more that way, neither shall he multiply wives to himself, that his heart turn not away, neither shall he greatly multiply to himself silver and gold. And it shall be when he sitteth upon the throne of his kingdom, that he shall write him a copy of this law and a book out of that which is before the priests, the Levites, and it shall be with him, and he shall read therein all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the Lord his God, to keep all the words of this law and these statutes to do them. and his heart shall not be lifted up above his brethren, that he turn not aside from the commandment to the right hand or to the left, to the end that he may prolong his days and his kingdom, he and his children in the midst of Israel. So several things the kings were to do. First of all, they were not to flaunt their wealth by having huge stables like the Egyptians. They were not to try to put on a show to say, look how impressive we are. They were not to hoard silver and gold and live in opulence. And they were not to have harems like all the other kings. This would turn their heart from God because the kings often married foreign wives. to form alliances and these foreign wives undoubtedly would be worshiping false idols and they would uh pressure their husband To let them have their own shrines and to try to encourage them to have a part in that. And of course, we see that very clearly in the life of Solomon. So Gideon was obviously violating God's pattern for marriage that was established in Genesis 1 and 2. And God's requirement for his leaders is found here in Deuteronomy chapter 17. But the narrative back in Judges chapter 8 reveals that his greatest fall, his greatest fault was the making of this ephod that's described in Judges 8. 27. Now we don't speak much of ephods today, so let me explain this to you quickly. It was a ceremonial garment that was worn on special occasions by the high priest. It was kind of like an apron. It was an impressive garment that pointed to the dignity of the priestly office. Now there's some question exactly about what's going on here. Did Gideon take the gold from the spoils of war and make a garment out of gold and thread, and he would wear this Ephod, this priestly Ephod himself. Some suggest that he assumed the office of high priest, as it were. And perhaps he sat there and people would come. Perhaps he would offer sacrifices. Sometimes we read in the Old Testament of the Urim and the Thumen. It's kind of mysterious, but there were two stones. that were part of the breastplate of the high priest. And these were used to determine God's will, and they would ask yes and no questions. We don't know exactly how that works. Scholars think it may have been like the flipping of a coin. Perhaps Gideon set himself up as this great priest and people would come and ask questions. and he would use this garment to give them God's answer. And that of course would exalt himself. Others suggest that this was a solid gold replica of an ephod, and it was set up there on a platform and it was like an idol. This is not the only time that we read of this. You remember in the book of Numbers about the bronze serpent that they set up in the wilderness. when people were being bitten by the snake and if they looked at it they would be saved. And the Bible says hundreds of years later that that became a snare. It became a shrine. People went and would worship that bronze serpents. Thinking it had miraculous powers. And perhaps that's exactly what happened here Remember that Gideon once had an idolatrous shrine on his property. Remember, he tore it down. And his father stood up for him. Perhaps he was thinking that to keep the people from Baal worship, he needed to provide a substitute. He had good intentions. But it didn't work out well. Why was this such a problem? Well, the people saw this as a way that they can manipulate God You see, this is the essence of idolatry. People think that they can get the God or the gods, as the pagans would say, to do what they want, to give them good crops. and wonderful children and safety from their enemies because they have done certain things to manipulate God. That's the essence of idolatry. It's not just setting up some image. And the Bible says here that the people went ahooring after it, that as they were spiritually unfaithful, you see, you can put good things. Any good thing in the place of God. It can be a ministry. It can be the church. It can be your family. It can be your children. It can be your religious service. Even these wonderful spiritual blessings can become a spiritual snare to you. The language that's used here in verse 27 intentionally is echoing what we find earlier in the book. Turn back with me if you would to Judges chapter 2. Judges chapter 2. And verse three, we read this. Wherefore I also said I will not drive them out from before you, but they shall be as thorns in your side, and their God shall be as a snare unto you. It's referring to the fact that because the pagan people live within the nation of Israel, that they became a snare to them, a temptation to them. Now look with me at verse 17 of the same chapter. It says, and they would not hearken unto their judges, but they went ahooring after other gods and bowed themselves unto them. And turned quickly out of the way which their fathers walked in, obeying the commandments of the Lord, but they did not so So here the text in Judges 8. 27 is using terms that were used in chapter 2 to survey the children of Israel that idolatry became a snare and became something that drew out their affections. And what's amazing about Judges 8. 27 is that this Ephod not only deceived And caused the children of Israel to sin, but it was also a snare to Gideon and his family. Gideon himself began to worship his own creation. He got this gold from the spoils of war. He makes this ephod, and in time he began to believe it had special powers as well. You see, the human heart is so wicked. One of the great reformers said that the human heart is an idle factory. As soon as you have to deal with some idolatry in your life and you've put it in place of God and you tear it down, your fallen heart will want to raise another one up. And you finally get victory over that and you tear it down and another one will be raised up. It's the way our hearts are. We have to fight by God's grace to keep God at the center, at the top. If we want to finish strong, we must avoid idolatry and worship only Him. I've always been struck by the final verse in the book of 1 John. It says, little children, keep yourselves from idols. This is a greater challenge than I think we realize. So how do we finish strong in the Christian life? How do we finish in a way that's pleasing to God? The Bible has many answers to this. But three things we must refuse to do is we must refuse to be disillusioned by the people of God. We must refuse to become proud because of the blessings of God. And we must refuse to live in disobedience to the people of God. Gideon's life warns us how not to finish the life of faith. But Scripture also provides many positive examples, which I will not go into, but yet to mention one. Member of the Apostle Paul. He was in a Roman prison cell. He's about to be executed. He's all alone. It's dark. It's cold. But he's able to write to young Timothy and say, I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. And I hope that that is the desire that all of us have, that we would be able to finish strong to the glory of God. Let's close in prayer. Father, we pray that you would use even Gideon 's negative example to spur us on, Father To finish our Course with joy. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.