Give your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to the first verse of Hebrews chapter twelve? Nineteen eighty-one. There was a 10,000 meter race called the Pepsi Challenge held in Omaha, Nebraska. There are over 1,200 runners who participated in this event. One of the runners was a man named Bill Broadhurst. Ten years earlier, he had experienced a brain aneurysm that left The left side of his body partially paralyzed. However, his disability did not prevent him from competing in the race As the gun sounded to start the race, Bill was left in the dust. His painfully slow pace did not allow him to keep up with the rest of the runners. The best competitors finished the course in about 30 minutes. But after 30 minutes, Bill had not even finished the first quarter of the race. But he kept moving forward despite the July heat and the pain radiating from his ankle. Finally, after two hours and twenty-nine minutes, Bill finished the race. Not many people were left at the finish line, but there to greet him was Bill Rogers, the legendary marathoner and winner of the race. He put his gold medal around Bill's neck, even though he had finished last, because he ran with perseverance. This morning we come to a text that calls us to run the Christian life with perseverance, or we might say endurance. The Christian life is not a leisurely jog or even a short sprint. It is a grueling marathon. The fact that any suffering or difficulty that we experience in this life is often met with shock or surprise would suggest that we need this message. As much as those first-century Jews who first received it. Now the opening verses of Hebrews 12 are some of the most famous verses in the book of Hebrews. In fact, I'm sure that many of you here have memorized these first two verses. One could argue that these verses declare the message of Hebrews better than any other passage in the book. Look with me at those verses. Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus. the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Now, because these two verses are so jam-packed with rich spiritual truths I'm going to take them in two sermons. Today we're just going to be looking at this very first verse, Hebrews 12, 1. I want you to notice that there are three parts to this verse. First of all, we have the first phrase, which is a reference to the previous chapter. It says, wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. That's the first part. Then we have two let us statements. Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us. And then the third, let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Now this is the main message of this passage. Let us run with race, with patience, the race that is set before us. Let me remind you of the original audience of this book. They were a small group of Jewish believers Who were being threatened by a new emperor in Rome. Many were frightened, and some were considering going back to Judaism to avoid persecution. So the unknown author of Hebrews, who knows them well, writes what is essentially a sermon, urging them not to go back to Judaism. Because Jesus is better than anything that Judaism or anything the world has to offer. He calls on them throughout this book to persevere to endure, to keep following after Christ. He does admit that they're agonizing difficulties That we will encounter in this race. But this is what Christians have always faced. And this is what we must continue to do. This is what he was urging them to do. I want you to notice that perseverance is indeed the theme that he is tracing. I want you to look with me, please. At the end of chapter 10, Hebrews chapter 10. Look with me, please, at verse 32. Hebrews chapter 10, verse 32. He says, but call to remembrance the former days in which after ye were illuminated, that's after ye were converted, ye endured a great fight of afflictions. Let me pause there for a second. He's talking about when this church was first founded, when it was first started, and these people came out of the Jewish community to acknowledge Jesus as their Messiah. They faced A lot of persecution, mainly verbal insults. He says, partly verse 33, while you were made a gazing stock, both by reproaches and afflictions, and partly while ye were become companions of them that were so used. For ye had compassion of me and my bonds, and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods, knowing in yourselves that you have in heaven a better and enduring substance. Verse 35, cast not away therefore your confidence, which hath great recompense of reward. For ye have need of patience or endurance or perseverance, that after ye have done the will of God, you might receive the prize for yet a little while, and he that shall come will come and will not tarry Now the just shall live by faith, but if any man draw back, let it shrink away, my soul shall not have no pleasure in him. But we are not of them who draw back unto perdition But unto them that believed the saving of the soul. And then he comes to chapter 11, where he's going to look at 16 different individuals that he demonstrates all lived by faith. And his point is, if they did it, so can you, the true people of God Do not shrink back to destruction, but continue to live by faith. But how do we do this? How do we persevere? How do we keep going And the difficulties of life. The answer is given here at the beginning of chapter 12. I want to speak to you this morning on how to persevere in the Christian life. And the three parts of verse 12 are going to provide for us three reasons, three grounds or foundations that enable us to continue. To follow the Lord. First of all, we should consider the example of believers who have persevered in this race. And this comes from that first phrase, wherefore seeing we are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. The wherefore, or in some of your versions, therefore, that begins chapter 12 is intended to draw the reader's attention back to what he has just said. He is now going to make application for what he has been saying in chapter 11, because good preachers always conclude with powerful exhortation. And the writer of Hebrews is no exception. Now notice how he begins to motivate his readers to persevere in the Christian life. He says that his readers Are surrounded by a great cloud of witnesses. What does that mean? Mention of cloud sounds strange to us. It is a metaphoric Description intended to convey the idea of a vast throng of people. Well, who are these people he's talking about? He's talking about the Old Testament heroes of faith. That are mentioned in chapter 11. People like Abel and Enoch and Noah, Abraham and Sarah. Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph, Moses the man of God, Rahab and Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah David and Samuel. They're 16 individuals, but obviously no one would call 16 people a great throng of people If you were to visit a church and you were to come back and talk to your family and you said there was this great cloud. It was like an innumerable number of people. How many people there? There were about 16. So I I make that point to say this. He's talking about more than just the people in chapter eleven that he's mentioning. He's referring to all of the Old Testament saints. He's only brought out a few samples. But the fact is there were thousands and thousands. And thousands of people in the Old Testament who saw in the symbols and in the sacrifice. And they followed the Lord by faith. Yes, there were many Israelites who did not, who just went through the formalities, who didn't have a true faith, but there were many who did. And this is who he's talking about. Now, why does the author of Hebrews point out that these Old Testament saints comprise a great cloud of witnesses? I think he is inspiring his readers with this fact. Let me remind you of their situation. They were likely a small house church. Located in the city of Rome. They were probably a small congregation. Congregation that could fit in someone's home. It was probably a group of forty-five, fifty, sixty. This is just a guess. Bible gives us no edic ed uh no no information about this. But they met in one place, probably in someone's home, so it couldn't have been that huge of a group. By the way, did you know that the average size church in America is about 45? Did you know that? It's true. If you were to count up every congregation of people who say we're church, and do the median number, like the same number of congregations are above that number and below that number, the average number is about forty-five. People's perception of the size of churches are very, very different. You know, if you come from a large church, you come in here and you think, oh, this isn't a very large church at all. So technically, this is considered a very large church. They have you can go online and you can see they'll say like from this much to this much this size, small, medium, large, very large, then you have Very, very large mega churches, and it keeps going up. We would be considered a very large church. That church in the first century was a small church And not only that, but they were located in the largest city in the world. Rome at that time had about one million inhabitants. There would be no other city in the Western world that would reach that size until the 1800s. This was essentially the capital of the world. And the vast majority of people in that city were absolutely lost. And we have this tiny little group that has come out of a large Jewish community there to say that they are followers of Christ. They've paid dearly for their faith. And they're meeting, and they must seem like we are a pretty insignificant group of people. Here we are surrounded with teams and large groups. of people and we're this tiny little insignificant group. But the author of Hebrew says, no, no, no, no. You have to have the eyes of faith. You're actually part of the people of God, and the people of God are like a vast crowd of people, like a cloud. Where you cannot distinguish one person from another because it's such a massive congregation. And he describes these people as people of whom the world is not worthy. These are the real heroes of the world. These are the real significant people of the world. The point that he's making. is that it's not just a few elite athletes who have been able to finish this race. Thousands and thousands And thousands of flawed people with problems just like you have been enabled by God's grace to finish this race. And so if they did it, so can you Now, how are we to understand the motivation of this large group of witnesses? There are two schools of thought in this matter. And good commentators are evenly divided, and I think that there's a sense in which they're both right about this. Some would point out that this is clearly a reference to an ancient stadium and to their Olympic Games. Athletes would run races and the spectators surrounding them would cheer them on to victory. We understand this very well because we have a culture and a society saturated with sports. There's such a thing as home field advantage, right? When a team is playing at home and their fans are there supporting them and cheering them, you know what? They tend to play better. Because they have that support. And so there are many scholars who would say this when it talks about them being compassed or surrounded with a great cloud of witnesses. The writer is picturing a great arena, a great stadium where the athletes are in the middle and everyone is around them watching them compete. And the stands are filled with these Old Testament saints that are there to cheer them on. But I think it's important for us to understand that nowhere in Scripture are we clearly taught that saints in heaven watch us here on earth. I know that's a very common notion. I hear it from people all the time, you know, I know my dead loved ones looking out for me and they see everything I they do in their in their life. You can think that if you want, but there's really no verse that you can point to and say, oh, this clearly says that's what they're doing. The Bible tends to say that their focus is elsewhere. Alright? Their focus is on the Lord, not on you. Alright? I know that's contra to our society, but this is what the scripture teaches us. And the term that's used here for witnesses, which is a term he's used often, especially in chapter 11, and that he used right in verse 39 where it says, obtained a good report. is never a word that's used to refer to a spectator. So These are people who have testified to us in the scriptures. I think the point he's making is that even though these saints are dead They still speak to us through their examples of faith and inspire us to keep going in this grueling race. So in that sense, they're watching us. We should not take this literally to think that they're all up in heaven, that all believers who are there are spending all their days watching us. That's not what the scripture teaches, but there's a sense in which we are inspired and motivated and supported by them because of their examples that we read of in Scripture that encourage us. us. And I think we can take this by extension even further. How many of us have a Christian heritage? Maybe we have Christian parents that lived out their faith and perfectly though it was before us. And spoke to us and prayed for us and now they're with the Lord. Or maybe its grandparents And you know their example. In fact, later in chapter 13, he's going to talk about the example, especially of pastors who have died, who have preached the word to us in the past. But some of you have a godly heritage. You had the privilege that I have had to have parents spoke too often of their faith. And encouraged you. And we remember those things. And their example of perseverance in difficult times with great challenges. In different seasons of life still encourage us and motivate us to continue to follow Christ. But there's another key to perseverance mentioned in this passage. And that is that we should remove anything in our lives. That would keep us from persevering in this race. We come to the first let us exhortation. This is not really a command, it's a warm pastoral exhortation. And notice there are two things that we are told to lay aside or remove. Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which does so easily beset us. Now, some Bible scholars believe that the second phrase just further explains the first. Let us lay aside every weight, that is, the sin which does so easily beset us. That's possible. But most preachers and pastors throughout the centuries make a distinction here, and so I will as well. First of all, let us lay aside every weight. He's taking this from the analogy of a runner. You don't see a person who's running In the marathon event at the Olympics with work boots on and a backpack. That's not how they run. They have specially designed shoes That are incredibly light. They, of course, are very fit. They don't have a lot of excess weight on them. You've never seen anyone run a marathon in the Olympics who look like me. Alright? Let me just get really brutal and honest here. They don't look like me. They're very, very thin, sometimes painfully thin. Because one ounce Can be the difference between finishing first or finishing like sixth place. They count every single bit of weights. So that's the analogy. How does this translate into the point he is making The idea is that we are to travel light in the Christian life The weight here has generally historically been defined not as something that's necessarily sinful or condemned in Scripture. But something that might hinder your spiritual progress. It's something that distracts your attention or depletes your energy or defies your affections. This may be an activity or interest that is not clearly sinful or condemned, and maybe something that other Christians regularly do. And it's not necessarily a problem for them. However, you know, if you're honest, that it slows you down spiritually. It is worthless baggage that you are taking along on your spiritual journey. You know, people when they Hike mountains that are really, really high. Sometimes they take along more things than they think they absolutely need. And they will discard them along with the trail. This is too heavy. I was out in Colorado recently for Jacob Larson's ordination and We saw a lady there, Dave Larson and I, who had this huge backpack on with everything you could imagine on it for every contingency or problem that might arise. And she was struggling mightily because it was not a help to her. It was weighing her down. How many things weigh us down? What hobby is taking so much of your time and money That it keeps you from serving the Lord. I did not say that it's wrong to have a hobby, but it's very easy to get into something and then for it to take over in your life. So that like every weekend now is spoken for for the next 16 weeks. Because this event is requiring me to do this. It might be some sports event with the kids. It might be some club that you're in. And it might have some some wonderful points to it. You get to know people. You enjoy things, you're you're it's bringing maybe the family together in some ways. There are good aspects to it, but it's hindering your spiritual walk. You're not in church. You're not with the people of God. Or maybe it's some event that keeps you from reading your Bible because you have to get up early every morning to do this. It's like a weight. And it means you're not going to be able to run the Christian life very well. It's going to weigh you down. It's like having a lead weight around your ankles. It's some indulgence that is stealing your affections for God. And for his word and for his service. It just kind of depletes it out of your body because all of your energy and all of your joy is found in this activity, in this event, which is a noble event. But it's become a snare to you. It's become a trap that will take you away from the Lord. So, if you're going to run well, you have to remove it. The Christian life requires discipline. If any man will come after me, Jesus said, let him deny himself. And you might say, well, I should have the right to do this, and it's not condemned in God's word. I should have the right to do this. Okay, that might be true. But is it a weight to you that's making you incredibly sluggish in the Christian race? This is something that we must ask ourselves. And there are some things that people get into that they can do in moderation. And then there's some things that people get involved in that they have no way of keeping it in moderation. You have to know yourself and know your heart and the kind of person you are. Some people, if you're into something, you're all in And if you're like that in something that takes you away from God, that's a problem. Then we come to this: the sin which does so easily beset us. Now the very wording of this verse in the King James Version has entered our English vocabulary. You hear people speak about my besetting sin is this, or my besetting sin is that. The Greek word that's translated beset here is made up of three smaller words: well, around, and standing. It refers to sin that easily surrounds you or easily entangles you. I like the way the ESV puts it. Sin which clings so closely. Now again, here there's some question among scholars. About how we should take this expression. Is it referring to what traditional explanation, the one that you've probably heard and taken from this verse, and that is It's a particular sin that you tend to really struggle with and fail at. That's your besetting sin. But it may surprise you to notice to know that almost every scholar says, no, it's not talking about the grammar, it's not talking about some specific sin that you struggle with. It's talking about all sin. It's talking about all sin in your life. Of course, we are not all susceptible, equally susceptible to the same sins. We understand that you might struggle with something that I never struggle with, and vice versa. But the author of Hebrews is not just calling on us to look out for that one area of weakness that we perceive to be our besetting sin. He is calling on us to fight against all sin in our lives. Notice that this mature pastor who writes this scripture to them includes himself in this. He says, Let us Me as well. So I want to make a couple points from this. No believer ever gets to the point where they don't need to battle against sin. You never rise to a level where you say, I have to worry about that stuff anymore. I'm just going to cruise home now. No. You must battle against sin every day of your life. Now, some Christian leaders have wrongly taught that a believer can reach sinless perfection in this life I knew a young man in college who came from a church that taught this idea. And he believed. I remember how shocked and stunned I was when he told me that he believed that he was sinless, that there was absolutely no sin in his life. And as I probed further in talking to him, I realized that he was defining sin as something that was external. The really, really big sense. And everyone who holds to the doctrine of sinless perfection has to come to that point where they redefine sin. Otherwise, holding that doctrine is ludicrous. But the Bible says in this verse and in many other passages that sin clings so closely to you. You see, sin is not just something that's out there , something that's in here. And we retain our sinful nature even when we are born. again. Sometimes when people get saved, they assume that they're never going to sin again. Because God has made them a new person. And they're very confused and distraught when they fall into sin again. The reality is that sin clings so closely to us, it cannot be eradicated in this life. Our hearts are filled with lust and greed and envy, perhaps even hatred Sort of like trying to eradicate some weed, you know. You dig it up, try to dig out the roots and everything, and yet it comes back. It's like a person who struggles with addictions. I've talked to people who deal with addiction counseling, and they say that what almost always happens is people when they really work on Breaking one addiction in their life, they just transfer it to another addiction in their life. It just crops up over here. And you stop this one, then it comes up over here. Because we're such sinful creatures. And so the second point I want to make from this Is that no believer should consider their sanctification, that is their progress in holiness As something that's insignificant. And I'm afraid that many Christians do. I fear that there are many professing Christians who are not very bothered about the sin in their life, if I can be frank. They know there's all sorts of things they're doing that are displeasing to God. And their thinking is, as long as I go to heaven, I don't really care. I know that I'm saved, and I know that God forgives sins, so my sin is really no big deal. Can I say that if that is the way you think, it's very likely that you're not a child of God? Because one of the birthmarks of every believer is a desire to grow in holiness. In 1 John chapter 3 and verse 3, we read, and every man that is every person who has this hope in him, that is the hope of being fully redeemed or glorified. Purifies himself even as he that is Christ is pure. Every Christian, every truly born-again Christian Must agonize over the sin in their life. And they must long to be more like Jesus. And throughout our Christian experiences, we are trying to grow And go further in this, even though we know that in this life we will never achieve it, but someday in glory we will be like Him. And we will see Him as He is. Notice in Hebrews chapter 12 at verse 14, it says, follow peace with all men, and holiness. without which no man shall see the Lord. I think there are many Christians who think that Being sanctified or having holiness in your life is, you know, it's nice to have there, I guess, but it's no big deal. This verse says, if you don't have holiness, you're not going to see the Lord. That is not teaching a work salvation, but it's saying that when salvation has truly been wrought in your heart and you have been changed from the inside out, you will have a desire for holiness. It's one of the birthmarks of a believer. So, what does this practically mean? It means that Christians must continually be putting off the old man. We must constantly be renewing our minds in the truth of God's word. We must continually be repenting of our sins. Repentance is not just something we do when we are converted. That was the very first of Martin Luther's 95 Theses. And we must continue. to walk by faith. Trusting in Christ is not something that we do at one time and then we never have to trust him again. No, it begins at one time, but then it continues Throughout our Christian experience, we must continually every day turn from our sin and turn to Christ in faith. Any sin that you tolerate will trip you up in the race of the Christian life. I fear that many Christians come tolerate some area of sin in their lives and no longer really resist it. They no longer are bothered by it. They no longer are troubled by it. They've come to accept it and perhaps even embrace it. You must never make your sinful weakness a part of your identity. And I think for many Christians Who have struggled with some sin in their life for many years, they've come and they've responded in unbelief because they think they cannot have victory over this sin. I think it's always going to dominate my life. It's always going to trip me up. So so why be bothered about it? Why struggle with it? Why pray about it? Why seek counseling about it? It's just the way it is. It's the way I am. It's part of my identity. That is false thinking. According to Romans chapter 8 and many other passages, Galatians chapter 5. If you walk in the Spirit, you will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. We must continually fight against our sin. We must fight to the death. The Puritan John Owen was right when he said, be killing sin, or it will be killing you. William Gurnau, another Puritan, who wrote a classic book on spiritual warfare entitled The Christian in Complete Armor. Gave this wonderful quotation. Now, this was written over 400 years ago, and he's using the analogy of uh Abraham and his relationship to uh uh to his son. But listen, listen to what he says here. The Christian is to proclaim and prosecute an irreconcilable war against his bosom sins. those sins which have lain nearest his heart must now be trampled under his feet. So take thy lust, thy only lust, which is the The child of thy dearest love, thy Isaac, the sin which has caused much joy and laughter, from which thou hast promised thyself the greatest return of pleasure or profit. Lay hands on it, offer it up Pour out the blood of it before me, run the sacrificing knife of mortification into the very heart of it and this freely, joyfully, for it is no pleasing sacrifice that is offered with a countenance cast down, And all this now before thou hast one more embrace from it. That's a very striking imagery and very powerful, but he's conveying that we must. Mortify, put to death the sin in our life. We must remove anything in our lives that will keep us from running this race well. And thirdly, we should embrace the mindset of perseverance to finish this race. We come to the final phrase in verse 12. Let us run with patience or endurance the race that is set before us. I want you to notice again that the author includes himself throughout this verse. He speaks of we and us several times. Every Christian needs these applications. Every Christian must run with endurance. What does it mean to run with patience? Well, there are two different Greek words that are translated patient. In the New Testament. One speaks of patience with difficult people, and the other refers to patience in difficult circumstances. And it's the second of these two words that is used here. This is why most modern translations use the word endurance. And this Greek word is made up of two smaller words, to remain under. The idea is that a Christian often is called to remain under a heavy burden. But it doesn't mean that our life is bleak and miserable, but we can, by God's grace, remain under a burden even with joy in our hearts. If we are to run this race like our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, that we will consider in the next verse, we are to do it with joy. The second point I want to make from this phrase is that running with endurance is something that we must do throughout our Christian lives. It's not enough to start well. We must finish well. We must never give up. We must never stop running. This is what the author was saying in chapter 10. He says, remember when you started the Christian race, you were encountering persecution and suffering, and yet you endured it, and you trusted in Christ. Now continue to do that. There are many Christians that I've seen over the years that seem to start the race well. But after difficulties and problems and hardships batter their life again and again and again. They lose their stamina, they lose their joy, and they become faint and weak and discouraged But we must continue to run on. We must not respond in this way. Those responses indicate That we are not walking by faith as we should, that we're not keeping our focus on the right things. We must run by faith. To quit the race is to follow the path of the apostates. And this is never an option for the true believer. I've told many people over the years that there is no office where you can go and resign as a Christian. Turn in your card. No, that doesn't exist. Because Christians don't quit. They continue to trust the Lord. The Christian life requires endurance or spiritual stamina. And this race is not just for a few elite Christian athletes, but it's for every believer. The Greek word for race in this verse is the Greek word agona. We get our word agony from that word. This is why I've never been to understand people who like to run, you know, incredibly long distances. I tend to be the kind of person that I don't like agony. But some people seem to be irresistibly drawn to such things. This passage is telling us that the Christian life, can you receive this, is agonizing. There's a lot of people who think the Christian mice is easy And they think that if they come to Christ, that all their problems will be ironed out, and it'll be a smooth road. It'll be a wonderful trip. And do not misunderstand with a Christian life is the best life a person can live on this planet. But it's not an easy road. You will face the same struggles that lost people often experience on this fallen planet. Things like illness and sorrow and Deaths and car accidents, those same things come into the lives of Christian people. But in addition to this, you will struggle with your flesh and the world and the devil. A marathon is not a race for casual participants, and neither is the Christian life. It will take every ounce of grace that God has granted you to finish well. Why is this important to note? Because they say that most of these great athletic endeavors are mental. You have to have the right thinking about it. And we need to have the right thinking about the Christian life. It's not easy, it's difficult. The Bible says in Psalm 34, many are the afflictions of the righteous Jesus said, in the world you will have tribulation. Paul says in Acts 14, 22, we must must through much tribulation Enter into the kingdom of God. And Peter writes, Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial, which is to try you as though some strange thing happened unto you This is the mindset that we must have as Christians, that the Christian life is hard. This is what the Bible tells us repeatedly. And so we should not be shocked, dismayed, and discouraged when difficulty comes into our life. Because you're running a marathon. What did you think would happen? It's going to be difficult. But I want you to notice this final phrase, the race that is set before us. In these ancient Olympic Games, the master of the course would establish the boundaries and territory that would be covered in the race. And in our lives, the Lord determines the path that we must take. In fact, this very same wording is used in the next verse in verse 2, where it says of Jesus, for the joy that was set before him. And in verse 1 it says, we are to run with endurance the race that is set before us. The idea is just as the Lord providentially set out a course for his beloved son, that of course included the cross, so he has set out a course for each one of us. Now in a race, everyone runs the same distance on the same track. You have to have a level playing field. But this is where the analogy breaks down. It's not like that in life. Have you noticed? Not everyone goes through the same experiences. God has a special path, a special course for every believer. He knows just what you need, and he will go with you each step of the way. So let us run with patience the race that is set before us. I'm going to quickly conclude with several applications. It says here that we are to be aware of the fact that there has been a great cloud of witnesses that have come before us that have finished this race. And so I would suggest to you that you should read good Christian biographies. Our brother, who was here last weekend, mentioned that several times. Read good Christian biographies of Christians who have run well, who have finished the race , encountered great difficulties, but they trusted in Christ. Number two, refuse to add unnecessary weight to your journey. You need to jettison and get rid of all those things that are weighing you down, that are making the race, as it were, more difficult than it needs to be. Thirdly, you must refuse to compare your race with others. Don't look at other people and say, what he seems to have a pretty smooth road. I've got all these hills. How's that fair? You must run with patience the race that is set before you. In this race, we're not competing against other people. The analogy here is that we are there to finish. Number four, recognize that the Christian life is very difficult, but it's worth it. It's worth it. Paul, the apostle, said, I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. That should be the desire of every single believer. I have followed the course. I have kept my faith. Despite all of the suffering That he endured , continued to trust in the Lord. And so must we. And finally, you must enter the race. in order to finish the race. The message that I preach this morning has been for believers. But there is an indirect application to those who are not. Often in our society today, there are many churches that at least, at the very least, give the implication That we're all going to heaven. Most funerals that I attend , the preacher gets up. The distinct impression that the listener receives is that we're all going to the same place. We're going to heaven where everything will be better. I want you to know that's not what Jesus taught. That's not the gospel. The Bible speaks of two paths. There's the broad way, super highway. That leads to destruction, Jesus said. And that is a narrow way that leads to life Which race are you on? Which road are you following? Who are you following? You know, so much of what we do in life depends on the example of others and the little subculture that we live in, and so we do things their way. This is true spiritually as well. Are you following Christ? Our example and our Savior. Have you by faith and repentance become his disciple, his follower, and you will follow him all the way You will trust in him all your days, no matter what, because he is your Lord and Savior. You can't run this race. This message really isn't for you unless you're a child of God And if you're not a child of God, I would exhort you and urge you to trust in Him today. It is worth it all. It is so much better than living life on this fallen planet. Without any real sense of purpose or meaning, accumulating things that will perish someday and dying and spending eternity Estranged from God in a place of suffering. No, my friend, trust in Jesus alone. Call upon him today. He is a great Savior. And he will go with you all the way. Father, we thank you. For this time that we've been able to spend together this morning, I pray that you would use your word to encourage and inspire and motivate and correct your people. Who may be fainting and lagging behind in this Christian race because they are carrying so many weights. Or because their thinking is distorted, because they think that somehow you have failed them because they thought the race would be easy. Pray, Lord, that you would correct them. Help them and inspire them. And Father, for those who are here who are not your children, who have not entered this race, but are on the broad highway that leads to I pray, Lord, that you would alarm them and disturb them until they come to trust in you and in you alone. Lord, it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.