Philippians chapter 2. Many years ago in Dallas, Texas, there was a bitter split in a local church. The contention was so serious that each side took the other to court to remove them from the church property. After a long drawn-out court case that was chronicled in the paper. The judge finally ruled reluctantly in favor of one of the sides. The losing side withdrew and formed their own church in the community. After all of this was done, someone decided to investigate and find out how exactly did this horrific split begin. And after interviews with numbers of people, they finally discovered that it all started at a church dinner. It seems that an elder in the church were served a smaller slice of ham than someone else. And that was the beginning of that church split. What a pathetic example of the local church. One of the Lord's desires for his people is that they would exhibit a unity to the world that would provide irrefutable evidence to the transforming power of the gospel. The night before he died, he said, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, that you have love one to another. In fact, he called this the New Commandments. It is frequently repeated in the New Testament. In fact, sometimes theologians refer to it as the 11th Commandment. Unfortunately, Christians have often not presented a picture of unity to the world, not on a global scale, not even on the level of the local church And this is not a modern problem. You can find it frequently in your New Testament as well. You probably know it was a huge problem in the Church of Corinth. Begins that epistle by talking about the divisions that were among them. People were divided over personalities It was a problem of the churches of Galatia, where Paul writes to them in that epistle in chapter 5. and says that they were at the point of devouring one another, and they were exhibiting the works of the flesh, not the fruit of the Spirit. And it was a struggle at the church at Philippi as well. The church at Philippi has the distinction of being the first European assembly. It was indeed a miracle of God's grace. It all started. With a woman who was a seller of purple by the name of Lydia. She was saved in her household and friends. And then there was a Roman jailer who came to Christ along with his family. And what an ecology group of people. And they formed a little church in this pagan culture, a heavenly colony amidst this Roman colony. And in many ways, the church at Philippi was a good church. They were the one church that stood by Paul and supported him, when other churches did not. Many scholars would say if Paul had a favorite church, it was the church at Philippi. They had a special place in his heart. But there was a fly in the ointment, you might say, and it was the strife and disunity that was present in their assembly. One of the reasons that Paul wrote this book of Philippians was to address this problem. You may recall that he doesn't really get to the body of this epistle until verse 27. which in many ways functions as the key verse of this book. He says, only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. Though whether I come and see you or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that you stand fast in one spirit with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. This is a command given not to an individual but to a local assembly. You may recall that as we examined this verse several weeks ago, we saw that he is calling them to live in a manner that is worthy of the gospel. They are to remember that they are citizens of heaven. And a way that they can exemplify this truth was first of all by striving together as a team to advance the gospel in their community. And secondly They are to face the opposition of the world with courage Now inherent in that first instruction where he said that they are to reach the loss like a team is this matter of unity And so now as he comes to chapter two, you'll notice it begins, if there be therefore This therefore ties it in back to verse 27. And so he's already touched on this matter of unity, but now he is really going to face this issue head on. And he's going to take some time to speak of this matter of unity in the local church. The Lord desires that the church not be a collection of individuals who rarely interact with one another, who gather as spectators Sunday by Sunday. And yet they don't really know anybody else in the church, and they don't interact with them, and they don't talk to them. They're just there He wants us to be like an extended family. We love one another, we care for one another, we interact with one another, we rejoice with one another, and we cry with one another. That is his desire for the church. So how can we achieve this desire for our own assembly? I think we must recognize four vital truths that are found in this passage. Would you notice with me? First of all, we must recognize the basis of our Christian unity. Look with me at verse 1. We have here four phrases that begin with the word if Paul's not doubting that these things are true. In fact, it could be rendered sense. Paul here is challenging them to remember and to focus on what they have in common rather than issues in which they differ. This is a strongly emotional appeal. The language that he's using is the language of the hearts He says, first of all, if there bear be any consolation in Christ, he is challenging them. Have you experienced the consolation of Christ? Do you know what it is to have your sins forgiven? Is that your profession? Is that your experience? Then you should naturally unite with others Who have had that experience as well. He says, if there are any comfort of love, and this is referring, I believe, to the love of Christ for his people. Paul says, do you know the love of Christ? Have you been overwhelmed with how much Christ loves you and how he demonstrated that at the cross? If you truly know that love, that love should flow out of you to others who are your brothers and sisters in Christ. He says, Is there any fellowship of the Spirit? I think this is what he says in a similar vein at the end of 2 Corinthians, where he speaks of the communion of the Holy Ghost be with all of you. The idea is that when the Spirit of God is really indwelling us and filling us and working in us and transforming us , It will draw us closer to one another because we have the same spirit of the living God dwelling within us. Now all four, and then he says, finally, if there be any bows and mercies, strange sounding words to us, these are references to the compassion and mercy of Christ that was evident at our salvation. It's the same word that's used in Romans chapter twelve and verse one where he says I beseech you therefore brethren by the mercies of God When we reflect on the mercies of God, it should not only cause us to want to yield our lives to His control as living sacrifices, but it should also cause us to unite together with others. Who have experienced his amazing grace. You see, all four of these expressions are really just different facets or descriptions of our salvation. And so God is calling on this assembly to remember what it is that unites them together It's not their age, it's not their social class, it's not their race, it's not their occupation, it's not their gender It is not even their Roman citizenship. It is the fact that they have been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. They have tasted and seen that God is good. And that is the most significant fact about them. And if it is indeed the most important thing about them and about us, it should unite us together. in a supernatural way. Have you ever experienced this? I remember Sensing this when I went over this past fall to Tanzania to see Aaron and Nicole. And there we were up on top of this hill in this little church with the dirt floor. And these people were quite a bit different from me. They didn't speak English. And they were not the same race as I am. And they were of a different culture. And they were at a different economic status. There are a lot of differences between us. I could not really communicate to them And yet there was a bond between us. Because we were brothers and sisters in Christ. And as I preached and Aaron translated, they received the word with joy. And as we sang hymns together, even though they were words that I didn't understand, I knew they were translations of English hymns. And so those truths would bind our hearts together, even though there were so many differences. Yet those differences were insignificant compared with what we shared in Christ. The fact is, when you view it from a true spiritual perspective, our differences are trivial. What holds us together is what is significant. And so we must always keep these things in perspective. You might have different ideas about how to live the Christian life, perhaps about parenting. Perhaps you have different standards and convictions with some other folks here at the church. You may even have some little theological difference about some minor doctrine. But if we are united in Christ and we have experienced his amazing grace, that should supersede all of those differences. They should be as nothing, because we are part of the family of God 's. One of the fears I have about preaching this message is that You might walk away and think, you know, the gist of the message was, you know, be nice to people. Be nice. Just, you know, hold your tongue and Try to get along and play nice and that was the gist of the message. That is not what I'm saying The kind of unity that Paul envisions here and that Jesus Christ spoke of is a unity that can only take place by the supernatural grace of God. And may I say that if it's the gospel that unites us together, perhaps the reason why sometimes in churches There is perpetual fighting and strife and animosity and hatred is because they're not all sheep there. There's wolves among the sheep. And therefore there is really nothing that unites them. So the message here is not be nice. No, the message is that the gospel changes everything, especially the way we relate to our brother and sister in Christ. We can experience a unit unity, a oneness that can amaze the world That is what God desires. The second thing we must recognize is the goal of our Christian unity. Look with me at verse 2. Fulfill ye my joy. That ye may be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. What would a unified church should look like? Paul's going to tell us here. begins by saying that if they were to be more united, they would fulfill his joy. Now the expression that he uses suggests that they do fulfill his joy. They do have a special place in his heart. But how much more would his joy overflow if they were more united? You see, he loves them all. He cares for all of them with their weaknesses and their failures and their flaws. He loves them like a parrot does his children, and it disturbs him when they can't get together. Paul had a pastor's heart. And he knew that very few things distress a pastor more than conflicts within the flock. The reality is that pastors spend a great deal of their time putting out fires and trying to ease the friction between people. Here he is tactfully expressing his concern and very mildly rebuking them for their divisions. And just like in verse 1, we have four very condensed phrases that follow here in verse 2. He talks about being like-minded, being of one love, being of one accord, of one mind. I don't mean to be technical, but this arrangement is what scholars would call a chiastic structure, that is, that the first item on the list and the last item go together, and the two in the middle go together. Notice how he talks about being like-minded. The last one is of one mind. So Paul caused them to be of the same mind. What does this mean? I must hasten to add what it does not mean. It does not mean that we all think exactly the same about everything, that we do everything the same, that we're all on the same page about every single detail that you could imagine. Groups that have that kind of mindset are called cults. Alright? That's not a church. I want you to understand that unity does not depend on uniformity. So, what does Paul mean by this expression? He means that we have our minds focused on the same end. What was Paul focused on? Let me read a few verses. Verse 20 of chapter 1, according to my earnest expectation. and my hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness is always so now Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether It be by life or by death, for to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. In chapter 2 and verse 5, he's going to say, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. In chapter 3, he's going to talk about the righteousness that he has in Christ. Chapter 3, verse 8, he says, yea, doubtless. And I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I've suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung that I may win Christ. and be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. That I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his suffering being made conformable unto his death Look with me down at verse 13. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth into those things which are before, I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Now look with me at verse 15. Let us therefore as many as be perfect, that is mature, be thus minded. And if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal this unto you. How are they to be minded? We are all to be pursuing after Christ-likeness. He is the finish line. He is the goal that we're straining to. And so if we have our focus, if our minds are focused on Christ, if we have the mind of Christ and we are minded as Paul calls us to be here. Our focus will be Christ, not self. And you know what happens when our focus is Christ? It means that we will have the heart of Christ, which means what? As he says in chapter 1 and verse 27, then we will be functioning like a team to get the gospel out to the world. Because that is the heart of Christ that we take the gospel to those around us. But then he has these two expressions in the middle of verse two here, having The same love being of one accord. This is a reference to a unity of affection. You see, Paul is not just telling them to get along. Just keep your mouth shut and don't say anything that's abrasive to people and you know just kind of smile and go along. That's not what he's saying. He doesn't want something superficial. He doesn't want something that's just on the surface. That's the way the world deals and copes. With this unity in the workplace and in other organizations. No, it should not be that for brothers and sisters in Christ. There should be a real heart of love for one another. And the fact is that more that you love your brother and sister in Christ, there's something in the human heart that naturally wants to reciprocate is a contagious thing You know, if you show love to the brethren and you visit them and you write notes to them and you call them whenever people are sick or people are having problems or they have issues and you're there for them, you know what happens When you're experiencing a difficult time, you're going to be bombarded with people. Because when you extend love to others, it will often come back. That's the way it should be in the church. That we're just we're just constantly demonstrating the love of Christ for one another. And it's just like a big cycle going around and going around. It says here that we are to be of one accord, literally one of soul. The idea is that we are all connected When one of us hurts, we all hurts. There should be a sincere empathy and sympathy within the body of Christ The scriptures speak of the church as a body. And you know, when one part of your body is really ailing, like you hit your thumb with a hammer, you know what? Your brain isn't sitting there saying, boy, that must really hurt. I'm sure glad I'm not a thumb Your whole body is writhing in pain because you're connected. You're one body. Well, we are one body And so when someone is hurting, it should affect sincerely all of us And when God has done a work of grace and something wonderful has happened, it should cause all of us to rejoice. It works both ways. You might be here this morning, you might say, Pastor, this is just impossible. This never happens. This has never happened in a local church. You would be wrong about that. I'm going to read to you two very brief passages from the book of Acts. Acts chapter 2. Verse 42, and it says, And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and in breaking of bread and in prayers and fear came upon Every so, and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles, and all that believed were together and had all things common, and sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men as every man had need, and they continued daily with one accord. In the temple, breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart. They were of one soul. And their lives were given over to worship and serving one another. In chapter 4, we see a similar expression. Verse 31, and when they had prayed, the place was shaken, where they were assembled together, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness. And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul. They were united And it was the Spirit of God that was moving in a mighty way and was drawing them together with a supernatural unity. So don't tell me it's impossible. It is possible by the Spirit of God The third truth I want you to consider is that we must recognize the obstacle to our Christian unity. Now there are many facets to this obstacle. But it all boils down to one thing. Look with me at verse 3. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. This is a reference to pride. There are two manifestations mentioned here. The first is strife. Which has the idea of selfish ambition. This is the same term that Paul used in chapter 1 and verse 15 of those at Rome who were seeking to undermine his ministry. This is not the mind of Christ. This instead is the mindset of Satan. When we set out to be somebody And we demand that the body of Christ give us attention and give us status and acknowledge who we are and follow our lead when we demand that right. And we are set on our own will. We are in fact not emulating our Father which is in heaven, but Satan himself. In Isaiah chapter 14, we have a passage that speaks of a pagan king, but many scholars believe it in fact gives us insight into Satan and his fall. Isaiah 14, verse 12 says, How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning? How art thou cut down to the ground which did weaken the nations? For thou hast said in thy heart, now listen to these five I wills, I will exalt my fro my throne above the stars of God. I will sit upon the mount of the congregation, besides of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will be like the Most High God. When we adopt that perspective, it will inevitably lead to division. Paul here is saying that there was rivalry within their assembly. We would say there were power plays taking place. People were battling over supremacy. Trying to get people to follow them and follow their agenda and follow their ideas. They were seeking to manipulate and control people. And Paul says this is not the way it should be in the church. The church is not a place for people to seek to exalt themselves, it's a place for people to humble themselves. And then he speaks of vainglory. This is a rare word. It's only found this one time in the New Testament. It describes a person who wants to be recognized. They demand attention. And they create big problems. They're not about the team. You've heard the trend sport expression, there's no I and team. That's true in the church as well. It should be a team of people working together, giving their skills and their energy and their time and their treasure and their talents. to accomplish what God has called us to do. But all of that falls apart if people begin to Say no, no, it's got to be done my way, it's got to be done exactly like this. When members of a team are more focused on their individual performance than on the success of the team, they're going to have problems. It's true in the church as well. You know, it's amazing what the local church can accomplish when no one is demanding that they get the attention and the credits. This term also describes the type of person who arrogantly assumes that they always have the right perspective on things. Do you know people like that? You know, people, it's never ever occurred to them that they might be wrong, or that there might be some factor in their analysis of a problem or an issue that they don't know anything about There might be some factor that if they knew that truth, that fact that is hidden from their eyes, it would change their perspective on everything. This kind of person who seeks vainglory is opinionated and dogmatic. They always make their voice heard. And anyone who disagrees with them is just plain wrong. This is the kind of person that no matter what the issue is, they will fight to the death to prove that they are right, no matter what the cost might be. Because they gotta win. They gotta prove that they were right. They failed to see the big picture This kind of person often is blind to how much they offend people. Oh, they are very, very cognizant when they are hurts. But they seem absolutely blind and deaf to how they hurt others. And they often think that the issue, that whatever is being debated or argued about, is the problem. But so often it's not the issue, it's the arrogant and dismissive way that they're dealing with the issue They never listen to the other person. They never consider where they're coming from or what their experience is or what their background is or their fears or their problems. They just dismiss it all the way and say, I'm right. And that creates division. That creates fault lines within the local church. You see, pride is the root of all church disunity. So let me ask you, point blank. Do you have the reputation of being a peacemaker or a troublemaker? Are you the kind of person who smooths things over or stirs things up? Are you the kind of person who gets along with others and is that people would describe as a team player? Are you the kind of person that it's got to be done your way? Do your words promote healing, or do they just cause more and more contention? One of the most important things you can do in your spiritual growth is become more sensitive to the pride that's in your heart. You say I'm not a proud person. Everyone is. Everyone's a proud person. Even a person that has absolutely no reason to be proud is proud. I always think of Winston Churchill. He was running for reelection one year And the reporter asked him, put a microphone in his face, and said, Tell me something good about your opponent. You've been criticizing him all the time. Tell me something good about him. And he said, he is a very humble man. And then he said, But he has much to be humble about There are a lot of people who have much to be humble about, and yet they are very proud. We are all proud people. And what we have to do to become more humble is to detect the pride that is in us and the way it manifests itself in a hundred different ways. We must come to hate it. You feel the pride rising up in you as manifested in anger or in being defensive. or selectively using the truth to defend yourself, leaving out the parts that make you look bad. All of those are manifestations of pride. And so conversely, when we come to this third point, it's just the other side of the coin. We must recognize the key to enjoying Christian unity. And what's the opposite of pride? Humility. True unity can only grow in the soil of humility. Notice how Paul expresses this truth in three ways. He first talks about lowliness of mind. This all has to do with how we perceive ourselves. How do you perceive yourself? You know what? You don't perceive yourself the way other people perceive you. Have you figured that out yet? Did you know that? Did you know that just about everyone, because they've done surveys and everything. You know, most people think they're more intelligent than most people. Most people think that they're of better character than the average person. Most people would say that they're more honest than most people are. If you think about it statistically and mathematically, it can't be so. It cannot be so. I can't tell you how many times I have been to prisons and so forth. And have the guys come up and talk to me about what a great person they are, how they're honest and hardworking and decent, not like the other guys in here Do you have an accurate assessment of yourself? You see, you need to learn to distrust your own perceptions of yourself. Because your own heart, your own fallen heart, will minimize your faults and magnify your strengths and give you a distorted perspective of who you are. You may say, well, how do you correct that? What are the corrective lenses for that? Spending time with the Lord. Nothing is more humbling than spending time with God and laying yourself, your soul, open and naked before his holy gaze. And the more that you honestly assess yourself in light of who he is and his holiness , And the more you die to self and you put away the sin from your life, the more you will find Sort of like a woman can be cleaning in her house and she doesn't see any dust at all and she thinks this house is spotless And then a ray of sunlight will come in the window, and that whole ray of light is just filled with dust. And the bright light of the sun exposes the dirt. You see, one reason why a lot of people feel really good about themselves is they have the window shut up and the blinds pulled down and they're living in the dark. You really are a very sinful, selfish, prideful person. And that is why, whether it be at home or at work or at church, there's constantly friction between you and other people. And the first step to finding humility is to recognizing how incredibly proud you are. Lowliness of mind. You know, often in the New Testament, again and again and again, it states that humility is the key to unity. Don't turn to these verses. Just listen to them. Listen to Romans 12. 16. Paul says, be of the same mind one toward another. Mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceit. He says you should not treat anyone like they're in a state below you. I'm not going to talk to that guy. You know, he's he's nothing. No. A humble person makes everyone feel significant and important and worthy of their time. makes them feel at home and comfortable. The book previous to Philippians, Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 2 Calls on the church there to walk worthy of their calling. How do you do that? Verse 2, with all lowliness and meekness, with long-suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the Unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. If everyone in local church Was humble and meek and forbearing and loving and filled with the Spirit of God, there would be no friction at all Even with all their other differences. In Colossians, the twin epistle of Ephesians, we have something very similar, chapter 3. Verses twelve and thirteen. Put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bows of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind meekness, long-suffering, forbearing one another, and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye And above all these things, put on charity or love, which is the bond of perfectness. He's saying, speaking of all these garments, this is the belt that holds it all together This is not just an idea of Paul's. Peter says the same thing in 1 Peter Chapter 5 He says, Likewise ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder, yea, all of you be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility. For God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. So let me ask you, are you growing in your humility? Would your spouse say That you're more humble now than you used to be. Have you learned that you don't always have to get the last word in? Have you learned how to turn away your anger? Have you learned That by assuming the worst and thinking you know what everybody's thinking and their motives, that that gets you into a lot of trouble and causes a lot of hurt, and so you've learned to assume the best until you know otherwise Have you come to the place where on a regular basis you come up to people when you recognize that there was some kind of an exchange between you, maybe very subtle. But you just know there's a little bit of friction there. And you review over it and you said, you know, I could have said that differently. I can see how they would have taken offense to that. Have you come to the place where on a regular basis, when that is an issue, you come up to people and you say, listen, I was wrong. Will you forgive me? You know, I suspect there's people here in this assembly who have never said that in your life. And that's pride. And that's why there's all kinds of people that you're at odds with and you don't speak to and and you haven't seen for years. Pride Humility is the only path to unity. And then he says this second expression, let each esteem other better than themselves. Now let me explain this in a second. This doesn't mean that we have a false sense of modesty. Doesn't mean that we can't evaluate others honestly and objectively. Doesn't mean that we should lie or minimize our own abilities and walk around saying, no, I'm no good at that. You know, I can't do this when everybody knows you're really, really good at that. Doesn't mean that's what you do. It means in the bottom line that we treat others with consideration. Do you treat people with consideration? Do you think about where they are and how they're feeling and what they're facing? And therefore I need to think about that as I interact with them. I need to think about where they are. It means that you put their feelings, their time, and their needs ahead of your own. Now what do you think about that? You know what? Everything in your flesh recoils at that idea. Put them first! Put their needs ahead of my own? What about my needs? What about my concerns? This is absolutely counter to your flesh. This is counter to our society and culture, which increasingly has become narcissistic and says it's all about you. This is really hard to do. Really hard to do. In fact, it's impossible to do apart from the grace of God. Look with me in verse 4. The third manifestation. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others When I was a kid in grade school, one of my friends found this as a proof text for cheating on test And used to always bring this up to the teacher. Don't look on your own paper, it says look on others That's of course not what Paul was thinking. The word look here is a Greek word that is the derivation of English word scope It means an habitual focus of life. It means the way we have trained ourselves by the grace of God is that we're not always thinking about me and my needs, but we've trained ourselves by the grace of God. We've disciplined ourselves to think about, you know, that person is probably really hurting right now. That person is probably Feeling kind of left out. And so we're reaching out to people all the time. I bet there's a need there. I sense there's a need there We're not focused on ourselves. We're forgetful of ourselves. See, a humble person is not a person who goes around saying I'm nobody. They're a person who just doesn't think much about themselves because they're thinking of others And this is what God has called us to do. This is what Paul did. You see it again and again in his writings, where he wasn't thinking of himself, he's thinking of the people in the church. And their needs, and he's pouring out his life for them. He says in 1 Corinthians 10, 24, let no man seek his own, but every man another's edification. In the great love chapter, 1 Corinthians 13, he says, love seeketh not her own. Love is not focused on self. This means that we must not go around thinking about my rights and my needs and my goals and my sacrifices, and don't they understand how much I've done What about me? Paul says it's not about you. That's the path of misery. That's the path of bitterness. That's the path of resentment. But when Christ is first, and then by his grace and by his love we pour that out to others That's the path of joy. That's the path of joy. This is counterintuitive. The world says, you know, if you live for self and really, you know, just Make everything about you, you're going to find joy. It doesn't work that way. That's not the way God made us That is not the path to individual joy, and it's not the path to harmony in any human relationship, whether it be your marriage, whether an employer or employee, or whether it be in the local church. This is not the path for us. The path is to follow Christ's example. Look at the verses that follow The most theologically profound verses in this book. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of man, and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death even the death of the cross. Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name That in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, the glory of God the Father And that profound theological passage was used as an illustration of this thing, of this truth, of don't focus on your own things, don't think of your own rights, think of others, because that is the mind of Christ. Some of you know the name of Wachman Me , Chinese preacher, devotional writer, tells a story. of a Christian rice farmer in China, very simple man, lived up in the mountains, had a rice patty on a plateau on top of a mountain and the only way he could get water up there was every morning to get up early and to pump it up through a series of canals and channels so that it would flood that area. And he would work for hours During painstaking labor to pump the water up there. And then would go on with his other chores. But what he would find invariably is that his unsaved neighbor who had rice patties right below his would simply erode the dike a little bit and all the water would drain out into his rice patty. So he didn't have to irrigate his crops. He just dug a little hole into the side of his neighbor's channel and all poured out into his. And this happened day after day. And this neighbor would not be reasoned with, and this poor Christian man did not know what to do. So he gathered with this little local church and they prayed about it and they spoke to them about it, and they came up with a plan. The next morning he got up even earlier, many hours earlier, and he pumped the water up into the rice patty of his neighbor first and filled it up. And then he pumped the water up to his. And he did that morning after morning And his neighbor was so profoundly moved at the way he responded to his evil that he became a follower of Jesus Christ. Our focus is a local church, which first of all be on the Lord And then on others. And by the grace of God, we can be united family. That worships and serve God together. Let's pray. Father , pray that we would follow the example of your dear Son. We'd give up our rights, our status , our positions in order to serve you and serve others. I pray that you would draw this assembly closer together. I pray that we would truly be of one mind, of one heart. I pray that we would be united around Christ and his gospel. And that we would seek to take the gospel to the ends of the earth. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.