I want to invite you to take your Bible and turn with me to Romans chapter 14, if you would. Romans chapter 14. I am excited to preach tonight. I really am. In the spring of this year, I had a desire to study a specific topic. in the scriptures and over the course of the summer that desire grew into a burden to preach on it. Tonight I'd like to begin a series through Romans 14. And I've titled this series Welcome one another. Welcome one another. How to experience gospel unity with brethren who differ in matters of conscience God's people have different convictions about how to apply God's word to matters of life when they are not clearly spelled out in the Scriptures. How do we demonstrate the love of Christ in community with one another when we don't always share the same conscience standards? That is the issue that Romans 14 addresses. Now before we go any further, I want to clarify why I want to preach on this subject. And I'm going to begin with the negative, why I am not preaching on this subject. First, I'm not seeking to address any division or fracture at Calvary. There are none to my knowledge, and we praise God for that. Second, I'm not targeting any single person or family in this series. Sometimes in the past that's been referred to as pulpit bullying. Have you ever heard that term? And that's not something that we do here at Calvary. Third, I'm not seeking to further any personal agenda or personal conviction about any tertiary matters. There's no hidden motive or ulterior motive here. The reason why I want to give attention to this subject is first, generally speaking, every group of believers, whether a church, a Christian school, a Christian camp, or even members within a Christian family Everywhere you have more than one Christian, you have differences of opinion on matters of conscience. This is due to a variety of reasons. the knowledge one has of the word, the length of time someone has known the Lord, the values instilled in one's upbringing, the context a person was saved out of, and even one's personality No two believers are identical. So God has given us his word to instruct us in how to display the unity of the gospel when our consciences differ. Second, and I just want to say this is really what is at my heart here, so I want to capture everyone's eye for a moment if I can. We really have a wonderful church, do we not? The Lord has really blessed us here at Calvary. I can speak personally. I enjoy a rich and deep level of fellowship with you. And I know that you can say that of others here as well. We are not a perfect church and we don't claim to be a perfect church, but I think I know I can say from my four years here, God has done something and is doing something very special here. We we enjoy something a sweet spirit of fellowship and communion at Calvary. And that's that that love and that union is something that we need to continue growing in It's something that we need to inform. It's something that we need to guard and protect and strive for. And that's my heart ultimately behind this series. Third. And this is closely related. Our church is growing numerically this year more than at any other point in the last 20 years. You can fact check me by talking to Pastor. People are being saved, baptized, and added to our church. These are exciting times and the growth that we're experiencing is biblical growth It's not artificial or man-contrived growth. This is what the Spirit of God is doing. But as we grow, there will be a greater temptation to gravitate to people at Calvary who are more like us. and not welcome those who are different from us into our close circle of friends. And so I want to preach through Romans 14 so that as a church we would be instructed in how to better love and welcome one another as Christ has welcomed us to the glory and praise of God. So Paul begins addressing this subject in Romans chapter 14, verse 1, and it concludes in 15. 7, so it runs all the way through chapter 14. The central command of this passage is stated in the first and last verses of this unit to form what's called an inclusio, or you could just imagine two bookends. that begin and conclude this topic. So look with me at these bookends, if you will. Look at first one of chapter 14. Let me ask you, what is the imperative or the command? In that verse, can you identify it? It's two words. Welcome him. Welcome him. Now turn to 15-7. 15-7. What is the central command there? Therefore, welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. And so I've titled this series, Welcome One Another. I would like to read this passage in its entirety. I've never read a passage of this length before while preaching. It spans over a chapter. And so I've timed it out. It only takes about four minutes. And so if you'll just bear with me, let's look at chapter 14 and verse 1, and I'm going to read for you, and we're just going to settle ourselves now. and really try to take in the major ideas of this chapter. It's divided into five sections. I'm going to begin in chapter 14, verse 1. As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains, and let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls, and he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God. For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself. For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's. For to this end Christ died and lived again that he might be Lord of both the dead and the living. Why do you pass judgment on your brother Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God. For it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God so then each of us will give an account of himself to God. Therefore, let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother. I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for any one who thinks it is unclean. For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, You are no longer walking in love. But by what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. So then, let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding Do not for the sake of food destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. It is good not to eat meat or to drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble. The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats. because the eating is not from faith, for whatsoever is does not proceed from faith is sin. We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up. For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on him For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope. May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another in accord with Christ Jesus. That together with one, we may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. Before we get into the specifics of our text, I want to begin by considering the literary context of this passage. I want to make a significant point. By viewing Romans chapter 4 in light of all of Romans. Okay? So we're looking at this passage from a 50,000-foot view, and I want to make just one major point regarding this. You might summarize the theme of Romans by in short saying that it's about the gospel or it's about the righteousness of God. I've summarized it this way. The righteousness of God is displayed in the gospel by God righteously justifying sinners through faith. in the substitutionary death of Christ. Those are all major themes that you find in the book of Romans. Theologians have observed that Romans is the greatest letter ever written. There is not another epistle that searches out the riches of the gospel to the same depth and breadth and height as Romans. Chapters 1 through 11 laid the doctrinal foundation. Dealing with the total depravity and condemnation of man, chapters 1 through 2, justification by faith alone, in Christ alone, and the imputation of Christ's righteousness to the sinner, chapter 3. The nature of saving faith, chapter 4, the benefits and results of our justification, chapter 5, the nature and means of sanctification, chapter 6 and through 7. The security and future hope of our glorification, chapter 8, the sovereignty of God in his redemptive work, chapter 9, and God's plan to save both Jews and Gentiles to the glory of God, chapters 10 through 11. The first half of a book expounds with great detail the doctrines of the gospel. But then in chapter 12, there's a great shift that takes place. A shift from doctrine to application, where we find this very famous verse where Paul says, I appeal to you therefore by the brothers, by the mercies of God to present your bodies a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual act of worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is that good and acceptable and perfect. A very famous passage. And from then on, its application, Paul is now applying the gospel to our lives in very practical, tangible ways. The point that I want to make is this. The command to welcome one another in chapter 14, and everything that is inside chapter 14 flows out from And is required by the gospel. The cross compels Christians to mutual love and unity Paul's dealing with tertiary matters in chapter 14 is itself not a tertiary matter. 10% of the greatest letter ever written is given to this subject. So this is what I want us to see tonight. This is my my thesis statement. Welcoming those in our church who differ from us in matters of conscience is a gospel mandate. It's a gospel mandate. It flows right from the heart of Christ crucified for us. And so we need to take this to heart as the body of Christ. Let's begin with verse 1 and point number one tonight. We, that is Christians, that's us. We must recognize that every New Testament church has believers with differing conscience convictions. As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. This is Paul's thesis statement or major point of this literary unit. Everything that Paul is going to say in chapter 4 into chapter 15, what we just read. is going to explain and illustrate and defend his main idea in verse 1. So this is really important. And for that reason tonight, I'm not going to move beyond verse 1. Okay, now I promise you. We're gonna pick up the pace and we're not gonna take this one verse at a time. But tonight we're just going to settle on the first verse because this is Paul's thesis statement. This is If we miss this, then we've really missed his big idea, and we don't want to do that. So let's start here. Paul begins by addressing the strong regarding those who are, and he uses this expression, weak in faith. Did you see that in your Bible in verse 1? Weak in faith. Well, that certainly at least causes me to ask, who are the strong and what does he mean by weak in faith? Every church has both represented in its congregation. So I want to make five observations that are going to help us distinguish the weak and the strong. First, I think it's important to say that from the start, both the strong and the weak have equal status and standing in Christ. I will not demonstrate this right now, but as we will see once we get further into this series, both the weak and the strong have the opportunity to glorify God with their differing convictions. Both have a tendency to sin against each other in different ways, and both are capable of straying into doctrinal error. Second, the term weak in faith is not referring to someone who has a weak trust in Jesus as the Messiah. It is not referring to saving faith in Christ The context clarifies the meaning, so look down at verse 2. It says, one person believes. This is the same word as in verse 1. One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables. This is speaking of Christians whose consciences are not accepting the truth that their faith in Christ liberates them from various Old Testament ritual requirements. The weak in faith are those who lack confidence or faith to do an activity that God actually allows them to do. In this case, eat meat. It is their conscience that is weak. The word conscience does not appear in this context, but the related passage 1 Corinthians 8 through 10, where Paul deals with meat offers to idols, makes heavy use of the word. And the terminology throughout Romans 14 makes it clear that the believer's conscience is in view. I do want to prove this to you because I'm going to be using the word conscience in relation to this passage throughout the series and I want you to be sure that the this is a related idea. Okay? So turn with me. to um 1 Corinthians chapter 8 and we're going to look at verse 10. 1 Corinthians chapter 8 and verse 10. And then we're also going to be dropping down and looking at verse 12 as well. And I want you to notice two expressions here. Verse 10, it says, For if anyone sees you who have knowledge eating in an idol's temple, will he not be encouraged if his conscience is weak? to eat food offered to idols. Now look at verse twelve. Thus sinning against your brothers and wounding their conscience when it is weak, referring to conscience. You sin against Christ. You see, weakness is referring to a weak conscience. Now that I just want to touch on for a moment. What is your conscience? It's certainly an intangible thing. One theologian summarized it this way. Conscience, I'm going to give you a definition here, conscience is your consciousness. of what you believe to be right or wrong at any given time. Okay? That choice of wording is is very um helpful. It's what you believe. to be right or wrong at any given time. We're not talking about what is universally right. Okay? We're drawing a distinction between what I personally believe is is right and what God says is right. We have to make that distinction there. Your conscience functions like a personal judge, a guide, or a monitor inside you. It is not infallible like the Word of God. And no one's conscience perfectly reflects the moral will of God. But it is a God-given mechanism to help you conform to God's moral standards. We are going to say much more about the conscience. Further in this series, I want to move on to my fourth observation regarding the weak and the strong. In Romans 14, the weak in conscience are a minority Of Jewish Christians who abstain from eating meat and give special distinction to certain days. The strong, however, are the majority of Gentile Christians. who believe they can eat meat and do and and do not regard certain days above another. The Church of Rome was made up of both Jewish and Gentile believers. Many of the Jews held to a stricter dietary standard than what the Mosaic law actually required. There may have been several reasons for this that we do not have time to discuss now. Suffice it to say One possibility is that the meat available to them at the time in Rome may not have been kosher. So they just chose to abstain altogether. Gentile Christians, on the other hand, who Paul refers to as the strong, believe that they may eat anything. Fifth observation regarding the weak and the strong. The weak In conscience, lack theological knowledge. Please turn over again, or you may still be there actually, to 1 Corinthians chapter 8. Now I'm going to look at verse 1. It says, now concerning food offered to idols, we know that all of us possess knowledge. This knowledge puffs up, but uh love builds up. Now look down at verse 7. So he is dealing with the subject of knowledge However, not all possess this knowledge. What happens then? Well, some, through former association with idols, eat food as really offered to an idol. And their conscience being weak is defiled. We see here that the weak lack theological knowledge according to verse 7, and therefore their conscience takes a position that is not theologically correct. Though it's also important to note that it is not theologically heretical either. And this will become more clear and evident as we work through Romans 14 and the various topics that Paul brings up. So now that we have drawn some basic distinctions between the weak and the strong, what then is the central command in verse 1 of chapter 14? I want to invite your attention back. to chapter one, uh excuse me, chapter fourteen and verse one. This is my second point. We must fully embrace believers in our church with whom we disagree as Christ has embraced us in the gospel. The command in verse 1 is found in the middle of the verse, and it is addressed to the strong regarding the weak. Look at it with me. It says, welcome him. Welcome him. We may also translate this command, receive him. It has the idea of receiving into one's home or circle of acquaintances. It is to warmly, lovingly accept someone. It is the opposite of excluding or shunning someone. Jesus uses the same word when he says to his disciples, I go to prepare a place for you. I will come again and What does he say next? And receive you unto myself. That is the same term. Jesus is speaking of full acceptance. This attitude actually reflects the heart of Christ, the heart that he had towards us while he suffered on the cross. And that's why I said at the very start of this message in my interruption that this command flows out of Christ's heart in the gospel. When you look at Romans 15, verse 3, as Paul wraps up this subject, Paul grounds the command to welcome one another. You may turn there if you like, verse 3. He grounds this command in the example of Christ's suffering for us. For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me, quoting Psalm 69. Verse 7 says, therefore welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you. That's why we say this is a gospel mandate. The heart of Christ on the cross was love for you. He welcomed you, a sinner, an enemy of God to himself to be saved. And this is the heart that we should have. If Christ had this heart of welcoming us when we were enemies of the cross. How much more should we have a heart of welcome to those whom God in Christ has already welcomed? I'm arguing from the greater to the lesser. This is a gospel mandate. We are to welcome one another. Now, this is the positive aspect of this command. Welcome one another. But there is a negative aspect to this command. What are we not to do? So let's move on to point number three We must not argue, divide, or judge one another on matters of conscience. Let's look at our verse again. I'm working out of chapter 14 in verse 1. As for the one who is weak in faith, Welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. Paul is saying, do not argue or be divisive over disputable or doubtful matters. Now what are some of these disputable matters? Well excuse me. Paul cites three of them for us in chapter 14. They are, and I'll list them in order, they are the eating of meat. That's what he's going to deal with next. the observance of days and the drinking of wine. These three things fall into what Paul calls matters of opinion or disputable matters. Paul is explicitly telling believers in Rome, do not divide or judge one another and your relationship to the Lord based on these matters. Now I want to raise the question, are there things that we should boldly take a stand for and confront if necessary? This is this is a softball underhanded pitch. Yes, absolutely. Thank you. Okay. Paul himself confronted and corrected Peter publicly to his face. as you recall in Galatians chapter 2, because Peter was behaving in such a way that jeopardized the truth of the gospel and the Galatians actually understanding the implications of the gospel. The Apostle John writes 2 John, his second epistle, to instruct believers to reject those who do not abide in sound doctrine. Paul instructed the Church of Corinth to exercise church discipline and remove a professing believer who is living in unrepented sin. Clearly, there are issues that we should contend for. But how do we know which issues we should make an issue? And which issues, by making them an issue, we are actually sinning and causing dissension. Now, my wife told me that that sentence could be confusing because I read it to her and I was going to simplify it, but there's some important components to it, so I want to read it again and make sure everyone understands How do we know which issues we should make an issue out of and which issue by making them an issue we are actually sinning and causing dissension? Do you track with me? Well, first, we must recognize that though all scripture is divinely inspired and authoritative , All scripture is breathed out by God. Yet not all scripture is of equal weight or priority. Now before you start picking up hymnals and la and throwing them at me, okay, I want to explain and defend what I mean by that. Because at first your theological ears and antenna might go up and say, whoa, something does not sound right about that. Okay? So let me explain. Paul says in First Corinthians chapter fifteen and verse three, For I delivered unto you as of first importance. What I also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures. Paul came to the Corinthians. And he delivered to them a message that he said was of first importance. In other words, it had priority. You understand this. When you go to share the gospel with someone, you don't start debating them over your position on head coverings, do you? I certainly hope not. You probably don't start debating them over your position of eschatology, do you? No. Why? Because you recognize that in the economy of God's revelation , there are truths that take priority. In Paul's own terms, that are of first importance. Doesn't mean that the rest of God's revelation isn't important. It is. But in order for someone to be saved, they must be persuaded that Jesus is the Son of God. That he lived a perfect, righteous life, that he died a substitutionary death, that he was buried and he rose again, a bodily resurrection. That he is the only Lord and Savior, that salvation is by faith alone, grace alone, in Christ alone. Okay? We understand that There is a level of priority in biblical truth. Jesus recognized priority in divine revelation when he said that the greatest commandment is to love your God with all of your heart. There is priority in biblical truth and in biblical application. Jesus rebuked the Pharisees because they tithed on mint and dill and cumin, but neglect Neglected. Do you remember the expression that Christ used? The what matters of the law? The weightier matters of the law, such as justice and mercy. And faithfulness. He says these you ought to have done without neglecting the other. He's not saying that tithing and applying the word of God to the smallest area of your life is not important. He's not saying that. That is important. But what he's saying is there are there are other applications of the Word of God that are weight here. Other truths that you must not neglect that are weightier than that application. Okay? In the Old Testament, certain sins carried greater degrees of punishment than others. All of these things are making the point that we mature believers Must reflect this same nuance in their theology and their thinking. All scripture is divinely inspired. It is all the Word of God. But there is priority and there is certain weight to to to the truth of God's word. Sometimes this can be hard, especially if you tend to see everything as black and white. This can be sometimes hard to uh to be able to grasp. Second, throughout church history, theologians recognize three levels or issues that reflect priority in the Scripture. So I'm going to list these three levels of issues, okay? They are number one, dogma or uh dogma, number two, doctrine, number three, difference. That's if you like alliteration. Some of you do. I'm not a huge fan of alliteration, but there you go. Or you could say it this way: absolutes, convictions, and opinions. Or you could say it this way: essential, important And non-essential. This reflects various issues that Christians can encounter and the priority or weight that they have as they reflect the truth of Scripture. So let's take up first level issues. What is a first level issue? First level issues are most central and essential to being a Christian. They are things like the doctrine of God, the Trinity. the doctrine and the full deity and full humanity of Christ, the substitutionary death and bodily resurrection of Christ, justification. Salvation by gross grace alone, the necessity of faith and repentance for salvation. Okay, you cannot be a Christian if you don't believe those things. Those are first level issues. They separate Christians from unbelievers. That's a first-level issue. There are also moral absolutes in Scripture. Stealing is a sin. Having sex in a dating relationship, or while you are engaged. Before marriage is sin. It always has been and it always will be. Drunkenness is sin. Homosexuality is sin. No one who embraces an unrepentant lifestyle will inherit the kingdom of God. The scriptures say this very clearly. There are moral absolutes in Scripture This past week on September 13th, Pope Francis during a visit to Singapore said, and I quote , All religions are paths to God. They are like different languages in order to arrive at God. But God is God for all. Since God is God for all, then all are God's children. If you start to fight and say, my religion is more important than yours, mine is true, and yours isn't, where will that lead us? And then he says this. There's only one God, and each of us has a language to arrive at God. Some are Sheik, Muslim, Hindu, Christian. And they are different paths to God. This is a false gospel This is a pluralistic gospel. Jesus said, I am the way. I am the truth. I am the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. His message is exclusive The apostle Paul said, there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. the Apostle Peter preached. And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. The scripture says that if anyone preaches a different gospel than what we have received, he is to be, and Paul's term is this, anathema. That is accursed. The scripture condemns such a man as the Pope who would promote a false gospel. This is of the spirit of Antichrist. This is a first-level issue. This is a hill that I will die on a thousand times again and again. And I know you would too. This is the gospel. We will not compromise on this. We will hold fast to the truth of the gospel. But this illustrates a first-level issue issue. It separates True followers of Christ from unbelievers. However, a second level issue are issues where genuine Christians can have disagreement. These differences often lean to distinctions between denominations and churches. For instance, what is your view on church polity? How should a church be governed? Or believers' baptism. Our position at Calvary is that baptism comes after someone personally places their faith in Christ, which is the New Testament model. Other churches and denominations have a different persuasion and choose to baptize or sprinkle infants. This doesn't mean That some of our brothers and sisters who choose to do this are not true Christians or don't truly love the Lord. It means that there's a dis a difference and a distinction between us, and that could potentially limit our degree of participation with one another. For instance, I would be, I could not be a pastor at a church that practices infant baptism because I don't believe the Bible teaches that. But I have dear brethren, brothers and sisters in Christ that I know that do that. Doesn't mean that we can't be friends, that we don't have some level of fellowship, of course. But it would limit me in my capacity to serve as their pastor. Secondary issues are issues that distinguish churches and denominations from one another. However, churches can disagree on these issues and still be part of the body of Christ. Third level issues are what we call matters of conscience, disputable matters, matters of indifference, or tertiary issues or what Paul calls in verse 1 matters of opinion. These issues believers may disagree on. But they should not cause division in a church or between any two believers. Third-level issues often arise because there is more than one valid way of interpreting and applying the scriptures. Some of these issues may include interpretive points of eschatology, positions on Calvinism or Tulip theology. Preferences among good, reputable Bible translations. Many third-level issues also involve practical questions, such as how should Christians view the Sabbath? Is it okay to go groceries to go to the grocery store on a Sunday? Well, what about mowing your lawn on a Sunday? Well, how about watching a football game? That's a little more scandalous, don't you think? I'm just kidding. Or what about working for pay? On a Sunday. Have you ever been tempted to cast a judgment on someone's spiritual walk because they work part of a Sunday? How should Christians dress in church? How should a family choose to educate their children? Public school, Christian school, private school? Mainstream medicine or naturopathic medicine. Next month is Halloween. How do we approach that scripturally? The month after that is an election. What if you have a brother and sister in Christ that votes differently than you do? Are they not a Christian? Did they not love the Lord? That could happen. These are issues where Christians can have personal convictions and disagree. But listen to me carefully. They should never, never divide us. Nor should we allow ourselves to cast judgment or call into question our brother or sister's love for the Lord based on these matters. Paul says this: Do not quarrel over opinions. He's saying, don't quarrel over these matters. That is not welcoming your brother and sister with the heart of Christ. So tonight we have considered Paul's Cesus statement to chapter 14. We have seen that the church is made up of believers who have both strong and weak consciences on various matters. We have seen that God commands us to welcome believers who are different from us. in our church and our circles of friends. And we have seen that God has commanded us to not argue or divide over matters of opinion. So wanna I want to add or rather close with three points of application and and three questions So thank you for following with me thus far. I can tell you've been attentive and I appreciate that. Here's my first question for you to consider in your heart tonight. Do you recognize that in the church, the Lord actually permits believers to have different convictions on matters of opinion? Not just that that exists, but that the Lord actually permits it to exist. And that is okay. Paul, we'll get into this in a I don't want to jump ahead to the next sermon, but we're going to see here that Paul deals very patiently To those who are weak. He doesn't try to get them all to become strong like that. It's okay that in the church we have those who are weak and those who are strong in matters of conscience. And I will say this, that I don't think categorically someone is entirely weak or entirely strong. I think, and we'll get into this in the future, that you can actually be weak in certain areas and strong in others And someone else can be strong in that area in terms of their conscience, but weak in another, depending on their their own context and how uh the Lord has informed them and and the experiences that have they've they've had in their life. But this is okay, and I think it would really help us in our relationships with other people in church to realize that it is okay that we have this. Uh I I know diversity isn't a a good word to use, but that's what it is. It is a sense of diversity in our church, and that's okay in in a in a positive way. I think you know what I'm saying, what I'm not saying there. My second question for you is this. Do you personally have a tendency to argue or to cast judgment on your brother or sister over matters of opinion? Do you have a tendency to do that? I just want you to, for a moment, take stock and evaluate your own heart, your own thoughts, your own conversations. Let me ask it this way. Do you tend to take third level issues and elevate them to the severity and priority of first level issues. Are you following me there when I asked that? Do you tend to take third level issues? That believers can have difference on and elevate them in your mind and in your emotions and in your judgments towards others as this is a first-level issue. So many, I think, divisions in churches, so many friendships are fractured when we take these issues and make them more of an issue than what they should be. So do you do that? Do you have a tensant tendency to do that? Number three. Are you willing to actively invite those in Calvary who may not see eye to eye with you into your circle of friends? I think we have to be very careful of forming friendships in our church. And we and we can surround ourselves with people who relate to us and with whom we see eye to eye with on those third level issues instead of recognizing that everyone in this church who truly knows the Lord is my brother and sister in Christ. And I am to welcome them with the open arms of the gospel, with all the love and affection of Christ Jesus. towards them, even if they disagree with me on things that I am persuaded about regarding matters of opinion. That should not limit our friendship and our love and the intimacy of our fellowship Welcome them as Christ has welcomed you from his cross. It is likely that there were questions that may have came to your mind tonight that I didn't get a chance to answer, and I want to encourage you that just to be patient because as we work through this whole chapter, hopefully we will touch on maybe some of those things that came to mind that I didn't touch on tonight The next time I preach, we will consider Paul's first subject of conscience, abstaining from meats. But I trust that tonight our study of this first verse will be an encouragement to you and and maybe start to get you thinking about some of these things. And above all, my heart is that this truth, the truths in in Romans chapter 14. Will help us and encourage us to have sweeter, deeper relationships here at Calvary, that we would welcome one another. As Christ has welcomed us to the glory and to the praise of our God. Let's pray