It's good to have you here. Today I'd ask that you open your Bibles to Matthew chapter 6. In early 2002, I remember very distinctly a billboard that was found two miles to the south of here at the intersection of highways 26 and 27 You need to remember this was only several months after the events of September the 11th. It said in very large letters at the top. A world at prayer, a world at peace. On this large billboard, there were eight different pictures Of various individuals engaged in prayer. It showed a Buddhist monk with his shaved head and a brightly colored robe engaged in deep meditation. There was a Native American in tribal dress at prayer. There was the photograph of a Muslim bowing down and praying towards Mecca. There was a Roman Catholic carefully praying the rosary. There was a small child kneeling by a bed praying before he went to sleep. I feel certain that the thousands of people who passed this billboard every day had a very positive feeling about this message. The pictures had an almost Norman Rockwell quality to them. I'm not sure certain what organization sponsored this ad, but they were trying to send a message. That we all worship the same God. And if we just focus on our similarities, maybe events like 9-11 would never occur. But there's a logical fallacy in the very message itself. Because the truth is that by their definition The 19 hijackers of 9-11 were men of prayer. They went to the mosque. On a regular basis every Friday. They prayed towards the East five times a day, as Islam requires. And we know from court records that they prayed shortly before they carried out their murderous mission that Allah would give them good success. So the message that if we all just pray to whatever God we believe in, we'll have a world of peace. is obviously incorrect. That billboard raises many questions Are all methods of prayer valid? Do we all worship the same God? Does it really matter how a person prays? Last week, actually two weeks ago, I began a series of messages dealing with this matter of prayer, specifically what we call the Lord's Prayer. But I want to entitle this Lord, teach us to pray, which comes out of Luke's account of this prayer, Luke chapter 11. I don't want to entitle it that because that was the request of the disciples, the only specific request the disciples ever gave the Lord for instruction, Lord, teach us to pray. They heard him pray and they said to themselves, I feel like I don't even know the first thing about prayer when I hear him pray. And so they made that request. And I would submit to you that we all, we all desperately need to learn to pray better than we do. I know that I do. And I want you to know that I don't want this series of messages to just be an academic study where we go through verse by verse, through this passage, we nod our head and say, oh, it's really interesting. The fact is that if it does not change our prayer lives, if it does not cause us to be more effective intercessors, then it really we have just been hearers of the word, but not doers of the word. And so it's my prayer that the Lord would use these messages on prayer to spur us on to more effective prayer warriors. Now, we call the section that we're coming to next week the Lord's Prayer, but this is actually a misnomer. The Lord never prayed this prayer. And it would have been inappropriate for him to pray it because one of the petitions is, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And Jesus was debtor to no man. He never sinned. He never needed to ask God to forgive him. So technically, this is not the Lord's prayer. It's a prayer that he gave to his disciples, but it could better be called the disciples' prayer. However, since everybody calls it the Lord's Prayer in this series, I will refer to it as the Lord's Prayer. Just understand that. Now last week I mentioned not last week two weeks ago. We weren't here last week. I mentioned to you that the Lord begins Teaching them about prayer in a very unusual way, maybe from our standpoint. He begins by saying how not to pray That's so foreign to us because we would never feel right, probably, about criticizing someone's prayer. That's a very personal thing, and we tend to think as long as someone's sincere, that's all that's important. But Jesus began his destruction by saying, let me tell you how not to pray. And we looked at that. In verses 5 and 6, when he warns them against hypocritical prayer He tells them in essence, although he didn't use the words, they all knew what he meant, don't pray like the Pharisees. Don't go out in the street corners or in the temple and raise your hands to the heavens and have these long eloquence. Prayers that are designed for the ears of men, but not for God. Don't pray that way. Don't get carried away in your prayers that you forget that you are praying to God's. And I mentioned to you that this is actually a great danger to spiritual leaders, to pastors, to missionaries, to evangelists, to people who lead the people of God in prayer. It's a real danger. So the first thing he says about how not to pray is focused on people who know the Lord well. But the next thing that he says that we're going to look at today is focus more on people who don't know the Lord very well. His first admonition is don't pray like a hypocrite Today's instruction would be this: don't pray like a heathen. Now, we don't even like to use the term heathen today. If you read older literature, you'll find it there all the time, but it sounds offensive. in our pluralistic culture. I must provide a disclaimer at the very outset of this message. There is no way I can preach this passage without being very politically incorrect. Okay? But I'm going to be faithful to the words of our Lord. I'm not trying to stir up trouble or be controversy. I'm not that kind of a preacher. But what the Lord clearly taught here is, first of all, that not all prayer is commendable. Secondly, that all religions do not worship the same God. And therefore, everyone who claims to pray to God is not in fact praying to gods. Now I want you to notice the focal point of our brief instruction today. In verse 7, he says, when you pray, use not vain repetitions as the heathen do. That's why I called it heathen prayer. For they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. And notice how he's going to summarize it now in the next phrase in verse 8. Be not ye therefore like unto them. He's underscoring that. Don't pray this way. Don't pray like heathen people do. The implication here is that there is a very real danger, even among the people of God who have the Bible, who know the Lord Jesus Christ, that we can very easily fall into the trap. Of praying like people who don't really know the Lord. So we desperately need this instruction. We need the Lord to teach us how to pray. And so this morning, as we consider these two verses, I want us to see that Christian prayer should be radically different from those of other people who do not know the Lord We're looking at two verses, and therefore I have two points. The first point is this. We must not pray like pagans. Why do I say that? Because that's the essence of verse 7. Now the Jews in Jesus' day did not lose live in an enclosed society. There were Gentiles all around them in the village next to them or over there, not far away. They often had interaction with Gentile people, and so they saw on a regular basis. Gentile rituals of worship. And Jesus says, don't pray like them. Now let's zero in here. What exactly is he prohibiting here when he says, use not vain repetition as the heathen do? He is saying, first of all, that Christians must not pray in a mindless, repetitive way. Christians must not pray in a mindless, repetitive way. Jesus is not saying that we can never repeat a request. How do I know that? Because Jesus in his prayers repeated his request. Do you remember when he was in the Garden of Gethsemane? He prayed three times, not my will but thine be done. He said, Father, take this cup away from me He repeated his request. He is not being inconsistent. We can repeat our request. We can come to the Lord numerous times with the same burden on our heart. So what is Jesus prohibiting here? Well, the Greek term that's translated vain repetitions is found only here in the New Testament. It has the idea. of chanting a word or phrase in a mindless manner. It's a word that's similar to our English word babble. And this is the common practice of false religions. Many false religions chant the name of a God. and work themselves up into a frenzy. You don't see that often in this country. If we could take a big missions trip And I could take you to various places that I have been. You would see it for yourself. You would see it all the time. Millions and millions and millions of people, hundreds of millions of people chant prayers repetitively, sometimes for hours on end, all throughout the world, every single day. We have an example of this in Scripture. Do you remember in Acts chapter 19, where Paul went with his team and evangelized, and when they were told that he was trying to overthrow their idolatrous worship? of the goddess Diana. It says that the people, the residents of Ephesus, chanted for two hours, great is Diana of the Ephesians! That was one of their chants. They would just say that. Can you imagine saying that for two hours at the top of your lungs? You know what happens if you do something like that for two hours? You work yourself up to a frenzy. That's what they did. They considered that kind of euphoric emotional release to be worshiped. Jesus says, don't pray like that. Don't chant the same thing. Don't chant my name repetitively, thinking that somehow there's some efficacy in that. This is the way it's done all throughout the world. They chant a mantra or an incantation or magic words if you use this phrase or this name of a God, then certainly the gods will hear There are many religions where they believe you have to get the God's attention because they're not always paying attention to what's going on on earth. But if you use this phrase again and again and again, it's kind of like a phone ringing. And they're going to finally come to their senses and they'll listen to you. I'm not making this up. This is the way people all throughout the world think. Muslims pray five times a day in various postures towards Mecca. These are memorized prayers that they recite. Buddhists use prayer wheels or prayer flags that have prayers written on them when they believe that as the wheels and the flags move in the breeze, prayers are being made to various deities. Sikhs recite prayers known as Japji, and they pride themselves on being able to say them very, very quickly. They just rattle them off in almost indistinguishable sounds. and syllables, and they like to say that they've gone through these very long prayers in a very short period of time. A little closer to home, millions of Roman Catholics pray the rosary each day. And what is truly ironic, and listen carefully to me, Is that right after this prohibition against mindless repetition, what do you have? Well, what we all call the Lord's Prayer. Now let me be clear. Hundreds of millions of people recite the Lord's Prayer every day. I am not saying that everyone who repeats the Lord's Prayer is violating our Lord's instructions in this verse. You can read or recite a prayer from your hearts. For instance, we sing hymns, and these are hymns that have been written and composed, and we have words and we have music and we sing them all together. And many of those hymns, if you look at the words, they're really prayers to God. Now nobody would say here, I think, well you shouldn't you shouldn't sing that because you know that does not really coming from your heart. Those are somebody else's words. I doubt anybody would take that position. The important thing is that you don't say those things, whatever form it might be, in a mindless, repetitive way. Now, we in this church do not recite the Lord's Prayer as many churches do. Is it wicked or sinful or evil to recite the Lord's Prayer? No, it's not. It's Scripture. I have no problem with people reciting Scripture. But if that's the only prayer that you have in your life is that once a week you mindlessly rattle through the Lord's Prayer, and that's your prayer life, you don't have much of a prayer life. I don't want to steal my thunder from next week, but I'm thoroughly convinced that the Lord did not give this prayer so that people would recite it. It's a model. It's an outline. It's an example prayer. But it's not to be just rattled off. And that is the essence of prayer. But you know, it's even easy for us who maybe come from less liturgical traditions. To pray in a mindless manner. Let's be honest. All my life I've been raised in Baptist churches, and in none of those Baptist churches did we ever recite the Lord's Prayer. And it's very easy for me to throw stones at other church traditions, but you know what? I have heard a lot of prayers for offerings. That sounded the same Sunday after Sunday after Sunday. And I've heard a lot of Christians pray for their meal And you could tell what they're going to say before they say it, because they say virtually the same thing every time they bow their heads, word for word, phrase for phrase. It's a very easy thing to fall into that we get into a routine we are creatures of habit And we just say things the same way again and again, and we have no thought that we are talking to God That's what the Lord is condemning here. Now he goes on to say, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. And I hope there's no one here patting yourself on the back and say, that's why I pray really, really short prayers. The Lord says, don't do it for much speaking. No, that's not the real application here. Remember, we looked at last week in Luke 6. 12, it talks about the Lord spending the whole night in prayer. So he's obviously not condemning long prayers in and of themselves So what does Jesus mean? I think another biblical example will help us understand. I want you to turn back with me, if you can, to the Old Testament. And the book of 1 Kings, a very famous encounter here on Mount Carmel, 1 Kings chapter 18, Elijah versus the prophets of Baal. Begin reading at verse 22. Then said Elijah unto the people, I even I only remain. a prophet of the Lord, but Baal's prophets are four hundred and fifty men. Let them therefore give us two bullocks and let them choose one bullock for themselves and cut it in pieces and lay it in wood and put No fire under it. And I will dress the other bullock and lay it on wood. Put no fire under it. And call ye on the name of your gods and I will call on the name of the Lord. And the God that answereth by fire, let him be God. And all the people answered and said, It is well spoken. This is that famous contest between the gods, as it were, the true God Jehovah and the false gods of the prophets of Baal. And notice what we read here in verses 26 and following. And they took the bullocks which was given them, and they dressed it and called the name of Baal from morning even until noon. saying, O Baal, hear us, but there was no voice, nor any that answered. And they leaped upon the altar which was made, and it came to pass at noon. that Elijah mocked them and said, Cry aloud, for he is a God, and either he is talking or he is pursuing, or he is in a journey, or peradventure he sleepeth and must be awakened. And they cried aloud and cut themselves after their manner with knives and lancets till the blood gushed out upon them. And it came to pass when midday was past that they prophesied until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that there was neither voice nor any to answer, nor any that regarded This is exactly what the Lord is condemning. These are false prophets. This is the way pagan people pray. They work themselves into a frenzy and they do this for hours and hours. It says from the morning until past noon they were crying out to God and calling out his names and the names of their other deities and and they believed that if they became more earnest and more intense that God would have to hear, and that's why they're cutting themselves and yelling at the top of their lungs. Now I want you to contrast that kind of praying. with the prayer of the prophet Elijah. Look with me at verse 36. And it came to pass at the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice that Elijah the prophet came near. and said, Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel. Let it be known this day that thou art God in Israel, and that I am thy servant, and that I have done all these things at thy word. Hear me, O Lord, hear me, that this people may know that thou art the Lord God and that thou hast turned their heart back again. And that's the end of his prayer. Not hour after hour of intense frenzied excitement and chanting, but a simple address to God. And you know the rest of the story, and the Lord answered his prayer, and the fire fell and consumed the sacrifice and the altar and the stones and the water and everything around it. The point I want to make here is the Lord's instructions here are not so much about methodology as it is about theology. It's not so much about how you pray, but why you pray the way you do And so Christians must not pray in a mindless, repetitive way, but secondly, Christians, and this gets to the really core of it, must not pray to manipulate gods. The reason why pagan people pray the way they do is because they believe that somehow they can manipulate their God or gods to do what they want. This is true of every false religion. They all think that God can be manipulated. But that kind of thinking is all wrong. God is not like that. God cannot be manipulated by weak creatures like you and I. However, this mindset can easily influence us as Christians. There are millions of Christians who pray in ecstatic speech that they falsely call tongues And they repeat sounds and syllables endlessly, sometimes for hours, work themselves up in a frenzy, and they call that a secret prayer. They call it a part of their devotions. I want you to know that that is not Christian prayer. Whatever it is, it's not Christian prayer. Jesus said, use not vain repetitions as the heathen do. Their prayer has much more in common with paganism than it does with Christianity. Let me get a little closer to home. I have known Christians who think that if you do not end your prayers with the words, in Jesus' name, it will not be answered. I have prayed before and not thrown in that phrase at the end and had people say, hey, wait a minute, you didn't pray in Jesus' name. The Bible says you're supposed to pray in Jesus' name. God's not going to answer your prayer unless you say, in Jesus' name. That's a misunderstanding of the teaching of Scripture. It's not giving us a formula. It's not giving us magic words or a mantra to use there I have known Christians who think, good Christians, Bible-believing Christians, who think that if you claim the blood of Jesus that somehow God is more obligated to answer your prayer. And I have been with earnest believers who will who will say it again and again in the blood of Jesus, in the blood of Jesus, in the blood of Jesus, in the blood of Jesus. And they think that somehow that God's now got to really answer my prayer because I pulled out the top card. I claim the blood of Jesus. These are good people, but my friends, that is pagan thinking. That is pagan thinking. God is not manipulated by the words you use. He's not sitting there waiting for you just to use the right phrase that, all right, now I've got to answer because they said this And we get even closer to home. I know Christians who think that if you get on your knees And you pray really earnestly for several hours, then God is obligated to give you what you request. You know, when you put yourself in a painful posture and you really cry tears and you're really earnest, I mean now he's really going to answer. There's a lot of Christians, good Christians, people here, no doubt, who think that way But that's not true. That's not the way God is. Far be it for me to discourage anyone from praying fervently. Our prayers should be fervent. But don't think that just because you put yourself in a painful posture and spend a lot of time in it, that God is somehow more obligated to answer your prayer. Because all of these have at the very foundational premise faulty theology. God is not your genie. He is not your servant. He is not going to be manipulated by anyone. God is not waiting there to hear what you need him to do. We're going to see that in the next verse. He knows the situation you're in ten times better than you do. You know it from your little faulty perspective. He knows it from everyone else's perspective and all the things that they don't know about the situation. God is not impressed with the amount of time that you spend in prayer in a painful posture. God is never worn out with your incessant prayers where he says, you know, this person's been bringing this request to me now for two years. I guess I guess I'll just give them what they want because they're just wearing me down. God 's not like that. That's paganism. That's faulty theology. God is not our servant. He is not here like a genie ready to grant our wishes. He is the omnipotent God of the universe. He has prepared his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom rules over all. How dare you think that you can manipulate him No, we must bow the knee and we must cry out always with this tone, Thy will be done. We must not pray like pagans. That's the negative part. What's the positive part? How should we pray? Let's turn back to Matthew 6 and verse 8 if you're not there already. He says, Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your Father knoweth what things you have need of before you ask him. How is it that Christian prayer is radically different from pagan prayer? The answer is simple. Because Christians know God as their heavenly Father. That's the bottom line. We have a personal relationship with him. You see, when you really, really know someone well, you don't address them in an artificial way, do you? Just imagine parents if your kids only addressed you in a written form of words and they said the same four lines to you every day. Do you have a good relationship with them? You'd get really tired of hearing those same four lines. It would seem very artificial. It would seem very forced. It would not seem natural or real or authentic. You would grow tired of that very, very soon. And yet how many people in the world think of prayer is being that way? How about if your children mindlessly chanted your name for hours in hopes that somehow you would relent and let them go to the party they want to? Now I'm I'm just using this analogy. What if they were to say dad, dad, dad, dad, dad, dad, dad? And they said that for hours on end, would you be more inclined to let them go? I don't think so. I hope not. You laugh at that, but there are hundreds of millions of people who think of prayer that way. And just imagine if they tried to use certain words to manipulate you all the time, maybe through guilt or you really love me, don't you, or whatever. Some of you don't have to imagine that scenario. But you wouldn't like it. All of these methods would reveal that your child does not have a healthy relationship with you. Something is wrong in the relationship between parent and child if that's the way they communicate with you And so the way we are communicating with God is also to be based on a relationship. This is why the model prayer that Jesus gave to his disciples begins with these famous words, our Father. Over the years, I've met many people who claim to be Christians. But as I would talk to them, they would say to me, you know, I, to be honest with you, I never pray. When they say that, I instantly assume that I'm talking to an unbeliever. Why do I say that? Because the children of God naturally talk to their heavenly Father. Children talk to their parents, to their their child, to their dad. Every little toddler does that They don't have to go to a class and say, now listen, it's really good in kindergarten, it's really good that you talk to your parents every once in a while. In a while. No! Every little child that has needs, they instantly call out to their parents, I need help with this, I need food, I need this, I need that. It's natural. Romans 8. 15 says that when the Spirit of God dwells within us, we will cry out, Abba Father. Real Christians love their Father and talk to their Father. Let me ask you this morning, do you talk to God? Do you know Him as your heavenly Father? Do you have a personal relationship with Him? Or do you never talk to him really? Or do you just talk to him in some memorized form that you say before you go to bed at night, or maybe you say at a meal? But that's the extent of it, you never really communicate with him. When there's no communication, it's usually a revelation that there's no real relationship there And the only way you can talk to God is your Heavenly Father, and I'll talk more about this next week. is through the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus said the night before he went to the cross, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. The only way you can truly know the Father is through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus died for sinners so that we can be forgiven by God and become the children of God. And when you really know God, you're going to talk to God. And when you talk to God, the more you talk to God, the more you know God, the more you listen to Him in His Word, the more you will come to trust in Him, and the more the relationship will grow and Expand and become strong and warm. Notice what he says in verse 8, be ye not therefore like unto them, for Why don't we pray like pagan people? For your father knoweth what things you have need of before you ask him. Did you know that we do not pray to inform God of anything? You have never come with a crisis, the Lord, in prayer, and he has been surprised at what you said. Wow, I had no idea. This has happened in your life, really That's never happened. God is not waiting to hear what's going on in your life. You don't need to turn there, but I'm going to read from Psalm 139. The beginning of this wonderful psalm of David, listen to these words. David says, O Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. Thou knowest my downsettings, my uprisings, thou understandest my thoughts afar off. Thou compassest my path and my line down and art acquainted with all my ways. For there is not a word in my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. God knows everything about you. He knows when you're having a good day or a bad day. He knows every burden on your heart. He knows every thought that goes through your head. He knows every word that's going to come out of your mouth. He's the great God of the universe. So we don't bring our petitions before him to let him know What's going on? But that raises the obvious question, then why do we pray to God at all if He already knows? Why do we bring our petitions to Him if He already is well aware of our needs? There are several Bible answers to this. I'm only going to take time to give you one And that is because God delights to hear his children express their dependence on him. Remember, he is our Father. He cares for us. And the reality is, unfortunately, I think that sometimes the Lord sends a crisis into our lives because that's the only way he ever hears from us. We talk to him so rarely. It's only when we really have something that vexes our soul that we really cry out to him and talk to him. He knows us. He made us. He cares for us. And he made us to have communion with him. He delights to hear from us. He loves to have his children cast their care upon him because he cares for us. What burdens do you have on your heart today? What things are always in the back of your mind that even on a good day, when good things are happening, when you're with your family, when wonderful, there still is this cloud, there still is this. burden there still is this something in the back of your mind that's never quite left that's never quite gone and it's just a heavy crushing burden Take that to the Lord in prayer. The Bible says we are to roll our burdens upon him. We are to cast them at his feet. Because he cares for you. You see, prayer is an expression of our faith It's not some duty that we perform. It's not some way to manipulate God to get what we want. It's an expression of our relationship and our trust in God. When you're facing a problem, you know what you do? You tell people about it who are close to you. You call them up, you text them, you email them or whatever, but you want to share your burdens with those who are close to you. That's the way we must be with the Lord. Well then that raises the question, why doesn't God give us all that we request? Why do so many of our earnest prayers, when we as a child cry out to our Heavenly Father and we shed our tears and we express to him the burden of our heart, why so often does it seem that God turns a deaf ear to us? First of all, let me say that that's a wrong interpretation. God isn't turning a deaf ear to you. He hears. But for some reason, he has chosen not to answer your request, at least not at this time, and not in the way that you have asked. Why doesn't he do that? Because God loves us too much to give us what we ask for. He's not an indulgent father. He's not like the dad that's just tired of his kids hassling him about something and so he knows it's going to really mess things up for them, but he's going to give it to them anyway because he's just tired of hearing about it. He's not that kind of dad. He's not an indulgent father. He's an intentional father. And his desire for his children is not our comfort, but Christ-likeness. So often we pray and we beg God to change our circumstances. But what God wants to do is change us. That's what he's interested in. You're so interested in this problem. Take this problem away so that my life is more painful and comfortable and I can have more peace in my life. And I don't have to worry and fret about this. But you know what he wants to do? He wants you to trust him more. He wants to change you, not your circumstances. Prayer is the surrender of our will to God. Sometimes people mistakenly think that their prayers Manipulate God, sort of like the guy who was in a rowboat and he threw his boat anchor out onto the shore and he pulled himself ashore and he said, I didn't pull myself ashore, I poured the island to my boat. No, he didn't pull the island to his boats. You went to the islands. Prayer is not pulling God to my will, but it's aligning my will to the will of God 's. We need to pray, not like pagan people, who try to use mindless repetition and manipulative methods. to get God to do what they want to do. No, no, no. We are to have a true relationship where we trust Him. And we say, Lord, not my will, but thine be done. Let's pray. Father, how desperately we need you to teach us to pray. How easy it is for us, even as your people, even as those who have your word, and in many cases have been taught the truth from our childhood, how easy it is for us to slip into pagan worldly traps of thinking. To think that somehow we can control you and get you to do what we want you to do. Keep us from this faulty thinking. Help us, Father. To remember that we are your children, and that you are always ready to hear us, and that you are not reluctant to answer us. But that you will always do what is best for us. And that is that we would be conformed more to the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, I think of those here today who are not truly your children, who cannot with any accuracy call upon you as Father, I pray that today You would help them to seek the Savior. And I pray that they would be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.