Please look with me at Psalm 119, and we're going to be looking at the fourth stanza in this psalm, which begins in verse 25. My soul cleaveth unto the dust. Quicken thou me according to thy word. I have declared my ways, and thou hurtest me Teach me thy statutes, make me to understand the way of thy precepts, so shall I talk of thy wondrous works. My soul melteth for heaviness. Strengthen thou me according unto thy word. Remove from me the way of lying, and grant me thy law graciously. I have chosen the way of truth. Thy judgments have I laid before me. I have stuck unto thy testimonies, O Lord. Put me not to shame. I will run the way of thy commandments when thou shalt enlarge my heart. The greatest allegory of the Christian life was written by a man in the 17th century named John Bunyan. The book, of course, is Pilgrim's Progress. In this picture of the Christian life, Pilgrim leaves the world to travel to a celestial city. And in his journey, he encounters many difficulties. Two of the greatest dangers that he would face were the slough of the spawn and the giant of despair. One was a muddy bog that trapped anyone who fell into its mire, and despair was the keeper of the prison in Dowding Castle. Bundyan knew all too well that depression was a serious challenge in the Christian life. He faced great hardship as a persecuted Baptist preacher. He was in prison for twelve years because he dared to preach without a license. This brought great hardship to his wife and children. Bunyan knew very well that the Christian life was not a stroll through the park, but a difficult trek through patches of depression and even despair. But he also knew that the scriptures were filled with words of hope for those in darkness. So what advice does the Lord provide for pilgrims who are going through depression? The fact of the matter is the Bible provides numerous verses that are helpful in dealing with this chronic issue. Perhaps the best example of struggling with this giant comes from the book of Psalms. The book of Psalms has words of advice to Christians in any spiritual or emotional state. It is the first place that Christians often turn when they're looking for comfort in affliction. And there are many psalms that address this directly and indirectly. Psalm 23 speaks of passing through the valley of the shadow of death or the valley of deepest darkness. Psalm 42 and 43 have that reoccurring refrain, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And in Psalm 51, David cries out that the Lord would restore unto him the joy of his salvation In Psalm 61, David says, When my heart is overwhelmed, lead me to the rock that is higher than I. In Psalm 88, the writer says, Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit in darkness. If nothing else, the Book of Psalm reassures the child of God that spiritual depression is not some unusual condition in the Christian life. No, it is the common experience of God's people. And it was the experience of the unknown writer of Psalm 119. We have been looking at this Psalm. for several weeks now on Sunday evenings, not as is commonly understood as just a collection of random verses about the Word of God. But we've seen it more as a spiritual journal where a writer is reflecting back from the time when he was a young man. to his advancing years to the end of his life. And so it kind of provides like a spiritual journal of the believer's inner life and his relationship with God. And of course, this whole psalm is essentially a prayer, and it's about the Word of God and the believer's relationship to the Word of God. Now the most striking two verses in the stanza that I read for you, the ones that are parallel, are verses 25 and 28. Notice verse 25 says, My soul cleaveth unto the dust. Quicken thou me according to thy word. And then verse 28 begins, My soul melteth for heaviness. Strengthen thou me according unto thy word. These verses are very similar. They both begin with my soul. They have a description of how the psalmist feels, and then a desperate request. Now I must confess that some expositors do not see this stanza as an expression of depression or discouragement. Some take these descriptions as expressions of danger. In other words, the idea of the soul cleaving to the dust was that he felt he was about to die because of some danger that he was facing, some close brush with death. But verse 28, which is parallel, can hardly be misunderstood to referring to an emotional state when it speaks of melting for heaviness, and as we will see the way those terms are used elsewhere in Scripture. So I take this stanza to be the recollections of the psalmist who went through a time of darkness, of depression in his spiritual journey. And this would not be the last time that he encountered a situation like that. If you'll look with me at verses 81 And that stands up. It begins. My soul fainteth for thy salvation, but I hope in thy word, my eyes fail for thy word, saying, When wilt thou comfort me? For I am become like a bottle in the smoke, yet I do not forget thy statutes. How many are the days of thy servant? When wilt thou execute judgment on them that persecute me The proud have digg pits for me which are not after thy law. All thy commandments are faithful. They persecute me wrongfully. Help thou me. They had almost consumed me upon earth, but I forsook not thy precepts. Quicken me after thy loving-kindness. So shall I keep the testimony of thy mouth. And then if you look at the stanza 145, Through 152, this stands uh, I cried with my whole heart, hear me, O Lord, I will keep thy statutes. I cried unto thee, save me and I shall keep thy testimonies. I prevented the dawning of the morning and cried. I hoped in thy word. My eyes prevent the night watches that I might meditate in thy word. Hear my voice according unto thy loving kindness, O Lord. Quicken me according to thy judgment. They draw nigh that follow after mischief. They are afar from thy law. Thou art near, O Lord, and all thy commandments are truth. Concerning thy testimonies, I have known of old, that thou hast founded them forever. You see, Bunyan's depiction of the Christian life was indeed biblical and accurate. The Christian life is not easy. It is not a stroll in the park. I have heard a few sermons in my time by preachers who made it seem like it was. Who made it seem like if you're ever discouraged or depressed, it's obviously due to your sin, and you just need to snap out of it. And the Christian life is just a wonderful, enjoyable experience, and there's no difficulty in it. But that's not what we find in Scripture. And that's not what we find in our experience. I hope I don't anger you when I remark that the course That is commonly sung, and I don't think you're evil if you sing it, but it says, every day with Jesus is sweeter than the day before. I think I know what the writer was trying to say, that our experience, our love for the Lord deepens over the years. But literally, it's not true every day is not better than it was the day before. You've heard people sometimes remark when people ask them how they're doing, and they say if it gets any better, I won't be able to stand it. That's not what the Christian life is like. It's a series of mountains and valleys. There are smooth stretches of road, but there are very difficult journeys through the valley. And I think we do people disservice when we give them an idealized viewpoint and especially when preachers give the idea that if you were just more spiritual like me, you would never have those problems because I'm always on top of the world. And if you really knew those people, they're not always on top of the world. It is wonderful to be a Christian. But the Christian life is not easy. And so we need to address it and look at it in a biblically accurate way. There will be mountains, there will be valleys. This has always been the experience of God's people. Do you know the names of John Bunyan, Martin Luther, Charles Spurgeon, Adeniram Judson, Hudson Taylor, Martin Lloyd Jones? These giants of the faith all experience periods of depression. And this is what we find in Scripture as well. Have you ever heard of Job? Or Elijah, or Jeremiah, the weeping prophet, or David , or John the Baptist, or Paul If you examine closely their writings, you will find there were periods when they were very low, when they were profoundly discouraged. And so when people come to me and they tell me that they are depressed, one of the first things I tell them is that they're in good company. Because many godly men and women have walked before them in those dark valleys. You see, the Bible is the most realistic book in the world. Now the subject of depression is complex and complicated. I'm not here tonight to give three simple steps to victory. There can be multiple causes. There can be multiple sources of influence coming both from our physical anatomy, our body, and from our experiences in life from our spiritual walk with the Lord. There's so many factors that come into play with this. And there's some people who seem to struggle with it much more than do others. But I do believe that there is some basic help and wisdom in the stanza of God's word. So I want to speak briefly tonight on how to fight depression, a pilgrim 's approach And these are all very basic and very simple drawn out of our text. First of all, we must tell God how we feel. We have the prayer of the psalmist here, and I'm going to look especially at verses 25 and 28. Look at verse 25. My soul cleaveth unto the dust. Quicken thou me according to thy word. Now, what does this imagery convey? My soul cleaveth unto the dust. Well, turn with me back in the book of Psalms to Psalm 22 and verse 15. These are the words prophetically of our Lord My strength is dried up like a pot sherd, and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws, and thou hast brought me unto the dust of death. And then if you'll look with me ahead to Psalm forty-four. Psalm forty-four, verses twenty-three through twenty-six. The psalmist says, Awake, why sleepest thou, O Lord? Arise, castest not off forever. Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and forgettest our affliction and our oppression? For our soul is bowed down to the dust, our belly cleaveth unto the earth. Arise for our help and redeem us for thy mercy's sake I think this is an expression of someone who is really, really low in spirits, and they they feel so low, they feel like they're about to die, like their life is over. I think our Lord said something similar to that in the garden when he said he was sorrowful even unto death. Well there's no sense of joy, no comfort, nor no hope. The parallel expression to this is found in verse 28, where we read there at the beginning, my soul melteth for heaviness. The Hebrew word for meltis is a very specific term. It's a word that means to drop or drip In Job 16 verse 20, we read, Mine eye poureth out tears unto God. And there it's the word poureth. It's also translated elsewhere as heaviness. Well, excuse me, we we have here uh you'll notice in verse twenty-eight this term My soul melteth for heaviness. That word heaviness speaks of grief or vexation of spirits. It's interestingly it's used in the book of Proverbs to denote the burden, the heaviness that a parent feels when their child has gone astray. In Proverbs 10, 1 it says, a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother. How many mothers today on Mother's Day have had a bittersweet experience because one of their children was not there because they have gone away from the Lord and there is a burden on our hearts It says in Proverbs 17, 21, he that begetteth a fool doeth it to his sorrow. And there it's that the word heaviness is the same word that's translated sorrow there. One scholar translates this whole phrase in Psalm 119 verse 28 as I have collapsed with intense sorrow. Another put it this way: my life weeps itself away. That is a description of profound depression. My wife is, my life is just weeping itself away. Now look with me at verse 26. The psalmist says right after this first declaration, he says, I have declared my ways, and thou hurtest me. There's real help in sharing your grief with the Lord. When you have a profound burden on your heart, your natural instinct is that you want to share it with someone Sharing our sorrows is a natural human experience and something that is good to do. It is not good when you feel this way to just keep it all to yourself. You need to share it with others. And for believers, the first person that we should share this with is the Lord There is real help in sharing your grief with the Lord. Yes, he already knows the burdens of your heart because he knows everything But he still wants to hear from you. Sort of like a parent and a little child, the little child may do something wrong. May take something and the parent sees it. The parent knows it, but the parent still wants to hear that little child come of his own initiative and say, I was wrong, I should not have taken that. That is not to say that every time we confess and share our hearts with the Lord, we're confessing our sin. Don't misunderstand me. My point is that although the Lord knows our situation, he still delights when we share our situation with him, when we pour out our hearts to him. We have hymns that bring out this truth. Like this one. I must tell Jesus all of my trials, I cannot bear these burdens alone. In my distress, he kindly will help me. He ever loves and cares for his own. I must tell Jesus all of my troubles. He is a kind, compassionate friend If I but ask him, he will deliver, make of my troubles quickly an end. Tempted and tried, I need a great Savior, one who can help my burdens to bear. I must tell Jesus, I must tell Jesus, he all my cares and sorrows will share. And then we have this refrain, I must tell Jesus, I must tell Jesus, I cannot bear my burdens alone. I must tell Jesus. I must tell Jesus, Jesus can help me. Jesus alone. We should pour out our hearts to God. This should be our first response and not our last resort. I don't want you to misunderstand what I'm about to say, to think that the only value in prayer is the therapeutic value that it has for us as individuals. That's not the primary value of prayer, but it is a side benefit. Sometimes people will ask me what it's like to counsel people, and it's very different. Sometimes when I counsel people I really don't say a word because they do all the talking. I sit there and I nod my head And they share and they pour out their heart and their burdens and their trials that are crushing them, and they weep and they cry and they tell me of all of these problems, and then they say afterwards, thank you so much. I feel so much better. Why I haven't even said anything. But there is a relief in sharing your sorrows and your burdens. and sharing with someone else how you really feel the deepest hurts of your hearts. There was once a famous French preacher. And I've always remembered the section in this book where he exhorts Christians to pour out their hearts to God. He says, tell God all that is in your heart. As one unloads one's heart, its pleasures and its pains to a dear friend. Tell God your troubles That God may comfort you. Tell God your joys. That God may sober them. Tell God your longings. That God may purify them. Tell God your dislikes. That God may help you conquer them. Talk to God of your temptations. That God may shield you from them. Show God the wounds of your hearts. That God may heal them if you thus pour out your weakness, needs, troubles. There will be no lack of what to say. I want you to notice secondly with me from this passage Not only must we tell God our problems, but we must pray to God to minister to us from His Word. I want you to notice these various requests that are found in the stanza. There are six of them. The first one is, quicken thou me according to thy word. You'll find that in verse 25. The word quicken, of course, means to make alive. It is a request the psalmist makes about a dozen times in this psalm. Sometimes the Christian life, a person feels like they're spiritually dead. Now they're not spiritually dead. They're believers in Christ, but they often feel like they're spiritually dead, and the spiritual realities that we claim to believe in, the sufficiency of Scripture. God's watch care and protection over us. The fact that all around us who are without Christ are lost and perishing, sometimes those realities don't seem real to us. We become dull and listless. And the Bible seems like a closed book. This is one of the problems that uh one of the greatest problems that people who are truly depressed feel, and that is that when they go to the scriptures for comfort and they open it up, It just doesn't seem to minister to them. And it's because of the burden that they're carrying and sometimes the confusion in their mind. And so what do they do? They should continue in the Word and they should beg God to make them alive and to open their eyes to God's comforting truth. This is why the psalmist often makes this prayer in the midst of affliction. Look with me at verse 50 of Psalm 119. He says, this is my comfort in my affliction, for thy word hath quickened me. Look with me at verse 93. He says, I will never forget thy precepts, for with them thou hast quickened me. What a wonderful thing it is for a Christian. Who's been walking with the Lord for years to go back to a verse that was a lifeline for them at one time, at one period in their life when they felt like they were spiritually drowning. This verse became a lifeline to them that they were able to cling to, and they will always remember that verse fondly. Because God rescued them through that verse. Look with me at 107. Psalm 118, 107. He says, I am afflicted very much. Quicken me, O Lord. According to thy word. But how does God make us alive through His Word? How does He do that? Let me mention several things. First of all, he reminds us of who he is. We need to remember that when we are in the valley of despair, when we are discouraged. Sometimes God seems very distant from us. He doesn't seem very powerful to us. But when we go back to the Word and we remind ourselves of who our God is and how He has brought us and what He is doing and what our destiny is, it changes our minds about who God is And the power that he has and the care that he has for us, it also reminds us of who we are: that we are the children of God. That we have been bought with a price. It reminds us that He will not leave us or forsake us. Often people in a time of depression feel like they have been forsaken by God, that God has forgotten them because they cannot sense his presence. But what they must do is go back and they must remind themselves of God's truth. I was thinking about this today. You know, today is a very foggy day. I was thinking about pilots who fly in this kind of soup. You know, they can't, they don't have any visual reference when they're in a fog bank. And so they must determine that they are going to trust their instruments. that they're on the right path, that their their plane is properly oriented to the ground , and not rely on the fact that they feel a certain way Or that they can't see and make some kind of catastrophic choice. And sometimes in the Christian life, we are like in a fog bank. And we don't feel like the ground is below us. We don't feel like we're going in the right direction. But the instruments say we are. The Word of God says we are. And so we must simply trust in what God says is true, even though we don't feel it, and it may not make sense to us. When we come to Scripture, we also are reminded of what God is doing. One of the things we have to remind ourselves in a time when we are depressed and discouraged, especially because of our current circumstances. Is that God has a purpose in what He is doing, and His ultimate purpose is not that I would have the most pleasant and comfortable experience possible on planet Earth. That's not his goal. That's not his plan. He is seeking to make me more like his son, more Christ-like. He is seeking to bring out in my life the fruit of the spirits. And so it's only through trials and afflictions, through the pruning knife, that I can grow and cultivate this kind of fruit. And so we're reminded of what God is doing. And it also reminds us of where we are going. One of the important things that a Christian in the valley needs to remember is no matter how crooked and how dark and how difficult their path may be, it will ultimately lead them home. And it will be a destination of joy and gladness. And because that is before us, because that is the end of the story for us, we can endure and we can persevere and we can continue on. Because as we heard tonight, the soul that on Jesus has leaned for repose, he says, I will not, I will not desert to his foes. God will not desert us in our hour of need Now look with me at verse 26. We have the second request, teach me thy statutes. This is one of the most common themes found in Psalm 119. This is really kind of like a book in and of itself, Psalm 119. Some of you like to take them, so I just want to list these for you. We have it in verse 12. We have it here in verse 26. If you look at verse 33 Teach me, O Lord, the way of thy statutes. We have it again in verse sixty-four. The earth, O Lord, is full of thy mercies. Teach me thy statutes. Again in verse 66, teach me good judgment. Again in verse 68, thou art good and doest good. Teach me thy statutes. We have it in verse 108. Where he says at the end, teach me thy judgments. Again, in verse 124, we have this, teach me thy statutes. And again Finally, in verse 135, make thy face to shine upon thy servant and teach me thy statutes. We never stop learning in our earthly pilgrimage. It's not like You go through a few years of intense training, and then you've got everything that you need to know for the rest of your life You continue to learn. You continue to grow. You continue to learn more about the Lord and how He is dealing with you. And every season of life There is more for us to learn about walking with God. There's a season of life when we are a child and we learn about God. where we first come to have a personal relationship with him. There's a season as a young person. There's a season in middle age And there's a season as an elderly person. And every one of these seasons, there's some truths that we need to learn about God. And then we have a very similar expression, make me to understand, excuse me, the way of thy precepts. And we find this common refrain. Again, it's found in verses 34 and 73 and 95 and 100 and 104 and 125 and 144. I like the way he puts it in this desperate way. Make me to understand. Kind of like, Lord, I'm a little dense sometimes. I'm having trouble. You're going to have to make me understand. When our hearts are crushed with care, we want to know what God is doing. We want to know the purpose and the reason for our affliction. But it's enough for us to know that God has a good purpose and that we will learn precious truths which we would not have learned otherwise. Notice this fourth Request found in verse 28. Strengthen me according to thy word. It's interesting that the Hebrew word for strengthen here means to raise up. In Psalm 41 in verse 10, we read, Be merciful unto me and raise me up. That's the word. In Psalm 113 in verse 7, it says, He raiseth up the poor out of the dust. In Psalm 1 and verse 5, it says, the ungodly shall not stand. And in Psalm 119 and verse 38, establish Thy word unto thy servant. God raises up or causes us to stand. Now we have this next phrase here, remove from me the way of lying in verse 29. We should not interpret this to mean that it was the sin of lying that was the cause of all of the psalmist distress. But often in the fog of war we lose our grasp of reality. We begin to question God and his goodness to us. We become attracted to sinful lifestyles that seem to offer happiness and relief. from our suffering, but it is all a lie. What we desperately need is for God to remove our confusion and allow us to see things clearly And then he says, grant me thy law graciously. The Word of God is indeed a means of grace to keep us from sin and from the traps. of the world. And then thirdly, I want you to notice that we must resolve to follow God no matter what. And verses 30 through 32, we have a series of resolutions. Notice these. I have chosen the way of truth. Thy judgments have I laid before me. I have sucked unto thy testimonies, O Lord. Put me not to shame. I will run the way of thy commandments when thou shalt enlarge my heart. Sometimes when people are depressed, they make very bad decisions. They may stop reading the Bible and praying. because they don't feel like it and they don't want to be a hypocrite and so they stop. They may stop attending church Because they are afraid that they might cry during the service and that would be embarrassing and people might ask them a bunch of questions Or perhaps they've already missed a few weeks and they don't want to be interrogated and have to give a reason as to why they haven't been there the last four weeks. And so they make poor decisions. They distance themselves from God's means of grace. They stay away from prayer, from reading the word, from church, from Christian fellowship. What we must do is make resolutions and remind ourselves of past resolutions. He says, I have chosen the way of truth. This is said in contrast to the falsehood that is mentioned in verse 29. Here the psalmist is reminding himself of who he is. and it's what he has set out to do. And then he says, Thy judgments have I laid before me. Here the psalmist reminds himself of his commitment to follow God's word no matter what. It is helpful for a Christian to review their spiritual journey and the lessons that they have learned and the times that God has shown himself to be strong in their behalf, and they have made certain commitments and certain resolutions. It's good for us in the valley to remember those times of light and clarity. And I have stuck unto thy testimonies. We wouldn't put it that way today, but I love the way that sounds. I have stuck unto thy testimonies. The Hebrew word that's translated stuck here is the exact same Hebrew word that's translated cleaveth in verse 25. So he is essentially saying, the dust might be clinging to me, but I will cling to thy truth. That's the kind of determination and trust that a believer must Declare and demonstrate in times of darkness. And then he says, O Lord, put me not to shame Let me not be disappointed. Let not my years of trusting in you and resting in you, let not that be overturned during this time. The fact is that God uses our days of darkness to strengthen our faith. He uses our doubts to grow the muscle of our faith just like someone who is a bodybuilder will tear down their muscles and tear down their body with great burdens. So that they will be built up stronger, so God does the same to us. A verse that I always think of in reference to this and one that I often share with those who are depressed is Isaiah chapter 50. And verse 10. Would you turn with me there? Isaiah chapter 50 and verse 10. Isaiah writes, Who is among you? That feareth the Lord, that obeyeth the voice of his servant. Referring to a believer here. That walketh in darkness. Now what does that mean? Does that mean he's walking in sin? No. It's talking about the darkness of despair and depression and hath no light What is that person to do? Let him trust in the name of the Lord and stay upon his God. Thomas Goodwin, the great Puritan writer, wrote a book on this verse entitled A Child of Light Walking in Darkness. And he talks about sometimes the Lord allows his children to work walk through dark valleys where they cannot it seems, enjoy the presence of the Lord. What is that person to do? Let him trust in the name of the Lord and stay upon his God. The idea is let him cling even tighter to his God. Don't loosen your grip Let him rely on him more desperately. Let him depend on him for all that he is worth. Notice the personal nature of his reliance. Let him trust, it says in the name of the Lord, and stay upon his gods. It's in the valley, it's in the darkness that our faith becomes really personal to us. Where it moves beyond just something that we profess and something that we declare to something that we truly hold to and we cling to no matter what Our relationship with the Lord often becomes more personal when we walk through the dark valleys of life. And then turn back with me now, please, to Psalm 119. We come to verse 32. I will run the way of thy commandments when thou shalt enlarge my heart. What determination the psalmist expresses here. He wants to wholly follow God 's way. He speaks here of enlarging his heart. The idea here is being set at liberty. Psalm 25 and verse 17 says, the troubles of my heart are enlarged. Oh, bring me out of my distress. In Psalm 118, verse 5. I called upon the Lord in distress. The Lord answered me and set me in a large place. In Psalm 119, verse 45, we read, I will walk at liberty. This is what God does for his people. He will in time release us from the darkness. If not in this light, certainly in the life to come, because we are children of lights. We find this kind of determination, this kind of hope and trust, not only in the pages of Scripture, But in our hymn book, I've already quoted one hymn. I want to quote two verses of another hymn. I want to live above the world, though Satan's darts at me are hurled. For faith has caught the joyful sound, the song of saints on higher ground. Lord lift me up And let me stand by faith on heaven's table land, a higher plane than I have found. Lord, plant my feet on higher ground. That is not just a fond wish that is the heartbeat, the experience of Christian people down through the ages. We must remind ourselves. of our ultimate destiny and of what God is doing in our darkness, and then we will find hope for the here and now to walk through the difficult valleys of life. May God use his word to help his children tonight. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you. We thank you, Lord, for your word. We thank you that it's so realistic, it's so helpful, it's so personal, that it has all that we need for life and godliness. I pray that you would take What we have seen here tonight and use it to strengthen your people, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen