Keep your Bibles, please. Would you turn me with me to Genesis chapter 41? Genesis chapter 41. Some of you may know the name of Oswald Sanders. He was a significant Bible teacher and Christian writer who passed away after a long and fruitful ministry in 1990. He's famous for his classic books, Spiritual Leadership and the Incomparable Christ, both of which I recommend to you. Sanders had the ability to present truth in a concise and memorable way. And the reason why I bring him to your attention is to tell you of one of his sayings. He once said, not every man can carry a full cup. I wonder if you understand what he meant by that. He's stating that many people do not do well with prosperity because they are ruined by it. The Bible records many examples of this phenomenon. You think of King Saul started out humble, feeling unworthy to serve as the first king of Israel. But in time he became proud and turned away from God. Think of King David, the man after God's own heart, who at the height of his power fell into adultery and murder. And King Solomon, his son, also got off to a good start by choosing the wisdom of God. But his pride led him to multiply his wives like the kings of the Gentiles, and they turned his heart away from God. We think of Gideon, the reluctant judge, who trusted God to do the impossible and delivered his people from pagan oppression, but in his prosperity. He set up a golden ephod that came to be worshipped like an idol. And many of you here can think of people that you have known. who had a good start to the Christian life, but when they became prosperous, affluent, successful , They went away from the Lord. I can think of many examples. This morning I want us to consider Joseph's response To his amazing promotion. We come this morning to the final section of Genesis chapter 41 This chapter records the pivotal event in his life. And one day Joseph goes from being a prisoner to the prime minister. He moves from the pit to the palace. And if the life of Joseph was simply a rags to riches story, it would conclude with chapter 41 and with the familiar words, and they lived happily ever after. But this story does not end in chapter 41 because it's not been written for our entertainment, but for our instruction. The story of Joseph is not really about Joseph, but about God's providential plan for his people. But there are several secondary purposes, and one of those purposes is to show us how God will test his people. Joseph was tested in many ways. He was tested by the unfair hatred of his brothers, culminating in his being sold into slavery He was tested by the difficult labor that he endured in the household of Potiphar, and he passed that test with flying colors. He was promoted to become the manager over all of Potiphar's estate. Joseph was tested by the seduction of Potiphar's wife, and he remained pure. He was tested by her unjust accusation, but he continued to faithfully serve the Lord even though he was unjustly accused. The scriptures tell us that in prison the word of the Lord tried him. That is, it tested him. But once again, he continued to trust and obey. And then he was tested by the painful delay caused by the forgetful butler. Joseph was indeed a man tested in the furnace of affliction. But now he would not be tested by affliction, but by affluence, not by pain, but by prosperity. And this is a test that many Christians face, especially in the United States of America and in the West. We are generally blessed. Most Christians, I think, in this country are middle class. And in the estimation of the rest of the world, we would be considered affluent. You may not think of yourself that way, but I assure you, if you could go to most people of the world and see where they live, And the clothes that they have to put on, and the food that they eat, you would consider yourself to be very, very well off. And the Bible tells us, like in the passage that we read together this morning from Deuteronomy chapter 8, that there is danger in this. There's a great danger that we forget the Lord, that we think we don't need God because we're doing pretty well ourselves. There is real danger that comes with affluence. And the reality is so often we have embraced the world's ideal way to live It's ideal of the good life, forgetting that God has called us to live a holy life. We would rather be comfortable than Christ-like. Do not misunderstand me. Prosperity is not sinful, but it often leads us away from God into a lifestyle of indulgence and idolatry. So how do we survive the American dream? How can we enjoy God's blessings without allowing those benefits to become a blight to our souls? I want to look at Joseph's life after his promotion as a model for that, and that is how to remain faithful to God while enjoying the blessings of prosperity. The first thing I want us to see in these closing verses of chapter 41 is that we must be faithful in resisting The temptations that come with worldly prosperity. Look with me at verse 41 of chapter 41. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt. And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand and put it upon Joseph's hand. and arrayed him in vesture of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his neck. And he made him to ride in the second chariot which he had. And they cried before him, Bow the knee, and he made him ruler over all the land of Egypt. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt. And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphatnath Paneh, and gave unto him to wife Asenath, the daughter of Potipharah, priest of On. And Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt. Now, what I've just read records Joseph's investiture. These are ceremonial acts that symbolically declare to all the Egyptians that Joseph is truly a powerful man. Bible scholars have somewhat debated over the years how exactly to describe Joseph's new position. Some have said that he was a vizier, others a viceroy, others the minister of agriculture. and also Prime Minister. Whatever title one uses, it's clear that he had a powerful position. And it would seem from the fact that he rode in the second chariot that he had the second most powerful position in the most powerful nation in the world. There are seven symbols of power that are mentioned in these verses. First of all, notice he is given Pharaoh's ring. This was a signet ring that the king would use to seal official documents. One writer described this as the king's credit card. And it had no spending limit. With this seal, he could make any request and make any purchase in the land of Egypt. But no one would question him because they knew it was the seal of the king. Then he was given a royal garment. This garment of fine linen was so delicate that it was nearly transparent. It spoke of Joseph's new royal status. Many preachers over the years have pointed out that Joseph's life story could be told through his coats. He had, first of all, the coat of many colors, which revealed that he was a son. And then there was the coat in Potiphar's house that indicated that he was a slave. And now we have this beautiful garment that identifies Joseph as a sovereign. Thirdly, we have the placement of the gold chain around his neck. This spoke of his newfound wealth and position. There are ancient drawings and hieroglyphs. that you can view in Egypt even today that depict a ceremony of investiture just as it's depicted here in Scripture And you see the gold collar or chain being put around the person who was being honored. Fourthly, he was given the second chariot. This chariot was very likely made of gold because they have found some ancient drawings and paintings of these chariots, and they and the king's chariot was made of gold. We read about this on display in procession. You can think about this in modern terms like the president's limousine. And as the president had the Secret Service who's clearing the way and watching the crowd, so Pharaoh had his bodyguards and his court. uh men out there and they were crying for people to bow down and to show homage to this important new leader. Joseph had spent 13 years bowing to Egyptians, and now the Egyptians were bowing before him. Then there was the formal proclamation of investiture in verse 44. It says, And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt. He is here saying, using an idiom that he has absolute sovereignty, that whatever he commands people to do, they are to do it without question. And then sixthly, Joseph is given a new name, an Egyptian name, Zath-Nath Pinnaea. We'll talk more about that in a moment and the meaning of it. Seventh , Joseph is given an Egyptian wife. It says at the end of verse 45 that her name is Asanath. And I will comment more about this in just a moment, but undoubtedly she was a beautiful woman. An impressive court, a figure like Joseph needed an impressive wife, and this is what she was. She was beautiful, well-connected, and sophisticated. Now, I want you to think about this incredible change in the life of Joseph and the temptation that came with it. You may not be aware of it, but everything here was very Egyptian. Joseph is now exalted to the most powerful palace and royal court in the world at this time. And he is now second in command. You've all heard the saying that absolute power corrupts absolutely. And and Joseph nearly has absolute power. Whatever he wants, he can get. How Joseph was tempted to use this power and this privilege to serve self. That is the way we naturally are One Scottish preacher of the past, a man named Alexander White, said that he was plunged into the most corrupt society that rotted in that age on the face of the earth. Think about his temptations. Joseph, we know from previous chapters, was good looking He was well built. Now he's incredibly wealthy and powerful and famous. He's young. He's 30 years old. He's intelligent. And he's surrounded by paganism, sensuality, and idolatry. How easy it would be for him to compromise his principles and to think, you know, when in Egypt live like the Egyptians, how easy it would be for him just to say, well, you know, this is my new life. God has been faithful to me. He has exalted me, so now I'm going to live like an Egyptian. I feel certain that he was often pressured to conform to the worldliness that permeated the royal courts. But I believe that he held fast to his integrity and loyalty to God. Now some Bible readers have felt that what this is described in the verses that I just read reveals some compromise with the world. They would point to his Egyptian name, and especially to his Egyptian wife, who came from a family of sun worshippers. But I would disagree with that assessment. So I want us briefly to consider the evidence that Joseph did not yield to these worldly temptations. Let's first of all consider his new name. Pharaoh gave Joseph a new name. It's important to remember that the same thing happened to Daniel when he was in Babylon and to his friends. This is something that kings would do. When they brought foreign subjects in, they gave them new names. And it's important to remember that the Bible does not condemn Daniel or Joseph for allowing this to occur. Joseph's new name was Zapnath Paneh. There's some debate about the meaning of this name, but most scholars come up with something like the God who speaks and lives. And it seems clear that Pharaoh is referring to the fact that Joseph was able to interpret his dreams. So I would submit to you that even in his new name, he is being a witness for his God because his God is getting credit for the interpretation of that dream. But now let's think of his new wife, Asenath. Of course, the Bible states all the way back in the Old Testament. And the story of Abraham that the people of God are not to intermarry with those who are unbelievers. And let me just say that it is possible that this was sinful. But the fact is we don't have enough information to be conclusive about that. But let me mention a few facts that I think would lead me to believe that it was not a sinful thing. Number one, the Bible nowhere condemns Joseph for marrying her. Number two, and this is important, it was common in ancient times for the wife to adopt the faith of her husband. Number three, there is no evidence that Joseph's heart was turned away from God after this marriage. Number four, Jewish tradition claims that she became a worshiper of Jehovah. And number five, the Hebrew names of the children suggests that they had a united faith as a family. So I don't think that we should assume for one moment that Joseph sinned in marrying this Egyptian. It seems that Joseph was able to adopt many of the cultural practices of the Egyptians and still remain faithful to God. Although Joseph never returned to Canaan, he made his descendants swear that they would take his remains to the promised land. Joseph remained faithful to God. And his life reminds us that it's possible to be in the world, but not of the world. This is a difficult balance for Christians to find. There are some Christians who want to plunge headfirst into the world and they become assimilated into the world to such a degree that you can't distinguish them from those who are lost. And the Bible clearly condemns that. But then there are others, well-intentioned individuals who go the other direction. And they want to seclude their family into like a little commune, and they never want to interact with the world, and they're never really a witness. They're not salt and they're not light because they never inter interact with anybody who is lost. Neither one of those approaches is correct. We have to be in the world, but we must not be of the world. We must not allow the materialism, the secularism, the pluralism of our world to infect our souls. Instead, what we must live out our faith in a clear and compelling way. So, how do we survive the American dream? How do we remain faithful while enjoying our prosperity? Well, one of the things we must begin with is we must resist the temptations that come. With worldly prosperity. And secondly, we must be faithful in remembering that the Lord is the source of all blessings that we enjoy. I want you to skip down with me to verse 50 now. We're going to come back to the verses I've skipped over, verses 46 through 49. But for the time being, I want to pass over them. And look at verses 50 through 52. It says, And unto Joseph were born two sons before the years of famine came, which Asanath, the daughter of Potipharah. priest of on bear unto him. And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh. For God said, He hath made me forget all my toil and all my father's house. And the name of the second called he Ephraim, for God hath caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction. The record of the birth of these two boys is intended to demonstrate to the reader the complete and bountiful blessings that God poured out on Joseph. Not only did he get released from prison and provided with the position of wealth and power, but he also was given a loving family. And Joseph knew that all of this was due not to his faithfulness to God, but because of God's faithfulness to him. One of the great keys of surviving prosperity is to remember that all that you enjoy comes from the hand of God. That it's not something that you in a sense have earned yourself or that you've accomplished, but it's a gift from God. In that chapter that we read earlier today in Deuteronomy chapter 8, there's a verse towards the end of that chapter. That says, it is God that giveth the power to get wealth. Some of you have that ability You have the ability to gain wealth. And you need to always remember that that was given to you by God. And the same God who gave that to you can take it away. You need to be faithful to him and give him all the praise and glory. Now we can see that Joseph knew that his sons came from God because of the names that he gave to them. These are very insightful and give us a view into his heart. and how he was processing everything during those 13 years when he was a slave in Egypt. The firstborn is named Manasseh, and his name means God has made me forget. What has God made him forget? Well, he mentions two things: all my toil and all my father's house. He is saying that God has been so good to me that the pain, the frustration, the difficulties that I experienced for 13 years seem as nothing to me. I don't dwell on them. I don't brood over them and the wrongs that were done to me because God has been so good to me, they are a distant and faint memory. And then he talks about all my father's house. I don't think that Joseph is saying that he is now going to pretend that he had no brothers or a father. Joseph was not abandoning his father, and that will become apparent in the next chapter. No, he means that he is refusing to let the painful memories of the past control his future. Joseph is so overwhelmed with God's goodness to him that the suffering that he has endured in the past seems like nothing. This is how Paul says we should view our suffering in the world in comparison to the glories of heaven. In Romans 8:18, he says For I reckon that the suffering of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. Joseph was able to let go and put that in the past. The wrongs that were done to him when he was a slave, and the wrongs that were done to him uh uh by his brothers when they sold him into slavery. Could preach a whole message about this. How many Christians have I counseled and I've met with who cannot let go of the wrongs that have been done to them of the past? You can talk to them, you can pray with them, you can show them scripture, you can plead with them, and they have many blessings today. But they cling to that wrong and they won't let it go and it colors everything in their life. When you put your focus on God and believe that He is in control and you know in your heart that He is a good God, then you will be able to let go of those hurts of the past. That's what Joseph did. And that's what everyone needs to do who wants to follow the Lord. Now look with me at the meaning of the second name. This is the other one was the negative aspect. God has made me forget. Now we have the positive aspect. In verse 52, he has a second son named Ephraim, and his name means God has made me fruitful. And my affliction. This helps us understand the first part. How was Joseph able to let go and forget all those wrongs that were committed against him? Because he was able to see God's hand in it. God has made him fruitful in his affliction. In many ways, this phrase could summarize Joseph's life. And that's just not my opinion. I have scripture to back that up. Turn with me, please, to Genesis 49. Genesis 49, I want to begin reading at verse 22. This is Joseph's father's Jacob's blessing on his son Joseph. And notice what he says Joseph, verse 22, is a fruitful bow, even a fruitful bow by a well whose branches run over the wall. The archers have sorely grieved him and shot at him and hated him. Reference to all the wrongs done to him. But his bow abode in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands of the mighty God of Jacob. Joseph was fruitful in affliction. It's one of the most beautiful things of his life , though he was so horribly mistreated. Yet he never was soured by his experiences, and it continued to bring forth spiritual fruit in his affliction. This is something that we can do by God's grace as well. Joseph could say with the psalmist, it's good for me that I have been afflicted. That I might learn by statutes. Now I don't want you to miss this point. How you interpret your life depends on what you believe about God. Do you believe that God is truly sovereign in control of everything that you experience? Do you believe that God is truly good and always working out His good plan for your life? If you do, It will be evident in the way you respond to the ups and downs of your life. You see, Joseph was the same man in prison that he was in the palace. He didn't change at all. His success did not spoil him. His newfound promotion did not destroy him. He did not become proud and self-sufficient and turn away from God. He did not become sensual and immoral, which was the custom of the people in which he lived. No, he was the same man in prison that he was in the palace because he was worshiping the same God and he still lived in the fear of the Lord. Joseph's outlook on life was not based on the circumstances, but on the unchanging character of God. The third thing I want us to note this morning is that we must be faithful in fulfilling the task that God has called us to do. I want to skip back now to verse 46. And I want us to see how Joseph was faithful in accomplishing a difficult task. It says in verse 46, and Joseph was 30 years old when he stood before Pharaoh. king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh and went throughout all the land of Egypt, and in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth by handfuls. And he gathered up all the food of the seven years which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities, the food of the field which was round about every city, laid he up in the same and Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much until he left numbering, for it was without number. These verses record that Joseph got right to work. The fact that he was successful did not mean that he no longer saw himself under obligation to his authority. He was still a servant. And he went to do this task of gathering up during these prosperous years for the coming famine. And I would submit to you that this was a difficult task. And at least for two reasons. Number one, because of the immense scope of the project. His assigned task was both complicated and complex First of all, he went through and surveyed the land and selected key cities for the storage of grain. He must have had a large staff of government officials to accomplish this plan. But there was another reason this task was difficult, and that was because people do not like to be taxed. It's not just 21st century Americans who don't like to be taxed. Everyone in the history of the world has disdained taxes. I am sure that many Egyptians doubted that a famine was actually coming. And they interpreted this taxation as some conspiracy by a foreign-born leader. That's human nature, and I feel certain that that was taking place. According to Joseph's proposal to Pharaoh He must have taxed the people 20% of their harvest. Just imagine this. Let's say that was a bountiful crop and it was 20% larger than normal, but then the government came and took that 20% off the top. You're exactly where you would be in a normal year. Here you had a bountiful harvest, but you're doing exactly the same as you did before because twenty percent has been taken out of your pockets. Do you think that made Joseph very popular with the people? You know, if they had um um polls back then approval numbers, I'm sure that they would have been really low. But Joseph continued to do the duty that God had called him to do Joseph was also faithful in fulfilling a dangerous task. Look with me, skip down to verse 53. We looked at the seven prosperous years. Let's look at the seven lean years. Verse 53, and the seven years of plentiousness that was in the land of Egypt were ended. And the seven years of dearth began to come according as Joseph had said, and the dearth was in all the lands, and in all the land of Egypt. There was bread. And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread. And Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians, Go unto Joseph, what he saith to you, do. And the famine was over all the face of the earth, and Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold unto the Egyptians, and the famine waxed sore in the land of Egypt, and all countries came into Egypt. to Joseph were to buy corn because of the famine was so sore in all the lands. The year of bounty was over. And now there was famine in the land, not only in Egypt, but in the surrounding nations. When the Egyptians ran out of their own food supplies, they came in desperation to Pharaoh, and he directed them to Joseph. But there was plenty of food to go around because of the foresight that God had given to Joseph. Now describe this time of food distribution as a dangerous task. And it was for several reasons. Number one, because corruption could have easily occurred If you listen to the news and digest the news often and you have for many years, you know that famine always seems to invite corruption. There are wicked people who seek to profit from the misfortune of others. Often, when our nation sends food to places in the world stricken with famine, the food never reaches those who need it most. It's often hoarded by the authorities, or it's stolen, or it's sold at high prices to starving people. This happens Every day throughout the world. And there was a great risk that this could have occurred with the famine in Egypt. But Joseph was a man of integrity and a man of wisdom, and he was able to control these things. Another reason it was dangerous is because violence could easily have occurred. When people are desperate and starving, they will do anything to get food. They will steal, murder, even cannibalize. Violence, rioting, and unrest often occur when food is being distributed to starving people. But Joseph's centralized distribution centers and strong leadership helped to mitigate such a disaster. And this, of course, was also a matter of life and death for many people, not just for the Egyptians. But for the surrounding nations. Think of it. If Joseph failed in his task, a multitude of people from many nations would have perished. But there was red in Egypt because God was working his plan to save his people and re-reunite Notice how the last verse of this chapter clues the reader that God's about to do something. And all the countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn because the famine was so sore in all lands. And one of those lands where it was sore was the land of Canaan. And that would be the means whereby God would bring about the safety and the salvation of his people from the famine in the land of Canaan. It is possible for us to live for God in a time of prosperity and affluence and peace. It is by keeping our eyes on the Lord, by resisting the world's temptations, by remembering that everything that we enjoy comes from God. And by being diligent in the task that God has called us to do. But now I want to conclude with a gospel application. Ironically, God used famine to feed his people. But God did more than spare his chosen people. He used his servant Joseph to be a blessing to all the nations of the world. We see here, by the way, that God blesses us so that we might be a blessing to others. Notice how this text emphasizes the scope of the problem. In verse 56 we read, and the famine was over all the face of the earth. In verse 57 it says, and all countries came into Egypt to Joseph. Because the famine was so sore in all the lands. Once more we see that Joseph is foreshadowing the work of Christ And Genesis chapter 12 and verse 3, we read of this promise to Abraham, and thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. Joseph was a blessing to the surrounding nations, but the ultimate fulfillment of this Abrahamic promise is found in Jesus Christ. He is the only one who can meet humanity's greatest need. Only Jesus can save us from our sins. Joseph here is a faint shadow of Christ, our Redeemer, who is described in Scripture as the Savior of the world. Let me ask you a very important question this morning. Is Jesus your Savior? Is He the one that you are looking to for your salvation? Do you suspect that there were people in the surrounding nations, perhaps even in Egypt, who said, you know what, I'm not going to go crawling to Egypt? To get my grain and buy it from them? I'm going to try to ride out this famine. I'm going to do this myself. I am not going to Bow my allegiance and put my dependence in someone else. I'm going to try to do this on my own And as the years went on and the famine got more severe, they perished because they would not bow the knee. And they would not go to where there was bread. The Bible describes Jesus as the bread of life Jesus said in John chapter 6 and verse 35, I am the bread of life. He that cometh to me shall never hunger, and he that believeth on me shall never thirst. So let me ask you this morning, have you come to him like a starving person, person desperate for forgiveness? Have you come in faith? Have you come in repentance? Have you come to Jesus, the Savior of the world? There was only one person that the people could go to in this ancient time of famine. To save themselves, and that was to Joseph. And there's only one Savior that God has provided. And his name is Jesus. Have you come to him in faith? Have you come to him with nothing to offer? But come and trust in him alone. The great hymn writer Joseph Hart wrote, Come ye sinners, poor and needy, weak and wounded, sick and sore. Jesus ready stands to save you, full of pity, love. and power. Those words are true. The gospel is the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes. I encourage you. If you're here today and you recognize that you are starving spiritually, that you cannot get by without the Lord, that you would seek Him today, that you would come to Him today. And he says, him that cometh to me I will no wise cast out. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father. We thank you for your word. We thank you for the gospel. We thank you that in the pages of your word we see The beauty of our Savior. We thank you that even in Joseph, in his wisdom and in his provision, and in his great plan of salvation, we see our Savior. And we thank you, Father, that you have provided a Savior for us, the Savior of the world. I pray that you would help those who are here this morning who are yet trusting in their own resources to see that this is folly, that they must come as starving sinners to the Savior to find forgiveness. I pray, Lord, that there would be someone who would do that today before they leave this place. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.