If you have your Bibles, please would you turn with me to the book of Romans, Romans chapter 8 One of the most significant leaders of the early church was a man simply known as Jerome. He was a great scholar and thinker, translator of the Latin Vulgates, a Bible version that dominated for nearly a thousand years. Jerome had a sincere desire to live a holy life, but he found it a nearly impossible task. Like many religious men of his day, he turned to asceticism to find victory over sin. Asceticism falsely teaches that if you punish and deprive your body, You will achieve holiness. So Jerome went out into the desert to live as a hermit. He fasted for weeks at a time until his body was emaciated. And his health was broken. Despite his discipline and devotion, he discovered that his heart was not becoming more holy But was just as wicked as it was before. He writes in his journal how often when I was living in the desert parched by a burning sun , Did I fancy myself among the pleasures of Rome? Jerome goes on to say that when he nearly died he finally cast himself at the feet of Jesus. So holiness is not achieved by sheer willpower or by isolating yourself from the wicked world. But how is holiness achieved? This is a monumental question that is addressed in many different passages in the New Testament. One of the most significant discussions of this issue that is known by theologians as sanctification is found in Romans chapter 8. If you were with us last week, you know that I preach from Romans 8. 1, there is therefore now no condemnation. to them which are in Christ Jesus. These are the opening words to what many consider to be the greatest chapter in the Bible. But what has come before this declaration, let me back up and give you a very brief synopsis of the book of Romans. The key word everyone agrees is the word righteousness. Paul first of all reveals in the opening chapters that whether a person is religious or irreligious, we are all inherently sinful and unrighteous. We have all come short. of the glory of God. He says that we are all guilty. And then Paul explains the great doctrine of justification by faith alone. The declaration of God that we are not guilty but righteous in Christ. He shows that this was accomplished by the death of Christ in our place. And that the wrath of God was appeased for our sins. In chapter 4, Paul reveals that salvation has always been by faith alone and not by works. In chapter 5, he further explains the benefits of our righteous standing before God. And then in chapter 6, Paul begins to speak. about the believer's sanctification or holy living. Notice how the order in which Paul takes up these doctrines He first speaks of our justification, that is our standing before God, and then to our practice. our sanctification. We must never get this order confused. We must know God before we can live for God. And we must know who we are, our true identity, before we can become who God intends us to be. We must never forget that our good works are the fruit of our union with Christ, but not the cause of our union. We are not saved because of our good works. But those who have been truly saved will exhibit good works. They will demonstrate that their heart has truly changed. I mentioned last week that this chapter is all about the believer's assurance. Paul is writing to remind Christians that they can know for certain that they are children of God and that nothing will ever change this. But there are some challenges that seem to threaten our standing with God. And Paul in this chapter addresses three of them. In the first 17 verses, he addresses our sin problem. And then beginning at verse 18, going down through verse 30, he addresses this matter of suffering in life. Can suffering separate us from Christ? And then in the final stanza of this great triumphant hymn, Paul reveals that not death Not all the powers of darkness, so nothing can separate us from the love of Christ. This chapter is all about the Christian's triumphant assurance. We don't make our journey to our heavenly home with a kind of joyless cynicism. Just waiting till we get there and can truly live. No, we we make that journey with a triumphant assurance. This is the way the Christian life is to be lived. I want you to notice that the first word in our text, verse 2, is the little word 4. Paul's a very logical writer. And so he likes to use this word for to link ideas and to further explain what he has just said. And one reason why we are no longer under condemnation is because we have been freed from the law of sin and death. Again, not because our behavior is the cause of our justification, but it is the necessary fruit of our union with Christ. But how can this be true? How can we practically live as those who have been freed from the bondage of sin? I suspect that there are many children of God who are here this morning who feel as if they are in bondage to sin. That's the way it seems. You sin and you sin and you're upset about your sin, but you continue to sin. And we're going to address this in our text, but I want you to know right up front here that if you are a Christian, the reality is that you are not in bondage to sin. That's the reality, God says. here and in other passages. So how do we live free from the bondage of sin? I want to mention two essential answers that are found in this text, two foundational truths that must buttress our Christian walk and fight against sin. The first one is found in verse 2. You must recognize the freedom that you have through the power of the Holy Spirits. It says, for the law of the Spirit of life in Christ hath made me free from the law of sin and death. Now, I must warn you right at the outset of this sermon that this text that we're looking at, verses 2, 3, and 4, are not the easiest verses in the Bible to understand. So I'm going to really challenge you to stay with me because I'm going to have to give a lot of explanation so that you really understand what Paul is saying. I want to approach verse two by answering four questions that we must grasp before we can figure out what Paul is saying. First of all, what does Paul mean by law in this verse? Notice it's found at the beginning and end of the verse. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ hath made me free from the law of sin and death. What gets complicated is that Paul uses this term law in several different ways as does scripture. It can be used to describe the whole Old Testament. It can be used to describe the first five books of the Bible, such as when it's divided as the law and the prophets. Most often, Paul uses this term to describe the Mosaic law, but it also can be used by Paul in a metaphorical sense to convey the idea of principle or governing authority. Paul uses law in that sense in several several times in this book, in chapter 3, verse 27, in chapter 6 and verse 2. And it seems to most scholars that this is the way Paul is using this term law in both cases in verse 2. He's using it to refer to a governing authority, not any particular law in and of itself, but to a governing authority. Secondly, what is Paul referring to when he speaks of the spirit of life in Christ Well, in context, Paul is referring to the third person of the Godhead, the Holy Spirit. He's going to make this more explicit a little later in this passage. Look with me at verse 11 of chapter 8. But if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his spirit that dwelleth in you. Therefore, brethren, we are not debtors to the flesh to live after the flesh, for if ye live after the flesh ye shall die, but if ye through the spirit Do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. Romans chapter 8 is one of the great chapters of the Bible On the doctrine of the Holy Spirit, especially in relation to our sanctification The Bible teaches that it's impossible to live the Christian life apart from the empowering influence of the Holy Spirit. I will say this more. about this at the conclusion of this message and in messages to come, Lord willing. The third question we must answer about verse 2 is what does Paul mean by made free of the law of sin and death? Well, the grammatical form in which this is phrased describes a deliverance that took place at a decisive event in the past, and that event was the death of Christ on the cross. You may recall that last week I spoke about our union with Christ. If you are in Christ When Christ died on the cross, there's a sense in which you died as well. This is what Paul teaches explicitly in Romans chapter 6. Turn with me, please, to Romans chapter 6 and verse 5. I want you to see this with your own eyes. Paul writes in Romans 6. 5, for if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection, knowing this that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. For he that is dead is freed from sin. Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more, death hath no more dominion over him. For in that he died he died unto sin once, but in that he liveth he liveth unto God Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. This is one of the most important truths that a Christian must grasp in their sanctification. This is one of those pillars that we must build our life on, one of those truths that are crystal clear in our mind and that we go back to again and again. And that is when Christ died, you died, and the authority and the power of sin was broken in your life. And I will say more about this later as well. So what does Paul mean by the law of sin and death? He means that we have been set free from the governing authority of sin in our lives. Before you came to faith in Christ, the Bible teaches you were a slave to sin. You may not have thought so, you may not have admitted it, but it's absolutely true. Sin was like a tyrant. You could not overcome its dominion in your life. That does not excuse your sin, because your own fallen heart was complicit with that. But the fact is that you were a slave. But everything changed when you trusted in Christ for salvation. The reference to death here speaks of eternal death in the lake of fire because the wages of sin is death. Hell is the final destination for those who are slaves to sin. But those who are in Christ are no longer slaves to sin. So let me put this all together in verse 2. The Holy Spirit, through Christ's death, has once and for all delivered us from the governing authority of both sin, of sin and therefore eternal death. This provides great hope for every believer. Because of the enabling power of the Holy Spirit, you are no longer under the authority of the tyranny of sin. So often I think we are so overwhelmed with the great doctrine of justification by faith and our deliverance from the penalty of sin. But I think we don't focus enough on the fact that the scripture teaches that we have also been delivered from the power of sin. Not that we are perfect, certainly, in this life, but sin no longer has dominion over us. Now Paul has already alluded to the death of Christ in verse 2, but now he's going to explain this in more detail. We can only be free from the tyranny of sin by receiving the deliverance that we have through the Holy Spirit. And secondly, you must recognize the freedom that you have through the sacrifice of Christ on the cross. And now I want us to look at verses 3 and 4. For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin condemned sin in the flesh. that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Notice that the first word in verse 3 again is this word 4. Paul is going to further explain what he's just said in verse 2. How can the Holy Spirit Free me from the tyranny of sin and death. Answer. He's going to explain that it's only through the death of Christ. But before he explains that, he's going to explain what cannot bring us victory over sin, and that is the law. Look at verse 3. For what the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh. Now Paul here is using the word law clearly to refer to the Mosaic Law. So he's using it in a different sense than he did in verse two. You may say, does Paul do that in his writing, where he switches from one sense to another? Yes, sometimes in the same verse. As like a play on words often. Paul's going to explain that the Mosaic law could not possibly free us from the tyranny of sin. And the reason why he's doing that is because many of his original readers would have been Jews who've been brought up to revere God's law And so when they think about this, the first thing that would come to the mind is, oh, that's simple. The answer would be it's the law that can give us deliverance. And Paul says, that is not so Paul says that the law could not only not save a person, it also cannot sanctify an individual. Now the problem is not that God's law is somehow defective. In chapter 7 and verse 12, Paul says, Wherefore the law is holy and the commandment holy and just and good. Paul says there's nothing wrong with the law. If the problem isn't with God's law, then where is the problem? The problem is found in this little term flesh that's used in verse 3. Paul here is using this to denote sinful human nature. The problem is not with God's law. The problem is with us. You see, the law doesn't change hearts. It only exposes our sin and condemns us. In fact, did you know that laws often incite disobedience? Did you know that? Saw this experiment once years ago where someone on a very busy street in Manhattan, New York set up this Big display and it had this hole about this big behind this plywood board and it said simply do not look in this hole And they set up a hidden camera there. And you know what happened? A large percentage of people who walked by looked around and they looked in the hole. There was nothing there to see. But the fact that it said not to do this made them want to do it. If someone keeps telling you not to do something, there's a part of your fallen fleshly nature that says, well, that's exactly what I'm going to do. I could give some very relevant illustrations from our world right now, but I won't We have a fleshly nature in us that always resists any kind of law or regulation that we're put under. Put it frankly, we don't like people telling us what to do. That's true of everyone. I was amused. I've had people come up to me before and say, Pastor, I I'm just the kind of person that doesn't like to be told what to do. And I said, You mean you're a human being? Notice that our deliverance for sin was initiated by God. For what the law could not do and that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son. It is God who intervenes. Paul is intentionally referring to him as his own son. Kind of parallel with John's statement, the only begotten son. And Paul uses the same expression later in this great chapter in this wonderful verse, verse 32. Look with me at this. He that spared not his own son. Paul will come back to this Only our gracious God can free us from the slavery of sin, and He is the one who took the initiative in freeing us from the slavery of sin. Now this phrase that we have in verse 3 is very precise. And if there was any difference in the way it is phrased, It would be stating something that is not only wrong, but is heretical. Look at this. God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh. Paul doesn't say in the likeness of human flesh. Because that would be to deny the full humanity of Jesus. There was an early heresy that said that Jesus only appeared to have a body. But that he didn't really have a body. And they believed that because they believed the body was inherently evil, that all matter was evil. And so Jesus couldn't have had a body. He only looked like he had a body, only appeared like he did, but he really didn't The apostles refute that false doctrine. Paul also doesn't say that Jesus came and sinned full flesh. Because that would be to deny the sinlessness of Christ. How could a sinful Savior rescue sinful people like us? But instead, Paul writes, in the likeness of sinful flesh, Jesus looked like every other human being. A person might have assumed that just by looking at him that he was fallen just like all of us. But he was not. He was sinless. The scripture says, For he hath made him that is Jesus to be sinned for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. It is only the perfect God man who could redeem fallen people like us from the bondage of sin. Notice it goes on to say, in the likeness of sinful flesh, for sin. What does it mean that he came for sin? Well, many theologians believe there's a reference here to the sin offering of the Old Testament, and the terminology may refer to that. But I think what's being emphasized here is that Jesus did not just come to save us from hell. He came to save us from our sin. Do you recall what the angel said was the significance of Jesus' name? He said, Thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. We need to be careful that when we present the gospel, we don't present it as fire insurance Jesus died on the cross so you wouldn't go to hell. That's true, but that's only part of the story He saved you so that you would be free from the power of sin and someday free from the very presence of sin. You would be like the Son of God. You would be sinless. And then it goes on to explain how this occurred. He condemned sin in the flesh. Paul has just used the term flesh to denote the weakness of fallen humanity, but now he refers, uses it to refer to the Son's incarnational death for sinners. This is the heart of the gospel. Jesus died as a sacrificial substitute for our sins. He absorbed God's just condemnation in his flesh. He satisfied God's wrath. He endured the curse that we all deserved. But why did Jesus do this? Look at verse 4. That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. Grammatically, this is a purpose statement. Now I have to say to you that there is a debate among Christian scholars. about how to take verse 4. And the question revolves around this, in what sense is the law fulfilled in us? There are many fine scholars to the centuries who would say that this must be a reference to Christ's work of justification. Because we certainly do not fulfill the righteous requirements of the law. And they would say, this goes back to chapter 8 and verse 1, where Paul says, There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. Jesus. I like that humble answer because I think we all feel like I'm not so sure I'm really in any sense fulfilling the righteous requirements of the law. The only problem is that everything in this immediate context argues against that view. In some way, this verse is saying that Christians fulfill God's law. But how can that be true? Let me make two clarifications. Number one This verse does not say that we perfectly fulfill God's righteous law. None of us do. And this verse is not suggesting that we obey God's law in our own strength. Our obedience can only be rooted in the gospel and the death of Christ. And the power for such a lifestyle comes only from the Holy Spirit, not from us. But I think what Paul is getting at is that the gospel and the work of redemption is not some theological, theoretical constructs. Where we are declared to be righteous, but we go off living in just the same sinful way that we have all of our days, that nothing really has changed except for The legalese, the the wording, God's declaration. And Paul is quick to say no. The gospel really does practically make a difference in people's lives. It really changes people from the inside outs Look at the final phrase in verse 4. It says, who walk not after the flesh But after the Spirit. This phrase is not conditional. It's not saying this is what you must do if you want to be saved. But it's descriptive of the Christian life. This is how a Christian can be described, should be described. They walk not after the flesh, after the old fallen nature, but they walk after the Spirit Paul's not saying that this is the way it is with like the Christian elite, the famous preachers and missionaries that you hear of. No, he's saying This is true of every born-again believer. We are all a work in progress. But progress is taking place. So what does it mean to walk after the flesh? To walk after the flesh means that you're essentially living as a lost person. That your choices and values exhibit your rebellion against God. For all that is in the world, the lust of flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. It 's not of the Father, but it's of the world. It means that your life is controlled, is driven by false idolatrous. Values that have always permeated human culture and society. There are many things that have changed from the time the scriptures were written. But human culture and the idols of men's hearts and the values that really drive lost people have not changed at all. They're exactly the same. But what does it mean to walk after the spirits? It means that your life is being controlled by the Spirits. It means that the Holy Spirit of God is guiding you and leading you But how could a person know if they're being controlled by the flesh or the spirit? I'm glad you asked. There's a passage that brings out a very clear contrast between these two lifestyles. Turn with me, please, to the book of Galatians. Galatians chapter 5. Galatians chapter five. I'd like to begin reading at verse sixteen Paul, the same author of Romans, says, This I say, then, walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary the one to the other, so that you cannot do the things that you would. But if ye be led by the spirit, ye are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these. So he's going to give a list now of the evidences of the flesh's control of a person. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness. These all have to do with sexual sins, and then idolatry, witchcraft, hatred. Variants, emulations, wrath, stripes, seditions, heresies, envings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like And there was much there dealing with the occult and dealing with relational sins He says in such like, in other words, this isn't an exhaustive list. I could go on and on and on with the manifestations of the flesh in a person's life. But then notice what he says, they that do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. But then we have this contrast. But the fruit of the spirits. Notice this isn't talks about the works of the flesh, something that's Is produced, something that that you um that that you manufacture as it were. But fruit is something different, something that is cultivated The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. This is what a life controlled by the Holy Spirit will produce You see, the more we are controlled by the Spirit of God, the more we will become like the Son of God, our Savior. Christ's likeness is always the end result of true sanctification. The Bible teaches that the gospel is not just a theoretical change, but a practical change The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 5. 17, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creation. All things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And we need to remember this. Now I want to make four brief applications from this passage as we close. Number one It is essential to our sanctification that we believe that we have been freed from the slavery of sin. Romans chapter six and verse eleven says this very pointedly. Reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. This is something that we are to reckon, that we are to count it as so, that we are to live with this as truth in our lives. This is part of your identity of who you are. If you still view yourself as a slave to sin, then you will live as a slave to sin. But the Bible says emphatically, you are not a slave to sin if you are a child of God's. We must always go back to the cross. It is there that we find our victory. This is not the power of positive thinking. But the way you think about things does make a definite difference in the way you act and respond. Let me give you an example. We all know about the Emancipation Proclamation. In 1863, where Lincoln freed the slaves. Did you know that many of the slaves were not so sure that this was really true? Some of them were suspicious and fearful, and so they stayed on their plantations and they lived as slaves, even though legally they were free men. They still lived as slaves. Others felt like they didn't know how to live as a free man. They'd never made decisions for themselves before How how would a person go out and get a job and and how how would they provide for their family? They weren't certain about that and so they felt more comfortable living on the plantation and just staying there even though they had the status now of being freed men And I think there are many Christians who live this way, this sub-Christian life, where they're like, I don't know how to live the Christian life, or I don't really believe that I'm free So I'm just going to do what I know, and I'm just going to stay living as I was before. But that is not true to the gospel. The second truth I want to bring out of this passage that we've examined this morning is this. It's impossible to grow in holiness by keeping the law or any set of laws. Many well-meaning Christians think of the Christian life as just a matter of maintaining certain standards and convictions. And so they have their list of things you can do and things you can't do, and that's the essence of Christian living. The only problem with that line of thinking is that's exactly the way the Pharisees thought. They put a hedge around God's law, and in time the hedge obscured God's law. And how far you could walk on the Sabbath day and how much you could carry and and all of these regulations, and but it did not change the heart at all. It's only the gospel that can change the hearts. I'm not saying there's no place for standards and convictions. for you and your household, but that will not bring power and sanctifying influence into your life Number three, it's impossible to grow in holiness without the empowering influence of the Holy Spirit. Once read of a man who came out in the morning to start his car, put his key in ignition, it wouldn't even turn over. He wasn't much of a mechanic. He didn't even look uh under the hood, he just called a tow truck driver, and the man came And he said to this man, I know exactly what your problem is. He says, what's that? He said, someone stole your engine To live the Christian life without the Holy Spirit is like trying to start your car without an engine. It will not work. And I hope to give you more information about yielding to the Spirit's control in the weeks ahead And finally, my final application is this. Everyone who is truly saved will seek to live a holy life. Everyone who is truly saved will desire to live a holy life. Everyone here that I look at and see, including myself, knows that we fall short. That we are not what we should be But the really important thing is, do you have a desire to live a holy life? Or does that thought never even occur to you? Do you have a desire to grow in grace and to go further in your Christian walk and to mortify the sins of the flesh? And to live more under the controlling influence of the Holy Spirit. Is that your heart's desire? Or do you never think that way at all? This chapter on the believer's assurance is to comfort and to bring confidence to us And I'm certainly not seeking to undermine anyone's assurance of salvation. But the painful reality is I fear that there are many in our churches who are only nominal Christians. The Christians in name only. They never think about going on in their Christian life. And I want you to know that for those who have no desire for holiness Who have no desire to fight against their flesh and sin. The Bible has no words of assurance for those who walk after the flesh. Jesus did not come to earth and die so that you would have a free pass to heaven. No, he came to save you from your sins. And so we must remember and examine our hearts. We all stumble and fall more often than we care to admit. But the question is, what path are you on? What is the direction of your life? What is the desire of your hearts? Does your heart long for more holiness to be more like Christ? Or does the only Reason that you're ever troubled by your sin is because it brings negative consequences into your life No, my friends, a genuine child of God has that cry in their heart, O to be like thee, blessed Redeemer. This is my constant longing and prayer. May God help us to be those who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you for the practical instruction that it provides for us. I pray that you would work in our hearts even today as we meditate on your scriptures. For it in Jesus' name we pray, Amen