Give your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Genesis chapter 47? March the twenty-second, seventeen fifty-eight, Jonathan Edwards, the great leader of the Great Awakening in the United States. Passed away. He died of a faulty smallpox vaccination. Beginning of that year, 1758, he became the president of what was then the College of New Jersey, we call Eastern today. And The administration wanted to encourage students to get inoculated. And so Jonathan Edwards decided as a leader that he would set an example. And so a month earlier he got the inoculation. But his throat began to swell and he became very ill. And after a painful ordeal, he finally died. He left behind a wife and ten children. His final words to his loved ones around him were, trust in God, you need not fear. Jonathan Edwards' wife Sarah wrote to her daughter Esther shortly after his death, and she said, What shall I say? A holy and good God has covered us with a dark cloud. Oh, that we may kiss the rod and lay our hands on our mouths. The Lord has done it. He has made me adore his goodness that we had him so long. But my God lives and he has my heart. Oh, what a legacy my husband and your father has left us. Edwards did leave a great legacy. There were great leaders in very areas of industry. Presidents of college, three senators, thirty judges, over a hundred lawyers, sixty physicians, seventy-five Army and Navy officers, one vice president And many preachers of the gospel, some direct descendants of Jonathan Edwards, are still preaching the gospel today, 270 years after his death. What a legacy of faith. This morning, as we come to our study of the life of Joseph, we find that once again his life intersects with the story of his father Jacob. In fact, our focus will be more on Jacob today than it will be on Joseph. Because the life of Joseph is actually embedded in the life of his father Jacob, the last patriarch. The fact is, you can't really understand what the Lord is doing in Jacob's life without tracing the providential work of God in the life of his son Joseph. And you can't really fully grasp the purposes of God in Joseph's life without considering what the Lord was doing in the life of his father. Our lives are intertwined with those around us. Jacob is one of the most colorful figures in the Old Testament. He was a man whose life was filled with peaks and valleys. And for over 20 years, he was in a state that can be described as a state of spiritual depression. After the death of his wife Rachel and the apparent loss of his son Joseph, Jacob sort of gave up on God. He felt that God had abandoned him, and he was just waiting around to die. But the Lord was not finished with Jacob. God would use a famine to relocate the family to Egypt and to reunite his dysfunctional family. Jacob left the dusty plains of Canaan and settled in the lush meadow fields of Goshen. But the most important aspect of Jacob's latter life was not geographically where he was, but the fact that he was with his family. He was with his sons and his grandsons, and that's where he lived the final 17 years of his life. Look with me at Genesis 47 and verse 28. This is what we have, the summary statement. And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt 17 years. So the whole age of Jacob was a hundred and forty -seven years. And in Jacob's final days, he seeks to pass on a legacy of faith to his children and grandchildren. This morning we're going to look at three deathbed scenes in the life of Jacob. I hope this is not uh depressing to you. But the fact is that death is a reality. And the Bible puts a big emphasis on Jacob's final words. Let me show you this. Look at verse 29 of chapter 47. It says, And the time drew nigh that Israel must die, and he called his son. Joseph, and said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and deal kindly and truly with me. Bury me not, I pray thee. in Egypt. And if you look with me now at chapter 48 and verse 1. And it came to pass after these things that one told Joseph, Behold, thy father is sick. And they took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. And then if you'll turn ahead to chapter 49 and verse 1. And Jacob called unto his sons and said, Gather yourselves together that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last days. So why did Jacob have three deathbed scenes? The answer is because the time of one's death is often hard to predict. Some of you have gathered by the bedside of an aging parent and you felt certain that they were going to die at any moment. But then they rallied and lived longer. What is clear in these three accounts is that Jacob was intent on giving some final instructions to his children and grandchildren. He did not want to die without expressing to them the most important facts and the most important events in his life. Jacob was intent on passing on a legacy of faith to his children. Jacob failed God in many ways throughout his life. He had his valleys. He had moments of disobedience. But Jacob, you can say this about him. Jacob finished well. He ended his life strongly, passing on a testimony, a heritage to his children. And that's what I want us to consider together this morning, how to pass on a legacy of faith. And I want you to notice three essential lessons to teach our children before we die. The first one is this. We should teach our children that God is worthy of our worship Look with me at these final verses in Genesis 47. I've already read verses 28 and 29. He calls on Joseph to come. And he makes him take a vow that he will not bury him in Egypt. He says in verse 30, but I will lie with my fathers, and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt. And bury me in their bearing place. And he said, I will do it as thou hast said. And he said, Swear unto me. And he said, and he swear unto him. And Israel bowed himself upon the bed's head. Joseph lived for seventeen years in Jacob's house at the very beginning of his life And Jacob lived for 17 years in Joseph's house at the end of his life. There's an interesting symmetry to that. But what occurred during those seventeen years that Jacob lived in Egypt? We don't know very much that transpired during that time. We know that when he first entered Egypt He was presented before Pharaoh in that very interesting scene where the aged patriarch stands before this pagan ruler and he blesses him. But besides that, the only other things we read of about those 17 years takes place at the very end of Jacob's life, these three deathbed scenes. But you could say that Jacob's finest hour was his last hour. I say that because in Hebrews chapter 11, in fact, if you can find that easily, it's at the very back of your Bibles. We're in the first book of the Bible, but Hebrews is very much towards the end of your Bible. Hebrews chapter eleven, this great chapter which has been called the Hall of Faith that recounts the great heroes of the Old Testament who walk by faith. It says in verse 21, just this very brief statement about Jacob. By faith. Jacob, when he was dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph and worshiped leaning upon the top of his staff. It's very interesting. Of all the things that could be said about Jacob's life, from the way he cheated his brother to that incredible scene at Bethel. to that midnight wrestling with the angel of the Lord and many others come to mind. The one thing the writer in Hebrews zeroes in on is the deathbed scene, the end of his life. And he says that Jacob did two significant things at the end of his life. Number one, he blessed his sons. We're going to read that in chapters 48 and 49 of Genesis. And number two, he worshipped God. Jacob has something very important to pass on to his son Joseph. He once To be buried in Canaan and not Egypt. Now, people who are dying often make requests for their burial, often as I have arranged funeral services, or even as people grow weak. And know that the end is coming, they will tell me of things they want in their funeral service, of hymns that they want to be sung, of passages to be read, of people that they want to sing special numbers. Sometimes these requests are very personal and tell you a great deal about them. But Jacob's request was not so much about him as it was his God. Jacob's request that he be buried in Canaan was actually an act of faith. Let me remind you. That this deathbed scene is mentioned in Hebrews 11, which is a chapter all about faith, the evidences of a living faith This was one of the clearest evidences that Jacob had in his life that he was truly a child of God, and that is the way in which he died. Jacob's burial in Canaan was a tangible demonstration that he truly believed that God's promises to his descendants would be fulfilled that someday they would leave Egypt and go back to the promised land Canaan. This was a test of his faith because who would want to be buried in a place where your family didn't live, where no one was there but people who didn't know you, to be forgotten. That step to request that burial in Egypt, as his son Joseph would make someday as well were both statements of faith that God will fulfill his promises. This is why I say this was Jacob's finest hour. And Joseph carried out this request. Turn with me to the last chapter of Genesis, Genesis chapter 50. Genesis chapter 50. We have here the scene when Jacob dies. It says in Genesis 50 and verse 1, and Joseph fell upon his father's face. And wept upon him and kissed him. And Joseph commanded his servants, the physicians, to embalm his father, and the physicians embalmed Israel And forty days were fulfilled for him, for so are fulfilled the days of those who are embalmed. And the Egyptians mourned for him three score and ten days. And when the days Of this morning were passed, Joseph spake unto the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found grace in your eyes, speak, I pray you And the ears of Pharaoh saying, My father made me swear, saying, Lo, I die in my grave which I have digged for me in the land of Canaan. There shalt thou bury me. Now therefore let me Go up, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I will come again. And Pharaoh said, Go up and bury thy father according as he has made thee swear. Now look ahead to verse 12. And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them, for his sons carried him into the land of Canaan and buried him in the cave of the field Magpalah, which Abraham bought with the field for possession of a bearing place of Ephron the Hittite before Mamre. Jacob was passing on a legacy of faith. That Joseph in turn would pass on to his family. Look with me at verses 14 through 16. And Joseph returned into Egypt, he and his brethren and all that went up with him. to bury his father after he had buried his father. And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, Joseph will per peradventure hate us. I'm sorry, that's the wrong passage that I wanted to read. What I wanted to look at was not fourteen, but twenty-four. And Joseph said unto his brother, the last verses of this book, I die, and God will surely visit you. And bring you out of this land into the land which he swear to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you. And ye shall carry up my bones from hence. And Joseph died, being a hundred and ten years old, and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt. We see a legacy passed on from father to son and to grandchildren. Now, let's turn back to Genesis 47, please. And that last verse, verse 31. Our text says that Israel or Jacob bowed himself. And we went not we may not know exactly what was going on if all we had was Genesis to consult, but more light is shed on this event in Hebrews 11. And there we read. that Jacob at this scene was worshiping the Lord. He request for burial in Canaan was actually an act of faith and worship. And at this meeting with Joseph, he bows his head, he prays and adores the God who has walked with him all of his days. One of the most significant examples we pass on to our children is our example of worship. In the second commandment, which speaks of not making unto thee any graven image, there is a thorough explanation of this. It says there that we are warned not to pass on a distorted example of idolatrous worship to our children because it's very likely that our children will copy our example, and their children will copy their example. And God says that He will bring judgment on us and on them who have followed in our steps of sinful, idolatrous worship. But when we pass on a legacy of authentic worship, it will go on and on by the grace of God to future generations. You know, children learn so much. by example. And it's not so much what we say we believe, but it's how we live what we believe that is truly grasped by our children. Can I speak to parents here for just a moment? Parents, if your children get the impression as they come of age that you really don't want to go to church, that it's kind of a chore that you have to do, and uh, you know, it's kind of uh like some obligation that you have, but you complain about it and you gripe about it. And anytime there is some kind of little excuse for not going to church, you grasp at it so you don't have to go Do not be surprised if your children grow up and never go to church. Because they will reason to themselves, why would I ever want to put myself through that misery that mom and dad do? It's not enough, mom and dad, to just come to church or send them to church. You need to come and you need to show them that this is a priority and that it's really the light of your hearts. Your children will follow what you truly enjoy doing. And this is something that we can pass on to our children. And even in death. We can teach our children about the importance of worshiping God. Some of you here have told me of times when you have gathered with family members around the bedside. of your loved one who was about to pass away, and you sang hymns and you prayed to God in their final breaths. What a beautiful thing that is. What a wonderful legacy to pass on to your family. It's a blessing to see people who have walked with the Lord for many, many decades. Use their final breaths to praise the Lord and to pass from this earth from worshiping here on earth to worshiping God in heaven. What a wonderful way to go. But I want us to turn now to Genesis 48 and consider second That we should teach our children only that God is worthy of our worship, but that He is worthy of our trust. Look with me at the first two verses. And it came to pass after these things. That one told Joseph, Behold, thy father is sick, and he took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. And one told Jacob and said, Behold Thy son Joseph cometh unto thee, and Israel strengthened himself and sat upon the bed. Sometime after this initial event Jacob's health begins to decline further, and so Joseph is summoned to come with his two sons. The thought is this might be it. This might be the very day that he dies. And Jacob is told that they are coming. And so Jacob sets up in bed because he is determined to speak to his son and to his grandsons. What he wants to say is very important. Jacob wants to remind them what God has done in his life. And Jacob will show them that God is worthy of their trust. And three ways. First of all, because God is faithful. Look with me at verses three and four. And Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared unto me at luz in the land of Canaan and blessed me. And he said unto me, Behold, I will make thee fruitful and multiply thee, and I will make of thee a multitude of people, and will give this land to thy seed after thee for an everlasting possession. Jacob gives a brief review of God's work in his life. He mentions two pivotal events in this chapter. One was delightful, and the other was devastating. The first one is he recalls that night in the wilderness when he was fleeing from his home from his brother Esau. And heaven's gate was open to him at Luz. He renames the place Bethel, the house of God. He recalls God's covenantal blessings that he received all those years ago. God said he would bless him and give him the lands and be true to his word. And now he says to his children and grandchildren, and God has been true to his word. God has been faithful to what he said he would do. Then in verse seven we read of the death of his wife. He says, And as for me, when I came from Padan, Rachel died by me in the land of Canaan in the way, when yet there was but a little way to come unto Ephrata. And I buried her there in the way of Ephrata, the same as Bethlehem. Jacob was devastated by the death of his beautiful wife. In one sense I think he was never the same after that But even in his profound grief, he is able to say that God was faithful to him. Then Jacob provides a second reason why God is worthy of our trust, and that is because God is good. Now I learned something this week that I've never seen before in this chapter And that is that Jacob legally adopts Joseph's two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh. Look with me at verse 5. He turns to Joseph and says, And now thy two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, which were born unto thee in the land of Egypt before I came unto thee into Egypt, are mine. As Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine. He uses legal language to convey an adoption. All the commentators are agreed on this. Look with me now down at verse 8. And Israel beheld Joseph's sons and said , Who are these? When he asks Joseph, who are these? He is not asking for information. This is actually part of an ancient transaction of an adoption. It's very easy for us to identify with. When I perform a wedding here, and I stand about where I am now, and I say, who gives this woman to be married? I want you to know, I already know the answer to that question. And everybody here knows the answer to that question. But I ask it because it's a significant part of the traditional wedding ceremony. It is putting the facts out on the table for everyone to understand. That's what's going on here. He had been living with Joseph. For the last 17 years, he knew these boys. He had seen them many times. He asked this question because this was an adoption ceremony. In a technical sense, they replaced the position of Reuben as his oldest son. Now, you might question this. But this is actually borne out in Scripture elsewhere. If you can find it easily, I invite you to turn with me to 1 Chronicles chapter 5. First Chronicles chapter five, the first couple verses here. It says This is a genealogy. It says, now the sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel, and then we have this parenthetical statement, for he was the firstborn, but For as much as he defiled his father's bed, his birthright was given unto the sons of Joseph, the son of Israel, and the genealogy is not reckoned after the birthright Verse 2, for Judah prevailed above his brethren, and of him came the chief ruler, but the birthright was Joseph's. So this is an amazing thing. Now you might think this is kind of strange. I mean the dad's right there, and so the grandfather is adopting his grandsons to be his sons. That would seem strange and Why would he do that? And and how would that be a blessing to Joseph? It was a tremendous blessing to Joseph. Because these boys that were born in Egypt of an Egyptian princess. Who probably looked very Egyptian. Joseph may have worried, I wonder if they're really going to be part of my people, the Hebrews. Are they really going to be part of the people of God? And his father adopts them in as founding fathers of the nation They are not fringe members who just got in by technicality. They are part of the very core of the people of God. And they would not only be sons of Jacob. They would have the rights of the firstborn, the greatest blessing that anyone could have. This must have thrilled Joseph's heart Joseph brings them forward and says, These are my sons whom God has given me. He knew that these children were a gift from God. And by the way, this is an important lesson for every parent to remember. Joseph sees his children as tangible evidence of the goodness of God. Now look with me at verses 10 and 11. And the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he could not see, and he brought them near unto him, and he kissed them and embraced them. And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face, and lo, God hath showed me also thy face. seed. What a wonderful testimony of the goodness of God. He says, I didn't ever think I would see you again. And not only have I seen you, my my favored son, but I've seen your sons. God has been so good to me. Now look with me at one of the most significant passages in the life of Jacob, verses 15 and 16. I want to skip down there. It says, and he blessed Joseph and said, God, before whom my father Abraham and Isaac did walk, The God which fed me all my life long unto this day, the angel which redeemed me from all evil, blessed the lads, and let my name be named on them in the name of my father Abraham, Isaac, and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth. In verses 15 and 16, Jacob uses some very interesting imagery that's beautiful that pictures his relationship with God. First of all, he says he is the God who has walked with me and guided me through life. You remember that when Jacob came before Pharaoh, he referred to his life as a pilgrimage. He was like a nomad moving all around. And of course, this is one of the great pictures of the Christian life. We are not permanent residents, as it were. We are pilgrims who are on our way to our home. And he says, God has guided me all my days. Just as he walked with my father and grandfather, so he has walked with me all my days. Look with me down at verse 21. This is beautiful. And Israel said unto Joseph, Behold, I die. But God shall be with you and bring you again unto the land of your fathers. He's like, I'm about to die, but that's not cause for grief, because God will still be with you. Notice that he is not only the God who walks with us through life, but he's the God who shepherds us. Says in our King James Version here, he says in verse 15, the God which fed me all my life long, the word fed there is the Hebrew word for shepherd. The God who has shepherded me all of my lifelong. This is the first time in Scripture that God is referred to as a shepherd. This was a very personal thing. Let's remember that Jacob was a shepherd. His wealth was in his herds. And as he looks over his life, he recognizes that God has been a shepherd that has provided all that he wants, all that he needs. This very well may have been the inspiration for David's famous 23rd Psalm, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. And he is the God not only who has led him and been a shepherd to him, but a God who has rescued him. You'll look at verse 16, it says the angel which redeemed me from all evil. And in my version, the word angel is capitalized. It's a reference to deity. He's saying that God, all through my life, when I made bad choices and I was in very bad situations, God rescued me. From one calamity after another , Jacob is looking back. And he makes this wonderful summary of his life. It really reveals a profound change in perspective. Theologians talk about three important statements that Jacob makes in his life that reveal something of his outlook, his interpretation of his life. We've looked at these throughout our study of the life of Joseph because their lives are intertwined. But when Jacob hears About the problems that his sons had in Egypt with this very harsh ruler they had encountered and his demands. He says, all these things are against me. That's an expression of how he looks over his life. My life's grown really hard. I mean, I've had nothing but one problem after another. It seems as if God is against me, even though He's supposed to be for me. I'm supposed to be his part of his chosen people, but it doesn't seem like that, he's saying. And then when he appears before Pharaoh , He says, few and evil or difficult have been the days of my pilgrimage. He says, you know, God's been with me, but it's been really, really hard. But now he's been living in Egypt for 17 years, and he's had a chance to reflect To enjoy getting to know his son, seeing his family work together in harmony, getting to know his grandsons. And he's able to say, you know what? God has been so good to me. He's been like a shepherd to me all of my days, giving me all that I need. He realizes how good God has been to him. He's like, at the end of his life, like a mountain climber who's been climbing this great peak and has finally reached the summit. And is now able to look down over the side at that vast distance from which he has come and see Things clearly that he did not see before. Sometimes our life story only comes into focus at the end of our lives I have been with a few people when they died. I have been with many people on the day that they died. And some of them were still strong enough and able to speak. And I would say that probably the most common sentiment or statement that I heard from the people of God as they died was this: God has been so good to me. That is the testimony of the people of God as they look back over their life. Does that mean they didn't have difficulties? No, they had many difficulties, many trials, but as they see the big picture They say , God has been so good. It's important for us to give this testimony to our children and our grandchildren. And the third reason that God is worthy of our trust is because he is sovereign. And this is a very interesting circumstance here that we consider. Look with me at Genesis 48 now and verse 20. And Joseph brought them out, that is his sons, between his niece, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth, and Joseph took them both, Ephraim , in his right hand towards Israel's left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand towards Israel's right hand, and brought them near unto him. And Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it upon Ephraim's head, who was the younger, and his left hand upon Manasseh's head, guiding his hands wittingly, for Manasseh was the firstborn Now look down with me at verse 17. And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the head of Ephraim, it displeased him. And he held up his father's hand to remove it from Ephraim's head unto Manasseh's head. And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father. For this is the firstborn. Put thy right hand upon his head, and his father refused and said, I know it, my son, I know it. He also shall become a people, and he also shall be great. But truly His younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become the multitude of nations. Now let me remind you that these boys were not little kids. It uses specific language fit for the ritual here, but these young men would have been in their late teens or early twenties, because they were live when Jacob entered the land 17 years earlier. And Joseph has it all lined up. He puts the firstborn in front of Jacob's right hand, the second born in front of his left hand. He doesn't want there to be many mistakes. This is a very significant moment And what does his father do? He crosses his arms like this And the wording that's used here is that Joseph was angered by this He must have been thinking, that's just like my dad. He's always been a rascal. I have things lined up here. I have everything planned and ordered, and my dad changes everything at the last minutes. He says, not so, my father. There's frustration there. And he takes his father's right hand firmly to put it and to move it from Ephraim's head. But you know what? Jacob would not budge. He essentially says to Joseph, I know what I'm doing. This is the fifth and last time of the book of Genesis that we read of the secondborn receiving the blessing that you would expect to go to the firstborn. Seth was favored over Cain, Shem over Japheth, Isaac over Ishmael, Jacob over Esau, and now Ephraim instead of Manasseh. The fact is that God often does the unexpected in our lives. Joseph felt that he knew what was best for his boys, but God had other plans. God is sovereign. God is faithful. He is good. And he is sovereign and he is worthy of our trust. And that brings me to my third point, and that is that we should teach our children that God is worthy of our service. Would you turn with me to Genesis 49? We come now to the third. Death scene. And verse 1 it says, And Jacob called unto his sons and said, Gather yourselves together that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last days. Jacob is both a patriarch and a prophet. And we're not going to go through all of these prophecies and summaries of these sons. Let me just say that the sons of Jacob are divided up into two groups. The first seven sons are put together in the first group, and it's Judah Who receives the most attention there, and rightfully so. He is called the Lion from the tribe of Judah. If you look with me at verse 10, this very significant messianic verse. It says, the scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor lawgiver from between his feet until Shiloh come, and unto him shall the gathering of the people be. This is a clear reference that the Messiah would come from the tribe of Judah, the tribe whose name means praise. But in the second grouping of five sons, it is Joseph's prophecy that stands out. Look with me down now at verse 22. Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful bough by a well whose branches run over the wall. The archers have sorely grieved him and shot at him and hated him, but his bow abode in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands of the mighty God of Jacob. From fence is the shepherd, the stone. This is an incredible thing. It uses to begin with in verse 22 this imagery of a branch that's just filled with fruit. This is a takeoff on Ephraim, whose name means fruitful. Although Joseph's mother was once known as the Barren Woman, she would become the mother. or the grandmother of the most prolific tribe. But Joseph's life was far from easy, and verses 23 makes mention of that It refers to the archers who have shot at him, probably a reference to the words, the painful words of his brothers and others that Joseph had to endure. But how did he survive? The answer is that his bow abode in strength, and the arms of his hand were made strong. By the hands of Almighty God. You see, God's grace is able to sustain you under any trial, no matter how difficult it may be. He is able to make all grace abound to you And once again we have a reference to the shepherd. From thence is the shepherd, the stone of Israel. And verses 25 and 26 prophesies that Joseph and his descendants would be blessed beyond any of the other tribes. We read it together. I'm not going to read it. It just has layer of blessing on top of layer of blessing. Joseph faced great suffering so that he might serve the Lord in a special way. He was prepared for the palace in the pit and in the prison. Now the Bible is not teaching in the life of Joseph that if I am faithful to God, he will bless me beyond my wildest dreams. It would be easy to make that application from the life of Joseph, and some prosperity gospel preachers have done so. But let us remember that God revealed to Joseph in a dream that he would someday be exalted to a position of leadership. This was God's gracious choice long before he endured any suffering or demonstrated any faithfulness. However, God does promise rewards to those who faithfully serve Him, not as a payment for what we have done. But as a gracious gift despite our failures. God is a debtor to no man. No man can say truthfully to God, you owe me. Because God is not a debtor. No one who has given their life to serve the Lord will regret it in the end. No, instead we will be astounded by the blessing that God lavishly gives to us. Those who serve the Lord as pastors and missionaries, must never give anyone the impression that their serving the Lord is somehow a bad deal. It is difficult. It is draining. There are hardships and burdens, but there are also blessings. And we must never forget that. Jacob finally dies at the end of this chapter. Look with me at chapter 49, verse 33. It says, and when Jacob had made an end of commending or commanding his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed and yielded up the ghost and was gathered unto His people. What a beautiful way to die. He passes on a legacy of faith in his dying words In his final comments, he's taught his children that God is worthy of their trust. He is worthy of their worship. He is worthy of their service. John Wesley used to say of the Methodist that our people die well. What he meant by that is that they died in faith, they died in peace. Because they knew that they were going to see their God. They died with confidence they were going to their father's house. Let me ask you this morning: do you have that confidence? No man is truly ready to live until he's ready to die. And the only way to be ready to die is to know the Lord as your Savior. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me So let me ask you this morning, have you come to the Father through his son? People don't like to think about deaths. It's a morbid topic, people will say. But unless the Lord returns soon, everyone here will someday die. It's a reality that we seek to ignore, deny, and forget, but it's the truth. The Word of God says it's appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment. My question to you this morning is this. Are you prepared for death? Are you ready to meet God? Do you have confidence that when you close your eyes in death, you will open them with the Lord because the Bible says to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. Is that your confidence? Is that your sure and certain hope? Because you have cast all of your soul upon Christ, who died for your sins. This is the only way to die with dignity. The only way to die in peace and in confidence is when we die in the Lord. And it's only then That we can pass on a legacy of faith to our children and our grandchildren. May God help us to be ready to meet Him Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you that it has all that we need Thank you that it's timeless. And Father, it's also like a sword that pierces our hearts, reveals who we are. Reveals our sinfulness and our need of a Savior. I pray that you would take the words that have been spoken today and use them, Father, to draw sinners to the Savior. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.