I'd like to invite you to turn with me in your Bibles to Hebrews chapter seven. Let's go to the Lord in a brief word of prayer. Father, we come to you through Christ tonight, and we ask that you would meet with us With us in a unique way, Lord. We know that you are always with us. We know that when we gather together in your name, there you are in the midst of us. But we ask tonight for a special presence of the Lord. We ask that you would work in our own heart as we meet corporately but individually To hear from the Word of God and to have you, Lord, speak to us. We pray, Father, that you would bless your word tonight. I pray, Father, that you would help me, that you would fill me with your your spirit and I pray Father that you would comfort the believers here that need comfort I pray that you would Convict those who are drifting from you tonight. And I pray that with the power of your word you would save those who are Outside of Christ. Lord, help prepare us for the Lord's table before us. And I pray that this time would build us up in our most holy faith. Lord, we ask, would you bless your word tonight? In Christ's name. Amen. I plan to continue tonight with a series on the intercession of Christ in preparation for the Lord's table. One of the challenges of teaching this subject is that we are Considering a subject that is really a heavenly reality that is unseen Just think for a moment, the intercession of Christ. You can't see that. Nor are you doing that. That's something that Christ does in heaven, unseen to you. And me. And therefore, we do not always see the immediate relevance of a subject like that to our own lives. For instance, if I were preaching a series on marriage or applying biblical discernment to entertainment choices, Or if I were preaching a series on church unity, or the Christian's response to suffering, I think we would almost instantly and instinctively see how those subjects are relevant to our lives, would we not? But the intercession of Christ is an activity that is unseen and carried out by Christ. And I think for the average Christian, this reality is very fuzzy. In our minds. We may know that it's something that Christ does, but that's perhaps all we know. This doctrine has not become some unmovable. Pillar in our minds and hearts, a truth that we run to when we are tempted, when we are suffering, when we are doubting, when we And I fear that for many Christians regarding this doctrine, that old adage is true: out of sight, out of mind. Out of sight, out of mind. I can't see Christ interceding. It's not something that I'm necessarily engaged in. So I don't really think about it. It doesn't have a firm grip on my heart. One of my goals in this series is to help us see the necessity of Christ's intercession. This is stated clearly in our passage in verse 25. It says he is able to save to the uttermost. since he ever lives to make intercession for them. Our salvation, as we have already seen, is dependent on and requires the intercession of Christ. From the time of our conversion through our preservation in our faith and ultimately Are standing before the Lord, received by him into glory, we are dependent upon Christ's continual prayers for us. When we sin, it is Christ who is our advocate. When we are accused, it is Christ who comes to our defense. When our faith is weak, it is Christ who holds us fast. I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail, he said to Peter. When we are suffering, it is our great high priest who sympathizes with our weakness. And when we stand before the bar of God one day, it will be Christ who presents us holy, unblamable, and beyond reproach in the sight of our God. I hope during this series you come to see how necessary the ministry of Christ is and how much you need to rely upon it. But my second desire, and you could even say my second goal for this series, is that we would come to understand more of the nature of Christ's intercession. Which was the focus of our last message. Since this is such an important ministry of Christ, I don't want this subject to remain fuzzy and kind of nebulous in our thinking. But rather that we would have clarity and certainty knowing something about how Christ is praying for us and the echo efficacy of his prayers. You may recall from our last message that the nature of Christ's intercession is such, it is representational, it is petitional, it is regal. It is perpetual and it is presentational, and each of those has implications for us. We may, however, be convinced of the necessity of Christ's intercession, and we may have come to understand more of the nature of it. But these truths will not be of any real comfort and use to us unless one more very important question is answered, and that is the question that we are going to consider tonight. How can you be certain that Christ is interceding for you? Tonight, I want us to consider not the necessity or the nature, but the object of Christ's intercession. For whom does Christ intercede? Does Jesus Christ intercede for you? And how can you be certain? of that. Look with me at Hebrews 25. For whom does Christ intercede here? Hebrews seven twenty five. Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession For them. Notice that last word of this verse to make intercession for them. That third Person, personal pronoun is referring to the group of people for whom Christ intercedes. And what we are seeking to know tonight is who is or who are the them? Who is Christ interceding for? Well, they are the same group of people that receive the benefits of his intercession. They are the ones whom Christ saves to the uttermost. But verse 25 doesn't stop there. It goes on and it limits and it defines this group of people even further as those who look down at verse 25. Those who draw near to God through Christ. For whom does Christ intercede? He intercedes for those who draw near to God through him. So what we are going to do tonight is simply this. We are going to consider What it means to draw near to God through Christ. And then we are going to evaluate: is that something that is true of me? And in so doing, we can be assured that Christ is indeed our intercessor. I have three questions to guide our thinking and our study tonight. First, what does the term draw near mean? The expression is a single Greek word. Proserchumai, which means or is translated to approach, to come, or to, in our case here in the ESB, to draw near. This word occurs throughout the New Testament. but it appears seven times in the book of Hebrews. And what I would like us to do is sample three of those occurrences related to our context here. So would you turn with me to Hebrews chapter 4 and verses 15 through 16. We're going to be looking very briefly at three uses of this expression, draw near. Hebrews 4, verses 15 through 16. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. But one who is in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy And find grace to help in time of need. Turn with me now to Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 1. Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 1. For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come instead of the true forms of these realities. It can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near. Look down with me at now saying the same chapter, verses 19 through 22. Verses 19 through 22. Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that He opened for us through the curtain, that is, through His flesh. And since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near, with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience. and our bodies washed with pure water. When we look at the use of this term in the book of Hebrews, we discover a number of very important things. First, this word almost always occurs in the present tense, meaning that it is an ongoing, continuous action. It is repeated. It is not a once-and-done activity. Christ ever lives to intercede for those who continually draw near to God through him Second, the meaning of this expression is better understood when we contrast in contrast to its converse or its opposite. Throughout Hebrews, we are admonished to draw near in contrast to falling away. Like a boat floating down a slow-moving river. One moment it's in plain sight, and the next moment you look up. And that river has just slowly taken that boat around the bend and it's gone. It's drifted away. The Christian life is never stagnant. You are either drawing near or its opposite. You are drifting away. Third, and most importantly, Every time this expression is used in Hebrews, it refers to accessing the presence of God. Accessing the presence of God, but in a new and unique way than what was ever known before. Let me illustrate this. Turn with me. Now back in our Old Testament to Leviticus chapter 9, verses 1 through 5, we have the same occurrence of this word. translated in the Septuagint. The expression draw near is used intentionally by the writer of Hugh Hebrews, because it is pregnant with old covenant meaning and implications. In accordance with the Mosaic law, the Levitical priests were permitted to draw near to the presence of God. Within the tabernacle. However, there were limitations, as you well know. Access to the innermost sanctuary, known as the Holy of Holies where God's presence actually resided was forbidden. Only on one occasion, one person, one day of the year, could draw near to God through the veil. Unless you were the high priest, you as an Israelite would live all of your days, never drawing near to the innermost presence of God. Furthermore, only to a very limited extent could the common Israelite draw near to the Lord. We're here at verses one through five. On the eighth day Moses called Aaron and his sons and the elders of Israel, and he said to Aaron, Take for uh for yourself a bull calf for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering, both without blemish, and offer them before the Lord. And say to the people of Israel, Take a male goat for a sin offering, and a calf and a lamb, both a year old without blemish, for a burnt offering, and an ox and a ram for a peace offering. to sacrifice before the Lord, and a grain offering mixed with oil, for today the Lord will appear to you. And they brought What Moses commanded in front of the tent of meeting, and all the congregation drew near and stood before the Lord. But I want what I want you to notice is this drawing near was still very restricted They came outside the tabernacle. The expression drawn near in verse 5 is synonymous with standing before the Lord On various occasions, Israel gathered as a congregation before the Lord, early in their pilgrimage at the base of Mount Sinai, and later around the tabernacle. The point that I'm making is that drawing near for all of Israel except the high priest did not mean actually coming into the Holy of Holies. Only the high priest could do that. Israel could not touch the base of the mountain, much less ascend it like Moses, nor could they enter within the veil like Aaron the High Priest. Now I want you to contrast that kind of drawing near under the old covenant. To the kind of drawing near that Hebrews is speaking of. Turn with me back to a passage we've already considered, but we're going to look at it under a new light. Hebrews chapter 4. And verse sixteen. Hebrews chapter four and verse sixteen I'm going to wait till the pages are rustling because I really want your eyes to meet with the words in this verse. Let us with confidence draw near to the throne To the throne. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter twelve and verse twenty-two. Hebrews chapter twelve and verse twenty-two. I said that almost every occurrence of this Expression to draw near occurs in the present tense. There are two occasions in Hebrews in which it occurs in the perfect Perfect tense, meaning it's it's an action that has happened, but is it has continuing results or continuing effects. And here in chapter 12 is one of those occurrences in the perfect tense. He says, but you have come. That is our word, Prasercomai. You have drawn near to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to the inner uh excuse me, and to innumerable angels in festal gathering and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks better things than that of Abel. Brothers and sisters, this is a drawing near of an entirely different kind. Not an earthly, not a temporal, not a restricted and limited drawing near. This is a coming to To the eternal heavenly presence of God, unlike anything the people of God had known before. This is the privilege of the new covenant believer. We draw near to the throne of God So what does that mean? What does it mean to draw near? Would summarize it very succinctly and portably this way. It is to continually come into the presence of God. It is to continually come into the presence of God. Those who are continually coming into God's presence Through his son are the ones for whom Christ intercedes. This is the privilege and it is the pattern of the believer. We are a royal priesthood. Who regularly access the presence of God. There was a college professor Who had a personal study at home? This was an office building that was attached to the exterior of his house. And this particular office had two doors that were part of it. The first door would take you outside. the the office. And there was on the outside of the office his his hours that were listed in which his students could come and visit him. But that door for most most of the day remained locked. And his office was inaccessible to most of the outside world. But I mentioned there was a second door in that office, and that second door led inside to his home. There was a great difference between the door that led inside to his home and the door that led outside. The door on the inside Had no lock. Actually, it didn't even have a handle. It just swung freely on its hinges. You could open it with hardly any effort at all. The reason being for that is so that his little child could at any time put Open that door and instantly access the presence of his Father. God has given to us Instant, unlimited right of access into his presence that Throne of grace that we may draw near at any time But for what purpose do we draw near? I'm going to be taking a few thoughts here from the Puritan pastor John Owen, who wrote extensively on this subject. First, our initial coming to God, our initial drawing near, is for salvation. Thus, coming to God Is to believe in him. It is the response of faith. Isaiah 118 says Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall be like wool. Matthew 11, 28, Christ says, Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. John 6, 37, all that the Father give me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out. This initial coming, this initial drawing near is the response of faith. It is to believe the gospel. And likewise, unbelief is the refusal to come to Christ. Christ said, You will not come to me that you may have life. But this initial coming to God In faith for salvation is not the kind of coming that Hebrews is speaking of. There is a second kind of coming, a continual coming to God after salvation that characterizes the believer. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 1. Just to back a couple of chapters in your scriptures. Now here I prefer to use the King James rendering of this verse. It says, For the law having a shadow of good things to come. and not the very image of the things can never with those excuse me can never with those sacrifices which they offer year by year, continually, make The comers, that's the King James translation, the comers, thereunto perfect. Who are the comers express? here with the definite article. Who are those who continually draw near to the presence of God? Well look down at verse 2. Verse 2, otherwise would they not have ceased to be offered since the worshippers Have once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sin. Here in this context, the one who draws near to God is a what? A worshiper, a worshiper The one who draws near to God is synonymous with the one who worships God. It has the idea of closeness with God. This is what characterizes the life of the Christian. The Christian is a comer. A drawer nearer, if I could say it that way. He is one who draws near. He is a worshiper. This is God's ultimate desire that he be worshipped. God is seeking worshipers who worship in spirit and in truth. And the very essence of worship here in this context is to be near to God. It is to be close to God. That was the whole purpose of the sacrificial system. It was to bring sinful people near to Yahweh. To worship. Now just zoom out and think about your entire Bible. and the trajectory of redemptive history. What has God been doing? Think for a moment. Go to Genesis. God created Adam and Eve and he dwelt with them in the garden. He wanted to be with the very people that he had created, to be near them in that garden And of course, Adam and Eve fell, and sin separated them The entire plight of the human race is the result of being separated from God by him. Sin. And yet, all throughout redemptive history, God has been working to redeem a people that they may draw near to his presence. So he chose Abraham. And he called out a people to himself to be his own nation among the nations. And then he separated that people from Israel and from Egypt. And he gave them a law, and he established a sacrificial system, and he gave them rule after rule and instruction after instruction that you can read of in Exodus and Leviticus and Deuteronomy. So that he might descend from heaven and dwell among them, tabernacle among them, to be with and near his people. But he went beyond that. That whole sacrificial system was to point to his son, because God would then come to earth and dwell among us as a man, as one of us. But that in itself was not an end. He did that so that he might by his spirit dwell in us. And yet that itself is not the end. So that we through Christ might forever dwell with him. You see, this is the work of God throughout redemptive history. God is drawing a people to himself. To be near him, to worship him And throughout our life we draw near to God in repentance. James says, draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. We draw near to God for grace and help in time of need. Psalm 73, 28 says, the nearness of God is our good. When we are brokenhearted, God draws near to us. Psalm 34:18, the Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit. The Christian is one who is constantly drawing near to God, seeking intimate communion with his God. And that is the end of his pursuit ultimately. It is to be with Christ, to be absent from the body. Is to be present with the Lord. Is this what characterizes your inner life? That unseen part of you. Are you a comer? It doesn't matter what man thinks of you. Does God know you to be one? Who is drawing near to him? Lastly, and most importantly, I want to consider the means by which we draw near. Our verse says that he is able to save forever those who draw near to God through him. That through him is very important. There are many religions and many ways in which people seek God, but only those who draw near to God through Christ. Know God in truth, and it is only for them that Christ intercedes. So, what does it mean to come to God through Christ? Well, the surrounding context is going to inform us of this meaning. So to come to God through Christ means, number one. You must come in obedience to Christ, submitting to his authority. It deals with the authority The authority of Christ. Jesus Christ is God's divine Son. The very opening of the book of Hebrews, chapter 1, establishes the person of Jesus Christ. Verse 2 of chapter 1, he is the radiance of the Father's glory. He is the exact imprint of his nature. Jesus Christ and the Father have the same divine nature. That's why we can say Jesus Christ is God. He is the second member of the Trinity. Verse 6 of chapter 1, he is the one to whom the Father commanded the angelic hosts to worship. Think about this. What is one of the very first commandments of the Ten Commandments? Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve, right? We are to have no other gods before me. So imagine this. In heaven, God calls all of the angelic beings to worship his son. That would be the highest form of idolatry issued by God the Father if Jesus Christ were anyone less than God Himself. And by the way, that is one verse that Jehovah's Witnesses have not taken out of their scriptures yet. You can go to Hebrews chapter 1, verse 6, and make that logical argument from that text. Verse 8. God the Father addresses his son. I'm still in Hebrews chapter 1. God the Father addresses his son as God. What greater witness do we need than the scripture's record of the Father addressing the Son, oh God? To come to Jesus, to come to God through Christ is to acknowledge the authority, the person of Christ. And consequently, it is to obey his message. This Hebrews tells us that Jesus is the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him. There are many people who come to God but do not acknowledge the Son to be fully divine, and in so doing they belittle his authority. Christ's command is to repent and believe the gospel. And you must obey Him To come to God. You must acknowledge His divine person and obey His divine command. Second, to come to God through Christ means that you must come to God trusting in the merits of Christ's sacrifice alone. To come to God through Christ means that you must trust in the merits of Christ's sacrifice alone. Hebrews 10, verse 19 Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy place, listen to this, by the blood of Jesus. by the new and living way which he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh We come with our confidence in the bodily sacrifice of Jesus Christ. We've already seen that under the old covenant, the way into the presence of God was not yet opened, signified by the veil of the temple through which no one could enter. But on the day in which our Lord was lifted up upon the cross, and his blood was shed, and the veil of the temple was rent from top to bottom. God could not have made the message clearer The way to come to God has now been opened for all. It is through faith in the blood and the body of our Lord that we come. We come through the veil. Which symbolically represents the body of our Lord that was rent outside the city gates. Christ is the veil through which we come to God. Have you made that connection? Christ is there outside the city gates, his body torn for us. And in the moment of his death, the veil inside the temple is rent. What was God saying through that? Well, first he was saying that access to his presence is now available. Yes, but how is it available? Through the man outside the city gates. Whose body was torn. It is through Jesus Christ we come to God. By his blood, by his body Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, the life. No man comes to the Father but by me. There is salvation in no one else. For there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. There is one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. What a humbling thing it is for a person to acknowledge that there is no other way to God than by the work and the worth of Jesus Christ. The heart of man wants God to accept him because of his own goodness and merit. In his pride, he cannot accept that his efforts will never be good enough That is insulting to him. It angers him like it did Cain. But the one who is to be saved looks to the man upon the cross and says. I may be saved only because of him. There is no other way This is what it means to come to God through Christ. I want to ask you two very important questions tonight. First, have you come to God through Christ in the way that we have just laid out from the scriptures? I want you to know I'm not speaking to some imaginary guest that's with us tonight. I'm speaking to you. You may have been a member longer, a member at this church longer than I have been. You may be very well known and very respected in this church. Or you may be visiting with us for the first time tonight, and we welcome you. But I ask you to consider your soul right now. Have you come to God through Christ alone? My second question is: this Are you continuing to come to God through Christ? Christ alone. Is this the pattern of your life drawing near to God through Christ And if you can say in all honesty tonight, Yes, by the grace of God, I have come through Christ alone. And by the working of him in my heart, I do come. Not often as I should, but I come to God. I draw near to God through Christ. Then I have the most blessed news for you tonight, the greatest assurance for you tonight. This Christ, this Savior, this great intercessor that we have committed now several messages to , considering and studying The power, the efficacy of his intercession before the right hand of God. He is doing all of that. For you. Christ is interceding for you For all those who draw near to God through Him. And if you are among them, then you have Christ as your great intercessor, and you need to believe that. And you need to draw the greatest comfort and Assurance from that for you personally. Christ is interceding for you Now I want to speak very briefly to those who doubt if they have come to Christ in the right way. And I I 'm very wary of our time. But I think there's a really precious gem of application here, and I want to leave it with you before I depart. I am speaking to those who believe that there is no other way to be saved than through Christ alone. You are confident about that. But you are troubled by whether or not you have repented thoroughly enough, or you have said the right words, or you have been sincere enough, or if you have been believing sufficiently. when you came to Christ. I want to point out to you an aspect of Christ's intercession that I believe answers this deep concern. So please listen. And closely. At the end of Isaiah 53, that great chapter that vividly foretells the suffering of Christ on the cross, the last verse says this. He bore our sins, or he bore the sins of many, and makes intercession for the transgressor. He makes intercession for the transgressor, not the justified person. But the sinner. You know, back in Hebrews, or excuse me, Romans 5, it says, while we were still without strength. Christ died for us. Well, here it's saying that Christ interceded for the transgressor. What does Christ's intercession for the transgressor do? It calls for the salvation which his death secured to be applied to that salvation. Sinner. When and where was this fulfilled? On the cross, Christ not only died for us, but he also interceded for us. Us when he cried, Father, forgive them The forgiveness which his death secured, his intercession made effectual for the sinner. When we wrestle over our prayer, seeking to have just the right frame of spirit and the perfect faith and perfect repentance. There may be in us the wrong assumption that it is our prayer that brings salvation down from heaven. We're not questioning whether that salvation has been completely provided for in Christ and accomplished in Christ. We know it's Christ alone, but somehow we think that there's something in me that is going to compel God to bring that down to me. But we are in fact looking to the wrong prayer. It is the prayer of Christ, Father, forgive him. The one who intercedes for the transgressor. It is his prayer that brings salvation down to us So what are we looking to? Are we looking to ourselves? Are we looking to the earnestness of our prayer? Or are we looking to Christ's finish sacrifice? And his prayer for us, Christ, intercedes for the transgressor. My last admonition tonight is that if you are drifting away from the Lord, That you would hear the call tonight by the Spirit to come, to draw near as we fellowship and communion together as a church, that you would not, if you are a Christian, not stand far off. But you would come and draw near to the Lord as we remember and confess our faith in his blood and his body That was shed, that was broken 2,000 years ago on that old rugged cross. May the Lord help us to draw near tonight. Through him. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this wonderful passage and this wonderful assurance that we have this great intercessor as ours. Because by your grace we have come to Christ and we have tasted of his great salvation. We pray you would bless this time now in Christ's name. Amen.