Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to Genesis chapter 50? Genesis chapter 50, the last chapter of the first book of the Bible. One of the most interesting families in the history of the church was the Wesley family. Family that produced John and Charles Wesley. John, one of the greatest preachers the world has ever seen, and his brother Charles, one of the greatest hymn writers who ever lived. In fact, we sang one of his hymns today. Samuel and Susanna Wesley were the parents of 19 children. Nine of them died as infants. And you often hear of John and Charles, but you may never have heard of a sister that everyone in the family called Hetty. She was the brightest and the most beautiful of the seven Wesley girls, and she possessed the rich poetic genius of her older brother, Charles. After being sent away from home by her father several years earlier, the 28-year-old Hetty returned to the Leslie home in Epworth, five months pregnant. Her father refused to even look at her and would not listen to her as she cried out for forgiveness. He sent her away and arranged a hasty marriage. To a man who treated her horribly. For years to come, she would write letter after letter to her father pleading for his forgiveness But she never received a reply. And she says in one of her letters that she would have given one of her eyes to fall at her father's feet and to know that he had pardoned her. Forgiveness is one of the most precious commodities in the world. It is one of the greatest gifts that you can give to another human being. And it's something that sinful people desperately need. This morning we are going to conclude our study of the life of Joseph. The overarching theme of Joseph's life story is the providence of God. That God works all things together for good. That He weaves together all the different threads of our lives, the dark threads and the lighter threads. To weave the story that He has for us and to accomplish His purposes in our lives. God used the hatred of Joseph's brothers to accomplish his plan of redemption for them. Egypt would become the womb in which the Hebrew nation would develop because Joseph was the chosen man to take the people of Israel, the descendants of Abraham, out of Canaan and into the land of Egypt. where they would develop and grow in a segregated culture. Joseph was a bridge figure linking the patriarchs with God's appointed deliverer, Moses. He's the connection between the books of Genesis and Exodus. So that is the overarching picture and significance of Joseph, but within the story of Joseph There are many practical points of instruction. From Joseph's example, we have considered how to deal with suffering and injustice and hate. In his life, we find lessons in leadership, purity, and integrity. But the most beautiful lesson from the life of Joseph is his example of forgiveness. Let's not forget that Joseph was horribly mistreated by his brothers. They hated him. The Bible says that on four occasions. This was due, of course, primarily to their father's favoritism of Joseph. It says that they intended to murder him as he was coming to bring them provisions in the field. The Bible says they plotted to murder him. And when he finally came, they did assault him. They stripped off his coat of many colors. colors and brutally threw him into a dry pit. And then they showed no compassion for him as he cried out to be rescued. They sat down and enjoyed a meal together. And they sold him into slavery. They treated him like he was a commodity. They must have assumed when those merchants left the scene that he would endure hard labor and die after just a few years, because that was the fate of most slaves in his circumstance. But the Lord would use a famine to bring these brothers face to face with Joseph again. And after Joseph had tested them to see if things had changed, to see if indeed their hearts had repented of what they had done to him, he revealed himself to them and dealt very graciously with them. And Joseph forgave them. If you've been with us throughout the study, you may be thinking, haven't we already covered Joseph's forgiveness of his brothers? And you would be right because we read about that in Genesis chapter 45. But this issue comes to the surface again after the death of their father Jacob. Because Joseph's brothers had difficulty believing that he had truly forgiven them. They were still living with unresolved guilt. But once again, Joseph graciously deals with his brothers, and once more he models for us a godly response to a perplexing problem. The only thing harder than forgiving people is forgiving them again and again. And that's what Joseph demonstrates. I want to preach to you this morning on how to demonstrate forgiveness to people who struggle with guilt. The first thing I want you to see with me is that you should be patient with people who struggle with guilt, recognizing that forgiveness can be difficult. to receive. Look with me, please, at Genesis chapter 50 and verse 14. We have, first of all, the summary statement. And Joseph returned into Egypt, he and his brethren, and all that went up with him to bury his father after he had buried his father. And then verse 15, and when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, Joseph will peradventure hate us. and will certainly requite us all the evil which we did unto him. Now why did they think this way? Was Joseph distant and harsh with them? Not at all. All the evidence that we have from Scripture indicates that Joseph treated them with kindness and consideration. Like you would suppose a person would treat their brothers. He saved their lives during the famine. He secures the best land for them in Goshen. And he continues to supply their every need. So the problem here was not a problem with Joseph. It was a problem with them. Let me suggest several factors that may have led them to think that Joseph was about to seek revenge. Number one Because in the ancient world, powerful people would often seek revenge after the death of the father. This was a common thing. You see this even in the life of David. After David died, he gave instructions to Solomon that some of his enemies that he had tolerated for years that he was to go and wipe them out. We don't like to talk about that because it doesn't sit right with us, but it's there in Scripture. So there was a cultural expectation of this kind of vengeful behavior. Secondly, the trip back to Canaan may have brought back a flood of bad memories. The long trip to Canaan, about 250 miles and back, gave them much opportunities to reminisce and to talk to one another. And perhaps one of the brothers made the suggestion. And as they traveled that long journey over many days, the brothers began to talk amongst themselves, saying, you know, this is this could really be a problem. We need to think about what we're going to do to address this. Thirdly, people tend to reject their feelings of guilt onto others. Have you ever noticed that? I didn't notice that early in my life, but after counseling and dealing with people for decades, I had seen this pattern. People who lie often tend to think that everyone's lying to them. People that are filled with hate tend to think that other people that are filled with hate I have found in counseling that often people who are worried that their spouse has cheated on them, it's because they have cheated on their spouse. We project our feelings, our guilt, our experiences on other people. And here the brothers are telling on themselves. The reason why they found it so difficult that Joseph would forgive them because they are in essence saying if we were in his shoes, we wouldn't forgive us. We would seek revenge. That's what we would do. The problem is they didn't really understand grace. Number four, because they assumed the worst of their brethren. How often this is the cause of relational problems. So often we assume that we know people's motives, their thinking, the impetus behind what they do. We are kind of like paleontologists. You know, paleontologists will find a little tooth or a little ankle bone of a dinosaur, and they'll extrapolate from that this entire creature. And they'll tell you what the color of its hide was and everything else because of this little tooth that they got We're kind of like that. We will recognize a flaw in someone That's unmistakable, and we'll take that little tooth of evidence and we'll construct a whole picture of who that person is and their character. And in our mind, that's who they are. But the fact is we don't know very much about that person at all. We don't know really their motives behind what they do. We don't know their heart. We may not know their relationship with God, but we are so quick to assume that we've got their number. And we know exactly who they are, and we're free to tell other people who that person is and what their character is really like when all that we have is that little tooth And if we could see the big picture, if we really knew their background and their heart and their struggles and their goals and their desires, we might have a completely different picture of who they are. This is why we must be very careful in our judgment of others. The Bible teaches in 1 Corinthians 13 that when we love someone, we will assume the best of them. It says, love thinketh no evil, and that's the meaning of that phrase. Unless we have evidence to the contrary, we assume the best of people. We don't read arterior motives and dark designs on everything that people say and do. So Joseph's brothers come up with a plan to save their hides. Look with me at verse 16. And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did command before he died, saying, So shall you say unto Joseph, Forgive, I pray thee now the trespasses of thy brethren. and their sins, for they did unto thee evil. And now we pray thee forgive the trespasses of the servants of God of thy father. And Joseph wept. When they spake unto him, and his brethren also went and fell down before his face, and they said, Behold, we be thy servants. They have a very carefully choreographed response to this perceived threat. Number one, they send a messenger to speak on their behalf. This man would be like a diplomat, a lawyer, who has been paid to speak these words in a very skillful way. Then they say that their father has made a dying request. They knew that Joseph would respect the wishes of his father, and so they make this plea. Now let me just pause here for a moment and say, I don't think for one moment that Jacob actually said this. We can't know for certain because the Bible doesn't say either way. But I don't think for an instant that Jacob made this dying request to the other brothers, because Jacob knew the heart of Joseph. It's interesting that they describe their sin in a fitting way. They call it evil. This is a comprehensive term for rebellion against God, and that's exactly what it was. Notice how they twice in this message ask for forgiveness in verse 17 at the beginning of this verse, forgive, I pray thee now the trespasses of thy brethren. And then later in verse 17, forgive the trespasses of thy servants of the God of thy fathers. This is what they wanted, forgiveness. And then fifthly, they follow the messenger and come, and right after he finishes his speech, they come and they bow down with their faces to the ground and they offer to be his slaves. This was a carefully thought-out plan that reveals how desperately they wanted forgiveness. They really thought that Joseph might execute them. So, why were they so unsettled? The answer is: although Joseph, I believe, had absolutely forgiven them seventeen years earlier. They didn't believe it. Every evidence that we have in Scripture is that Joseph treated them very well during this time period. And yet they struggled to believe it and claim it by faith. I see here an obvious parallel to the Christian life. I have dealt with many Christians over the years who have doubted that God has fully forgiven them. They have done some really horrible, despicable, and degrading things in their past. And they find it difficult to believe that God has really forgiven them, that He's washed away those sins and that He remembers them no more. They find it really difficult to grasp hold of that truth. And so every time a problem comes into their life, they see it as the judgment of God. And sometimes they cope with these feelings by trying to overcompensate and and trying to earn God's favor by being very, very, very active in service or maybe trying to be more disciplined in their life and being very faithful in their church attendance and spiritual duties because they think somehow they have to make amends for their sin. It's good to be faithful. It's good to serve the Lord. But there is absolutely no joy in doing those things because you think somehow you are earning your forgiveness. That is to slight the blood of Jesus Christ. Now perhaps I'm describing you, a person who struggles to accept that you have actually been forgiven. by the Lord. Sometimes people think they look around and they see people in this church and they think that people are kind of next to perfect, and I assure them that's not the case. And they think that some people are going to be welcomed into heaven, you know, with open arms and the angels will be blowing their trumpets. But when they arrive, they're going to let them in the back door, and after a long discussion, they'll finally let them in very begrudgingly. Let me tell you, that's not the way it works. Everyone comes in the front door. Everyone is saved on the same basis by the blood of Christ. They don't come in at different levels. I'm going to say something that may sound very dangerous to you, and that is, if you are a child of God, if you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, There's absolutely nothing you can do to make God love you more. Because He loves you in His Son, and He loves His Son completely and fully. You can't improve on that. All that you can do is receive it and claim it by humble faith that this is true, that you have indeed been forgiven. He loves you with an everlasting love that will never end because he sees you in Christ, his beloved Son. Secondly, we see here that you should be compassionate with people who struggle with guilt even when they painfully misjudge you. Now, I want you to notice how Joseph responds to their desperate plan. Look at the end of verse 17. It says, And Joseph wept when they spake unto him. Now, why did Joseph weep? He may have wept out of anger. Sometimes people cry when they're angry. He may have thought, how dare they think that I was about to get revenge. I mean, let's think about this for a moment. Joseph's brothers did horrible things to them. And although he had the power to crush them when he first met them many years earlier. He didn't use that. Instead, he would come to forgive them. And he saved their lives and provided for their needs and gave them those wagons to transport their goods and treated them like royalty. And he has been doing that now for 17 years. And now he discovers that they think that all of that kind treatment was just a ruse. It was all a facade to cover how he truly felt about them. Just imagine how you would feel in his shoes. They have called into question his very character and integrity. How horribly they have misjudged him. Let me ask you this morning, have you ever had people misjudge you? Has anyone ever assumed the worst of you because they didn't have all the facts, but they jumped to that conclusion? Has anyone ever taken your acts and words of kindness as a mask that covers your evil intentions? If so, then you know there are a few things more infuriating and upsetting than to be misjudged by others. But I don't think that Joseph was weeping out of anger. Secondly, he may have wept because the mention of their sins against him brought up painful memories from the past. Horrible experiences that happened long ago can still bring real pain and distress today. But I don't think that's the reason that Joseph wept. I think that Joseph wept because he had a real compassion for his troubled brothers. Yes, their assumptions of him were undoubtedly hurtful, but Joseph was moved by their burden of guilt. He observed their elaborate plan to appease his supposed wrath, and he recognizes they still were not fully reconciled in their hearts to him. And he was troubled by their offers to be slaves. There they were, face down the ground, those ten brothers in front of him. And that wounded his heart. He didn't want them to be his slaves. He wanted them to be his brothers But they were having trouble understanding that. You know, this is the second time that they made an offer to be slaves. We read about back in Genesis 44. When Joseph was testing them, one of the offers they made is that we will remain in Egypt and be your slaves. And now they do it again. But that's not what Joseph wanted He wanted them to feel assurance and to not have a shred of doubt in their hearts that they were fully reconciled. But there was no wrath, there was no animosity in his heart at all. He desire to have a relationship of love, trust, and honesty with them. And by the way, this is the kind of relationship we should have in the body of Christ. I've said this before, I'm going to say it again. The Lord has not called us just to tolerate one another. No, he says repeatedly in his words that we are to love one another. How easy it is for people, even in a congregation like this, to just have brothers or sisters here, that you just tolerate. They've said something, they've done something in the past that may have hurt you, that may have upset you, or perhaps they're just so different from you that you have trouble tolerating them because they annoy you in a hundred different ways. God is not pleased when you just tolerate them. He wants you because of your bond in Christ and the forgiveness that is offered to love them as a brother, as a member of your own family. Now notice what Joseph says next in verse 19. It says, And Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God? He knows that this entire scheme, this elaborate ruse to gain appeasement for him, was all rooted in fear that somehow they were going to be executed. And so he says to them, fear not. He speaks to them carefully and tenderly. And he says, Am I in the place of God? Now what does he mean by this? He means that though he is in a powerful position, he is not going to play God. He does not have the right to exact his re Venge on them, because that is God's prerogative. Remember what it says in Romans chapter 12. Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. We must never think that we somehow has the right of human beings to be the judge and jury and to condemn others. Let me make one implication from this. When we are so filled with anger towards a person that we condemn them in our hearts and by our words to others, we are playing God. We are assuming a role that is God's prerogative and not our own. The reality is, we do not have all the facts We don't know their hearts, and so often our judgments are false and wrong. God has called us to forgive, not to condemn our sinful brothers and sisters. And that brings me to my third point. You should be helpful to people struggling with guilt by reminding them of God's gracious purpose. Look with me now at verse 20. Verse 20 is the key verse In the life of Joseph. That's not just my opinion. Just about everyone who's ever written a book in the life of Joseph says the same thing. Look at this key verse. But as for you, you thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good to bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. Now, if this sounds vaguely familiar to you, it's because there 's something very similar to it that was said 17 years earlier. Turn with me back to Genesis chapter 45, please. Genesis chapter 45. This is right when Joseph reveals himself to his brothers. unmask his Egyptian dress and shows them that he is indeed Joseph. Look with me at verse 5, Genesis 45 Joseph says, now therefore be not grieved nor angry with yourselves that you sold me hither, for God did send me before you to preserve life. For these two years hath the famine been in the land, and yet there are five in which there shall neither be earring nor harvest. And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in the earth. and to save your lives by a great deliverance. So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God. And he hath made me a father to Pharaoh, and the Lord of all his house, and a ruler throughout all the land. of Egypt. Notice how he attributes everything to God. Their wicked actions, their designs were actually God's providential work. And he wants them to see the real meaning behind their actions. He invites them to look at God's providential plan. God is so great that he providentially used their hatred, their envy, and their anger to bring about his plan of redemption. This does not excuse their sin. It was wicked. It was evil. But it does magnify the greatness of God and the grace. of God. Joseph essentially repeats himself here in Genesis 15 and verse 20 because his brothers didn't get it the first time. Let's look a little more carefully at this verse. Notice that Joseph does acknowledge their sin against him. He says, You thought evil against him. And he uses the same Hebrew word that they use to describe their sin back in verse 17. If you look right in the middle of that verse, you say, For they did Unto thee, evil. It's the same Hebrew word, that comprehensive term for rebellion. And Joseph says, Yeah, you're right. That is what you did to me. Joseph doesn't minimize her sin and say, Oh guys, it was nothing. It was nothing. It didn't bother me at all. That wasn't the truth. It was horrific. It was painful. It was difficult. By the way, when we confess our sin to God, this is what we're doing. We use The word confess in Greek means to say the same thing. When we confess our sin, we're agreeing with God's declaration of our sin. We're saying, God, what you said about my actions, that's true. I'm going to use the same idea. I'm going to use the same terms. I'm going to call it what it is, sin. Joseph does acknowledge that what they did to him was sinful and wrong. But then he says, but God meant it unto good. There's a literary device that's found often in Scripture known as inclusio. You can think of it as bookends, the repetition of a term or a word. To march out a section. And some Bible scholars think this is what we find in the book of Genesis. We're in the final verses of the book of Genesis here, the last narrative seen. And you remember what we find in Genesis chapter 1, the very first chapter of the Bible at the climax of creation, what does God say again and again about his creation? He says it is good, and then it is very good. And now here at the end of the book of Genesis, we read this declaration that God's providential plan of redemption is good. These are some of the bookends that we see here in the book of Genesis. And Joseph expresses this wonderful truth. God providentially used their wicked plans and passions. to accomplish his saving purpose. Notice the result here. To bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. God transformed their hatred for Joseph into the means by which he would save their lives. And this unbelievable truth should cause every believer to think about what transpired at the cross. Because the cross is the most striking biblical example of this phenomenon. In Acts chapter 2 and verse 23, Peter says, Him that is Jesus being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain. There are two halves to that verse. There is the providence or the sovereignty of God, and there's the sinfulness of man. God used the envy of the religious leaders, the cowardice of Pilate, and the greed of Judas to bring about the crucifixion of his beloved son. These wicked men did what they wanted, but they accomplished what God decreed. God is not pleased with our sin. And nothing we can say can excuse it. But God can even use our sin to fulfill his sovereign purposes. This is one way that we can console those who struggle with guilt. We must remind them that where sin abounded Grace did much more abound because God's grace is greater, as we sang together, than all our sin God can use our failures to bring him glory. That is the whole story that we find. It's in the narrative in Genesis 3 of the fall. of all of mankind being plunged into the bondage of iniquity, that we read of what? The first good news. of one who would come to deliver man and restore him to his original status by the grace of God. God used, you can think of a multitude of situations like this in Scripture, God used David's horrible sin of adultery and murder. For his purposes, if it wasn't for that sin, we wouldn't have Psalm 51, that beautiful prayer of repentance. that thousands and tens of thousands of believers over the centuries have memorized and wept over and claimed and has been a guide to them back to God. God uses our failures because he's so great and so wise even to accomplish his ultimate ends. Fourthly, you should be gracious with people struggling with guilt by treating them better than they deserve. Look at the last verse of this narrative, verse 21. Now, therefore, fear ye not. I will nourish you and your little ones. And he comforted them and spake kindly unto them. Joseph began his response with the words, fear not, and he ends them with the words, fear not. He speaks to them like a father. speaking to frightened children after a thunderstorm. He says to them, fear not, don't be afraid. Why should they not be afraid? Joseph is demonstrating to his brother that it's illogical for them to be afraid. The logic is this, since God has providentially used Joseph to save their lives, would it make sense now that he would kill them? That would be at cross-purposes with what God was doing. Of course not. The idea is that those God has graciously saved, He will preserve Now notice Joseph's tender words. He says, I will nourish you and your little ones. The famine was long over. That was in the past. That was decades ago. But Joseph would still look out for his brothers The word I in this text is emphatic. The idea is Joseph saying, I'm not delegating this to other people. I'm going to do this personally. I'm going to personally manage and look after you and make sure That all your needs are taken care of. That's what I'm going to do as your brother. There's another inclusio that scholars see in scripture. Maybe this is a little strange. You'll have to decide. But what do we find? In the story of Cain and Abel, we have that horrible question: what is it in the fall? Am I , after the fall, am I my brother's keeper? Which was a cover for his murder. And here in the last chapter of Genesis, we find someone who is the keeper of his brothers. Joseph is essentially saying here, I am my brother's keeper. What a beautiful picture we have here. It says he comforted them and spake kindly unto them. And literally in the Hebrew text this means he spoke to their hearts. Do you know how to speak tenderly to someone's broken hearts? Joseph did. And that's what he does here in such an exemplary way for us. Now let me ask you a question. Did Joseph's brothers deserve this kind of treatment? No, in a thousand ways they deserve the opposite. They have earned his wrath. They have questioned his integrity. They have essentially said all the good things you've done for us for the last 17 years were all a lie. But Joseph doesn't lash out at them. He doesn't say, How dare you think that of me? No. He speaks kindly to them. He speaks to their hearts. He reassures them. Now it's interesting that we don't read anything more about Joseph and his brothers for 57 years. The narrator is indicating by the silence that the matters were finally settled This is the proverbial, and they live happily ever after. And then look at me at verses 22 and 23. And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he and his father's house. And Joseph lived a hundred and ten years. And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third generation, the children also of Makar and the son of Manasseh, were brought up upon Joseph's knees. The idea here is that Joseph's remaining life was filled with blessings. He lived at peace with his brothers. He saw his children and his grandchildren and his great-grandchildren. But the time came for him to die. He died at the age of 110, which is very interesting because with a multitude of references in Egyptian literature. That the age of 110 was considered symbolic that someone had lived a complete or blessed life. And that's how long Joseph lived. And when Joseph was ready to die, like his father before him, he summoned his family to his bedside. He called for his brothers, those brothers that had done so many horrible things to him over the years. And yet he calls them there at his death. Why? Because he had forgiven them long ago. Look with me at verse 24. And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die. And God will surely visit you and bring you out of this land, unto the land which you swear to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence. And so Joseph died, being 110 years old, and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt. And according to Hebrews 11, 22, this was an act of faith. Joseph believed the promises of God, and he passed on those promises to the succeeding generations. I want to make some concluding gospel applications as we conclude this series. First of all, I want you to see that Joseph is like Christ. In his compassion for sinners. Five times in the Joseph story, we read of Joseph weeping. And in most of those occasions, he was weeping for his brothers And in the Gospels, we read of Jesus weeping on several occasions. Jesus wept over Jerusalem. He wept for lost sinners who were headed to destruction. The most common emotion ascribed to Jesus in the Gospels is compassion. We read repeatedly of him being moved with compassion for the multitude and for individuals. Jesus is our sympathetic high priest who cares for us and prays for us. Often in the world, powerful people don't care for common ordinary people. They don't see them, they just pass them by. But our Lord and Savior is not like that. He has a compassion for people, He cares for you, the scripture says. This is a wonderful truth for us to remember. Secondly, Joseph is like Christ in his willingness to forgive. What is clear in the Joseph narrative is how eager Joseph was to forgive his brothers. As soon as he sensed that they had truly repented of their sins, he embraced them and spoke kindly to them and wept over them. And when they came back and questioned his forgiveness again after 17 years, he forgave them as well. The fact is that Jesus is ready to forgive the most wicked of sinners. He forgives us even though we repeatedly misjudge him and doubt his goodness to us. One of Satan's great lies is that God will not forgive you, that you have sinned too badly and too often. But the Bible says that Jesus is faithful and just to forgive us from our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Remember it was Jesus that taught his disciples not only to forgive three times as as Peter suggested. But seven times seventy, which is symbolic of a never-ending pardon. Why did he teach his disciples that truth? Because that is the way that God forgives sinful people. He forgives them repeatedly. And thirdly, Joseph is like Christ in that he is gracious in saving sinners. Joseph didn't save his brothers from the famine because they deserved a second chance. No, he was gracious to them because he was reflecting the nature of his heavenly father. But Jesus is a much better reflection of his father than Joseph. Hebrews 1:3 says that he is the express image of his person. Jesus is the most gracious human being who ever lived. He is a friend of sinners. The Bible says that he is not ashamed to call us brothers, even though we fail him every day. As we conclude our study of Joseph, I want to ask one more question. And that is this. Do you know that your sins have been forgiven? This episode that we've looked at this morning is all about forgiveness and the fact that Joseph expresses his forgiveness to his brothers once more. It's a precious thing to know that your sins have been forgiven. There's only one way that you can know that your sins have been forgiven, and that is by putting your faith and trust in Christ and Christ alone. The Bible says, in Christ we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace. Ephesians 1:7 In order to find forgiveness with God, you must first of all have a profound sense that you need that forgiveness. If you're here today and you think that you really don't have any sins to confess and you really don't have this desperate need, to have this burden off of your shoulders. You don't know what people are talking about when they mention this burden. Then my friends, the forgiveness is not for you. You must see yourself as these brothers did when they put their faces down to the ground and begged for forgiveness. That's where you must come. Until you're overwhelmed with your sinfulness and your need of forgiveness, you will never find forgiveness. But when you come And you recognize there's nothing you can do to earn your forgiveness. There's nothing you can do to make up for your sin when you come and you rest in what Christ has done for you and what He has done, and that is your only hope. Then you can claim this promise. He that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. Do you know what it is? To have your sins forgiven and to have that blessed assurance that Jesus is mine. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father. We thank you so much for your word. We thank you that it points us to Christ. That throughout its pages, even in narrative stories of the Old Testament, we see the gospel. We see our sinfulness. We see God's provision. We see his grace. We pray, Father, that you would help us to never get over our salvation, that it would never become commonplace to us And Father, for those here who are your children, but who struggle to grasp the belief that they truly have been forgiven, that God is not holding something against them, I pray that today The lights would come on that they would see this wonderful truth that God has truly forgiven them, even as Joseph forgave his brothers, though they deserved it not. And Father, for those here today, under the sound of my voice who are yet lost in their sins, I pray that they would seek the Lord earnestly today That they would seek him while he may be found. And they would find that pardon for sin and that peace that passes all understanding. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.