If you have your Bibles with you this morning, you can be turning to Luke chapter 2. I'm not sure if it's still there or not, but for many years, in the main lobby of Johns Hopkins Hospital There was a large portrait of a famous surgeon named Howard Kelly. He was a doctor. at Johns Hopkins for many, many years. He was world-renowned for some of the surgical procedures that he developed. And he was also a devout Christian and an active member of a gospel preaching church. He wrote a book entitled A Scientific Man and the Bible. And he wrote the following dedication in the front of that book. My first and best friend, guide of my youth. inspiration and strength of my matured years and crown of my approaching three score and ten, my mother Howard Kelly wrote these words to honor his mother, who was in advanced years at the time. But honoring your mother is about more than saying a few nice words to her. It involves more than sending flowers or making a phone call. No, it involves a loving response over a lifetime. Now, for those of you who are normally here on Mother's Day, you know that And every year I have preached a message to encourage our mothers. And we usually look at one of the mothers that are described in Scripture. But this morning I'm going to take a little different approach. I always feel a little bad about preaching to the mothers because I know that that is less than half my congregation. But there's something I know about all of you here, and that is you either have a mother or you had a mother. And so this morning I'm going to be preaching on how to honor your mother. And in some respects, that's applicable to all of us. Now most of you realize that the concept of honoring your mother is an ancient concept. This is not something new. And this is something that is rooted in the Ten Commandments. The fifth commandment says, Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. Exodus 20, verse 12. This is repeated in the second giving of the law in Deuteronomy chapter 5 and verse 16. But what does it mean to honor a person? Well, the Hebrew word honor originally referred to something that was heavy or weighty. To honor a person means that we regard them as important. worthy of our reverence, respect, and submission. This is why the scripture comes with very solemn warnings. About a very negative and violent response to our parents. It says in Exodus 21, verse 15, He that smiteth his father or mother shall surely be put to death. And two verses later, he that curseth his father or mother shall surely be put to death. These were capital offenses. Found in the Old Testament. Leviticus nineteen verse three says, Ye shall fear every man, his mother and his father. And Proverbs 1:7, that great book of wisdom. In the preface to that book it says, My son, hear the instruction of thy father and forsake not the law of thy mother. And this admonition is repeated in the New Testament. In Ephesians chapter 6, verses 1 through 3, we read, Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise, that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth. And Colossians 3. 20, children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing to the Lord. But what does that look like in real life? What is helpful for us when we seek to fulfill a commandment of Scripture is if we have a model, an example. For men that put things together, perhaps in your home or perhaps at work, it's nice to have a model where you can look at how something is laid out and how it fits together. And then you know how to go about your task. Well, the scriptures provide a perfect example of how we should honor our mother. in the Lord Jesus Christ in his response to his mother Mary. And so that's what I want us to examine this morning. We're going to be looking at three different passages. That each provide for us instruction on how to honor a mother 's at a different stage in our life. We have the stage when we're a child. We have the stage when we're a young adult, and then we have the stage when we are older adults and our parents need much more care from us. And so I want to speak to you this morning on how to honor your mother like Jesus. And our first passage we will look at is here in Luke chapter 2, and I want you to notice that if you would honor your mother, you must obey your mother. Look with me beginning at verse 41 of Luke chapter 2. Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover, and when he was twelve years old. They went to Jerusalem after the custom of the feast, and when they had fulfilled the days as they returned, the child Jesus tarried behind. in Jerusalem, and Joseph and his mother knew not of it. But they supposed him to have been in the company. went a day's journey, and they sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance, and when they found him not, they returned back to Jerusalem seeking him. And it came to pass that after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them and asking them questions, and all that heard him. were astonished at his understanding and answers, and when they saw him, they were amazed, and his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing, and he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? Wished ye not that I must be about my father's business. And they understood not the saying which he spake unto them And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was subject unto them. But his mother kept all these sayings in her heart. Luke provides the only authentic story that we have of our Lord Jesus Christ in his childhood. This is the one incident that the Holy Spirit has seen fit to preserve for us. This story is here not to satisfy our curiosities, but to confirm our faith that indeed He is the Son of God, the promised Messiah. It's interesting to note that probably much of this material came from Mary herself. Why do I say that? Well, we know that the Gospel of Luke, in the opening verses, Luke mentions that he did research. He spoke to witnesses to get this information. And you ever thought about who would know better about our Lord's childhood than his mother? And you'll notice as I was reading, perhaps, that we have a lot of detailed information about this encounter, this event where he was lost. But what we have is even very private information like verse 50 that Joseph and Mary didn't understand what Jesus meant. when he said, I must be about my father's business. And in verse 51, that his mother kept all these things in her heart. How would Luke know that? I would suggest to you it's because Mary told him those things. I think decades after this event. after our Lord's passing and going into heaven, that Dr. Luke sat down with Mary and got a firsthand account of what happened on this event. This key incident illustrates that our Lord was advancing. We have two summary statements of his childhood. You'll notice in verse 40 we have this one. And the child grew and waxed strong in spirit filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. And that is a summary statement of his childhood. But now, as he's come to this age of twelve years old, by Jewish reckoning, he is now passing into adulthoods. And we have another summary. At the end of this chapter, verse 52, which summarizes his youth, and it says this: and Jesus increased in wisdom and stature and in favor with God and man. And then we have one ill one incident that illustrates his childhood and his coming of age and passing on to become a man. Now, when a Jewish boy was about twelve years old, as still today is the custom, they go through a ceremony known as a bar mitzvah, where they are made a son of the law. Now, scholars debate as to whether or not this ceremony was being held in the first century in the time of Christ. There's some who say there's evidence that it was, and others say no, it really wasn't until about a hundred years later. We don't know for sure. But we do know From this and from other writings, the Jews still reckoned that when a young man came to the age of twelve, now he was to bear some responsibility. He answered to God. He was a son of the law And we see him as it were, this incident is revealing that he has come of age, that he has truly grown up. Now, the Passover was followed by a seven-day celebration. Known as the Feast of Unleavened Bread. And at the end of these eight days, Mary and Joseph left to return to Nazareth. And they accidentally left Jesus behind. Now we should not assume that they were bad parents. Is there no one here that's ever left your child behind? I will raise my hand to that. I have done that before. It's happened more than once. Maybe you think horrible of me. Have you never been to a store or someplace and you look around and your child's not there? Maybe I'm the only one. I don't know that. But I'm comforted that it happened to Mary and Joseph as well. Now they traveled in a great caravan. And we know historically that what would happen is generally the women would all be traveling and like one part of the caravan and talking and Comparing notes and fellowshipping with one another, and the men would be at another part of the caravan, and the children would be in another part of the caravan. So what undoubtedly happened is Mary says, Well he's probably with Joseph. And Joseph said, Well undoubtedly he's with Mary. And when they spoke to each other, they realized, you don't you don't have Jesus? No, he's not here. And they were very upset as understood. They went back, and in there we read this amazing thing about him with these theological leaders of the nation, and it uses this term that they were astonished. And the word indicates that they were terrified at the insight and knowledge that he possessed. They couldn't believe that a 12-year-old knew all of this about God. And in the midst of this incredible scene, Mary hurries in. In verses 48 and 49, it says, and when they saw him, they were amazed, and his mother said unto him, Son, Why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing. Mary, in her anxiety, falsely accuses Jesus. of being irresponsible. He was not being irresponsible. He was about his father's business. Christ's initial statement to his parents indicates that the temple should have been the very first place that they looked. The word business here in the King James Text is a Greek word for house. And the whole incident here is found because of the significance of this statement. When he says, I must be about my father's business, what we see in these words of our Lord is that he knew who he was. And what he was called to do. Unmistakably. But the key verse for our consideration this morning is verse 51. And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was subject unto them. This is an amazing thing. Here, Jesus, God in flesh This 12-year-old who has just confounded all of the great theological scholars of Israel. Undoubtedly, he ran circles around them logically as he spoke to them about the Old Testament. But he voluntarily placed himself under their authority. Luke has included this verse here, lest the reader get the impression that Jesus somehow was telling his parents off and was rebelling as so many young people do at about this age. And so Luke includes this, no, no, no. He was not being rebellious. He was not being difficult. He voluntarily Placed himself under their authority. This word subject here is the same word for submission. He placed himself under their authority. If there was ever a young person in the history of the world who could say, I know more than my parents. It was Jesus. He would say at the end of Matthew's gospel, all authority is given unto me in heaven and in earth. But what a beautiful example he sets for us as he voluntarily places himself under his mother and father's authority. I want to speak to our young people for just a moment. In your phase as a child, Before you launch out on your own and are married or have your own place, you're obligated to obey your parents. And the ultimate reason that you should obey your parents is not because they're a perfect example and they never fail and everything they say makes sense to you. But it's ultimately because you have yielded yourself to the Lord. That is the ultimate reason you should obey your parents. As you grow up and mature, your reasons for obedience should grow up as well. A toddler obeys because they don't want to be punished or perhaps they want to be rewarded. Very simple. Reasons. But as a child matures and comes to know the Lord, his or her motive for obedience should change. So young people, you should obey not just because you don't want to lose your cell phone or your driving privileges, but because you want to please the Lord. And you want to do what's right in his sight. I think we also see in this and in many other biblical admonitions that parents One of your chief duties is to teach your children to obey To cheat teach your children to obey, to understand that this is of paramount importance. If your children do not grow up to respect and obey their parents. They will struggle with authority that they encounter the rest of their lives. That is the basis, the beginning of everything that they learn, I obey my parents. This is of the utmost importance. This is why Paul writes, children obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Children, if you want to honor your mother, you must obey your mother and yield to her authority in your life when you are a child. Now I want us to turn to John chapter 2, please. John chapter 2 And what I want us to see in the second incident is that if you would honor your mother, you must respect your mother. This is the famous passage known as turning of the water into wine. Look with me at John chapter 2. In this passage, we see Jesus showing respect to his mother by shielding her from social disgrace. Let me read the first three verses. And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there, and both Jesus was called and his disciples to the marriage. And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine. This is the first miracle performed by our Lord that's recorded in the four Gospels. And in John's Gospel, he puts it as the first of seven signs. That point to his identity as the Son of God. Wine was the normal beverage consumed in the ancient Near East due to the threat of contaminated water. Jewish writings of the time would indicate that this wine would have been mixed with two or three parts of water to prevent drunkenness. Now, a Jewish wedding feast was the culmination of a year-long betrothal period. Which was much more serious and significant than our engagement period. It's interesting to know that Jewish weddings traditionally always took place on Wednesday evening. We like to have ours often on Saturdays, but this would have taken place undoubtedly on a Wednesday evening. And you may grow weary sometimes of lengthy wedding ceremonies and receptions. The Jews didn't regard these special occasions like that. They often lasted as long as a week. It was a huge social event where everyone in that community would come and in some way have a part. Now it seems that Mary was related to one of the two parties who were being married. Some have suggested that this was one of her daughters, or perhaps a nephew. We can't say for certain, but they had a social crisis, and that is they ran out of wine. This may have been an indication of the poverty of the family. Or perhaps it's an indication that more people came than they anticipated. But they had a problem. They ran out of wine. Now, perhaps you have hosted a social event before where you have run out of supplies. Perhaps you've run out of food before, and it was a little bit embarrassing. I want you to know that whatever embarrassment you have faced in such a social occasion, it was nothing compared to the disgrace that Mary would have felt that day. Because the Hebrews, as most in the East, is a shame-based culture. And this was about the most shameful event that could occur to someone. In fact, there is historical records from this time period in the first century that say that a person Could be legally fined for running out of provisions at a wedding feast. It was that serious. It was a legal matter for the authorities. This was no small Fol Paul, this was a huge problem that Mary was facing. And it's interesting to me that she comes to Jesus. Verse 4. Jesus said unto her, woman, What have I to do with thee? My hour is not yet come. That may be a very strange text you would think to consider on Mother's Day. But let me hasten to say that the Lord was not speaking disrespectfully to his mother. When he calls her woman. Jesus used the same term when addressing her from the cross. However, he is indicating here at the very beginning of his ministry. That they must have a new relationship. We cannot completely trust in church history, but church history is probably correct that Joseph was older than Mary, and Joseph died. before this event, and that Jesus was helping his mother raise the family and providing for them. For how many years we don't know. But she was used to turning to Jesus for her problems, for her difficulties. And she does so naturally here on this social occasion. But Jesus here lovingly but firmly tells her that now they have a new relationship. He is still her son, but he is not going to be providing for the family and doing everything that she needs as it was before. He says, What have I to do with thee? He's saying there is a new relationship. This must have been very difficult for Mary to receive. And he says, my hour is not yet come, a reference of course, found throughout the Gospel of John, pointing to the cross and the resurrection that would follow. But it's interesting to me that though Jesus gives this response, the story goes on that Jesus did perform this miracle. And did help her in her situation. It's interesting to notice that Mary instinctively knows That he's going to help her. The next thing we read is she says to the servants, whatever he says to you, do She knows that he will not fail her in her hour of need, that he will provide for her, that he will help her out of this situation and avert this crisis. The concluding verse of this story, and you know the story. Verse 11, this beginning of miracles to Jesus in Cana Galilee and manifested forth his glory. And his disciples believed on him. This miracle brought glory to Christ But it was also a means that Jesus used to honor his mother, Mary. Luke tells us that Jesus was about 30 at his baptism. And if you count the chronology, this wedding would have taken place about one week after his baptism, which was the mark of the beginning of his ministry. So this is a young adult. He's 30 years old. He's no longer living under his mother's roof. He's now traveling around with his disciples. There were about five of them at this time And he is preaching and teaching and performing miracles. And he's about to set up residence at Capernaum. as the next verse points out. So how does a young adult honor their mother? Let me suggest from this passage three ways. First of all, by spending time with them. We know from the gospel record that the ministry of our Lord during that three-year time period was very, very busy. We read of one event happening after another, after another, after another. But Jesus here honors his mother by coming to this wedding and staying there undoubtedly for several days. He honored her by giving her time. So often, this is what mothers want more than anything from their grown children. They want just a little time that they will spend with them. And I think we also see evidence of communication here. So often mothers mentioned to me that they wish that they could hear more from their children. Jesus was likely invited to this wedding by his mother. And it reveals that he had a good relationship with her, and why not, he was literally the perfect son. We see here That he was able to be candid with her and direct with her. There was an economy of words here. She knew what he meant, what he was saying. She accepted it. She knew that he was going to help her. They had the kind of relationship where they didn't have to spell everything out in exacting detail because they knew what the other was thinking, is what we see in this passage. One of the ways adults can honor their mothers is by communicating with them. I visit a number of moms. They often talk about their children. It's usually about the first thing they talk about. And the most common complaint I hear from them is that I just don't hear from my kids. Sometimes I'll ask, well, do your children live in the area? Yeah, they live in the area, but I still never hear from them. You want to honor your mom? Communicate with your mom. And we also see by helping them when possible, Jesus wasn't obligated to save her from this crisis. But he honored her by helping her out of this embarrassing situation. Jesus honors his mother by allowing her to avoid the great shame of running out of provision. For such an important social occasion. There's a time when we no longer are obligated to obey our mothers, but we are always obligated to respect our mothers. And here we see Jesus respecting his mother. And finally, I would like you to turn with me to the Gospel of John chapter 19. At least three years have passed, and now the Lord Jesus Christ has come to the cross. Look with me at John chapter 19, verses 25. Through twenty-seven. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother. And his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene. And when Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciples standing by, whom he loved, He saith unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son. Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother. And from that hour, that disciple took her unto his own home. This is what is traditionally known as the third saying from the cross. And it comprises two statements. Behold thy son, and behold thy mother. Now some have read this first statement: Woman, behold thy son. And a thought that Jesus was saying that Mary was to look at him. Look at me. I'm your son, and here I am on a cross. I have read some devotional writers who have waxed eloquent about this. Of course, there are many scriptures that talk about beholding the sun, but this is not one of them. Jesus is directing Mary, his mother, to look at her new adopted son, the Apostle John. He is not named here, but all scholars agree that that is what is being referred to him, this disciple whom he loved. He is transferring her care to John the beloved apostle. He's saying, This man, John, will be your son in my place. The Lord knew that Mary needed special care. She was experiencing a very painful event. For a mother to see her child die is tragic, but to see him die while being tortured and mocked is nearly unimaginable. Simeon's prophecy of 33 years earlier is now fulfilled. Mary indeed feels as if a sword is piercing her very soul. And then we come to the second expression. He says to John, behold thy mother. What Jesus is doing here is he is fulfilling the fifth commandment, which says, honor thy father and thy mother. Proverbs 23 verse 22 says, Despise not thy mother when she is old. You may recall that Christ condemned the religious leaders during his ministry who called the monies that they had Corban, which means a gift. And they had found a loophole from fulfilling their biblical obligation to support their parents. They would say, well, I've designated my estate, Corbon. It is a gift to God, so I can't give it to you, mom or dad. I can't give this money to help you out of your financial crisis. or to support you in your old age because this has been dedicated to gods. And it was all a disgusting Legal maneuver to shield their money from their parents under the pretense of honoring the Lord. And the Lord Jesus Christ condemned the religious leaders for doing this. Now these words undoubtedly demonstrate that Joseph was dead at this time because if he were alive he would have been taking care of Mary. As the firstborn son of a widow, it was Christ's obligation To provide for his mother. And he does this by placing her under John 's care. We see here that no one is exempt from family responsibilities. Not even because they are in the Lord's service. First Timothy chapter 5 and verse 8 tells us that if a man does not provide for his own family, he is worse than an unbeliever. You see, even most lost people are decent enough to take care of their mom and their dad and their old age. But why did Jesus commend his mother to John, someone who's not a member of the family? We know from other scriptures that Jesus had at least four brothers and two sisters. They were half-brothers and half-sisters, of course. So why didn't he simply give his mother to their care? The answer is because at this point they were still unbelievers. Often in his preaching, Jesus would mention that the gospel would divide families. This was not a hypothetical conjecture on his part, but his own experience. His brothers did not come to believe until after his resurrection. Mary perhaps had more in common with John than her own flesh and blood. And I suspect that Mary wanted to be there in Jerusalem where the first church was established, not up in Galilee, far removed From where the Spirit of God was working originally. And so Mary is placed under John's care. We find here an example of how we should honor our mothers. As they become elderly, I think we see here that we must provide financial support for our aging mothers. And placing Mary under John's care, Jesus was ensuring that she would be financially supported. There's some evidence that John may have come from a family of some means and perhaps he was uh uh in a best position to help provide for her financially. And of course, he was the disciple whom Jesus loved. They had an affinity, a heart for one another. And you know when you love someone You care for whom they care for. He had the heart of a shepherd. And John would be the appropriate one to take care of her financial needs. In our society today, often our mothers don't require direct financial assistance. There may be a pension, Social Security, a 401k, a nest egg, many other financial provisions that provide for them all their days. But there are still many who at times will need help. And if adult children are going to truly honor their parents, this is what they must do. It may require sacrifice on their part where they have to bring that aging parent to come and live in their home Or it could mean that they have to put them in a facility where they provide excellent medical care to meet their needs. We must be willing to sacrifice for our mothers who have sacrificed so much for us. This is not only fitting and right, but it's what God requires of his people. We must also provide emotional support for our aging mothers. Jesus made certain that John would minister to her from that very day. She was devastated, undoubtedly, by the death of her son. But John would care for her needs and would comfort her and give her the emotional support that she needed. The portrait we have of John in Scripture is that he was gentle and perceptive and full of affection, exactly the kind of man that Mary needed in her life at this time. There was no one better suited to meet this need. So often our aging mothers are left alone today I often visit elderly women, and I find that they're very lonely, and they wish that they would hear more from their children. When I visit nursing homes, I find so many women there, perhaps not even the ones I'm going to visit, who are just starving for attention. And as you're walking through the hall, sometimes they will intentionally try to stop you and talk to you and get some time from you because they they have no one to talk to and they feel neglected and left alone. And sometimes I will turn the attention to their children, their adult children, and they will say, well, they live in the community, but you know, they're so busy with their lives, they have no time for me. What a sad thing that is. We must not forget our mothers. We have been called to honor our mothers, as our Savior did his mother, by obeying them as children. by respecting them as young adults and then by providing for them when they reach their advancing years. But I would be remiss if I gave you the impression from this sermon that Jesus was just a great example, and that the essence of Christianity is to be kind towards our family members. There are many people in the world who think that's really what the church is all about. That's what Christianity is. You know, just be nice to people. That's not the essence of our faith. That's not what the church is all about. Jesus Is far more than a great and perfect example. He is the Son of God. He is God in flesh. He came to this earth. He was born to die. He is the Savior of the worlds. And we have a passage of Scripture that actually instructs us that our relationship with Him is even more significant than our relationship with our mothers. That may sound like heresy on Mother's Day. But it's taught several times in Scripture. Turn with me in closing to Matthew chapter 12. I want us to reflect on this passage for just a moment. Matthew chapter 12. Verse forty-six, the end of this chapter, Matthew twelve, forty-six. It says, while he yet talked to the people, referring to Jesus, behold his mother and his brethren stood without, desiring to speak with him. Then one said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without desiring to speak with thee. But he answered and said unto them that told him, Who is my mother? And who are my brethren? And he stretched forth his hand towards his disciples and said, Behold, my mother and my brethren, for whosoever shall do the will of my father which is in heaven, the same as my brother and sister. Oh, it's important for us to give our mothers the honor and the respect that they deserve, but there's even a relationship more significant than that. And that's our relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. He must come first. Jesus was not being rude here. I suspect that after this ministry engagement was completed, he went out and he spoke respectfully and lovingly with his mother. and his earthly brothers. But he took this object lesson as a teachable moment to instruct his disciples And to those who are listening, that there is no relationship more important than your relationship with God. And that being a good son or being a loving mother is not what it is not what sets us right with God. It's not what earns us a home in heaven. No, it is doing, he says here in verse 50, the will of my father. And in John chapter 6 and verse 40, the Lord Jesus teaches that it's the will of the Father that you would believe. That you would come to trust in Christ, not just as a perfect example, but as the Savior of the world, the one who has died in your place for your sins, your only hope of eternal life. And it's my prayer for you this morning that if you don't know the Lord is your Savior. That today you would put your trust and your faith in Him alone as your only hope, your only refuge from the wrath of God. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it's sufficient for all things. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be faithful, to honor our mothers today, but that we would also be certain that we have a true and living relationship with you. Through your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior. Help no one to leave here today without the assurance That they are a child of God. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen