If you have your Bible, please, would you turn with me to Isaiah chapter 50? Isaiah chapter 50. One of the great questions the Bible addresses is why do the righteous suffer? The book of Job addresses this question and many other passages of Scripture. It is something that people think about often. Because they think in their very finite minds that if they were ordering the universe, the righteous would not suffer, only the unrighteous would. Someone once asked C. S. Lewis, why do the righteous suffer? And he replied, because they're the only ones who can take it. The most difficult part of suffering is not the physical pain. It's the psychological trauma that comes before, during, and after the crisis. I think we often, in our estimation of the Lord, rightly exalt his deity. But we tend to minimize his humanity. Whenever I bring out some aspect of our Lord's humanity, Invariably there are people who come to me disturbed because after all, isn't Jesus God? And that is a wonderful truth. He is very God of very God. But just as important is the biblical doctrine of the full humanity of Christ. And we need to embrace both of those at the same time. It's not either or, it's and both. This evening I want us to look at a portion of what are known as the servant songs. These are poetic songs embedded within the book of Isaiah. that refer to the Lord Jesus Christ as the servant of the Lord We have one of these songs in Isaiah 42, another in Isaiah 49, another in Isaiah 50, and the most famous one. encompasses the last three verses of Isaiah 52 and all of Isaiah 53 In these songs, we see a glimpse of our Savior as the servant of the Lord. We rarely think of him this way. We think of him with many titles. But we rarely think of him as the servant of the Lord. But indeed, he is revealed in that concept, in these prophetic portions. This morning I want to, I mean excuse me, this evening I want us to look at this third of the servant songs, but we're not going to look and all of the verses in that servant song. I want to read the first stanza, which begins in Isaiah 15, verse 4. And I want to remind you that these are the words or thoughts of Christ revealed by the Spirit of God to the prophet Isaiah. The Lord God hath given me the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season to him that is weary. He awakeneth morning by morning. He awakeneth mine ear to hear as the learned. I'm going to stop reading there for a moment. Some of you will find this verse to be familiar because Pastor Maurer recently spoke about this on a Wednesday night in his study of discipleship. But then look with me at verses 5 and 6, which clearly refer to our Lord. It refers, and the emphasis here I want you to notice is in his voluntary suffering. The Lord God hath opened my ear, and I was not rebellious, neither turned away back. I gave my back to the smiters, and my cheeks to them that plucked off the hair. I did not hide my face. from shame and spitting. And you'll notice the emphasis in verse 6, I gave my back. I hid not my face. This was a intentional decision on the part of our Savior to suffer in our stead. The Lord of Glory, of course, could have stopped this indignity, but he chose to do the will of his father as the perfect servant of the Lord. The actions that are highlighted here in verse and verse 6 are not so much actions of great agony as they are actions that show dishonor and disgrace. The plucking out of the hair from his face and spitting in his face Jesus chose to allow this to occur because it was part of his father's plan of redemption. Have you ever thought about the way Jesus thought about things? It's probably a good thing that we have no idea of how we are going to die. It's a big unknown. We don't know if we're going to die slowly of some great disease or suddenly of some heart attack or aneurysm. We have no idea. God knows. But the Lord Jesus Christ knew exactly how he was going to die. It was prophesied in Scripture, and he knew the scriptures. He often revealed to his disciples how he would come to Jerusalem and he would be betrayed. And he would be tried and he would be crucified on the third day he would rise again. He said this on more than a few occasions. He knew that this was coming. He knew that he would be brutally murdered. And during his three years of ministry, this was something that we see alluded to again and again. It was in his thinking. Now you might think that because he was the Son of God, that wouldn't trouble him in the least. Wouldn't bother him at all because he's God in flesh. Yes, but he's God in flesh And it is something that he meditated about. It is something that he had to steal his mind for. We see the clearest glimpse, I think, of his humanity in the Garden of Gethsemane. When he expresses to his disciples his profound distress and sorrow at what would come the very next day. So, how did he steal himself for what he knew he had come to do? We find some of these answers here in Isaiah 50. I think of another passage that Gives us insight into the thinking of Christ. And I don't have time to look at it tonight. That's another message, but in in Hebrews chapter 12, it talks about that for the joy that was set before him. He endured the cross and despised the shame. He kept his focus on what would be accomplished through his death on the cross. and the joy that that would bring to his father, that his plan of redemption was accomplished. But we have more insight here in this prophetic passage. These words are precious to us because they are the thoughts of our suffering Savior who died for our sins. But they are also instructive for us because they provide a model of how we can face suffering with the mindset of our Savior. So I'm going to speak to you briefly tonight on how to face suffering like the Savior. The first thing I would like you to notice, beginning in verse 7, is that the servant of the Lord, our Savior, faced suffering by reminding himself of God 's truth Look at what it says in the first phrase of verse 7. For the Lord God will help me. We see here, notice the doubling of God's name, the Lord God. You're going to find that throughout this song in verse 4 and verse 5 and verse 7 and in verse It has the significance of the sovereign Lord. And in using this title, our Savior is expressing his confidence that God is working out his divine plan. The Lord God will help me. The word help here is often used in the context of military intervention. In fact, its exact term is used in the crucifixion Psalm, Psalm 22, when Jesus says prophetically from the cross, be not far from me, for trouble is near, for there is none to help. And this is probably an expression and a reflection of when he said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me that great cry that came out of the darkness of Calvary? The term expresses a desperate plea for God to enable for God to intervene The idea is often the way we feel when we say, God, if you don't do something, I will fail. And here the Lord is steadying his mind with this truth in verse seven: the Lord God will help me. He believed that God would fulfill his promises. And of course, the Old Testament is filled with expressions of faith like this, with promises that God will help his people. We have verses like this that we still cling to today. Psalm 50, verse 15, Call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. For Psalm 37, 23 and 24, the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down. For the Lord upholdeth him with his hand. Excuse me. Joshua 1. 9. Be strong and of good courage. Be not afraid. Neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. Jesus knew these verses, these verses that we know, he knew them. He knew them by hearts. We see when our Lord was on the cross and throughout his suffering him quoting verses, alluding to verses. The word of God was ministering to him even in his hour of suffering. And so God's word must minister to us. We must fortify our minds with faith, affirming scriptures. It does make a difference when we remind ourselves of these promises and we meditate upon them and we repeat them to ourselves. and we read them in our Bibles or on a verse card or on our phones, and then we think about what that means and we say, yes, I believe this is true. And no matter how bleak My situation may be, no matter how hopeless it may seem to me, this verse is true and God will help me. We see that the servant, our Savior, knew that his father would not ultimately fail him. Look with me, the continuation of verse 7. He says, therefore shall I not be confounded This is parallel to the last line of verse 7 that says, I know that I shall not be ashamed. This term confounded has the idea of being disgraced or confused or humiliated. Now there's a problem here that maybe you've thought of. In verse 6, we have a record of the suffering servants' humiliation and degradation. In the next verse, he is saying that he knows that God will not allow him to be humiliated. So how can that be true? Is he going to be humiliated or is he not going to be humiliated? Well, the answer is in the word ultimate It is true that it was God's will for his beloved son to be mocked and ridiculed and disgraced and nailed to an old rugged cross. He endured great shame. And if you go through the gospel record, you will see that that is what is emphasized. We tend to emphasize the physical suffering. What the Bible emphasizes is the disgrace that he faced. And the way the crowds were mocking and jeering him, and the religious leaders, and the soldiers, and the chief priests, and all of humanity Was there outside the city gate of Jerusalem mocking him, deriding him, laughing at him? Indeed, he did face great humiliation, but he did not face ultimate humiliation. And what I mean by that is A day would come when he would be exalted. The term ashamed at the end of this verse is used as it's found in Isaiah chapter 1 and verse 29, refer to the shame the Israelites felt when they placed their reliance in idols. And they found that they were let down in their hour of need. This sort of expression is found repeatedly throughout the scriptures. We see in just the previous chapter here in Isaiah 49 and verse 23, if you want to look at that, just turn one page over. I want you to look at the last phrase of verse 23, Isaiah 49. It says, and thou shalt know that I am the Lord, for they shall not be ashamed that wait for me. The opposite of this is found in Isaiah 28, 16, where it talks about those who make haste. The idea is those who flee in shame. We see references to this in the New Testament as well. You don't need to turn here, but in. The very last phrase of Romans chapter 9 in verse 33, it says, And whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed. And in Romans 10, 11, it says, for the scripture saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed, quoting Isaiah 28, 16. Does that mean that no Christian follower of Christ will ever face humiliation and degradation and mocking at the hands of their persecutors? Absolutely not. It happens every day, probably every hour of the day. The point that all these promises in the Old and New Testament make is that no one Who puts their faith in the Lord in the end will be disappointed There is no one who after death says, you know, if I had it to do all over again, I think I would have taken a different route No one's going to face that kind of humiliation, that kind of disappointment. There will be many people after they die. Who do face disappointment and humiliation? Have you ever thought about this? Have you ever thought about people who give their entire life, all of their days, all of their energy? To something that is false, that is an idol. How about people, a Buddhist monk somewhere who secludes themselves up on some mountaintop in some little monastery, and he disciplines himself and he meditates and he does all of these things and he gives his whole life and it to some truth. Only to find out in the end that it was all a lie. Or how about some Muslim cleric? Who leads prayers throughout his life on Friday afternoon? Speaks, recites the prayers faithfully five times a day throughout his life. Is assured that he is accepted by Allah because of his discipline and his hard work, but in the end, he will be disappointed. Or how about the atheist who believes there's nothing beyond the grave, there's nothing beyond matter itself, who lives who lives to amass wealth and to enjoy pleasure and to exalt his name. But when he dies, he finds out that is not the end. It's only the beginning of eternity. And he has lived his life for a lie, for an idol that will disappoint him. There is no Christian follower. There is no true believer who will be embarrassed that they trusted in Christ or they endured hardship for him. In fact, they will be ashamed that they were not more joyous in accepting shame and reproach for following his name. No one in heaven is rethinking their decision to follow Christ. And here we see the Lord Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world, fortifying his mind with this truth, with these scriptures, that he will not be confounded in the end. Secondly, the servant of the Lord, our Savior, faced suffering by resolving to do his Father's will. Look with me At the last part of verse 7. Therefore, as a result of these truths, therefore have I set my face like a flint And I know that I shall not be ashamed. He repeats that truth again. This is an expression of resolution. I have set my face It can indicate a resolve to do what is right or wrong. In Isaiah, excuse me, Jeremiah chapter 5 and verse 3, it says, they have made their faces harder than rock. They have refused to return. In that case, it was a negative resolution. The same thing occurs in Zechariah 7. 12, where it says, They have made their hearts hard as adamant stone. This imagery is used to express the resolution to do what is right in the book of Ezekiel, chapter 3, verses 8 and 9. There God says to the prophet Ezekiel, the people of God will reject your message, but set your face to do my will. This is often what he said to his prophets. They will not listen to you, but I want you to be faithful in speaking for me. One commentator of the past explains this expression this way: a determined resolution that is visible in the countenance. And it's very likely that the gospel writer of Luke had this verse in mind when he described the Lord Jesus. final journey to Jerusalem. Turn with me, if you would, please, to Luke chapter 9. Luke chapter 9, verse 51. Luke nine fifty-one. It says, and it came to pass when the time was come that he should be received up He steadfastly set his face to go up, to go to Jerusalem. Why did he steadfastly set his face? Because he knew it was going to be difficult. He knew what he would endure. He knew the suffering that he would face. He knew that this was his final journey, that there was no turning back. There he would be rejected and mocked and eventually murdered. Throughout the Gospel of John, we read This expression, my hour is not yet come, occurs some seven times This, of course, was his reference to his coming death, and it reminds us that he was thinking about it, and he knew that it was approaching. Turn with me to John chapter 12, if you would. John Chapter Twelve After many times reading in the gospel that his hour had not yet come, then we read this. Jesus answered them saying, the hour is come. This is John 12, 23, the hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Verily, verily I say unto you, except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. He that loveth his life shall lose it, and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal. If any man serve me, let him follow me, and where I am, there shall also my servant be. If any man serve me, him will my Father honor. Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? But for this cause came I unto this hour. Father, glorify thy name. This speaks of great resolution. You do notice in this passage that our Lord's soul was troubled at the prospect of his coming death and abandonment. By his father on the cross. I recently mentioned in the sermon that Jesus was the bravest, most heroic person who ever lived. There's something in the human soul that looks and longs for a hero. And every ancient story That was passed down from generation to generation orally and was eventually found itself into written form to the most recent motion pictures. There's always or almost always a hero in the story who is brave And who stands up to great difficulty and trial and tragedy and does the right thing, or at least what the movie people think is the right thing. And it speaks to the fact that in our human hearts we long for someone who is courageous and heroic and will do what is right, while Jesus Christ is the fulfillment of all those aspirations. And we see this in this prophecy and throughout the scriptures. A hero, as has often been said, is not someone Who has no negative feelings, no anxiety, no fear, no worries, no troubles, like everyone else, but there's someone who do not live by those feelings, but does the right thing despite the difficulty of it. And that was true of our Lord. and Savior. He was committed to doing the will of his father. You see that in the Garden of Gethsemane when he says, Not my will, but thine be done. He was obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. We see this resolution throughout His last hours before his death, when he was in the upper room discourse, he says at one point, Arise, let us go hence And many commentators have mentioned that these are the kind of words that a general would give to his troops who is going out to meet the enemy on the field of battle. Arise, let us go hence. He said a few moments later, I have overcome the world. And he went out into the garden to face his accusers and to be arrested. This is model behavior for all the servants of the Lord. Too often we cower and we flee from difficulties. That come from following our Savior. We are quick to take the easy, comfortable routes out of difficulty. Sometimes following the Lord will appear very difficult, if not impossible, to you. It's painful. It's hard. Your flesh recoils from it. And you must do it, however, if it's the will of your Father. And here we must follow our Savior with this kind of determined resolution that's possible only through the grace of God. Thirdly, I want you to notice that the servant of the Lord faced suffering by trusting in his father's vindication. Look with me at verses 8 and 9. Turn back with me, please, to Isaiah 50. Isaiah chapter fifty, verses eight to nine. He says, he is near that justifieth me. Who will contend with me? Let us stand together. Who is my adversary? Let him come near to me. Behold, the Lord God will help me. Who is he that shall condemn me? Lo, they shall all wax old as a garment. The moth shall eat them up. These verses are filled with legal terminology. Jesus was falsely accused of doing many things during his life and his trial. The religious leaders accused him of being a false teacher or demon of being demon-possessed They mocked him, they ridiculed him, they sought to discredit him, but he knew ultimately that his father would vindicate him. He knew that he was sinless and innocent of any of these charges. When did that vindication occur? In one sense, it occurred throughout the ministry of our Lord. Every miracle was a vindication of his deity. And on at least one occasion, the Father even spoke from heaven to vindicate his beloved son. He said, This is my beloved son. Hear him. But the ultimate vindication of the servant of the Lord was the resurrection of Christ from the dead. According to Psalm 2, it was the Father's proclamation, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. This coming vindication strengthened the Savior for the suffering that was ahead. Notice the bold confidence that is expressed. In this prophecy. He says things like, Who will contend with me? Let him stand together. Who is my adversary? Let him come near to me. Jesus did not cower in the upper room. He went out to meet his accusers, his foes who would arrest him in the night. He says, behold, the Lord God will help me. Who is he that shall condemn me? When I read these words to you, did your mind go to Romans chapter 8? That great passage that says, if God be for us, who can be against us? Again, the same truths that buttress and strengthened and gave courage to our Savior can give courage to us. When we know that the Lord is with us, we can face the forces of evil with holy confidence that greater is He that is in us than He that is in the world. We sang this hymn tonight, A Mighty Fortress is Our God, and we have that wonderful verse in there that says, And though this world with devils filled should threaten to undo us, We will not fear, for God hath willed his truth to triumph through us. That is the victorious spirit That the people of God can enjoy that is a reflection of their Savior 's confidence. This is why so many martyrs have gone to their death with boldness, with confidence, and even with joy. Because they shared in the consolation that our Savior enjoyed. But fourthly, tonight I want you to notice the servant of the Lord speaks to those who face suffering. This is the way most conservative commentators take verses 10 and 11. Some would suggest that Now the prophet Isaiah is giving commentary on this and making application. But most think that still the Savior that is speaking. And here the Savior is speaking to those who suffer. And in these two verses, he is applying what he has just said, and he makes applications to both believers and to unbelievers. There are really just two responses. to difficulty that we face in life. Notice how believers respond to suffering, how we must respond to suffering in verse 10. Who is among you that feareth the Lord? It's speaking there of those who follow him, that obey the voice of his servant, that walketh in darkness, and hath no light. Let him trust in the name of the Lord and stay upon his God. Did you know that A person who fears God may be asked to walk for time in darkness. We don't talk about this very often in modern times. In fact, I think in many ways we encourage a superficial brand of Christianity that says that we must always just paint a smile on our face and act like everything's going fine and dandy when in fact it is not. I'm not trying to say that these songs are evil or anything, but I can still remember a chorus that used to be very, very popular, and I'm not suggesting that you can't sing it. But it says this, every day with Jesus is sweeter than the day before. Let me ask you, has that been true in your life's experience? Because I'm here to say it has not been true in my life. It has not been that every day is better than the day before, and every day I'm walking in more victory and with more joy and with less problems than I had the day before. That has not been my experience. And I doubt it's been yours well. The fact is that God calls on his children at times to walk in darkness. The Puritans got this right. Thomas Goodwin wrote a volume on this verse entitled A Child of Light Walking in Darkness. It's a precious verse that I share often with people who are discouraged. It describes this person as walking in darkness and hath no light. It seems like God's Not answering their prayers. He's not talking to them. They're not aware of his presence. Does this mean that God has violated that promise? I will never leave thee nor forsake thee? No, it does not. But sometimes we cannot perceive his presence. So how does a child of light make it through the darkness? Well, they need to obey the voice of his servant. I think this is a reference to the ultimate servant, Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus said, My sheep hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me. And then secondly, he's called on to let him trust in the name of the Lord and stay upon his God. In other words, he trusts in the Lord even though he can't feel the Lord's presence, even though it doesn't seem like God is at work Even though every one of his perceptions tell him this simply isn't working, God has forgotten all about you, he still does what is right and follows the Lord because he knows this is just a matter of his perceptions and not the reality of the situation. The term stay here has the idea of to lean or to recline, like a man who leans on a cane or a walking stick. We are to be stayed upon Jehovah. Very briefly, notice how unbelievers respond to suff suffering. Verse eleven Behold, all ye that kindle a fire, that compass yourselves about with sparks. Walk in the light of your fire and the sparks that ye have kindled. This shall ye have of my hand. Ye shall lie down in sorrow. These are people who live by their own light. They walk in the light of their own fire. They live by their own wisdom. They don't seek God in the darkness. They devise a light of their own making. One of the most revealing tests of a man's faith is what he does when he is in the darkness. The world says in a moment of crisis, I can get through this. I am a survivor. I will find a way out. And through this, but the child of God flees to his father for help. This is what Jesus did. And this is what we must do. Tonight as we come to this table, let us remember that we are not coming to a man who was a victim of a horrible crime. We are coming to remember a man who boldly and courageously and voluntarily gave up his life. And not only did he die for our sins, not only did he take care of our iniquities, but he has provided a model for us of how we should follow the Lord with resolute determination when his will seems difficult to follow. Let's close in prayer this evening. Father We thank you for your word. We thank you that it has all that we need. I pray that you would continue to work. Help us now as we partake of these elements. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.