Please turn with me to First Peter chapter four. First Peter chapter four. William Sangster was a Methodist preacher who had a significant ministry in London in the mid-20th century. In the late 1950s, he was told that he was dying of progressive muscular atrophy. He made four resolutions in light of his approaching death, and he faithfully kept them. He said, first of all, I will never complain. Second, I will keep the home bright. Third, I will count my blessings. And fourth, I will try to turn it to gain. We usually have no choice in our sufferings. It comes into our lives like an unwanted guest. But we can choose how we respond to our suffering. And this is what Peter is focusing on in this final paragraph of 1 Peter chapter 4. We read this passage together a little while ago. It begins in this arresting way in verse 12, Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you as though some strange thing happened unto you. He says, we should not be shocked or surprised. When we face suffering. Instead, verse 13, we should rejoice, he says, but rejoice in as much as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering. That when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy. He goes on to show that to suffer for Christ is actually a blessing. Verse 14. And now this morning, I want us to consider verses 15 through 19. Peter is continuing to speak of how we respond to our suffering. And in these closing verses of this chapter, he's going to address once more, how we interpret it, how we think about it, how we reflect on our suffering. Many Christians struggle to properly respond to their suffering. Some become anxious and worried. They fear that their suffering will only get worse. Some become gripped by fear and panic, so much so that it makes them physically ill. Others become depressed and despondent. Over their prolonged affliction. Some will drop out of church and sulk in silence Unfortunately, some will become bitter and angry at God for allowing painful circumstances into their lives. And some will abandon their faith. However, some Christians respond to the most painful situations with peace and joy. Why is it that professing believers facing similar circumstances can respond in very different ways? There are certainly many reasons, but I think the primary reason is the way that they have chosen to interpret The painful circumstance in their lives. Some view their suffering as God abandoning them or punishing them. Others see it Is God's good plan for their lives? I once heard a friend of mine describe The difference this way. He spoke of two ships that were at sea and were facing a great storm with great waves coming over the side of the ship. They both were in the identical storm, but in one of the vessels, though it was tossed about And though everything was topsy-turvy and difficult inside, it was okay because no water came into the ship. But in the other vessel, it was a different story. The water was seeping in through the hull of the ship, and soon it began to sink. And he said it's the same way with people in very adverse circumstances. Some of them Yes, it's not pleasant. Yes, it's very terrifying and difficult, but they're okay because the waters of doubt and of fear are not entering and washing into their souls, but uh some people. The water is coming in, and they are sinking in the storm. Perhaps you're here this morning And you're facing suffering in your life. My question is the water coming into your soul, or is it just an external difficulty that you're facing? So how do we stay upright? How do we keep the cold and deadly waters out of our soul? I think we need to remember some timeless truths from God's Word that will help us weather any storm that we might face in life. I'm going to preach you this morning on key truths for surviving your suffering. And I want us to see five things that we need to remember. First of all, number one, remember not to bring suffering upon yourself. Look at verse 15. He said, but let none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief. or as an evildoer or as a busybody in other men's matters. Notice this verse begins with the word but it's setting contrast to what Peter has just said in verse 14, he speaks about God being glorified in our suffering when we suffer for him. That's not the curse of God, it's actually the blessing of God. But there is an exception to that, and that is when our own sinful, wicked actions bring suffering into our lives. And so he qualifies what he is saying and he provides some examples here. He mentions four items in verse 15. He mentions murderer, thief, evildoer, which refers generally to a lawbreaker or criminal. These three are found together. We get no credit for suffering for Christ when it comes because we have been involved. in illegal activity. Now I've mentioned this in previous messages from this book. There are times when we do have to disobey the civil authorities. We have biblical warrant for this. When they tell us to do something that is absolutely contrary to the Word of God. If they were to tell us From now on, it's illegal to gather for worship. You know what? We would have to disobey that. If they say it's illegal to own a Bible, we would have to say, well, I'm sorry, I'm keeping my Bible. if they will say it is illegal in this country anymore for anyone to ever say a word for Christ and ever try to proselytize or witness or share their faith with anyone if it's absolutely illegal in all circumstances. We would have to say sorry, but we have been commanded to share the good news. There are situations like that But what Peter has in mind here are things that the Bible condemns itself, such as murder and stealing and criminal activity. Sometimes people in their zeal to follow God think that they can break the laws of God to accomplish what is good. Some have thought that those who do wicked things should be assassinated. That those who promote wicked causes should be vandalized. And they do it in the name of God, but it's not right and biblical to break criminal laws and the law of God, supposedly, to do what is right. It's so easy for us to rationalize our sinful behavior. Peter has repeatedly cautioned about this in this first epistle. You may remember back in chapter 2 and verse 18 He speaks about servants, be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward or the twisted He goes on in verse 20, for what glory is it when ye be buffeted for your faults if ye take it patiently? But if when ye do well and suffer for it and take it patiently, this is acceptable with God. He calls on us earlier in that chapter to submit to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. And chapter 3 and verse 10 He comes to this point again. He says, for he that will love life and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking No say speak no guile, let him askew evil and do good, let him seek peace and ensue it And then again in chapter 4 and verse 15, he comes to remind his readers of what God has called us to do. Now, I mentioned there are four items in verse 15. Three of them are found together grammatically. The last one is in its own situation, he says, or as a busy body in other men's matters. And this item scholars think is separated from the other three because this is where the emphasis is. He's not really that concerned that his readers are going around killing people or stealing things, but this one is more of a temptation and more of a problem. There's some debate exactly about what this unusual term means. It literally reads, watching over another's affairs. It refers to someone who meddles in the business of another. Peter is probably thinking of early Christians who were unwise in the way they dealt with their unsaved neighbors, friends, and co-workers. They rebuked them and condemned them severely. And it brought about not repentance but retaliation. There is a place to speak out for Christ. But there's also a place for you not to get involved in other people's affairs and businesses. You have to think of the big picture. And sometimes well-meaning Christians err in this regard. They push people further away from the gospel rather than bringing them to the light of the truth. So first of all, Peter says, remember not to bring suffering upon yourself. And secondly, remember to look for ways to glorify God in your suffering. Look with me now at verse 16. He goes, on the other hand, yet if any man suffer as a Christian, Let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on this behalf When Peter refers to suffering as a Christian, he is speaking of suffering that comes about simply because you identify as a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we use the term Christian all the time, but it's actually a rare designation in the New Testament. It's found only three times. This is one of those three times. The other two are found in the book of Acts. I want to show them to you. Turn with me to Acts chapter 11, if you would please. Acts chapter 11 and verse 26. Acts eleven, verse twenty-six It says, and when he had found him, he brought him unto Antioch. And it came to pass that a whole year they assembled themselves with the church and taught much people. And the disciples were called Christians first in Antioch. Notice it doesn't say that they called themselves Christians. It says they were called Christians. That is by the people in that community in that city. We find it again in Acts chapter 26 And verse twenty eight Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. This term is obviously spread and being used more broadly now. And originally what is clear is that it was a term of derision You folks are followers of that Christ. It was meant to shame them. And to bring a reaction where the person would say, oh no, no, no, I'm not a follower of him. But the Christians said guilty as charged. We'll accept that designation. Followers of Christ. Yeah, that's who we are. That's a good term. We'll start calling ourselves Christians. And that's exactly what they did. Now turn back with me, please, to 1 Peter 4, 16. Peter says in reference to this, let him not be ashamed. The Bible is written not in the West, but in the East. And in the East, they have a society where honor is much more prevalent than it is in our culture. Shame is the worst thing that a person can endure. And Peter is saying here, don't be ashamed, don't be put to shame, don't allow that psychological weapon that you should be ashamed for being a Christian. Don't let that keep you from following the Lord. Just imagine if you were in a society where there were very, very few Christians. That's the case for many believers in the world today. Not here, but in other places. And let's say that everyone in your community, everyone in your culture universally had a low view of Christians, not because they'd actually witnessed things, but because they'd heard rumors. Heard that Christians were cannibals. Because they spoke of taking the Lord's blood and body at communion services. There were rumors that they were all immoral because they greeted one another with a holy kiss on the cheek. They said they were revolutionaries who were trying to topple society and the Roman Empire. They're dangerous people. Just imagine how you would feel about carrying a label that had the same emotional weight of being Like we would today if someone were to call you a terrorist or a racist. I mean, that would be a powerful deterrent for you to say, oh no, I'm not that at all But these early Christians were called on to say, yes, I am a follower of Christ, and I do so proudly. Peter says that we must be willing to bear the reproach of being a Christian. He's just talked about that in verse 14. If you be reproached for the name of Christ or insulted It's interesting when Jesus speaks of persecution in Matthew 5, most of the terms that are used there refer to verbal persecution. And this is what most of us would face in our country, in some places. Not physical persecution or financial persecution, but verbal persecution. We have to be willing to take that. I remember the first time I felt the sense of shame. I was in ninth grade, and for some reason after school we had to run to the mall to pick something up And I was wearing my high school jacket, and it said very large letters on the back, Frederick Christian Academy. And I was walking through the mall, and back in those days at least, the malls were filled with teens. And I can remember hearing some comments. People mocking, laughing, other teens, because I had the jacket of a Christian school. I look back on that now and I'm ashamed that I was ashamed. Being insulted for being a follower of Jesus is not a cause for shame, but a badge of honor. This is how we can glorify God in our suffering. Now I'm going to change the situation just a little bit here By way of application, every time we suffer, whether it's specifically because we are Christian, or it's just suffering that's been brought into our life because we live on a fallen planet , Like a disease, health issue, cancer , heart problems. Every time we suffer, we have a platform To be a witness for Christ. I've mentioned this to you before, but you will encounter a lot of people in your suffering that you never encountered before. You will encounter doctors and nurses. You will hear from distant relatives who hear about your illness that haven't been in touch with you for years, but they will be contacting you Calling you, talking to you. You will hear from other members of your family. You will hear from believers at church. You will hear from unbelievers maybe your neighbors, but all of these people will be looking at you. You will have their attention. And you have the opportunity to speak to the grace of God in your trial. So instead of saying, oh, if only I didn't have this difficulty, this pain, the suffering to go through, you should say, wait a minute, this is an opportunity, an unprecedented opportunity for me to bring glory to God and to speak for Him. I have, as it were, a microphone that I didn't have before. And many people will listen to me who would not listen to me otherwise. Otherwise, every painful trial brings with it a unique opportunity to glorify God. Thirdly, remember that God is seeking to purify you in your suffering. Verse 17 begins with a phrase that perhaps causes us to scratch our heads. For the time has come that judgment must begin at the house of God. This raises some questions. Is Peter saying that the persecution that these early believers faced was God judging them for their sin? I mean, doesn't the Bible teach that Jesus paid for all of our sins at the cross? So let me begin by saying the Bible does not teach That all suffering is due to sinfulness on our part. People tend to naturally think this way. This is the way the disciples thought. Remember, you recall the question that they asked Jesus when they encountered the man who was born blind? They said, Master, who did send this man or his parents that he was born blind? But Jesus answered, neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents, but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. And of course we have that outstanding example in the Old Testament of Job. His counselors or his friends came alongside. And one by one they give speeches, and all of their speeches are intended to say, wait a minute, Job, you went from being so high to so low, you must have done something really bad. So don't argue with us. Don't fight against it. Just confess it. Repent of your sin. And he says, I haven't, as God is my witness. This is not because of my sin. And the Bible describes Job as a righteous man that feared God. But the greatest example we have of someone who was innocent, who suffered, was, of course, the Lord Jesus Christ. He never sinned, and yet he suffered and died on an old rugged cross. Suffering does not always come because of our sin. But God does often use suffering to purify his people. And I think he does this in different ways. Sometimes he's trying to get us to part with our sin. that we cling to and and and although we're convicted of it, we will not turn from it. And so he turns as it were the heat up To purify us. And sometimes I think it's not so much that he's trying to get rid of sin that we will not repent of, but he's trying to get us refocused. So that we get rid of things that are worthless in our lives. We can give so much time and attention to things that don't matter. Spending our lives on making our lives comfortable and easy and pleasants And forget what we're here on earth for. And so he puts us in the crucible of affliction. So that we will get the picture and we will cling more closely to Christ I've already spoken to you from verse 12 of this chapter, where he refers to this fiery trial. And the intention of that imagery is that of a purifying fire. The Lord does use pain and persecution. to burn out the impurities of our faith and all of us, the best of us, have impurities. The Old Testament often speaks of God purifying his people through the fires of affliction. In Zechariah chapter 13 and verse 9, we read And I will bring the third part through the fire, and we'll refine them as silver is refined, and will try them as gold is tried. They shall call on my name and I will hear them. I will say, it is my people, and they shall say, The Lord is my God. In Malachi chapter 3 and verse 3, we read this, and he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he shall purify the sons of Levi and purge them as gold and silver. That they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness. God purifies his people through suffering. But it's important to make this distinction. He's not condemning us. Romans chapter 8 and verse 1 says there is no condemnation To them who are in Christ Jesus. It's also important for you to realize he's not, as it were, punishing us. He's not saying, all right, now you're going to have to pay for those sins. First of all, your suffering cannot pay for your sins. And secondly, if you're a child of God, they've already been paid for at the cross. The Bible says the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. But the Bible does reveal that God corrects us. In Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 6 it says, For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. No exceptions. Every child of God at some time will experience the purifying fires of affliction. And God purifies his people in two primary ways. First of all, he purifies us as individuals. He uses affliction to burn out the sinful dross from our lives. As the hymn writer put it, when through fiery trials Thy pathway shall lie, thy grace also efficient shall be my supply. The flame shall not hurt thee, I only design Thy draws to consume, and thy gold to refine. Whenever you face a time of suffering, it is wise and proper to examine your heart and ask yourself. Is there any sin that God is trying to burn out of my life? Is there something, some idol that I've been clinging to and I'm refusing to let go of, and God says, all right. I've warned you, I've talked to you about this in my word time and time again. Now there are going to be some consequences, and I'm going to bring my chastening hand. into your life to part you from your sin. So the purifying fires work in an individual basis, but they also work On a communal or churchwide basis, because he purifies his church by removing false Christians through the fires of persecution. We see an example of this even at the cross. All the disciples failed the Lord and fled into the night. But Judas revealed in that time of testing that he was not a true follower of the Lord. We have a large percentage of people in our nation who claim, in some way, to be followers of Jesus Christ. But how much of that are true, how many of them are truly born-again believers? What happens if all of a sudden it became illegal to be a Christian? If the term Christian was a term of derision, if there were real serious consequences to following the Lord Jesus Christ and gathering for worship and owning a Bible and speaking for the Lord's, How many of those supposed followers would just evaporate and be gone? I suspect a high percentage. The Lord uses persecution to purify us individually as true believers and to purify his body. So that the false professors will leave and his church will be purified. In your suffering, Remember that God desires not to punish you, but to purify you. Fourthly, Remember that God will judge those who bring suffering upon his people. And this is the point that he is making in the latter half of verse 17 into verse 18. It says Let me begin at the start, for the time has come that judgment must begin at the house of God. And if it first begin at us, what shall be the end of them that obey not the gospel of God? And if the righteous scarcely be saved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear? Peter anticipates someone asking about the godless people who persecute the people of God. Peter's just said that God uses persecution. to purify his people. And so someone like us, as it were, raises his hand and said, yeah, Peter, but what about the people who are persecuting us, who are putting us through these painful situations? What happens to them? And so he addresses that. Notice that Peter uses two rhetorical questions to answer this objection. The first one is, what shall be the end of them that obey not the gospel? It's a rhetorical question because the answer is obvious. Think about it this way. If the Lord is so careful to correct his own children through the fires of affliction, what will he do to those who hate his children and put them to death? What will he do to them? And then this is amplified In the next question, which we'll get to in a moment, but I want you to notice how it describes the lost in this verse, those who persecute the people of God, them that obey not the gospel of God. Now you might object to this language because we know the Bible clearly teaches that we're saved not by our obedience, but by faith alone. However, it's important to understand that saving faith always leads to some level of obedience. The book of James, the book of 1 John, many other passages of Scripture Teach this. We have this wonderful hymn that we sing often here because I like it. It's entitled Trust and Obey. For there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. Those two things always go together. You can't say, you know, I trust the Lord, but I don't obey him. No, one will naturally lead to the other. But I want you to notice the second rhetorical question that's just restated in verse 18. And if the righteous scarcely be saved, Where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear? This is a quotation from Proverbs 1131. Now, when it says scarcely be saved, it doesn't mean that some people just barely make it into heaven. You know, you hear people talk that way sometimes. That guy got into heaven by the skin of his teeth. I mean, he just barely it was really close. He just barely made it It's not true. Everyone makes it into heaven on the same basis, the perfect, imputed righteousness of Jesus Christ. That's not what this verse is saying. What it's describing is not how we're saved, but the difficulty that we experience in our journey to heaven. Do you think the Christian life is easy? We have a lot of preaching, a lot of songs, a lot of Christian literature that try to portray that. It's a way to have an easy life. But I want you to know that's not what the Bible teaches. Psalm 34 says, Many are the afflictions of the righteous. Jesus said, in the world ye shall have Tribulation. Paul said to the new converts at Antioch, we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God. He didn't even say a little tribulation. He said through much tribulation. John Newton described his Christian experience this way through many. dangers, toils, and snares, I have already come. Now look again at verse 18. Notice the comparison Peter's using this quotation to say this. If the path of life is so difficult for Christians here on this earth, imagine how difficult it will be in the end for those who have rejected the Savior. The Christian life is hard, but it's nothing compared to an eternity in hell. God will vindicate his people through the judgment, those who oppress his children. Do we pray for our persecutors? Yes, we do. We follow our Lord's example. We pray that their eyes would be open, that they would be saved. But God has promised in his word in many places that he will vindicate his people. He will protect them in eternity And he will bring his righteous judgment upon those who persecute his church. Remember not to bring suffering upon yourself. Remember to look for ways to glorify God in your suffering. Remember that God is seeking to purify you and your suffering. Remember that God will judge those who bring suffering upon his people. And finally, fifthly , This morning, remember to trust God in your suffering. Look at verse 19. Peter says, Wherefore, let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping of their souls to him in well-doing as unto a faithful creator. This verse, well for, indicates that Peter is summarizing what he's been saying in this paragraph thus far. This is his concluding thought So I'm going to put this to you very practically this way. If you forget everything else that I've said to you this morning and you've been half asleep, I want you to wake up now Because this is the most important thing. You have got to trust God in your suffering. I want you to notice how he puts this here. Let them that suffer according to the will of God. This means that you need to acknowledge that whatever suffering you face in life as a Christian is due to the sovereign will of God. Your suffering is not some accident. It is not an indication that God has abandoned you. No, it is God's will for your life. It is his good providential plan. So how should we respond to this revelation? We are told here to commit our souls to his keeping. The word commit was a term used by bankers to describe a deposit given for safekeeping. We still have safe deposit boxes today. Perhaps you're facing a situation right now and you're thinking, I don't know how I will get through this. The answer is that you must entrust your life to God's care. The same term that is translated commit here is used to describe our Lord Jesus Christ. Turn with me back just a couple pages to 1 Peter chapter 2. And verse 23. Our Lord's example during his trials and his crucifixion, it says, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not. but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. It's that word committed. He entrusted himself. He put himself in his father's care And his trust was most powerfully illustrated in his final words from the cross. When he said with a loud voice, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. And the word commend there is that same word here. He committed his spirit to his care. If Jesus could trust to his Father's care, even though he faced such horrible suffering at the cross, You can surely trust him for whatever difficulty you're facing right now. But trusting God is hard, especially when we hurt. Especially when we've been going through the fires of affliction for a long time. And so Peter concludes this thought by reminding us of the person, the being that we are trusting, he says, as unto, notice this, a faithful creator. I've said this many times. I'm going to say it again in this context. The reason why we find it so hard to trust in God is because we don't know him very well. The more you know someone and you know their character, the easier it is for you to entrust precious things to their care. Because you know that they'll do a good job. You know that they will be careful and protective and they'll look out for your interest. All of you know people that you could entrust something very precious to you and you wouldn't worry about it at all because you know them You've observed them for years, you've lived with them for years, you've walked with them for years, you know their character inside and out, and you know they are trustworthy. Do you know that about your God? You know him well enough. But even when you can't quite figure out what's going on, you can trust in him. You know, when you have someone that you've walked with for years and they do something that's a little strange to you, you're still able to give them the benefit of the doubt and say, I know it's going to turn out all right. I know they know what they're doing. I don't see what they're doing now, but I have trust in them. It's interesting to notice The Bible often reminds us of God's faithfulness in the context of suffering, because that's what we need to hear. In Lamentations chapter 3, the prophet Jeremiah is mourning the destruction of Jerusalem. But he's able to say, it is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. Because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. And Paul, writing many centuries later, would say, There hath no temptation, or we could translate that trial taken you, but such as is common to man, but God is faithful. Who will not suffer you to be attempted above that you are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that you may be able to bear it. In the middle of that verse, Paul feels constrained by the Spirit of God to say, God is faithful And in Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 23, we read, let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. You can trust in God. And one of the reasons why God brings us through trials is he wants us to learn to trust him more. And so he puts us to the test. But Peter uses this term not just faithful, but faithful creator. Now, the Bible is filled with references to God and his creative work, but this is a rare title for God. In fact, this is the only time that God is called by this title in the New Testament. So it's significant. So, why is it that Peter feels constrained and led by the Spirit of God to remind his Christian readers that God is a creator? Don't they believe that God is a creator? Yes, they do. Then why does he remind them of this? He wants Christians who suffer to remember the God who designed them. The God who created the universe and this world in which we live can be trusted to work out his plan in their life. You know what I tell people, what advice I give people? Sometimes people who are going through very difficult times and they're depressed and they're discouraged or they're anxious and they just don't feel like they can trust God. I tell them, your God is too small. You need to go out there and you need to walk through creation and you need to look up at the sky. And look at the , don't look directly at the sun, but notice the sun is there. Look at the stars at night Look at the beauty of creation, the cycles of the seasons, the cycle, the water cycle that we have, and how all of it works together, how God in his infinite wisdom provides for the animals. And for all the creatures of the world and the God who created this vast universe that we can't even begin to comprehend its immense size, the God who designed all of that can be trusted that he has a plan for your life. You need to remember the great God that you are serving. My advice to you this morning if you find yourself in the fires of affliction is this, trust in God. Commit your soul, commit your life, commit your suffering, commit your family to his care. He is worthy of your trust. Let's close in prayer this morning. Our Father. Thank you for your word. Thank you that it is true. Thank you that it is always relevant and profitable for us. Pray, Lord, that you would take the words that have been spoken this morning and use them to strengthen your fearful people. Who find themselves in the fires of affliction. I pray that you would strengthen them, build them up, help them, Father to trust in you, to rest in you, and not allow their doubts and fears to rule their mind. And Father, for those who are here who are not your children, I pray as they consider the goodness of God. the power of God, the grace of God that is evident in this passage, that they would seek the Savior. that they would want to know and trust in such a God that has a plan for their life. A plan that He will work out. I pray, Lord. That you would help those who are these people to seek you today and to come to trust in you And to be glad to be called a Christian, a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.