This morning I'm going to be preaching a topical message, which means I'm not going to be in any one passage, but looking at many different passages and you may want to turn to some of these. You may not be able to keep up with all of them, so it's all right. I'll be reading them so just listen As you know, today is Father's Day. It also happens to be the Sunday that we moved into our new building eight years ago. Uh 2012, Father's Day. We had our first indoor public service in this new building. Remember it fondly. And uh It's amazing that it's been eight years. Time goes by so quickly. It's good to have you here. Someone has compiled a list of some of the common things that dads tend to say. Number one, I'm not made out of money. Another is stop playing with your food Or this favorite, go and ask your mother. Every father's used that at some time. Or you better clean up your room before your mother gets home. Or if you break your leg, don't come running to me. Or this one. I know where I am. I don't need any directions. Or just wait till you have kids of your own. Or when I was your age, I had to and you can fill in the blank with many things for that Or this is going to hurt me more than it will hurt you. These are just a few things that fathers tend to say. On Father's Day, I usually preach a sermon to our dads, especially. And I've often been accused of being a little tough And one of the reasons I'm hard on our dads is because so many of our dads have abandoned their God-given responsibilities to their children. I've often had a lot of wives thank me for the message on Father's Day at the end, if the truth be known. The fact is, being a father is a very difficult task. I don't think there's any father Who's ever come to me and talked to me about their children and the situation they're in, who has said something like, you know, I think I got this father thing mastered. I think I've got everything with all of my children completely under control. You may have a mug that says world's greatest dad. But I doubt that you really think you're the world's greatest dad. The fact is, it's a very weighty responsibility to be a father. And to guide your children in the way of truth. I've had many, many men admit to me that they have been a failure as a father. It's very difficult. For a dad to balance the time that is required for his job, for his career, and to still have time for his children. Every dad, I think, feels like There's a tension there, a struggle there to do both. Because he's got to provide for his family. And often that requires much more than forty hours a week of his thought and his energy He's got to spend time with his wife. He's got to cultivate that relationship. But his children also at every stage of their life need his attention. It's very, very hard to do. So I've decided this morning to change the target audience a little bit from our dads really to the children. I'd like to speak to you about what it means to honor your father. And I'm sure that probably everyone here plans to honor your dad in some way, maybe We'll give him a tie or a fishing rod, and maybe you'll purchase some gourmet steaks for him to grill, or maybe you'll give him a card or a gift card or something. to express your appreciation. But what does the Bible say about honoring your father? That's what I want us to consider This morning. I want us to look at five ways the Bible says that we should honor our fathers. First of all, you can honor your father by respecting your father. The concepts of honor and respect are closely linked. Now the word honor And Hebrew has the idea of heaviness, describes something as weighty. It's used to speak of a person who has a position or a status of importance. We still have an idiom in our language where we talk about someone carrying a lot of weight around here. That is their opinion matters. They have status. They are honored. They are respected. It is a position that demands respect. And God's grand design for the family The person with the weighty responsibility of leadership is the father. You know, being in charge, being a leader is something that often people look at with envy. I remember when I was working, my first experiences on the job, and there would be a foreman and so forth, and and people would often uh speak down about the leaders of the company and and the leadership of the local group there. But of course those men didn't have to carry the responsibility of leadership. Sometimes people, even within a family structure, will look at the father and say, it must be nice to be the dad, to call the shots, to direct and steer the ship, as it were. But there's also a great weight of responsibility that a father has And so this position is worthy of respect. In Leviticus 19 and verse 3, it says, you shall fear every man, his mother and father. And when it says fear there, it doesn't mean that they cower in the corner because their father is abusive or oppressive, but it speaks of respect. They have respect for their father. The father is in the providence of God and the way he designed the home to be the first authority figure in the life of of every human being. And what God intends in giving the fifth commandment, honor thy father and thy mother. is that if children learn to respect their father, they will then learn how to relate to all the other authorities that they will encounter in their lives. But conversely, if children never learn, if they're never taught to have any honor or any respect for their father The chances are that they may grow up to have disdain for all authority that they encounter in life. It is very important that children learn to fear the Lord. And one of the ways they learn that is by learning to have this profound respect. for their father. One of the reasons, to be honest with you, that our society is in turmoil right now is because of the absence of fathers. The lawlessness and anarchy that you often see on the evening news is because there has been a fundamental breakdown in the structure of our society. And there are many factors that I could go into, but this is not a political speech. But one factor is radical feminism that has convinced a large segment of our society that fathers are not needed. They are obsolete. In fact, it might be better if there wasn't a father leading the home, that there wasn't a father really involved in the lives of his children. Mom can do it all. She's nurturing. She's strong. She's got everything under control. She doesn't need a man around the house. And that message is conveyed. And our culture in a hundred different ways. And so many, many children, many millions of children are born in our land without a father in their life. Without a man that they can look up to, without someone who is going to lead them and protect them and guide them, that man doesn't exist And so often they are not taught the essential truths of honor and respect for those in authority. Now moms, of course, also seek to teach these truths, but it is much more of an uphill battle, especially with young men For a mother to instill that into her children without a father's involvement. So, dads, as counterintuitive as it may seem, as counter-cultural as it may be Teaching your children to respect you and to fear you in a biblical sense is one of the most loving things you can do as a father. The Bible has some very shocking things to say about this. Consider these passages, Leviticus, Exodus 21, verse 15. He that smiteth his father or mother shall surely be put to death. Leviticus 20 and verse 9, for everyone that curseth his father or mother shall surely be put to death. Proverbs 20, verse 20, Whoso curses his his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in obscure darkness. Or Proverbs 30, verse 17, the eye that mocketh at his father or mother, and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagle shall eat it. That's nobody's life verse. It's very disturbing, but it graphically reveals how serious it is for a child to be disrespectful of Their parents. Now I wonder how we understand this. Do we view this as a primitive relic of the past? Do we think that God was a bit extreme or that maybe he was different back then? Than he is today. If you do think that way, I'm not at all surprised. I'm not suggesting, by the way, that we enact capital punishment. for children who are disrespectful. But the fact is we live in a society that celebrates irreverence and disrespect. If you think about it, most of the programming that we see, whether it be on television or on the internet , forms of entertainment that dad is always, I encourage you to look at this, he's always portrayed as an idiot. Even in family-friendly programming, the father is rarely presented in a favorable light. They are depicted as silly or foolish or domineering or just plain absent-minded. This has become a staple way of thinking in Western society. In the United States and in Europe. In this respect, we have gotten it absolutely wrong. What's interesting Is that if you go to African cultures or Asian cultures, that is not the case. They have a profound respect for the father. He is always to be honored and revered. And in that respect, the reverence that they give to their fathers is much more in line with the teaching of Scripture than what is commonly thought of and practiced in our culture today. Now let me address our children for just a moment. God's will is for you to show honor and respect for your father. And I know I'm speaking to some people. whose fathers are not here, and your fathers are so far from being what God has called them to be, that all of this exhortation seems worthless. Maybe he's not very involved in your life. Maybe he has wronged you horribly. He has not been there for you. God still desires that you show some level of respect because of his position. And let me call on our dads to involve yourself in your children's lives, to be close to them. However God has not called you to be your children's peer or buddy. I hear parents all the time say, you know, my child is my best friend. And I say to them, that's a problem. The Bible never depicts the relationship that way. You should have a close relationship, and maybe in some cases that's what people mean when they say that. But the world says that you should relate to your child like they're your buddy, like they're your equal, your peer. That is not God's will for your debts. You need to be the authority figure in their life. So I want to m move on now to the second way that you can honor your father, and that is by obeying your father. This matter of honoring and obeying are closely connected. Notice how they're used almost synonymously in Ephesians chapter 6. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise, that it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest live long on the earth. The idea behind honor is to show serious consideration, something that is weighty, remember, or heavy. The opposite To dismiss someone and to show disrespect is to treat them lightly. It says in Deuteronomy 27 and verse 16, cursed be he that setteth light by his father. Proverbs 6 verse 20, we read, My son, keep thy father's commandments. We again have another warning passage in the Old Testament that is shocking to our modern ears. It says, if a man have a stubborn and rebellious son, which will not obey the voice of his father or the voice of his mother, and that when they have chastened him will not hearken unto them, then shall his father and mother lay hold on him and bring him out unto the elders of the city. and under the gates of this place, and thou shalt say unto the elders of the city, This our son is stubborn and rebellious. He will not obey our voice. He is a glutton and a drunkard, and all the men of his city shall stone him with stones that he die. So shall thou put evil away from among you, and all Israel shall hear and fear. Speaking here of a persistent case of a child that will not obey, that will not submit their will to their parents. Children, you need to obey your parents in the Lord. The Bible says in Colossians 3. 20 that this is well pleasing to the Lord. If you want to Please the Lord, you must obey your parents. The key to obeying your parents is to remember that God put you under their authority. In Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 9 it says, We had our fathers of our flesh which corrected us and gave, and we gave them reverence. And it's saying here as a matter of fact that this is the way a father relates to his children. He corrects them and they reverence and submit their wills to him. Children are to be submissive to their father's authority. It means that you place your will underneath their will. It requires your obedience, but it's more than just obedience. It's a matter of your heart. It's a matter of your attitude. It's possible, everyone knows, for a child to comply with their father's request and still have a rebellious attitude. I was reminded of the story of the child that was told to sit down and after defying and sighing and complaining, he finally sat down and he said I might be sitting down on the inside I'm standing straight up. It's so easy. To roll the eyes and mutter words under your breath and sigh in a way that speaks volumes. All of these are indications that you may be complying with the order, but your heart is not there. And by the way, dads, your goal is not just compliance. I think a lot of people operate with this horrible goal as a parent. I don't want my kids to embarrass me too much. No, God calls you to get a hold of their hearts. to reach their heart, not just so that they behave in a way that is okay But so that they come to have a relationship with God and they want to obey. They want to please the Lord. They want to do what's right. Not because you're telling them they have to, but because they have yielded their will, first of all, to God and now to you. The ultimate example of this is our Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus placed himself under the authority of his parents. Do you remember when Jesus was twelve, he was caught up disputing with the rabbis in the temple. His parents started back to Nazareth without him. And when they came to ask him about this, he said, Do you not know that I must be about my father's business? But then in Luke 2. 51 it says, and he went down with them and came to Nazareth, and he was subject unto them. If anyone in the history of the world had an excuse for disobeying his parents It was the Lord Jesus Christ. If anyone could say, I know more than my parents do, it was Jesus. If anyone could say, my heart is more pure and more righteous than theirs, it was certainly Jesus Christ. But despite all of that, he submitted his will to their authority. Children, if you want to honor your dad, submit from your heart to his authority in your life. Don't argue and complain and fight him at every turn. Obey his instructions. Obey joyfully from the hearts. Every time I preach on this, of course, I have to include, and people always ask, what about the limits of his authority? If your father asks you to go out and rob a bank, you should ask him respectfully if you can do something else. Because God is the ultimate authority in your life, not your father. And when you leave your home and establish your own household, you're no longer obligated to obey your father, but you must always show him honor and respect. And thirdly, you can honor your father by listening to your father's counsel. The first nine chapters of Proverbs record a father's instruction to his son. Frequently we read the Father pleading for his son to listen to his words. He says in Proverbs chapter 1 at the very beginning of this book, My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother. So where do children go? Where do young people go if they don't listen to the counsel of their mother or father? The Bible is clear. Look at the verses that follow the verse I just read. My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not if they say, come with us. Let us wait for blood. Let us lurk privily for the innocent without cause. Let us swallow them up alive as the grave and whole as those that go down into the pit. We shall find all precious substances. We shall fill our houses with spoil. Cast in thy lot among us, and let us all have one purse. This is the competing source of instruction, and what's clear here is that these are the peers of the young person. This is the great substitute that parents, that children, that young people, teens, and even older will often look to for instruction and guidance. and very significant decisions in life, they will reject their parents' instruction and they will look to the wisdom of their peers. Listen to all of these verses in Proverbs. I'm going to read one after another where the Father is pleading with his son to hear and listen. Proverbs chapter 2, My son, if thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandment with thee, so that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom and apply thy heart to understand. Yea, if thou criest after knowledge and liftest up thy voice for understanding, if thou seekest her as silver and searchest for her as for hid treasures, then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God Proverbs 3 verse 1, my son, forget not my law, but let thy heart keep my commandments. Proverbs 4. Hear you children, the instruction of a father, and attend to no understanding, for I give you good doctrine. Forsake ye not my law. Proverbs 5, my son, attend unto my wisdom and bow down thine ear to my understanding. And Proverbs 7, my son, keep my words. Lay up my commandments with thee, keep my commandments and live, and my law is the apple of thine eye. Bind them upon thy fingers, write them upon the table of thy hearts. What is very clear in these various discourses in the first nine chapters of Proverbs, by the way, dads, is that you need to be talking. to your kids. This may be the most common mistake that fathers make in reference to their children. So often fathers delegate those important and consequential conversations to the mother. I use that expression to begin with, one of the common things that fathers say. Go ask your mother. Men, we probably say that way too often. I've spoken to many grown children in my office, children whose parents I know. often dads who are part of our assembly. And I will talk to them about some weighty spiritual issue or some struggle that they've had for years. Or some irreconcilable difference that they have with someone, and I will often ask them, have you spoken to your father about this? And they often will say, he's not going to talk about this. I've never had a really meaningful, serious, spiritual discussion with my father. I've heard that from so many children. The dads have never shared their heart. They've never shared their faith. They've never talked about their relationship with God to their kids. They've never shared a verse with them. They've never really prayed with them earnestly about some problem that's confronting them in life. They've never been there. So many dads think their job is just to provide and kind of be there to carry things for them and That's pretty much it, but Dads, God's called us to something much more significant than that. We need to talk to them. We need to share our hearts with them We need to speak to their hearts and speak of our hopes for them and our goals for them and our ambitions for them. Did you know that the book of Proverbs has a name for a young person who will not receive their father's instructions? who just totally rejects it and sets it aside. The book of Proverbs calls that person a fool. So why do young people so often refuse to listen? Number one, often it's because of pride. They think they know better. It's very hard for your parents to deal with this children. Because in our perspective, it was just seemed like yesterday that you were teaching them to tie their shoes. And now they're telling you what they're going to do with their life and how they've got everything all figured out. Another factor that keeps young people from listening to their parents is they honestly think their friends know better. Their friends are up with the tides. The friends know how things have changed. They're friends so worldly wise. And so often there's a consensus among their friends. Oh yeah, this is what you should do. do. This is how you should handle that relationship. This is how you should go. This is the career you should follow. And their mom and their dad who have brought them up from infancy. who were there at every stage of their development, who know them better than they know themselves, seem to know nothing about what their child should do with their life. And so often young people do not want to admit their dependence on their children. The first step to gaining true wisdom is to realize that you don't know very much. And that keeps many people from ever being wise. Proverbs 13, 1 says, a wise son heareth his father's instruction. Yes, your dad is not omniscient. He doesn't know everything. He's far from perfect, but he does know you. And he does know more about life and how things work in the world than you do at this stage in your life. And hopefully he knows God better than you do. Because he has walked with them for many more years. And so often children Your parents and the restrictions they give to you and the guidance that they give you and the instruction they give you if the truth were known, they're trying to keep you from avoiding mistakes that they made when they were young. When they rejected their father's instruction, when they thought they knew better, and they went off and did their own thing, and horrible things resulted. And they're trying to keep you from making that same common mistake. So listen, children. Listen to your father's counsel. You may not agree with it. And even when you're adult and you have a life on your own, you may not feel obligated to follow it and you're not. But your father is always worth listening to. He knows you and he cares for you. Mark Twain said. When I was a boy of 14, my father was so ignorant, I could hardly stand to have the old man around. But when I turned 21, I was astonished at how much he had learned in seven years Young people, if you want to honor your dads, you need to respect them, you need to obey them, you need to listen to them. And fourthly You can honor your father by supporting him when he is old. Nick read a passage for us this morning from Matthew 15. where the Lord was confronting the rabbis and a very common practice that they had developed That worked well for them and for their wealthy clients. The idea was this that if a wealthy Young man had aging parents that needed his support. They had no social systems to help with that. It was the children's responsibility The rabbis developed an ingenious way where the person could say, sorry, mom and dad, all that money that I have, it's all Corban. It's all a gift that I have dedicated to God. I'd like to help you I'd like to provide for you financially, but you know, you wouldn't want me to disobey God and break my vow with him, would you? And then the rabbis would give them the freedom. They would take a portion of that for themselves, but the rest they would say, you're free to spend as you would like, especially after their parents had died. It worked well for the religious authorities, and it worked well for the wealthy person who was looking for a loophole to get out of providing for their parents. It was a wicked thing. It was contrary to God's expressed teaching in the Word of God. It became a traditional way of doing things, but it was a wrong tradition. In 1 Timothy chapter 5 and verse 8, addressing the issue of widows, but it also has application for our fathers as well. A man who will not provide for those in his own household has denied the faith and is worse than an infidel, says in the King James. And the idea of that word is simply an unbeliever. In other words, even most lost people. have more honor and respect and consideration for their parents than do some Christian people. Now if you're younger than me If you're a child, if you're a teen, if you're in your 20s or your 30s, or maybe even your 40s, you're probably not thinking about this, and this truth doesn't seem relevant to you at all. But chances are it will someday. I never thought much about this application of the fifth commandment, honor thy father and thy mother until this past year. When my father fell and broke his hip and then had additional surgeries and other falls and in and out of the hospital and then finally in a nursing home That he survived COVID and has had other health issues. And he's struggling, to be honest with you, right now My mom and my dad, who at one time took care of me, now are very fragile and they need my care. And I 'm going to see them several times every week and taking care of things for my mom and fixing things and working in her yard and Take helping her with financial matters and figuring things out and visiting my father. Today my family are going to go and we're going to look through his window. In his nursing home. We can't go in. He's still testing positive for COVID-19. We can't go close to him, but we can knock on his window. And look at him as a family. Now most parents, I should say really all parents Have a desire to be financially independent and not to be a burden to their children. And most parents make provision so that Even in their retirement years and their declining years, they have financial provision, and that is a wise and prudent thing for parents to do. But your parents need more than just your financial support. They may not need that at all. They need your emotional support. They need your love. They need your time, your attention Before the COVID -19 thing took place and I was visiting my dad at his nursing home at least two times a week, often three. Got to know people around him, other residents there, would talk to them and witness to them. And I would talk to them and I would find out and I would say, so You have children? Yeah, I've got children. They live close by? Yeah, they live right here in town. And then they would say, but I never see them. They never come to see me. I'd go in there week after week, month after month, and I would never see their children visiting them. And you know what? I bet that some of those people claim to be Christians that go to church. That's not honoring your father and your mother. What they desperately need is your love and your attention, your concern, and your help, and emotional support. And someday to all the children here, your parents who look so strong and capable, they've got everything under control, someday they're going to be weak and frail, and the roles are going to be reversed. And God's will for you is to take care of them and to honor them in the way that they took care of you at one time in your life. But finally, the fifth way that you can honor your father as taught in Scripture is by following his faith. Of course, this is only true when your father has a true and living faith. I'm not suggesting that if your father isn't atheist or agnostic or an unbeliever that you should follow his faith. But many of us here have fathers, human fathers, who know the Lord and walk with the Lord. And what a blessing it is to look to them for counsel and to look at their path in life and to find inspiration and hope and a model and a mentor in that. Proverbs 29 verse 3 says, Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father In 3 John chapter 4, the aged apostle says, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. And yes, I understand the children in that passage is talking about believers, spiritual children. But what is true in the spiritual realm is also true in the physical realm in this case. Proverbs 17, 21 says, the father of a fool hath no joy. Proverbs 17, 25, a foolish son is a grief to his father. Proverbs 28, verse 7, he that is a companion of righteous men shameth his father. Young people, you cannot imagine the grief and sorrow that you bring to your dad's heart when you reject the Lord and you live a wicked life. You can't honor your dad and mock his God. But when your dad sees you grow up and see that you have a faith of your own, And you're coming to church and you're reading your Bible and you're praying to the Lord, not because He's saying, hey, you need to do that, but because you want to do that. And when you grow up and you get married and you bring up your family and the nurture and admonition of the Lord, and you are serving the Lord and you are faithful, so much joy comes to the heart of a Father. A sense that God used even my feeble, inconsistent efforts, and He has graciously worked in the hearts and lives of my children. Now of course, children, my admonition is not to fake it and act like you have a faith in God and come to church on Father's Day and live like the devil the rest of the year. You must have a faith of your own. A secondhand faith will never do. It will never survive the tests and the trials of life if you don't have a real faith in your hearts. But if you have seen God at work in the life of your father, if you've seen God change him, if you've seen him grow in grace and weather the storms of life. The natural desire of your heart is that I want the same for the same for me. I want to follow in his footsteps. I want that same everlasting God to work in my life and to guide me Dads, the greatest lesson that you can ever teach your children is the gospel. And evangelism should start in the home. When our children are young. And I don't mean by that that you try to get them to say a prayer as soon as they're able to mouth a few words. I mean that you continually talk to their hearts. And show them what is vital in life and what it means to walk with God. Dads, the greatest legacy that you can leave to your children is the testimony of a living faith. So that when you are dead and gone and you're off the scene, that your adult children can look back and say, my dad, follow the Lord. And I will as well. My dad was never failed by his God, and I never will be as well. And to see That being passed down not just to the next generation, but to the next and to the next. This is What should delight and be the goal of every Christian father? That we would see our faith Thrive in the lives of our children and our grandchildren and our great-grandchildren. And there is no better way that you can honor your father. than to give him, by God's grace, this kind of legacy. Let's close in prayer. Father Thank you for your word. Thank you for the fathers that you have placed in our lives. Lord, we know they're far from perfect. We know they're inconsistent. We know they're sinners. Father, I pray that you would help us to do what your word commands us to do, that we would reverence them, that we would obey them, that we would respect them. That we would listen to them, that we would provide for them when they are old and infirmed. And Father, that by your grace we would be able to follow their faith. To your glory. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.