I encourage you to turn in your Bibles now to Luke chapter 15. Luke chapter 15. There's an old story that comes from the country of Spain. Of a father and son who'd become estranged. The son ran away And after some time the father set off to find him. He searched for months, but to no avail. Finally, in a last desperate effort to find him, the father put an ad in the largest newspaper of the largest city, Madrid. The ad read, Dear Paco, meet me in front of the newspaper office at noon on Saturday. All is forgiven. I love you, your father. Madrid, of course, is a very large city of many millions of people And on Saturday, over a hundred men named Paco showed up looking for reconciliation with their fathers. The great need of all mankind is to be reconciled with God. If you're joining us here this morning, I want to let you know that the last two weeks we've been studying the parable of the prodigal son. The most famous of all the parables. And last time we were together, we looked at the son's fall and his repentance. But now we come to the most famous part of the story, the happy ending, the reunion with his father. The fact is we all love reunion scenes. You often see on the internet or on television reunions of soldiers coming home from active service, surprising loved ones. TV shows seek to reunite parents and children who've been separated for many years. There's something profoundly powerful about two loved ones coming together after a long time. And that's what we read of in our text this morning. But before this reunion, the prodigal had to leave the far country and come home. It wasn't until he came to the end of himself, to the point of starvation, that he began to think clearly. We read of the hinge, the turning point in the story in verse 17. It says, and when he came to himself, or we might render it, when he came to his senses. The story is very realistic. You'll notice. He's thinking about food here. He says in the rest of verse 17, how many hired servants of my father have bread enough and despair? And I perish with hunger. I've seen people interviewed who nearly starved to death, and they have testified That when you are starving to death, all that you think about is food. You daydream about it, you fantasize about it. You become obsessed in your mind with getting food because your body is crying out for nourishment. And that's what we see in this young man. And so this rebellious son returns with a prepared confession and a willingness to humble himself and fall on the mercy of his good father. Broken and stained with sand, he slowly makes his way home. But I think that as he was coming home, he was plagued with a number of questions. What will be my father's reaction? Will he give me the silent treatment We place a huge guilt trip on me saying, How many sleepless nights and how how worried I have been about you Will he fuss at me about all the wasted money? Will he say, why can't you be more like your older brother? And will he even let me into the house? Now, if you know your Bible at all, you know the answer to this. But this young prodigal wasn't sure of what his father's response would be. This is not just an interesting story. It's a parable that sheds light on the spiritual realities in the world, the real world. Let's remember. That Jesus is giving this parable an answer to the criticism of the Pharisees that's found in the beginning of this chapter. Look with me at verse two of Luke fifteen. And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. And he spake this parable unto them. It's interesting to think about how the Pharisees would have written this parable They would have liked the parable up until the points where the prodigal son was in the pig sty and about to die. Because in their minds, he's getting exactly what he deserves. A man who would disgrace his family, dishonor his father, and break God's law in this blatant way deserves to die. in the far country. But that's of course not how Jesus told the story. Now what would have really shocked Jesus' audience more than anything else was the lavish reception that this father gives to his wayward son. Let's read the text of our sermon this morning, verse 20, and he arose and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. For the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet. And bring hither the fatted calf and kill it, and let us eat and be merry. For this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. And they began to be merry. One of the most effective lies of Satan is that God will not receive sinful people. Satan tells people, God will receive religious people, people who are moral and upright. But people who have ruined their lives, who have degraded their bodies, who have trampled their reputation, those people have no attention or love from God. But Jesus shows in this parable very powerfully that that is not the case. Perhaps there are people here this morning who think that you've blown it so badly That God has no time or attention for you, that he would never receive you, that he would never forgive you. I want you to know that that is not the case. This parable reveals very powerfully that he receives sinful people. Our Heavenly Father delights to welcome home repentant sinners. I want to show you from this passage this morning four truths about God's reception of broken sinners. First of all, would you notice with me that God receives repentant sinners compassionately? Look with me at verse 20. The first thing that we read about this reunion was when the father saw him yet a great way off. It says, and when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him. And had compassion. The implication is that this was not a chance occurrence, that the father saw him in the distance, but that his father had been looking for him. He was waiting, looking, perhaps from a tower or some other place, looking for the return of his wayward son. How long had his son been away? Well, it would seem like that it would at least be several months since this man left with a sizable fortune. A famine has come, and he is nearly starved to death. Perhaps it was closer to several years. since the father had seen his boy. Finally the day came when the father saw a familiar silhouette on the horizon. Some of you have been out west in places where the land is flat and there are very few trees, and you know that you can see from many miles ahead of you. You can be driving on the highway, and you can see something there down the road, a ways, and you think to yourself, well, that's just a few hundred yards away, but it's actually several miles away. You lose a sense of perspective. We don't have that kind of terrain here in our part of the country, but out west and other places of the world they do. And it's like that in much of Israel. And so I suspect that this father sees his son coming from a great distance away, and he studies that figure that is just a dot on the horizon. But it begins to come closer. He begins to wonder, could this be my boy? And perhaps his son had a unique posture or gait. that his father began to recognize as he was coming. But as his son came closer he noticed something else about him. He noticed that his son was not well. Perhaps he was walking with a limp. Perhaps he was painfully thin. He was moving at a very slow pace. And so the father's heart goes out to his son and he runs to meet him. Now our text adds something that's very significant. It says that he had compassion. The term used in the original Greek expresses an emotional reaction that physically moves you. Have you ever seen something that was so disturbing that it made you sick? Have you ever been worried about something so much that you made yourself sick? We call this a visceral reaction. Where your emotional state affects your bodily responses. That's the word that is used here. It's a word that conveys a powerful emotion. It is used about a dozen times in the New Testament. And what is significant about it is It's either used of our Lord's response to the needs of people, or our Lord is using it in his parables like in this one here, or like in the parable of the Good Samaritan, when that Samaritan had compassion on that man that had been assaulted and was lying there in the road. So this is kind of a uniquely Christological term that is used here. And what's also interesting about it is it's connected to what a person sees. In other words, we read things like, and when the Lord saw the multitude, he was moved with compassion. Or when Jesus saw the widow of Nain in that funeral procession going along and weeping because she was bearing her only son, it says that his heart was moved with compassion. So this is connected with what a person sees and then their response to what they see. This is the most common emotion ascribed to our Lord Jesus Christ. He was compassionate. Now let me ask you a question. Why was Jesus so sympathetic to the needs of others? The answer is because he was just like his father. Jesus said, he that hath seen me has seen the Father. And the Bible describes God as a compassionate God. We read in Psalm 103: As a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. The Father in this parable of Jesus represents our Heavenly Father. What was it that touched the heart of this Father? I want to suggest to you that part of what moved him was the condition of his son. When the prodigal left his home, he was a specimen of health. He was happy. He had an innocent face. He was exuberant. His clothes were well made. By skillful tailors. He had a bounce in his step, but now as he returns, his clothes were tattered, torn. and filthy, his body was emaciated, his ribs were showing, he smelled like a pig pen and was covered with flies. His face was thin and gaunt. His mischievous smile was replaced with a jaded, empty stare. He was a shell of what he formerly was. This is the type of person that the Father delights to welcome home. Our Heavenly Father delights to rescue broken sinners. Isaiah chapter 42 and verse 3 has this beautiful picture. Of how God deals with people like this that says, a brood reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax shall he not quench. Those who are vulnerable and broken and fragile, God is very gentle with them when they come to Him. God receives broken sinners compassionately. And secondly, would you notice with me that God receives repentant sinners eagerly? The next thing that we read about this father's response is that he ran toward his son. And this seems like a perfectly normal reaction to us. You've probably read or heard this story many times and never thought anything unusual about this. But I want you to know that that is not the way Jesus' audience would have received this description. They would have been bothered with this nobleman running to meet his son. I read this week. That for centuries Arabic Bible translators refused to translate the common ordinary word for run in this passage. Because they knew that their audience in the East would be disturbed by it. Because in the East, men of importance do not run. Instead, they put the word hurried to meet there as a euphemism, rather than say that he ran to meet his son. It was considered beneath the dignity of an important person to run. Boys run, perhaps even young men run, but men who are mature do not run But this father ran to meet his son. That's what the text says. That's what Jesus said. It was as if he was throwing off all the social conventions. He didn't care what the people in that village thought. This father was going out as fast as he could to meet his son. Then we read that he fell on his neck. That is that he was hugging his son This was a spontaneous and intense display of affection. I don't think it was a private scene as well, I suspect. That there were people of the village that were standing around that were watching the scene. This was big news Some scholars suggest that the reason the father ran was to get to his son before people in the village got to him because they would have cursed him and spitted him because of the disgrace that he had brought on his father's name. So what did this infectionate embrace signify? Complete and unconditional acceptance. And then we read that the Father kissed him. It's true that in many parts of the East they greet people with a kiss, but that's not what is in view here. The Greek term signifies repeated kisses. The father just kept hugging his son and kept kissing his son's face. He couldn't help himself. He was overwhelmed with the love and with the reality that his son that he thought about every day since he left has now returned. The son that he thought was dead, that he would never see again, is now alive and in his arms. He is back home. You see, God is not just willing to receive sinners. He is eager to receive sinners. This is a wonderful truth of the gospel. But thirdly, I want you to notice that God receives repentant sinners graciously. Graciously. Look with me at verse 21. And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. And the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet. Once the shock of the father's response wore off, the prodigal son begins to deliver his confession. Now, if you compare this confession with what he had planned to say back in verse 19, you will notice that he leaves out, make me as one of your hired servants. He never gets a chance to say that because his father interrupts him by barking out orders that all of these symbols of honor are to be brought and bestowed upon him. This is a gracious response. Have you ever wronged someone? And then you tried to apologize to them? And they were so quick to respond to you and so gracious to you that you never even got out everything that you wanted to say to them. Perhaps some of you have experienced that. I have It's such a warming feeling when you recognize that that person is so quick to forgive and so concerned about putting you at ease that they interrupt your confession. And warmly embrace you, and that's what this father is doing. The father knew that his son was repentant Because he knew how proud his son was, and yet his son had returned home. He saw it in his face that this son was sorry for what he had done, so there was no need in a sense for him to hear the full confession of his wrong Now this is a very important thing for us to consider. His confession was right on the mark. This young man had no rights to be received as a son. This is a tremendous illustration of grace. This wayward son, this symbol of the fallen man, has nothing to offer his father. He had nothing to contribute to his father's wealth. All that he has done is spend his father's fortune. He has no means of purchasing these expensive items like a robe or the ring or shoes But it's not just that he didn't deserve this treatment. He in fact deserved the opposite of this treatment. He had depleted one third of the family's estate, but more importantly, he had brought disgrace upon the family name. And yet the Father not only forgives him, he receives him, and he lavishes gifts upon him. The Pharisees who heard this story would have been greatly offended by this response. They couldn't grasp the meaning of this parable Because they didn't understand grace. Perhaps the story doesn't make sense to you How could the father just forgive his son like this? What about the debts? What about any sense of justice The fact is, you can only make sense of the story when you view it through the lens of the cross. You see, if Jesus Christ did not come and die for sinners, if he did not pay the penalty for our transgressions. Then indeed, this would be a valid response. How could the Father just wave aside everything that has gone wrong as if it never happened? How could this be just? But the Bible tells us of the work of our Savior. We know that the sin debt was paid by the Lord Jesus Christ You see, this is the only way that God can be just and the one who justifies, the one who declares us to be not guilty. This is the only explanation. of how the Father can demonstrate this extravagant grace to sinful sons and daughters like us. And I want you to notice that in this picture we're looking at this morning, the prodigal does nothing. He's totally passive. He doesn't get a bath. He doesn't get dressed for dinner. He doesn't clean himself up. He doesn't do any of this. No, he doesn't do half the work and then this father servants to the other half. No, they do everything. He doesn't do anything, everything is done for him. He's just standing there in stunned disbelief as all of these honors are conveyed upon him, as his father continues to cling to him. Because salvation is of the Lord. Now maybe this sounds strange to you. Perhaps you're thinking I thought God helps those who help themselves. This parable shows us that that common saying is utter nonsense. God only helps those who recognize they can do nothing to help themselves. The Bible teaches that salvation is all of grace. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. All born-again believers have nothing to boast in. This young prodigal was not walking around the village saying, Hey, what do you think of my new outfits? He wasn't boasting or bragging about his status as the son of this nobleman because he knew in his heart that all of that was totally outside of him and unearned and unmerited. It was all of grace. So there's never any room for boasting as Christians No one in heaven is going to be bragging about how they have made it there through their endurance and hard work and deeds of mercy. No, no one is going to be giving their resume. Everyone is going to recognize that it's all of grace. Now, what is the significance of these items? The Father orders Bring forth the best robe. This isn't like your bathrobe that you have at home. You know, relatively speaking, our garments are very inexpensive in modern times because of inventions and innovations. In the ancient world, some of the most valuable things that people possessed were their clothing because they were all hand -made. Every garment had to be woven by hand and had to be stitched by hand. And so every garment involved many, many, many hours of skilled labor to produce that garments And the finest garments like this robe that was worn on festive occasions were very expensive. In fact, I suspect this was the only robe like this in that village. This wealthy man, this robe was the father's robe. It was his robe. It showed his dignity. It showed his authority. It showed his status in society. And he wanted that robe, that garment to be brought. I believe that this, in light of the rest of Scripture, is a beautiful picture of justification. The honorable and righteous status of the Father was imputed to his son. Isaiah chapter 61 and verse 10 says He hath clothed me with the garments of salvation. He hath covered me with the robes of righteousness. This young man had that beautiful garment put around his shoulders, covering his filth. And the evidences of his depravity, it was all just engulfed and covered by the righteous robes of his father. Then we read that a finger, a ring, excuse me, was placed on his finger. This would have been a signet ring. It was used to sign documents with the family seal. It was the ring spoke of authority. This young man was given authority, the authority of his father. And then we read that they put shoes on his feet. Now again, this is something that doesn't seem very remarkable to us. I suspect that everyone here this morning has shoes on their feet. But in the ancient world, shoes were what important people wore in the home. All the servants, all the hired men would have been barefoot, but the sons of the household, the daughters of the household, they had shoes. beautiful shoes to wear that spoke of their sat their status as the sons and daughters of this nobleman. You see all three Of these items, the robe, the ring, and the shoes are symbolic of his sonship. The Bible says, Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. My friends, if we as the children of God could get a hold of that truth that we are the sons and daughters of God, that that is our identity, our status based on His gracious work in our hearts. we would have so many of our problems just dissipate and fall away from us If we could recognize our identity in Christ and really grasp a hold of that blessed status that we have and that assurance that comes with that status. So many of the Lord's people struggle with assurance of their salvation. One of the most common things pastors deal with. And I've dealt with it myself when I was younger. And most Christians go through some period in their life where they struggle with this. Did I believe enough? Did I repent enough? Did I say the right words? Did I really mean it in my heart? If I'm really a child of God, then why do I fail? Why do I still sin? Why am I not like some people that I know that just seem to be sailing on without any problems in their Christian life? I don't seem to be that way. Maybe I'm not really a child of God's. And so often when you deal with these people, their focus is on what they have done or what they are doing. And is it good enough? You know what? Your performance will never be good enough. It will never give to your soul assurance of your salvation. You must rest. in the finished work of Christ. You must remind yourself of who you are. You must remind yourself of that robe of righteousness that you've been given, of that ring of authority, of those shoes of Sonship that all speak of your identity before the Father. The Lord Jesus receives sinners graciously. And then finally, God receives repentant sinners joyfully. Look with me at verse 23. The father's continuing to give out orders. He says, Bring hither the fatted calf and kill it, and let us eat and be merry. For my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and misfound. And they began to be merry. This is the major theme of this chapter, that God delights to rescue repentant sinners. Remember how we've seen this? Look with me at verse 6 and 7 of this chapter of the parable of the shepherd. And when he cometh home he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep, which was lost. I say unto you, likewise, joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth. In verse 9, and when she found it, this woman who lost her coin, she called her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me! For I have found the peace which I had lost. Likewise I say unto you, there 's joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. And now we come To this portion in the parable of the prodigal son. And we see the Father saying, Let us eat and be merry. And then that last phrase in verse 24, and they began to be merry. And I want you to notice how this entire chapter ends verse 32. The father entreating his older brother says it was meet or it was appropriate that we should Make merry and be glad for this thy father was dead, is it alive again, was lost, and is found. This is the main point of this chapter that Jesus was trying to get across. It is appropriate for me to receive sinful people and to eat with them, discuss with them the gospel, because God delights to save lost, broken people. Now this is a wonderful thing for us to consider. Jesus is answering the complaint of the Pharisees here. Notice the extravagant feast that is portrayed here. The fat calf was set aside from all the other livestock. And the idea of the term fatted here is that it was grain fed. It was grain fed so that it would have the finest meat. And an animal like this was not something that everyone else in the village had. Only the nobleman had the wealth and the means to bring up an animal like this, and it would be for a special occasion like a wedding. A great celebration that would include the entire village. And he has decided that we're going to have that great feast today because my son has returned. This would have been the social event of the year in that village. In our fast-paced society, we don't tend to have celebrations like this. We might have A wedding that lasts for three or four hours with the reception included. We may have a big anniversary celebration We may sometimes celebrate for an entire day some events, but in the ancient world, they would celebrate important occasions for days. And that is what is in view here. The slaughter of this calf would have fed the entire village. The meal was symbolic of communion and reconciliation between the Father and his runaway son Everyone in the village would know this son has been fully restored. I have no right to be awkward around him. or to think that something's not right because the Father has fully restored him, forgiven him, and accepted him. Now, why did the Father give this feast? One was to signal to everyone his newfound reconciliation, but also he wanted his joy to be shared by others. This should be the way we view evangelism. We should do so joyfully. We should rejoice when someone is saved. We want other people to rejoice in this momentous occasion that someone has come to Christ. Notice the reason he gives for why they should be merry. He says in verse 24, For my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found, and they began to be merry. In the father's mind, when he went to the far country, he was as good as Dad. Some suggest That perhaps there was even a funeral that was held for him. We cannot say for certain about this. But what we can say is that there is a picture of a beautiful spiritual truth that is mentioned here. The Bible teaches that we are dead in trespasses and sin until we come and believe and are saved. And we have a wonderful picture here. I think one of the most wonderful things. that we have in this parable is that last phrase in verse 24. And they began to be merry. They began to be merry. It doesn't just mean that they started the festivities. It's an illusion to the fact that this celebration just went on and on and on. and on. They were just beginning that day. That wasn't the end of it. It was just the beginning of that celebration. It's a beautiful picture to the fact that when we are with the Lord in our Father's house, that first day that we arrive, it is just the beginning of our celebration. Jesus described going to heaven as entering into the joy of the Lord's. And there's going to be, as it were, a great reception of welcome home. When we go to heaven. And that celebration is not going to last for a few hours or for a few days or for a few years, but for eternity. The prodigal went off to the far country to find his happiness. But what he got was degradation, despair, and nearly death But he returns home and he finds what he was always looking for: love, acceptance, and fullness of joy. We want have this wonderful description in the Old Testament. That right hand is fullness of joy. The right hand are pleasures forevermore. This is the picture of heaven, fullness of joy. I want to make just two brief applications as we close here this morning. The first one is this. You must not think for a moment that you must clean yourself up before you come to God. A lot of people think this way, a lot of lost people. And what is at the root of that kind of thinking is pride. I want to clean myself up. I want to show God I did a pretty good job. Rescuing myself from sin and its bondage and its degradation, through discipline and willpower. I made it on my own and I'm here home. We don't read of this prodigal stopping along some river and washing and borrowing some clothes from someone and putting on some ointment to make himself smell good and Uh waiting till he gains some weight and some strength and got some exercise then and then return home and say, Dad, I'm back. I look pretty good, don't I? No, that's not how he came home. He came home at the point of death. He came home a broken man. He came home just as he was. And that's the way we must come to God. We must never confuse repentance with human reformation. God doesn't want you to clean up your act before you come to him. He wants you to come just as you are. Secondly, one of the things that often keeps people from coming to the Lord is shame and guilt. Ironically, the only one that can really deal with their problem is the one they don't want to see. Coming to God as a reminder to them of how miserably they have failed and how often they have sinned and how deep they have gone into sin. And so because of their shame and their guilt, they don't come before God. They're embarrassed for their sin. But this is all wrong. God knows all about your sin. He knows all about your failure. He knows what you did in the far country. None of it is news to him. And yet he still loves you. You know, the father's love for his prodigal son didn't begin when he came home. He loved him even when he was in the far country. You see, your shame and your sense of guilt do not prohibit you from coming to God. They qualify you to come. Because it's only those who see themselves as guilty and broken and ruined that can be saved. The Pharisees who heard this parable did not repent because they didn't think they needed to. They thought they had earned God's righteousness through their keeping of the law. And then thirdly and finally, I have this application. You should not think that God will turn you away if you come to Him. When I was a young man , ages of 12, 13, 14, I had a horrible struggle with the assurance of my salvation. Ask the Lord to save me again and again and again and again until that would wear off and then I would ask again. One day I came to a verse that brought clarity and comfort to my soul. It was John 6. 37. It says, All that the Father giveth me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me, I will no wise cast out. And I said, Well, God, by your grace I have come. I've come the only way I know how. And this verse says that you will not cast out any who have come to you by faith. In the Greek text, this phrase in no wise is reflecting a double negative. Now in English a double negative makes it positive, but in in Greek a double negative makes it emphatically negative. It's saying that God will knowise, God will never ever turn you away if you come to Him in faith. That is God's promise to all broken sinners. So let me ask you this morning, have you come home? Have you forsaken the far country and come to the Father by faith? If not, why not come today? Why not seek the Lord today? Why would you wait another day in the far country? Because in the Father's presence there is fullness of joy Read the story once of a young man who left his Christian home in New England, decided to have a little adventure in his life, so he traveled to California. And occasionally he would write letters to his father at home, and these letters would break his father's heart because they revealed a progression of wickedness in his life. And then the letters stopped coming. Father didn't know where he was. He kept writing letters to his son, but he never got a reply. One day a neighbor friend of his mentioned that he was going to California on business. And he was even going to the area that his father lasted contact with his son. And so The father pleaded with his friend if he would look for his son when he was in California. This businessman was a good friend, and he found it not an easy task. Tried to track him down, but this young man had moved so many times that it was a very difficult process. Finally, he discovered him staying in some flop house. He told the young man that his father loved him more than ever and wanted him to come home. The young man could hardly believe it. He said, you mean my father still loves me after all that I have done? The neighbor assured him that it was true. And the young man was so broken by his father's expression of love that he turned from his sin and came home to his father. This is the picture of the gospel. Sinful people come to see who they really are, and they see the love and the grace of their Father, and they return and are forgiven. May God help us to respond to the gospel this morning. Father, I pray that you would take these simple truths and press them upon our hearts. I pray that those who are here this morning, who have gone to the far country And have walked away from you, would come home, that they would seek you, that they would receive your welcome embrace and your forgiveness through the merits and work of Christ. Father, I pray that we use your truth to accomplish your purposes. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.