To address the issue of marriage, I try to preach on marriage at least once a year. And this is kind of a follow-up message to last week When I was 20 years old, I had a job at a warehouse in Frederick. Sometimes I would work the evening shift. until about closing time at ten o'clock, and I often work with a middle-aged man And the warehouse job was actually a second job for him. He had a white-collar job down in D. C. and he would come in about 6 o'clock. He would be dressed. in a suit and he would go and change into his warehouse uniform and he would work almost every night until 10 or 1030. He had a very nice car and very nice clothes and seemed to be very successful. And so I asked him one day, why do you have the second job? Well he told me he didn't need the money. He said the reason why he worked late almost every night is because if he got home after 11, his wife would be asleep and there wouldn't be any fighting or contention. It was one of my first introductions to the misery that a troubled marriage can inflict on a person. person 's life. My parents had a wonderful marriage. There was never strife and tension or yelling in our household, and I assumed that every Christian family was exactly the same. I found out differently over the years, and I've discovered In talking to other pastors, that everywhere there are many unhealthy marriages in the Christian community. And of course, there are some that are much worse than others. There's often strife and contention on a regular basis. There's no openness. or joy in the relationship. There's no loving affection. There's little honest heartfelt communication. Affirming words are rarely stated, and even when they are verbalized, they sound trite and insincere. The marriage is afflicted with a perpetual Lack of trust, and therefore there's no true intimacy. Often people come into my office and describe their marriage As two strangers who live under the same roof, they don't really communicate with one another. I've spoken to more than one couple over the years who've shared with me that the only reason they are still married is because they are Christians and they know that divorce is wrong. Last Sunday, we considered the New Testament's primary passage on marriage, Ephesians chapter 5. The instructions are not at all difficult to grasp, but very apparent and obvious. Wives are to submit to the leadership of their husbands, and husbands are to love their wives as Christ loves the church. Marriage is intended by God to be an enacted parable of the gospel. These truths are rich and profound. But sometimes they seem almost impossible for husbands and wives to attain. My fear is that when I preach a sermon like I did last Sunday That rather than encouraging people, it often discourages people with troubled marriages They will say things like, I know what the Bible says. I just I just don't seem to be able to do it. At least the two of us can't seem to work together. And so often couples feel trapped and unable to save to change their situation. And my heart goes out to them. I can't imagine living in such misery Your home is intended by God to be a place of peace, a shelter from the tumult of the world. But where do you turn if your home is a place of contention and strife? So this morning I want to preach a message that's not my normal style. I'm going to preach a topical message that is largely applicational. This is not an exegetical masterpiece, but we're going to look at different passages that I hope will help those who have struggling marriages in our church. I want you to understand that there's no reason that a Christian man and woman cannot have a strong, vibrant marriage. You have everything that you need for that. You have the Spirit of God. You have His words. You have a heart that's been regenerated by the grace of God. You have everything you need. For a close, tender , loving relationship. So I'm going to preach to you on how to strengthen your marriage God's way But let me first of all say, I know there's many people here that are single. And so you may feel the sermon doesn't apply to you. But the fact is you may be married someday. And even if you don't get married someday, the fact is a lot of people you know are married. And everyone should be interested in the health of marriages because it is the building block of society. A building block, by the way, that is being eroded by the values of this world. And the fact of the matter is, our churches cannot be strong if our marriages are not strong. So how can a Christian couple strengthen their marriage? I'm going to mention four ways this morning. Number one, this first point's going to be the hard one. It's going to be distasteful. You must confess and repent of the various ways you have sinned against your spouse. The Bible's cure for all fractured relationships is confession and repentance. James 5, 16 says, confess your faults one to another and pray for one another that ye may be healed. Now the context of this passage is not marriage. It speaks of someone who has come to the church leadership with a serious illness. And the implication in the text is that the illness may be the correcting hand of God. And so they advise to search their hearts and confess their sins. But this pattern of confession leading to restoration or reconciliation is found throughout the scriptures. This is true of our relationship with the Lord. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And it's true of our relationships with our spouse. Before you can really rebuild a strong marriage, you must get rid of the pile of debris that has accumulated over the years. When I speak to people with troubled marriages and they've been that way for years, I become very aware that they have this huge pile of baggage that has never been resolved and it just piles up year after year after year Before you can build on a solid foundation, you have to remove the deadwood. In many marriages, even Christian marriages, confession never occurs. And forgiveness and reconciliation is never granted. The closest human relationship on earth is the covenantal union between a man and a woman. It's the only relationship the Bible describes as one flesh. And when you have two fallen human beings that are that close to one another, You should not be surprised if there are problems that arise. So what sort of things do husbands and wives need to confess to one another? I'm going to throw out three sins that are stereotypical of men against their wives and then of wives against their husbands. They may not apply to you at all. Maybe you have your own list. But these are ways, habits that we get into of sinning against one another. We don't even think about it because it's just the way we operate. Let me start with the men. I'm going to start with the most unpleasant of these. And that is that you should confess your unfaithfulness in pornography. To say that this is a big problem would be an understatement. I wish I could say it's rarely a problem in Christian marriage, but that would not be truthful. The fact is that this often erodes and tears down intimacy in the marriage relationship Jesus warned of this. He said in Matthew 5, 27 and 28, Ye have heard it was said of them of old time, thou shalt not commit adultery. But I say unto you that whosoever looketh upon a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his hearts Then you can't be right with God or your wife and indulge in this sin. And I know the trap that men fall into, they say, well, if I tell my wife she's going to be really upset, so I'm just never going to tell her. But then you have a relationship that's not really built on trust, that's not really built on honesty, and so the price is too great to remain silent Man, you must confess and forsake it. And if you need help, you need to get help. If you need accountability, you need someone to minister to you. And you must be willing to take radical steps to gain victory over this sin. Often half steps will not do. The second sin that men often commit in marriage is that of anger. Colossians 3. 19 says, Husbands, love your wives and be not bitter against them. One of the most common complaints of wives is the angry words that their husbands use when they're frustrated and in the heat of an argument. A few words said in anger can have lasting consequences for years to come. Many men I know regret what they have said, but they never ask their wives for forgiveness. And your wife is wounded by your words. And thirdly, men, you should confess your failure to lead the family spiritually. I mentioned this I know last week. But it deserves to be mentioned again. God has called you to shepherd your wife and children. Your wife longs for you to spiritually care for her. This is what I hear from wives all the time. But so often Christian husbands fail to do this. They fail to nurture and care for them and lead the family and deal with matters with the children. Men, you need to be spiritual leaders. You need to step up to the plates. But now I must turn to the typical sins of wives. These are things that I've encountered again and again. Number one Expressions of disrespect and contempt for your husband. Women, men are proud creatures, and disrespect is very hard for us to take, especially when it is set before others. and the children. One of the most common traps and mistakes, and it's very understandable. That women fall into when they have a troubled marriage as they talk to other women about their troubled marriage And when they talk to other women about the troubled marriage, they talk about the horrible man they married. And before you know it, every woman in the church knows that this guy's no good. Now, of course, they've only heard one side of the story. It often makes the wife feel better. She's unburdened her soul. She gets sympathy from her friends. But so often she has slandered her husband to half of the church. And in time he feels very uncomfortable attending here. Don't do that. If you need to talk to someone, talk to a counselor. Talk to someone who can help. But don't broadcast the sins of your husband to everyone you know. Number two, a complaining or nagging spirits I mentioned earlier in my sermon of the story of this man that I worked with. There's more to the story. I ask him, well, what does she say to you? What what she says, he says, when I come home, she says you never spend any time with me. And she yells at me about this. Very ironic. I understand that wives become frustrated with their husband. And so they they it boils over to them criticizing their husband and and trying to get him to respond and be attentive. But your tactic does not motivate him to be a better husband. It motivates him to avoid you And the Bible says this. It warns about this. Listen to Proverbs 21. 9. It's better to dwell in a corner of the housetop than with a brawling woman in a wide house. Or it's better to dwell in the wilderness than with a contentious and angry woman. This is why we have sayings. If mama ain't happy, ain't nobody happy. I'm convinced this is one verse is the basis of why many men love the outdoors. Because it's better to be in the wilderness than in a home where there's tension. Dear women, if you want to strengthen your marriage, you must confess and repent of this bad habit. And third, the third stereotypical sin would be a failure to forgive or bitterness. I'm certainly not saying this is true of all women, but it is a common problem for many women to struggle with. For every man that I've spoken to about bitterness, I've spoken to ten women about it. Many husbands have told me over the years that every time their wife gets angry at them, she reminds them of every major failure they have ever committed in their married life. And women like detail. So she has dates, times, weather conditions, and many other facts. She knows them very well because she mentions them often to others and meditates on them frequently. Dear ladies, this may help you win an argument and shame your husband, but it will not strengthen your marriage. You will be pulling your house down upon your head. If you want to restore your marriage, you must confess and forsake your sin. And that leads me next to the next point of our marriage. And that is that you must graciously grant forgiveness to your spouse. Turn with me, please, to Colossians chapter 3. I want to show you a progression of thought here in this matter of sanctification. Colossians chapter 3, I'd like to begin reading at verse 12. Put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved, vows of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long suffering. forbearing one another and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye And above all these things, put on charity or love, which is the bond of perfectness. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts to the which ye are called in one body and be ye thankful. And let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making Sing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. And then the household commands, wives, submit unto your own husbands. And verse 19, husbands, love your wives. If it's God's will that we as Christian people forbear one another and forgive one another Then it's certainly God's will for us to do that with our spouse, the one with whom we are one flesh How much more obligated are we to forgive them and to forbear, which means what? Putting up with things. Did you know that your spouse is annoying? I saw a lot of wives nodding their heads. Yes. When you got married You may have thought that your spouse could do no wrong, but after some time there you started to notice little habits, little quirks, little things that they did that were annoying to you. Well, you know what? You have to put up with some of those things because they're putting up with things that you do that are annoying, but more importantly, you must forgive. So many Christian people have never learned to deal with their problems. They never have an open exchange about issues. There's never any brokenness or confession, and there's never any forgiveness, and there's never any reconciliation. There's just a mounting mass of issues and problems that are never resolved. And so their marriage is like a continuing argument with brief periods of rest between the rounds. Let me briefly provide some biblical instructions for handling conflicts. And by the way Those who have done research in marriage say that how a couple handles their conflict is the biggest predictor of whether or not they Their marriage will succeed or whether or not it will end in divorce. Couples get into bad habits of dealing with conflict, and that leads to Number one, if your spouse has truly sinned against you, then you must speak to them about it. Luke 17, 3 and 4. I'm not going to take the time to look there, but it brings this up. Doesn't mean you should bring up every little flaw. But when they have truly sinned against you and it has crushed your spirit and it's affecting your relationship, you can't just Paper over that, you have to talk to them and say, you really hurt me. You sinned against me when you did this. And do not allow your conflicts to go unresolved. In Ephesians chapter four we read this verse Be angry and sin not, let not the sun go down upon the wrath, neither give place To the devil. When I do premarital counseling, I always bring out this verse and I always emphasize the fact that you should resolve your problems quickly. Don't let them fester. Don't go to bed angry, silent with one another, with the husbands out on the couch somewhere and they go that way day after day. That is nonsense. That's not a Christian marriage. You resolve things. You talk them out. And where there is humility and brokenness, anything can be solved One of the most common tactics, the least helpful way of dealing with conflict, is just ignoring the other person, giving them an icy silence, pretending they don't exist. It's a very common tactic, but it's hurtful and arrogant and does not at all line up with Scripture. Do not attack one another personally. We read these verses from Ephesians 4 today. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth But that which is good to the use of edifying. What does it mean by corrupt communication? I think we often read that and we think it's talking about like foul language and everything else. But if you look in the context there, it's set in contrast to but that which edifies builds up So what's corrupt communication? That which tears down. You can tear down a pe a person with just a few words. Every day we should be building up our spouse with our words, not using personal insults. Don't attack each other personally. Attack the problem. Attack the issue, but don't attack the person And be ready and eager to forgive your spouse. To refuse to forgive your spouse is one of the most destructive things you can do to your marriage. It's a clear manifestation of pride. To refuse to forgive is to say, I want to hurt you more than I want healing. I want revenge more than I want reconciliation. But the scriptures call us here in verse 32. It says, be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. I feel certain that there are married couples here who have never confessed your sins to your spouse and you've never been granted forgiveness. Just something you don't do. I want to suggest you try that. I can't tell you how many times I've had people with troubled marriages in my office and I ask, so, have either one of you ever said I'm sorry or I was wrong or that was out of line for me today? Will you forgive me? And then and then there's silence, there's crickets. They never do that It's all about proving the other person's wrong. Now perhaps you're here and you're saying, well, I tell you what, I would be more than willing to say I was wrong if they would go first and say they were wrong. But God's calling you to humble yourself and take the first step of reconciliation. If your marriage is in trouble this morning, you need to confess and repent of your sin verbally to your spouse, and there needs to be the granting of forgiveness. And that brings me to my third point, and that is you must intentionally spend time with your spouse. Turn back with me, please, to the beginning of your Bible, to Genesis chapter 2. The Bible gives us four essential purposes of marriage, and one of those purposes is companionship. We read in this creation narrative in verse 18, the Lord God said, It's not good for the man that he should be alone. I will make him a help meet for him, that is corresponding to him. This narrative develops the theme of companionship throughout this chapter. Verses 19 and 20 reveal That there could be no real companionship between Adam and the animals. And verses 21 through 23 describe how God brought a suitable companion into Adam's life. The Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept, and he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh instead thereof. This is the first surgery in history. God did more than just take out a rib by the way the Hebrew text indicates that a whole hunk of flesh and bone was taken from Adam This is why Adam responds in verse 23, this is now bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. And as I mentioned last week, these words are in the form of a love song. The idea here is that creation has finally been completed with Adam and Eve. There is now a complementary companionship that fully reflects the image of God. We have the condensed version of creation in chapter one. It says In chapter one and verse twenty-seven, so God created man in his own image, and the image of God created him. Male and female created he them It is surely significant that the woman was taken out of the man. This speaks of their unity and equality. Undoubtedly, you have heard the words of Matthew Henry. The woman was made of a rib out of the side of Adam, not made out of his head to rule over him, nor out of his feet to be trampled upon by him But out of his side to be equal with him and under his arm to be protected and near his heart to be beloved. And in verse 24, we come to the foundational verse on marriage in the Bible that's repeated again and again Therefore shall a man leave his father and mother and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. So, marriage is among other things all about companionship. So let me ask you, are you cultivating a relationship of companionship? And I want to get very practical here. Husbands? You must spend time with your wife. This is perhaps the number one complaint of wives that I hear. They say, I never see my husband. He never talks to me. He 's always working. He's always on the go. He never has any time for me. Before we were married, we spent time together, but now with the kids and the job and the career, I never see him. Men, you've been called by God to dwell with your wife according to knowledge. And the first thing you must learn about your wife is that she wants your time. This is one of the greatest gifts that you can give to her. And wives, you were made to be your husband's companion. This may surprise you, but all over the world and in different cultures, when men are asked what they want out of a marriage more than anything else, always number one on the list is companionship. Wives, your husband married you so that he could experience the joys and sorrows of life with you. But this is where things break down because companionship is viewed differently by men and women. Men think of companionship as centered around an activity. Sometimes sociologists call this shoulder-to-shoul companionship. It's going camping. Or it's going to a game, or it's going out, it's doing something, some activity together. That's what companionship is. But that's not the way women think of companionship Women prefer what sociologists call face-to-face companionship. They view companionship as Connection not based on an activity, but on open, extended conversation So both men and women must seek to meet the needs of their spouse for companionship, knowing that the other looks at it a little bit differently than you do. Now I entitled this point, You Must Intentionally Spend Time with Your Spouse. I use the word intentionally because if you don't strategically plan to spend more time with your spouse, you know what? It will not happen. Our lives are just so busy Most parents have little time for each other when you take out all the hours of work and the time given to children. And by the way , We must resist the tendency in our culture to be child-centered homes. It may be a shock to you to think that a family could be too focused on the children, but that's for another message. It's absolutely true. There are many wives who think that the purpose of marriage is just to have children, and then after she has kids, she doesn't really need to think about her husband anymore. And in Western cultures especially, and it didn't used to be this way centuries ago, all of the focus, all of your sense of identity and fulfillment is resting in your children. And as I've said often before, children make horrible idols. That's a poor way for you to center your family. Do you realize that if you live the average average life expectancy, the husband and wife will live more years alone than with their kids Unless of course your kids are still living there when they're fifty years old, but that's another sermon as well So you need to foster companionship. The idea of children being in the home is really just a phase of your life Not that children aren't wonderful, you understand. So let me provide some scheduling priorities so that you spend time together Number one, eat together as a family every day if possible. And by the way, without a screen. I'm amazed when I come across families where everyone eats whatever they want and they put something in the microwave and they take it up to the room as they play video games or watch a show and the family's never together. That's not good. That's not healthy. And for the husband and wife, I would say call or text each other at least once during the day. Just a little bit goes a long way. Plan to go on dates at least once every two weeks. Schedule time to sit and talk as a couple for at least one hour each week. At least one hour. And you can do this going for a walk or any other ways. Plan to talk together privately for at least fifteen minutes each night before you go to bed. And by the way, don't get into the habit of going to bed at different times. This is something I rail on. You know what I find out? I find that people have troubled marriages Like one goes to bed at eight and the other goes to bed at midnight, and they do that every night. You know what? That's not a good thing. It's these little structural habits that you form in your relationship that can lead to disaster. Because you're never connecting. And try to get away as a couple for a weekend at least three times a year. It can make a huge difference in your marriage. Like everything in life, if you want your marriage to thrive, it will require time and attention. You cannot put your marriage on cruise control. Marriage is like a beautiful garden that must be cultivated. You must give it time and attention on a regular basis. I say this often to men. Most marriages fail because of ignorance and neglect on the part of the husband. So many men think, you know, as long as I work and stay out of trouble and come home every night, I'm basically a good husband. Well, guess what? Your wife wants a whole lot more than that. She wants your time, and you have to invest your time if you want to have a good marriage. Man, if you would make your wife a priority in your life, most of your marriage issues would evaporate overnight. But you reap what you sow. But I must hasten to my final point. And that is you must seek to grow in grace with your spouse. I want to invite you to turn back with me to Colossians chapter 3. I want you, I want to make this observation. That in both Colossians 3 and in Ephesians 5, where we find the household commands about marriage and children. But these are found in the sections on sanctification. You see, marriage is like a group project in Sanctification 101 And the fact of the matter is that marriage reveals the weakness of our spiritual growth. And God intends that we use that one who is right there, one flesh close to us, to help us and to help each other grow in grace. This is why it talks about forbearing and forgiving one another and having the bond of love that ties everything together. And by the way , This is one of the reasons why we have such little instruction on marriage. You know, if you go on the internet and you look up Christian books on marriage , You're going to find a lot of material. A lot of material. I have about 40 or 50 books in my library on marriage that I've read. There's a lot out there. But when we come to the New Testament, we find like a page worth of instructions. Did God make a mistake? Does he think marriage is not important? Obviously not. What how do we account for this? It's because if you are growing in grace and you're doing everything that the scripture teaches here about Putting off, look at verse 8 of chapter 3. Put off all of these, anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth. Lie not one to another, seeing that you have put off the old man with his deeds. And then you come to verse 12, put on therefore as the elect of God, holy, beloved, vows of mercy, kindness. Humbleness of mind, meekness, long suffering, forbearing one another, forgiving one another. If you follow all those instructions, you know what? You're not going to need much instruction on marriage. Because everything's going to fall in place. You know why there are so many troubled marriages in our churches? It's because there's a lot of people who are not growing in grace. They are not maturing in their faith. They are not putting off the old deeds, and they're not putting on these new garments of grace. So you must be putting off the old man. These old ways of responding, these habitual ways of dealing with conflict and anger, they have to be gone from your life. There's no place And Christian marriage for angry tyrates. And you must put on the garments of grace. You must allow the word of Christ to dwell in you richly. In a marriage where two people are are reflecting the love of Christ for his people. and the submission of the church to the authority of Christ. A marriage where people are so graciously imbibing the essence of the gospel, that marriage will be strong and vibrant. And then one final essential senection. Please pray together. Every Christian couple is in a battle against the world, the flesh, and the devil. Wives, you need to pray for your husbands every day. Every day he needs your prayers. Husbands, your wife needs you to pray for her to intercede for her every day. Remember you to love her like Christ and Christ intercedes for his church And the fact is the family that does pray together stays together. But I fear that one reason why some Christian marriages Are so anemic and so weak and fly apart is because at least one or both of the spouses are not truly born again. They're only nominal Christians They may go to church occasionally, they may listen to a Christian radio station, but they have never been changed from the inside out. Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying that if you have any marriage problems, you're probably not a Christian. But I do think that one of the reasons that so many Christian marriages fail is because you have dead people trying to act like they are alive. Marriage, remember, is an enacted parable of the love of God for his people. So if you don't know the love of God, how can you live out that sublime truth you can't? If you want a better marriage, look to the cross because the gospel is always the answer. Let us close in prayer. Father, I pray that you would use these words to accomplish your purposes. Pray that you would strengthen our marriages. Pray that our homes would be godly. Filled with love. I pray, Lord, that you would strengthen the ties between husband and wife in this assembly and that you would help us to resist the lies of the wicked one and the allure of the world. Help us, Father, to grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen