If you have your Bibles, please would you turn me with me to the book of Habakkuk? Those of you who have been here in recent weeks have probably discovered where that is. And if you don't know, it's a minor prophet, it's toward the end of your Old Testament. We're looking today at Habakkuk chapter 3. E. Stanley Jones was a famous Methodist missionary, was born in Baltimore over a century ago. He was a missionary for many years in India. He authored a best-selling book entitled Christ of the Indian Road. Although I do not agree with some of his theology, he was right on target in the statement about prayer. He said prayer is surrender. Surrender to the will of God and cooperation with that will. If I throw out a boat hook from the boat and catch hold of the shore and pull, Do I pull the shore to me, or do I pull myself to the shore? Prayer is not pulling God to my will. But aligning my will to the will of God. At the beginning of this year in January, I said I wanted to focus on prayer this year. I did not realize all the things that the Lord would give us to pray about this year, but I think it is appropriate that we come once more to the subject of prayer. In our study of this book of Habakkuk. Prayer is what people instinctively do in time of crisis. Even the irreligious will seek God's help. when they have nowhere else to turn. Often when people are dis in distress, they plead with God to do what They want him to do. They think they know the answer, the solution, the fix, and they demand that he do so. But of course, often the Lord does not answer our prayers. This year we have had two major international incidents occur. We have had the coronavirus epidemic. We've had the unrest, the social unrest in our own nation And there have been a multitude of Christians who have prayed that the Lord would just end these things, which he is well capable of doing, but God in his wisdom has ordained not to do so. So, what do we do when God doesn't answer our prayers? When he doesn't seem to be listening? Often people become distressed and discouraged. But we must remember that prayer is not bending God to our will, but our yielding to God's sovereign will in the situation. We're coming essentially to the second half of the book of Habakkuk this morning. The first two chapters reveal the prophet's problem. And these chapters Habakkuk complains to God. He asks questions of God, why certain things are happening and how they don't seem to match with what he knows about God. But when we come to chapter 3, there is a different tone. This chapter is a prayer, it says the opening verse, a prayer of Habakkuk the prophet. Throughout this brief series, I've noted that this book is not so much a prophecy as it is a record of a godly man's struggle to understand what God is doing. He was struggling to see that God was really in control when everything in the world seemed out of control. God's people of Judah were living far from God. The pagans were prospering, and it seemed that God's cause Was in decline. And so Habakkuk begins this book with a word of complaints Because of the wickedness in Judah. And God informs him that he's going to remedy that by sending judgment upon the land. The Babylonians will come, they will level the city of Jerusalem, they will take many people captive. That's not exactly the answer that Habakkuk was looking for. And so he complains that God is using a pagan people. To do his will, and how can he do that when God is a holy God? And so God answers by saying, Well, I'm going to judge them as well. Their day of doom is coming. I will be just. And the Lord informs him that it's the just that shall live by his faith. Now the word that's used for prayer in this first verse is a word that speaks of supplication, of making requests, but it's also a psalm of praise. This entire third chapter is essentially a hymn. It's meant to be sung to music. If you look at the last phrase of this chapter in verse 19, it says to the chief singer on my string. instrument. And so some people take from that title that Habakkuk may have been a temple musician Now we come to this strange word at the end of verse 1 of chapter 3, a prayer of Habakkuk the prophet upon Shiganof. I wonder if you know what that word shigunoth means. Well, I don't. And nobody really knows, at least not that's alive today. We can take educated guesses. It's probably some type of musical notation or the name of a tune Like to be sung to the tune of Amazing Grace, but that information has passed away long ago in the records of ancient times. We find this very term at the beginning of Psalm 7, but we cannot be sure what it means But this psalm begins with a petition and ends in praise. If you know anything about the book of Habakkuk, you probably know Verses 17 and 18, these beautiful verses of triumphant faith. Look with me, although the fig tree shall not blossom. Neither shall fruit be in the vines, the labor of the olives shall fail, and the field shall yield no meat, the flock shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no herd in the stalls Yet I will rejoice in the Lord, I will joy in the God of my salvation. What a wonderful testimony of faith. Habakkuk has said, I came to God with my problems, and they all still remain. But I'm going to praise God. We see this sort of thing often in scripture in the Psalms where the psalmist begins. with a complaint and with questions and with doubts, but he ends in praising God. Because the very act of bringing our problems, our struggles to God Focuses our mind on the Lord, and that is part of why He sends us these difficulties. Because He wants us to look to Him So what does this ancient hymn mean for us today? I believe what we have throughout this book. is a model for how believers are to work through their problems so effectively That they come to the place where they can praise God, where they can sing to God in the fire. That is a powerful testimony, a triumphant demonstration of the grace of God And the only way that we can wrestle through our frustrations and fears and questions for God to a place of confidence and praise is through prayer. This is what we see through all the spiritual giants in Scripture from David and Elijah and now the prophet Habakkuk. Now so often when we first face a crisis, not a little crisis, but a big crisis where our whole world begins to tumble in and we didn't see it coming. We respond in shock and dismay, and we cry out to the Lord why and how long. That's just humanity. That's just the way human beings are. God made us as rational creatures, and we try to make sense. of the things that happen in our world. This is why every person has a worldview. This is why people say rightfully so that every person is a theologian or every person is a philosopher. We all make sense. out of the events of our lives and the things that we observe. God made us that way. We can't help it. But how do we move from the doubts and the fears and the why questions to a place of submission and surrender like we see exhibited by this prophet Habakkuk. The answer is through fervent prayer. In this verse we see the attitude of a believer who has come to adjust his spirit until it is yielded to God. So often when we are facing problems, we want God to change our situation, our circumstance. Remove this burden, remove this painful situation in our lives. But what God wants to do often in that is change us, not our situation. You see, submitting to God, God's will, is the only way to find peace. Now undoubtedly there are people here this morning that walked into this building with a vexing problem on your soul. Perhaps you're one of those people that are able to hide it well on your face and you have this very pleasant smile and everyone thinks things are going great for you. You know otherwise. Or perhaps you're one of those individuals that does not hide things well on your face, and everyone knows you're not doing well today. But the reality, of course, is regardless of what type of person you are, God knows. And your pain and your difficulty and your confusion are real. What God wants you to do is to work through your problem till you come to the place of surrender to Him. And say, God, not my will but thine be done. You have to stop questioning God and demanding things from God and asking him to do what is his perfect will. So I'm going to speak to you this morning on how to pray in times of crisis, how to yield your plan. To God and adopt his plan. Now, we're only essentially looking at verse 2 today. I have a very small text. Last week we looked at like 12 verses. And today we're looking at one verse. I'm very inconsistent in how I'm going through this, but there's so much here in verse 2 that deserves comment that I must just look at this one verse today. And I'm dividing my sermon up just in two basic questions. First of all, how to pray in times of crisis and then what to pray in times of crisis. The first one deals with our heart's attitude in prayer, and the second one deals with the petitions or the requests that we should ask in a time of crisis. So look with me in Habakkuk chapter 3 and verse 2. The prophet says, O Lord, I have heard thy speech. And was afraid. O Lord, revive thy work in the midst of years. In the midst of years make known, in wrath, remember mercy. We see here that the prophet is humbly listening to God, and this is what we must do. He says, I have heard thy speech. The best prayers are informed by God's revelation. Habakkuk has just received a prophecy about the coming destruction of Babylon. He has got the message. God is in control. It may not look that way, but he is in control, and everything's right on schedule. And so the message is that he needs to cease from striving to understand everything that God is doing and let God work out his perfect plan. He's no longer making veiled accusations at God or demanding answers. His prayers have changed. I want you to notice this contrast. Look with me. In Habakkuk chapter 1, where we started in our study of this book many weeks ago, and verse 2. This is the opening prayer, is opening lament or complaint. He says, O Lord, how long shall I cry and thou wilt not hear? Even cry out unto thee of violence and thou wilt not save? Why dost thou show me iniquity and cause me to behold grievance? For spoiling and violence are before me, and there are that raise up strife and contention. But then when we look to chapter 3 and verse 2, notice the change in spirit. He says, O Lord, I have heard thy speech and was afraid. O Lord, revive thy work in the midst of years. In the midst of years make known in wrath, remember mercy. The first prayer was filled with questions. The second prayer is filled with statements of surrender. It's very natural for us when problems come into our lives to ask God why. And I don't think the Lord will judge us harshly for doing that. He knows our frame. He remembers that we are dust. But we should not remain for the next 20 years demanding that God explain things to us. No, we must turn our why questions into who questions. Who are you, God, and what is your purpose in this Trial. Lord, what are you trying to teach me? Because that is more important to the Lord than the trial that you're facing. So often the biggest problem in our trial is not the trial, but the way we respond in unbelief to the trial. In the book of Job, we encounter a righteous man who suffered greatly. In the introduction of that book, the reader is alerted to What's going on behind the scenes? We read of that council in heaven, that conversation between the Lord and Satan about Job. But what you need to realize is that Job was not privy to that conversation. He didn't know the whole purpose of his trials and throughout the book. He struggles to understand. He begins really well. But as the trials come and as his miserable counselors come , He begins to question God more and more as to what God has done. He even cries out that someday He hopes that God will answer his questions. And when then when he does have an audience with the Lord, you know what? He no longer has any questions for the Lord, but the Lord has many questions for him. And we see the Lord restore Job. But we have no record the Lord ever said, Now Job, let me explain to you something here. You know, way back at the beginning of this trial You see, it all started with this conversation, this competition, if you will, between myself and Satan about who you really were, whether you were just had a mercenary spirit and were serving me because I'd been so good to you. But at the end of the story, we're not told that Job is given that information. And you know why? Because that wasn't the most important thing that he understand what the why behind it. I've heard so many people over the years tell me, you know, someday when I get to heaven, I've got a lot of questions for the Lord. You know what? If you truly know the Lord and you do go to heaven, you're not going to ask him a bunch of questions. You're going to be like Job. You're going to put your hand upon your mouth You're going to be so overawed by the glory and holiness and majesty of God that you'll say, never mind. It really doesn't matter. I want you to notice that we must secondly humbly reverence God in our prayers. He says, I heard thy speech. And was afraid. There's some debate among Bible scholars how to interpret this expression afraid. Some take it as being in awe of God, and some of you have translations that may render it that way. Or perhaps he's thinking of God's coming judgment upon Judah. This raises the whole issue of the concept of the fear of God. If you were with us last Sunday night, we had a guest preacher whose father teaches in the seminary that I graduated from, and he has a nice, concise, three-word definition of the fear of the Lord. It is taking God seriously. So often we don't take God seriously. There are several different facets to the fear of the Lord. It's a very significant concept in Scripture. First of all, there's the awe and reverence of the majesty of God. We must always come before God's presence, whether publicly or privately. with respect and profound humility, for he is our maker, he is our God, he is the creator of the ends of the earth. And there's far too much flippancy among the people of God sometimes when they speak of the Lord. But a second aspect of the fear of the Lord is a fear of displeasing God. A fear of displeasing God. When we truly love the Lord, we don't want to fail him. And it's not just that we're so much motivated by his chastening hand that might come, but We love him and we want to have that close fellowship with him and we don't want that to be interrupted. And so we have a fear of displeasing God. But there is this third aspect of the fear of the Lord, and that is a healthy fear of God's correction. Hebrews 12 is the key text for this. It says, For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. And the Bible describes this correction as grievous or painful. And that chapter, Hebrews 12, ends with this. admonition. Let us have grace whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear, for our God is a consuming fire. We must not ever be a people who presume upon the Lord and say, oh, it doesn't matter that I do this. It doesn't matter that I sin. Yeah, I know it's wrong. I knew I shouldn't be saying this. I shouldn't be doing this. I shouldn't be involved in this relationship. But after all, God will forgive me. That is a very dangerous statement to make because you might be the kind of person if you think that way. that has never truly been forgiven. Because Christian people will not think in those terms, oh, it's no big deal, God will forgive it. So we need a healthy dose of the fear of the Lord. God's correcting hand is real. There are people here that could stand up and give testimony. That God 's chastening is painful. He does it out of love, but it's still painful. There is indeed a healthy fear of the Lord that is often missing today in the contemporary versions of Christianity. We've so emphasized this great doctrine of grace. That we have not balanced it with God's justice and God's loving correction. And thirdly, under this heading, I would say we must humbly adore God in our prayers. We have in this verse twice this beginning, O Lord. Which speaks of adoration and worship. This little book of Abakuch is filled with marvelous statements of theology about the doctrine of God. In chapter 1 and verse 12, it says , Art not thou from everlasting, O Lord, my God, my holy one? He's later referred to as Almighty God in that verse. In verse 13, thou art of pure eyes than to behold evil, a classic description of the holiness of God. This book is filled with profound, majestic theology about the person of God. This prophet had a sense of the majesty of God. And if we truly know God. We will love him and we will worship him. David says, one thing of a desire to the Lord, that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life to behold the beauty of the Lord. and to inquire in his temple. So when we come to God in prayer, we must be careful that it does not take on the form of a grocery list of needs, of things that we want. Yes, we should bring our petitions before him. But we should begin with worship, remembering who he is and to whom we are addressing. When you really begin to adore God and worship God, so many of your problems and difficulties begin to take on a right proportion. They begin to shrink before your eyes. because you see the great God to whom you must answer. I want you to know that this is not abstract religious talk. This is real help to very perplexing problems. So often people get stuck on a problem in their life and they've never worked through it in prayer. To surrendering to the Lord. Have you ever met people like that? You talk to them for five minutes, they're going to mention something that happened 22 years ago. that seemed grossly unfair to them and that God was not just with them and God removed something from their life and they've never gotten over it and they never will go to church again. And they've never worked through that issue to surrender to the Lord. They're still holding on to. They still have this grievance against God, and they won't let go of it. We must pray a prayer of submission to God when we give it to the Lord. When you're struggling with your children, you have to come to the place where you say, Lord, I've given them to you. They're yours. I've done what I can. I've said what I should. They're yours. I cannot control them for the entirety of their lives. Sometimes you'll be put in a situation with your health situation where despite all the doctors and so forth, there's nothing you can really do. You just have to leave the matter with the Lord. Sometimes as a pastor of this church, I will face a problem that vexes my soul. And finally, after wrestling with the Lord about it, I say, you know what, Lord, this is your church. I don't know how to figure this out. You do what you deem best. This is not mine. This is yours. And that's where we must come. This is how we should pray in times of crisis with the spirit of surrender, with the heart of worship. And secondly, what should we pray in times of crisis? What are the requests that we should make? There are three requests that are mentioned in Habakkuk's prayer. These are the sort of things That we should pray for God to do in times of crisis, in times like we're facing right now. These are great requests for us to bring before the Lord right now with what's happening in our nation and in the world. First of all, we should pray for God to revive his work. I had Pastor Nick read a passage that speaks of this very thing. Notice what he says. He says in verse 2, O Lord, revive thy work in the midst of years. Early in Habakkuk's life, he was ministering under the good king Josiah. And under Josiah, God brought revival to Judah. And what Abakuk is praying is that God would do it again, that he would bring revival again. The word revival simply means to make alive or to renew. And this is a heartfelt cry for spiritual renewal because it's only God who can send revival. It's not something that we can manufacture. Something that God must send. This is something that we desperately need in our nation. Our only hope is revival. Some people get very discouraged, and I've had people say to me, things are so bad, God can't send revival. You know what? God loves to send revival when things are really bad. In fact, that's the only time he sends it. He revives his work. In our nation, we have had a great history of revivals. Yes, there have been revivals in many other places in the world. In England and Scotland and Wales and in Ireland and in Korea, and the list could go on and on. But how God has blessed our nations with periodic awakenings. That have swept many into the kingdom and have revived the church of Jesus Christ. I think first and foremost of the Great Awakening in the 1730s and 40s. America and Britain had abandoned the Puritan theology of the century before, and they'd embrace the errors of enlightenment which are the heart of secular humanism. But God raised up men like George Whitfield and John Wesley and Jonathan Edwards to preach the word and to bring revival. There was a great harvest of souls throughout Europe and especially throughout this nation. It said We often think of all of our great religious blessings as stemming from the pilgrims and the Puritans, but a lot of them go back to a man named George Whitfield. who preached up and down the East Coast. If there is any little city or town that you find along the coast of the United States on the East Coast, from from Georgia all the way to Maine, you can be sure that George Whitfield preached there at one time and he preached the gospel. Eight out of ten Americans heard George Whitfield preach in person. And many thousands were converted. There was the second second Great Awakening of the early 1800s, both in the camp meeting revivals in the West and then the colleges in the East, the elite colleges like Harvard and Yale that were started to train preachers had become incredibly dead. And bastions of unbelief, but God raised up preachers like Timothy Dwight to preach the gospel, and many hundreds of students were saved. They started prayer meetings, and many people went out eventually to the foreign fields as missionaries. Things look very dark, but God did this. Then we have the prayer revival of 1859 started in Fulton Street. church in New York City where they open the doors at noon for people to come in during the lunch break and to pray for God to work in the nation. And it started there and it spread to other churches in the city. And finally it spread to other businesses in the city. Finally it spread to other cities. They had all kinds of prayer meetings in in Baltimore in 1859. And all the cities on the East Coast, and many, many thousands of people were saved simply because people started to seek the Lord. And there were great revivals under Moody and Sankey in the 1870s and 80s. But I will spare you all the details. My point is that in every case the situation was bleak. Wickedness abounded, but God sent revival, and he can do it again. God answered Habakkuk's prayer, by the way. Habakkuk was so fearful that as the people Judah went off into captivity. I mean if they couldn't stand in their own land, how could they stand in a foreign land when they were surrounded by paganism? Certainly they would just be a assimilated into the culture and they would disappear, but that didn't happen. They actually grew stronger in their faith. The whole synagogue system was started there. And God brought them back through capable leaders and they rebuilt their walls and their temple And they returned to the Lord. God delights to send revival in dark days. So we should not look at the mess in the world today and despair, but we could should recognize that the situation is ripe for revival. And secondly, we should pray for God to make known his glory. We have this cryptic phrase here, in the midst of years, make known. Well, what does in the midst of years mean? Notice it's used twice in our verse that says, in the midst of years make known in wrath remember mercies. We have this phrase mentioned twice. And it's never used again precisely in this way anywhere else in the Old Testament. It most likely refers to the times of judgment. in which Habakkuk was living in. He was begging God to intervene even in the day of judgment, that God would even bring glory to himself Through this judgment. So when he says for God to make no known, he is asking God to bring himself glory. Habakagus asking God to display his glory even during this time of national destruction and displacement. He's praying that the world would come to see through God's providential protection of this pathetic little band of Jewish people that they actually worship the one true God, Yahweh. Habakkuk here is praying, essentially in the spirit of the Lord's Prayer. He's praying that God's name would be hallowed in the earth, that it would be set apart from all the false gods. And God, indeed, in a certain sense answered that prayer. Secondly, or thirdly The third request is we should pray for God to show his mercy. I love this last phrase in wrath. Remember mercy The Hebrew word for wrath here speaks of trembling, and you get a vivid depiction of that in chapter 3 and verse 16. Habakkuk writes, When I heard my belly trembled, my lips quivered at the voice, rottenness entered into my bones, and I trembled in myself that I might rest in the day of trouble. When he cometh up unto the people, he will invade them. with his troops. Habakkuk was terrified at the prospect of God's coming judgment through the Babylonians, and rightfully so. They were a powerful and brutal people. And so the prophet pleads for God to temper his just judgment with mercy. for his covenant people. Yes, they deserved to be wiped out. They deserved for their city to be leveled and for all of them to be slain because they had so often Abandoned the Lord despite his revelation and turned to idols. But God showed them mercy But that raises the question of how can a righteous God withhold his wrath from wicked people that deserve his judgment? And the ultimate answer, of course, is found in Jesus Christ. This is how Romans says God can be just and the justifier. Only to those who believe in Jesus. If there was a judge in this local circuit court and someone was to come before him who was obviously guilty and committed horrible, serious crimes, that judge could not just Acquit that person. People would cry out and say, he does not have the right to do that. He has to make a just judgment. And so it is with the judge of all the earth. God does not wink at our sin. God does not just dismiss it. If he were to do so, he would not be just. No, there had to be someone, a righteous one, who would pay the penalty of our sin. And that one, of course, that only one is the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus is our propitiation. He absorbed God's wrath on our behalf. Romans 3 says, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God has set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood. This is how God can be merciful to us because we are in Christ We have a great high priest who is both merciful and faithful to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. Jesus paid a debt he did not owe because we owed a debt we could not pay. My question to you this morning is, have you come? To put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ alone. Everyone here, everyone in the world will either experience the wrath of God. or the mercy of God through the Lord Jesus Christ. There is no third option. There is no middle way. It is one or the other, either the wrath of God or the mercy of God. Many years ago, there was a man who was working on the roof of a very steep roof of a church in Ireland. And he lost his footing and he fell off, falling with his face towards the sky, thinking to himself, because it was very high, this is the end of my life. But in the providence of God, there was a shepherd who was leading his flock right below that church, and the man landed on a large, fluffy sheep that was about to be sheared, and it had a very thick w wool coat on it and he landed on that and it saved his life but it killed the sheep. That sheep absorbed the energy Of that man's fall and saved his life. Jesus Christ absorbed the wrath of God for us so that we will not perish eternally. So again, my question to you as I close this morning is this: Will you experience the wrath of God or the mercy of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? Won't you seek him today? Let's close in prayer. Father, I pray that you would use these words for your purposes this morning. I think of those of your people here today who are struggling. with trials and difficulties, and they have questions for you, and they have not moved the place to where they have surrendered the situation to you. And let you deal with it as you will. I pray that today you would give them the grace to do that and they would find peace in their hearts. And then, Father, for those who are yet lost in their sins, trusting in their own righteousness, who have never put their faith in Christ alone, I pray that today would be their day of salvation. That your people may rejoice in you, for it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen.