Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to Matthew chapter 13? Matthew chapter 13. So let me ask you, do you like a good story? Well, you do if you're a human being. One of the things that I have learned as a preacher is that everyone, without exception, likes a good story. Whenever a preacher tells a story, he finds that the people who have turned him off suddenly begin to listen. This is not just my observation. This is what communication specialists and psychologists and others who study this sort of thing for a living have concluded. One such man, Steve Dennings, says, human beings tell stories. This is our native language. A psychologist named Jonathan Hayde says the human mind is a story processor, not a logic processor. Another man named Roy Peters says, reports convey information. Stories create experience. Reporters transfer knowledge, stories transport the reader, crossing boundaries of time, space, and imagination. The report points us there, but the story puts us there. One of the reasons the Bible is such a captivating book Is because it has a grand storyline. In the scriptures, we read of creation and the fall and redemption and the final restoration Therefore, it's not surprising that Jesus was the greatest storyteller that the world has ever known. Because Jesus is the word made flesh. He is the greatest revelation of the Father to humanity. And therefore, God gave his beloved son the ability to communicate spiritual truth in a powerful way through the medium of storytelling. Even scholars who reject the identity of Jesus as the Son of God and the Savior of the world must admit that no one in the history of the world Has been able to tell stories more effectively than Jesus Christ. Indeed, never a man spake like this man. Who is not captivated by stories like the laborers in the vineyard or the Pharisee and the tax collector or the story of the Good Samaritan and, of course, the prodigal son? These are some of the best known stories in the world, and for good reason. They all powerfully communicate timeless truths in a concise and memorable way. Now we call these short stories of Jesus parables. And this morning, I would like us to consider what we have read here in Matthew 13, the parable of the sower. But before we do so, we need to make clear What a parable, and what is the purpose of a parable. So, first of all, what is a parable? Our English word parable is actually a loan word from the Greek. It's a transliteration of the Greek term parabole which is composed of two smaller words which together literally mean to throw alongside or to place alongside. A parable should be distinguished from other figurative teaching devices. A parable is not a fable Which often contains unrealistic elements like talking animals. A parable is not a myth which is filled with legends, miracles, and fantasy. A parable is not an allegory, which is generally very complex and contains several layers of meaning. So what is a parable? Well, the most popular definition that you may have heard, I certainly did as a kid, was it's an earthly story with a heavenly meaning. But we need to probe a little deeper than that. There seems to be four essential components. that make up a parable. Let me mention them to you briefly. You can picture them in your mind like the four legs of a table. Number one, Jesus' parables are concise. The longest parables in our gospels can be read still in just a few minutes. There's not a word that is wasted. It's not a long, drawn-out tale. that kind of wears you out. No, it's always very condensed, very precise, and brief. Jesus' parables, secondly, are true to life. You never find yourself reading a parable and saying to yourself, that could never happen in the real world. No, his parables are very lifelike, and I believe that if we were like his original audience living in the first century, that truth would even be more powerful to us. Number three, Jesus' parables contain a key comparison. The Greek word for parable means to place alongside. A parable takes something we know and compares it to something we don't know. It takes something from the natural world and compares it to the spiritual world. And the fourth leg of that table, the fourth element that comprises a parable, is that Jesus' parables teach a profound spiritual lesson. There is one central truth that the Lord intends that the reader takes away from that parable. Parables are not complex like allegories with all these different layers of meaning. They are intended to teach one vital lesson. So let me put these four elements together into one brief definition. A parable is a concise real life story that uses an extended comparison to teach a profound spiritual lesson. And that brings us to our second question, and that is, what is the purpose of a parable? And for this one, I don't have to speculate. Because the Bible clearly tells us what the purpose of a parable is. And because if you look with me now at Matthew chapter 10, excuse me, 13, verse 10. We read, and the disciples came and said unto him, Why speakest thou unto them in Parable. See, we don't need to wonder. They ask him this very question. Notice the answer that he gives, verse 11. And he answered and said unto them, because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given. For whosoever hath to him shall be given And he shall have more abundance, but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he hath Therefore speak I to them in parables, because they seeing see not, and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. I think if I were to ask you as you came in this morning and maybe gave you a quiz and said, what is the purpose of parables? I suspect, I can't prove it. But I suspect that most of you would say that parables were given to help people better understand spiritual truth. And you would be half right. The Bible tells us that there are two purposes of parables. Number one, to reveal the truth to those who are eager to know more of the truth. And secondly, to conceal the truth from those who only have a superficial interest in the truth Now it's important for you to understand that the Lord has been preaching the truth of the gospel to the multitudes now for at least a year and a half at this phase in this ministry. Maybe two years. It's not that he started off his ministry speaking parables and saying, you know what, I don't want these people to know the truth. I'm going to kind of Veil it and conceal it from them. That's not the case. You can see this in verse twelve. He says at the end of verse twelve, But whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he hath. In other words, the Moses all had the privilege of hearing God, God's truth, of Jesus explaining the truth of the kingdom and of the gospel in clear and precise terms. But they weren't interested in that And so now at this phase in our ministry, the Lord shifts and transitions to a new phase of ministry. From now on until his death. Most of his ministry would be to twelve men called his disciples. And he is preparing them. He's investing in them. so that after his death and resurrection they will go to the ends of the earth with the gospel. You see, most people who came out in great multitudes were not really interested in finding the truth. They may have come out of curiosity. You know, it's been said that nothing draws a crowd like a crowd. They may have come because they heard of his miracles and they had a loved one. crippled or lame or deaf or blind, and the idea that this person could receive their sight or their mobility or their hearing It just seemed too good to be true, but it was worth coming for some distance. People came for many reasons Some came to be entertained. But the disciples, on this occasion Show that they had a different mind because they wanted to know the meaning of the parable. In Luke chapter 8 and verse 9, his account of this event. They say to him, What might this parable be? They wanted to know. And the Lord teaches them that there was a dual ministry of his parables. At the same time that he was revealing the truth, he was also concealing the truth from those who had only a superficial interest in spiritual things. It's been put this way before. The same sun that will harden the clay melts the wax. The Lord was now intentionally thinning his congregation to the telling of parables. If you look with me at the opening of this chapter, chapter 13, verse 1. We get a sense of how large the crowds were who came to hear our Lord. This was at the height of his popularity. It says, and the same day went Jesus out of the house and sat by the seaside, and the great multitudes were gathered together unto him, so that he went into a ship and sat And the whole multitude stood on the shore, and he spake many things unto them in parables. It's possible that there were so many thousands of people there That there was a chance that he may have been trampled to death if he didn't take action. So he goes out in a vessel to get a little bit of distance between him and the crowd. In the previous chapter, right before this on the same day we read of his own um Uh, family members wanting to come and talk to him, and they couldn't get to him, his mother and his brothers, because the crowd was so thick, they couldn't reach him People were thronging to see him. He was the talk of all of Galilee and Judea. And so now Jesus begins to speak in parables. And the people who came for superficial reasons, they would listen. And they would say to the neighbor, do you understand what he's saying in that? No, it went over my head. I didn't grasp it either. And they would walk away. They didn't come the Lord and say, I must know this truth. I want to know the spiritual truth. They were looking for miracles, perhaps they were looking for food like when he fed the the 5,000 and eventually the crowds began to dissipate Because what he's saying is confusing to them, and they are not really interested in finding out the answers to his teaching You see, Jesus is not a means to an end. He is the end. So many people come to the Lord because they want things from Him. They want a better marriage. They want obedient children. They want their health conditions solved. And they come to him, not because they want him, but only because they think he might be able to help me with this problem that really vexes my soul. But you can't find those things in Christ without Christ, and He is not going to be used in that way. You see, Jesus was not seeking to draw a crowd, but to build his church. And all true preachers of the gospel must do the same. Can I just say that the mega church model of ministry that developed in the late 20th century is not biblical? Ministries that are built on entertainment and man-centered teaching may draw large crowds, but they will never develop strong followers of Jesus Christ. There are many ministries in this nation and around the world that intentionally develop a style of worship and a style of teaching that is to intended to reach people who have only a superficial interest in the gospel. People who are enamored by what is called the prosperity gospel And those ministries will never reach the heart and deal with the heart. Now let's go right into our Lord's description of this parable in verse 4. So Let me read this for you. Verses four through eight. And when he had sowed some seeds by the wayside, and the fowls came and devoured them up, and some fell upon stony places where they had not much earth. And forthwith they sprung up because they had no deepness of the earth. And when the sun was up, they were scorched. Because they had no root, they withered away, and some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprung up and choked them, and others fell into good ground and brought forth fruit, some a hundredfold, some sixty. Psalm 30, who hath ears to hear, let him hear. This is called the parable of the sower by our Lord in verse 18. However, it's important to understand that the focus of this story is really not on the sower. But it's on the soil. And here the Lord talks about four types of soil. This is a very significant parable. It's really kind of the first parable that a reader comes to in reading through the Gospels. It's only one of four parables that is found in all three synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. It's the first of a series of seven kingdom parables found in Matthew 13. And it's the only parable that Jesus really gives a full explanation to. So I say all that to say this. What our Lord is teaching here is very, very significant. It's unique in many ways. And it behooves us to give it great attention. Some commentators suggest that when Jesus was speaking, a man in the distance was sowing seed in a field. I'm not sure if that's true, but we do know that Jesus was describing an activity that everyone in his original audience would have known well. They lived in a simple agricultural community. And a farmer would tie a leather bag around his waist He would fill it with seed, and he would go out to the field and walk on those dirt paths that crisscross the field. And throughout the field, he would throw the seed with a consistent sweeping motion with every step. There was an art to it because the the farmer didn't want there to be patches of land that had no seed. And other patches where it was all clumped up in one big bunch, that was not helpful. The idea, the intent was to spread it evenly over the soil. And that's what a good sower would do. But not all the seed would bring the harvest the farmer desired. It all depended on the type of soil in which the seed landed. So let's make sure, first of all, that we understand these four types of soil. Let's understand the picture before we look at the meaning of the picture. First of all, we have the seed that fell by the wayside. Now the wayside was a footpath that the farmer and others would use to walk through the fields. Over time the dirt path would become packed down and hard. It would bake in the sun, and the seed that would fall on that footpath would not penetrate the soil. It would lay right on top. And therefore it was quickly exposed and it was devoured by birds. In fact, sometimes we can read in ancient literature that the sowers bemoan the fact that when they would go out to sow, the birds in the area would notice it and they would follow the farmer as he was sowing his seed. trying to eat up as much of the seed before it went into the ground. Secondly, we read of soil that is upon stony places. This is not a reference to what we commonly encounter, rocky soil , but to a thin layer of soil that is has underneath of it a bedrock that that keep that just permeates the land. This was a very common geological terrain in Galilee. I suspect that when Jesus told about this type of soil that some of his readers, his hearers were nodding their heads, yeah I know exactly what that's like. You look at a patch of land, it looks very promising. You see dirt. But what you don't realize is that two inches underneath of that dirt, there is a solid layer of rock And any plant that is planted there will never develop well because it cannot really put down roots. And so the seed will germinate quickly. The soil is warm, but it will be unable to sustain its life because it has no root system. And because of the lack of moisture, because that thin layer of soil, the moisture will evaporate quickly from it, and therefore the plant will become parched and it will wither and die. The third type of soil is described as among thorns. Here the seed falls on soil that is infested with weeds. Have you ever noticed that weeds are the fastest growing and the hardiest plants in the world? You notice that? When you have heavy rainfall, you will have weeds. When you have a drought, you will have weeds. You don't have to cultivate weeds. They just come up. So what happens to the seed that falls on this weedy patch of soil? Well, it cannot compete. It's choked out. It never had a chance. Fourthly, we read of the seed that fell into good ground. Notice it uses the preposition into. That is that the seed penetrated the soil. And in time the seed brought forth fruit. Sometimes it produced a hundred times. That is, one seed produced, as it were, a hundred new plants. Sometimes it was sixteen, sometimes it was thirty. But it always produced a harvest. It produced fruit. Now it's important that we don't pass over verse 9 because that's really the key to the parable. Who hath ears to hear, let him hear. What the Lord is saying there is that how you listen specifically to the preaching of the Word of God is very significant. In fact, I'm going to put this as my proposition this morning. All that I've said so far is really introduction to the message. How you respond to the gospel, which is the seed in this parable, how you respond to the gospel reveals who you truly are. You want to know who you are? That is revealed by how you respond to the preaching. So let's look at the meaning of this parable, which our Lord gives, beginning in verse 18. Notice he says, Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower. And I want us first of all to consider the response of a person with a hard heart. Look with me at verse 19. He says, When anyone heareth the word of the kingdom, And understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one, and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart. This is he which received the seed by the wayside. That h hard packed down soil pictures the person appropriately with a hard heart. This is a person who comes into a church with a certain amount of skepticism. They think to themselves, I'm not gullible like all these people here. Perhaps a family member or co-worker have invited them to come, but they're kind of hesitant to come. But because of different pressures, they end up coming. But when they're here, they're really carefully listening for something that they can mock or refute. But amazingly, when the Word of God is preached, they are surprised by how it arrests their attention. And they begin to listen carefully. But notice in verse 19 it says they don't really understand it. By the way, you see here that understanding the gospel is essential for a person to be born again. Sometimes people think that somehow you can bypass the human brain and get people saved. It doesn't work that way. That's why we have a ministry where the preaching and teaching of the word is the focal point. Because people need to understand in order to be saved. And so that's where our focus is going to be. But this person, although they may be in some ways in trans , by the preaching of the gospel. They don't really get it. They don't understand it. It generates all kinds of questions in their mind. If this is true, then how can this be true? And the Bible predicts this kind of response. In 1 Corinthians 2 and verse 14 it says the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 4 says that the God of this world blinds the minds of them which believe not. And this is pictured in our parable by that truth of the gospel, there, as it were, right in front of the man, it's laying on top of the soil. But then we read of the birds coming down and catching it away. And the Greek word that is used there conveys the idea of violence. They just snatch it up quickly So this man comes in, he comes in as a skeptic, he hears the gospel, something about it intrigues him, it arrests his attention, he begins to think seriously about it. But he doesn't understand it, certainly. And by the time he gets out of the parking lot, it's completely gone from his mind. The devil's brought something else for him to think about, what his plans are later that day. And that that faint feeling of conviction that he may have experienced is long gone. And now he back he's back where he was before. Now I want you to consider The response of the person with a shallow heart. Look with me at Matthew 13, verses 20 and 21. But he that receiveth the seed into stony places, the same as he that heareth the word and anon or immediately with joy receiveth it. Yet hath he no root in himself, but dureth for a while, for when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, by and by he is offended. This is the person that has that very thin layer of soil underneath is bedrock. And this person responds to the gospel with enthusiasm. This kind of individual may walk the aisle at the end of a service with tears streaming down his or her face, then may be baptized and join the church and attend on a regular basis. And everyone in that assembly gladly receives him as their brother and sister in Christ. But they have a serious problem. They have no spiritual roots. They're like that branch in John 15 that's not really attached to the vine. They have no connection really to God. They have no relationship with him. And that is manifested by how they respond in time to difficulty or affliction in their life. Notice the trouble here is described as coming in two varieties. First of all, he talks about tribulation. This is the affliction that every human being deals with in life. This would include things like an automobile accident or the loss of a job or an extended illness or even a death in the family. These problems come into everyone's life in one way or another. And sometimes these problems cause people to seek the Lord, and that's a good thing. But the problem is that sometimes people get the idea that if I started going to church and I seek the Lord, then the Lord is going to solve or remove these problems from my life. But then they don't go away. The supposed recent converts begins to question everything Why would God allow this when I'm trying to do the right thing? If God is good, why did bad things keep occurring in my life? And sometimes people who show the most promise, who show the most emotion that people in the assembly of God rejoice about, sometimes those people walk away and renounce their faith. I've seen it many times. Notice it doesn't necessarily happen right away. It says in our text, by and by. That is like after a while. They might go well for a few months. They might go well for a few years. They may go for over a decade. And everyone would assume and think that person is truly my brother and sister in Christ. But the day is going to come when they're going to walk away because there's no root vitally connecting them to God's. And then it talks about persecution. And here it's specifically people who are undergoing affliction because they claim to be a follower of Christ. This is something we don't know much about in 21st century America. But it's a very common thing in many places of the world and throughout the history of the church. You know, most people in America today, believe it or not, still claim to be a Christian in some way. Polls show that again and again. It's true that there's a growing number of people who claim to be nothing, affiliated with nothing, or to be atheists, but still, most people in the United States of America in some way, in some definition, claim to be a Christian. But how many of them would keep that identification if it was really costly? If it would cost them their job and maybe their freedom, if it would divide their family, if it would cause them to be an outcast from their own communities, and virtually put them in exile. How many people would still claim, I am a follower of Jesus Christ if it would cost them everything, perhaps even their life? I think the percentages would go way, way, way down. Because the reality is there are millions and millions of nominal Christians in America. That is, people who are Christian in name only, if the truth be known. This is one reason why like the book of Hebrews was written because many of the early Jewish believers that initially had this enthusiasm and were following Jesus as their Messiah. Then they experienced this pushback from their Jewish community and they were kicked out of the synagogues and they were ostracized from their communities from everyone that they knew and loved and they said, you know what? Some of them said, this isn't worth it. I'm gonna go back to my old life. It was so much better. I thought my new life in Christ would be better, but it's not, it's much worse than what I was experiencing before. And that's why the book of Hebrews is all about the fact that Christ is better, and all of these warnings about not going back. You can't go back if you're truly a child of God. I ask people all the time, is what you have a true and living faith? Or is it simply explained by where you live and the family that you happen to be born into? Is what you have real and authentic Or is it just sort of like you with your folks and your faith? It's kind of like, yeah, me too. Yeah, I believe that too. Thirdly, consider the response of the person with a preoccupied heart. Look with me at verse twenty-two. And he also that receiveth seed among thorns is he that heareth the word and the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word and he become unfruitful. This person again hears and receives the word. They may look in some respects like a Christian. These are individuals who have a definite plan to follow Christ, but they never seem to be able to follow through on that. Jesus mentions two weeds that choke the ministry of the Word in a person's life. First of all, he talks here about the cares of this world, and that word cares is the word anxiety. The anxieties that come along with living in the world. It's impossible to live in this world without having some things to be concerned about, right? How are you going to pay your bills? How are you going to advance your career? How are you going to continue your education? How are you going to take care of your children? These are things that bombard every human being. That we have obligations and responsibilities and things that we have to plan for. And sometimes they can become so pressing on our lives. That people will say things like, you know, Pastor, I'm I'm really gonna I'm gonna start coming to church someday and and I'm really gonna be involved in everything. But right now my life is just so crazy busy, have all these pressures on me, I just can't do anything right now. And it's the cares of this world. No one would say that this person is necessarily living a wicked life, but they are living a godless life. They're living as if there is no God. And then the second weed that he mentions is the deceitfulness of riches. That's a very interesting phrase, isn't it? The idea with it is that so commonly riches or wealth deceive people. They think it will do something for them that it can't do. How many people I have met in my life who think that if I just made $10,000 more a year, all of my problems would go away? I would I would be in great shape if I could just if I could just get a job where I made ten thousand dollars more a year. I mean I would be set and I could really follow God and things would be great in my life. But for some reason I can't achieve that and sometimes I'll ask them this question. Would you make more money now than you used to? Oh yeah, yeah, yeah Did you have problems like $10,000 before? Oh yeah, I had lots of problems. So you got that $10,000 more a year, and yet you still are in the same place People look to money for many things. They look to money for security. I don't have to worry. I can sleep well at night because I have that nest egg in my bank. But the Bible says that can be gone in a moment. Or sometimes people look not so much for security but for status, the sense that I've made it. And so they'll buy a house they can't afford, or they get really nice cars. Uh they want everyone to notice, yeah, I've made it, I've done well, I've won in life's game Because it makes them feel important and they want those status symbols Jesus said no man can serve two masters or literally be a slave for two masters. You can work for two employers. But you can't be a slave for two people because a master demands everything. You cannot serve God, he says, and mammon or material things. Matthew 6, 24. You can't make your life, you can't become a slave for material things, trying to achieve the American dream, trying to have it all. You know, the expectations of society are crushing The things your size house you're supposed to have and the kind of education you're supposed to provide and and everyone goes to college today and the And and the uh everyone needs a car because they all have different jobs and and you have to have insurance on that and you have to have a nice yard and you've got to maintain that and you've got to And before you know it, just to maintain what you would think is just a reasonable American lifestyle, you have to work And often your spouse as well, incredible numbers of hours just to be at a certain level. And so often we have no time to think about what our life is all about and what really matters. Because we're caught up in this treadmill of getting and accumulating more and more stuff because that's what we do in our consumerist culture. Materialism is, I think, the great weed in American society. It has strangled millions of souls that are truly just nominal Christians. Because what really matters to them is not God, it's their money. Let me just quickly say, the Bible doesn't say it's wrong to be well off. The Bible encourages hard work and savings and wise investment and everything else. But money must never be our master that controls the decisions that we make in life. And then notice with me the response of a person with a ready heart, with an open heart. Verse 23. We've had all these bad news, these almost Christians. Now finally we get to the good news, the harvest. But he that receiveth the seed in the good ground is he that heareth the word and understandeth it, which also beareth fruit, and bringeth forth fruit, some a hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirty This verse that talks about the good ground is not saying that some people have a good heart. The Bible says that the heart of fallen man is desperately wicked. Who can know it? It's good in a sense that it's ready to receive the gospel. And Luke's account of this parable, he ascribes the heart as honest or sincere. This person is truly seeking God 's truth And the reason why their heart is ready to receive the gospel is because of the previous work of the Spirit of God. God convicts the sinner of his sin. God will plow up the hard soil of his heart, often through providential circumstances and through the preaching of his word. I want you quickly to notice three things that distinguish this soil from the other three. Number one, this is the only soil that truly receives the Word of God. If you look at the prepositions It talks about the seed falling by the wayside and upon the rock and among the thorns, but only here we read of the soil going down into the good soft ground. This is a person who has humbled themselves before God, who comes to receive the word like a beggar, not as a skeptic. Secondly, this is the only person who truly understands the gospel. It says here, he heareth the word and understandeth it. His eyes are open. He sees the truth. He sees his peril, his need, that he will perish without Christ, and he grasps for the gospel of Jesus Christ. You see, you can't be converted until you understand the gospel. And thirdly, this is the only hearer who bears fruit. What do we mean by fruit? Referring to unmistakable evidence of life. Unmistakable evidence of union with God. The whole point of that sower Planting his seed was so that he would have a harvest. He's not getting his exercise out there. He wants a harvest The whole purpose of humanity being on earth is to bring forth fruit to the glory of God We see here that some Christians will produce more fruit than others For different levels of sanctification, some 100, some 60, some 30. Not all Christians have the same manifest evidence that God has changed their lives, but they all have some evidence. They all bear some fruits. Very briefly now I want to conclude with some applications. First of all, how you respond to the Word of God says a great deal about your heart. Everyone present here this morning is responding to this sermon in one of the four ways illustrated in this parable. This is not an academic lesson. This is real life. There are people here this morning, undoubtedly, that have a hard heart. They can't wait for the service to be over They don't understand what's going on. They keep tuning out. They have no interest in understanding the message of truth. There are people here who have a shallow heart. They have some interest, but the truth of the gospel is not going to bring forth fruit in their lives because there's no root in their lives. There's people here who have a preoccupied heart and you can hardly listen to the gospel because you're thinking about all the problems in your life and you're just saying, I wish Jesus would solve all my problems. That's all you want. Your mind is preoccupied with the anxieties of this world and the quest for some type of status and security in life financially. But there are also people here with a soft heart that in years past, sometime past, have received the gospel. And they continue to receive the preaching of the word so that it bears spiritual fruit in their lives. Secondly, we should recognize that not everyone is ready to receive the gospel immediately. This does not mean that we should not try to share the gospel with everyone that we can, but we should not be surprised when most people reject it and say no, thank you. Or perhaps they don't even say no, thank you. They have a very hostile response to that. Jesus told us this is the way it would be. People would be resistant to the truth. And so we need to realize that when we go out and evangelize, that we will encounter people with hard hearts and with shallow hearts and with preoccupied hearts. And so it may be that we need to spend more time praying for them for God to change their heart, or we may need to engage them in a Bible study where they're exposed to God's truth, and gradually over time they may be changed. Thirdly, we should recognize that not everyone who makes a profession of faith has been born again. Often because of our sincere and earnest desire to see people saved, we make this mistake. Someone prays a prayer to receive Christ, and we instantly tell them, you are a Christian now, you are saved, you never need to worry about that again. You're never going to go to hell. No matter what you do in the rest of your life, someday you will be with me in heaven. Because you said this prayer, or you walked this aisle, you're good to go. But you can't see that person's hearts. You may they may have had this false response like the person with a shallow heart, or they may have a heart that is actually heart, a heart that's preoccupied, that has infested with weeds. You can't see their hearts. And I would say to you here who maybe suspect that you are unconverted Perhaps if I've been preaching tonight and this morning and I've talked about the hard heart or the shallow heart or the preoccupied heart, you said to yourself, that's me. That's the way I am. That's the way I think. That's the way I respond to the gospel. What should you do? It mentioned three things. Number one, expose yourself continually to the Word of God. Read your Bible, study your Bible, meditate on Scripture. The Bible says in James 1. 21, receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. Secondly, listen to the preaching of the word as if your life depends on it. Perhaps you would say this morning, I don't have much faith, kind of skeptical. Romans 10, 17 says, Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Listen to the preaching of the word again and again. Come faithfully to church. Come every time the doors are open. Because God uses the agency of his word to change hard hearts so that they are soft hearts to receive the gospel. And thirdly, I would say pray earnestly for God to change your heart. You can't change your heart. It's true, but God can. Says in Proverbs 21, 1, the king's heart is in the hand of the Lord as the rivers of water. He turneth it whithersoever he will. And if the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord, So is your heart. And so you need to pray earnestly, O Lord, break up my hard heart. Give me understanding to my ignorant, shallow heart. Pull the weeds out of my heart. They're choking any truth that I receive. Because God says in His Word that He can give you a new heart. A heart that will receive the gospel and bring forth fruit that will bring everlasting life. God Has the truth in his word, and we need to respond to it in faith. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you so much. For your word. We thank you that the word of God is that seed that is implanted in our hearts, that brings forth life. I pray that you would help those here this morning who are yet lost in their sins. To carefully consider their hearts and who they are, because this passage reveals that how we respond to the word reveals who we are. And I pray, Father, that you would bring sinners to the Savior, and that this message, this truth, would bear fruit in days to come. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen.