Well would you join me tonight in Romans chapter fifteen? Turn your Bibles tonight to Romans chapter fifteen. Once you are there, we'll quiet our hearts and go to the Lord in a word of prayer. Romans and the fifteenth chapter. Let's pray Father, we come to you tonight in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. Father, we pray that you would receive our worship tonight through him. We thank you that from the mouth of babes you have ordained praise. And we could testify of that tonight. And Lord, we pray now, Father, as we open up your word, that you would meet with us. by your Spirit that you would grant us illumination. And we pray, Father, that you would lift up before our eyes. Our Lord and our Savior crucified for us. Lord, we thank you for the cross. And Lord, In my own heart, and I know in each of our hearts tonight, we need to see afresh the cross. We need to gaze again. Upon that that those pierced hands and that brow that bore that those thorns, that crown of thorns. And Lord, we need to see again your love and your power demonstrated there on that cross and taking all our sin. in bearing our shame and our guilt. And Lord, we need again to be renewed in um the truth of your word and how we as believers now live out that same love, that same selflessness that Christ demonstrated for us on the cross. Lord, we We need your wisdom in living cross-centered, gospel -centered lives that in our words and our actions, our thoughts, Testify of our Lord and our Savior. And Lord, we for some, I'm sure, need healing tonight. We need encouragement. We need instruction. And we need to be renewed in the knowledge of the Lord. So I pray that you would do that through this time now. Please meet with us, Father, we ask. In the name of the Lord Jesus we pray. Amen. I'm going to return tonight to our study in Romans 14 through 15. I have not had the opportunity to continue this series due to a very busy Sunday evening schedule. We've had our Great Commission Conference. We've had missionary presentations, Easter, a youth-led service, Lord's Table, Fifth Sunday Fellowship. So it's been a very busy spring. But tonight we will embark on the sixth sermon in this series that we've entitled Welcome One Another. How to experience gospel unity with brethren who differ on matters of conscience This past week I read about issues that have caused division and fallout among churches in America. Those causes ranged from moral failure to financial scandal. However, some causes for church splits were, as I found, embarrassingly trite. For instance, in a 2015 Twitter survey, that sought to identify causes for church divisions, I found that many of the causes were absurdly trivial, while some I found to be All too believable. For instance, some church members, I heard, left the church because one church member hid the vacuum cleaner from them. And it resulted in a major fight and consequential split. There was a disagreement over using the term pot luck in contrast to pot blessing. Just analyze that theologically. An argument over whether the fake dusty plants should be removed from the podium. There was a fight over whether or not the church building or the the church should purchase property for a playground or use that property for a cemetery. There was another church argument and con and an eventual vote to decide if a clock in the worship center should be removed. And then I also read of a big church argument over the discovery that the church budget was ten cents off. And after a heated exchange during a business meeting, someone finally gave a dime to settle the issue. Now, in contrast to many of these scenarios, the cause of division in the Church of Rome was neither trite nor trivial. As you may recall, Gentile Christians, most likely those whom Paul identifies as the strong, took the position that in Christ they had the liberty to eat meat without any regard to for Jewish festivals or holy days. Their conscience was free because they had an understanding of the implications of the gospel in regard to the ceremonial law. On the other hand, Jewish believers, most likely those whom Paul identifies as the weak in faith, took offense at their Gentile brethren. Coming from a Jewish background, the consciences of these Jewish Christians were shaped by the restrictions of the ceremonial law. with all of its dietary prohibitations and observances, though their faith was in Christ alone. They felt that by eating certain meats and disregarding certain days like their Gentile brothers, they would be sinning against the Lord. And consequently, the strong were inclined to disregard the weak, and the weak were inclined to cast judgment on the strong. And though, as you well know, we are separated by a great span of time and culture, nevertheless, the same general paradigm exists at Calvary There is in our church a range of conscience standards and opinions represented here. We all believe the gospel. We all want to be careful to do God's will and to please Him. And yet we do not share the same convictions with regard to what we call second-level or tertiary issues. our upbringing, the amount of time we had been a Christian, the age at which we became a Christian. Our understanding of Scripture, our culture, and I would argue even our personality all share and help to shape our conscience. So we're driving at this question tonight. How does God desire us to live in community with one another? when such a dynamic like this exists in the body of Christ. Well, Paul's counsel to the Roman Christians is equally relevant for us. My big idea, or you could say the major truth or the thesis statement for tonight is this. As God's people, we must prioritize the spiritual good of our brethren. Above our own personal preferences, so that the church may move forward united, giving praise and glory to God So would you read with me? We're going to begin in chapter 15 and verse 1. Paul says this. We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up. For Christ did not please himself. But as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me. For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction. That through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope. May the God of endurance and encouragement grant to you or grant you to live in such harmony with one another in accord with Jesus Christ, that together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. This passage is the climax of Paul's counsel to the strong and the weak. Having zoomed in to work through specific issues in chapter 14, specifically the abstaining from meat and the observance of certain days. Paul now in his conclusion zooms out to demonstrate how his counsel in 14 is directly connected to the grand work of redemption in the cross. of Christ. So he's zooming in in 14. Now in 15, he's going to zoom out and he's showing you how all this instruction, all these principles that he's laid out connect to the overarching principle of God 's redemptive work in the cross of Christ. I have implicitly demonstrated before by the order of the context of Romans that everything he says in 14 is an outflow of the application of the gospel laid out in chapters 1 through 12. But now in our passage tonight, Paul is going to make explicitly clear that the principles and attitudes which he calls for among the Romans flow directly from the heart of Christ crucified. He's going to prove it to you from the text of the Old Testament. You will see the relationship between the gospel and Christian deference more clearly in our passage tonight, I think, than in any other passage. And this is why we have subtitled this series, How to Experience Gospel Unity. with brethren who differ on matters of conscience, because it is the instruction here that is grounded in the gospel So let's begin with the exposition of this passage in verses 1 through 2. Let's consider verses 1 through 2. It says, We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up. These two verses summarize Paul's instruction in the previous paragraph, which begins in 14 verse 13. and runs to verse 23. We covered that in our last message. There Paul instructs the strong to regard the weak He continues to address the strong here, branching or or um bridging the chapter gap And you notice that he includes himself among the strong. He says, we who are strong. Paul is saying, in essence, those who consider themselves strong in conscience are actually obligated to use their strength to willingly and lovingly assume for themselves the burden of the weak. or the failings of the weak. You notice the term here in verse 1. Look down at your Bible. It says bear. This word does not mean to merely put up with, as you would maybe put up with someone who annoys you. Paul uses the same verb in Galatians 6. 2 with a verse that you're very familiar with. It says this: bear, same verb, one another's burdens, and so fulfill one The law of Christ. It is speaking of a deep sacrificial love for other persons that enters into and bears with their weakness. You could state it negatively as Paul does, the strong are not to please themselves. Now notice with me there are three occurrences of the word please in verses one through three. uh stating this multiple times. Look at verse 1. It says, we, that is the strong, are not to please ourselves. Now look at verse 2. Let each of us Please his neighbor. And verse three, for Christ did not please himself. Paul is saying in no uncertain terms, a Christian is to live in such a way that he prioritizes his brother's spiritual good above his own preferences. He is to be a brother pleaser. Now, if you are thinking carefully, which I hope you are, and I believe that you are , An objective might come to your mind on this point. Does not the scripture say that we are to please God rather than man? Yes, of course. In fact, does not Paul say in Galatians 1:10, For am I now seeking the approval of man or of God? Or am I seeking to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be the servant of Christ. Does Paul contradict himself then, here where he calls us to please our brother? And I would argue absolutely not. He does not contradict himself. In verses 1 through 2, Paul is not commanding us, catch this, to please our brother in contrast to pleasing God. He's calling us to please our brother in contrast to pleasing ourselves. And that is the distinction. He calls us to this same humble mindset that we find in another very familiar passage, Philippians chapter 2. Where Paul says, do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility of mind count others more significant than yourself. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also on the interests of others. He's being consistent. Now, what might it look like for our church family to seek to please one another and to build each other up in this way that Paul is calling us to do. Rather than in contrast to flaunting our viewpoints or our preferences and arguing for our opinions on tertiary matters. Well, I want to suggest some ways to flesh this out and make this practical for us. So let's begin with the men. Some of you men have doctrinal disagreements among yourselves. You differ on doctrinal positions, not major positions. That's why we're calling these tertiary issues or secondary issues. We're not talking about matters of uh the the Trinity or uh the doctrine of justification. Okay, not matters that are essential to the fundamental orthodox position of the Christian faith. But some of you men may take a more Calvinistic position in your view of salvation. Others of you may not. Well, instead of trying to win the argument and prove you are right, what if instead you patiently sought out a meaningful friendship with that brother, bore with and was patient with those differences, so that you could be a source of encouragement and actually strengthen that brother's faith. Parents, have you ever been tempted to tell your child to not become friends with a family or another teen in our church? Because they don't have the same standards as you. We're not talking about someone who isn't a Christian, but someone who just doesn't share the same family culture and standards as you do. Well, what if instead of removing yourself from them, you invited them over to your house? You got to know them. And you demonstrated to your children and your family that your rules and your standards are not the condition for fellowship, but the gospel is. Teens, let's talk about dress. Okay, this is something that as a teenager you're very consumed with. Even as a guy, I have to confess that when I was a teenager, I spent far too much time looking in the mirror. Um and and now at 35 I probably don't spend enough time. I walk out the door and then I see myself on live stream and I've got like this burr in the back of my head, my hair sticking up, and I'm thinking Nathan, you should have looked at the mirror before you got up to lead the congregation in song, right? Well, let's let's take this area of our lives, teens. And I'm speaking here to teen girls as well as to teen guys. What if you were more concerned about the influence that you had on your peers? And especially your peers who maybe have stricter standards or a stricter conscience than you do. And you begin to reason this way, though I may feel the liberty to wear this. Will this help my brother or sister? Will this encourage them in what their parents want them to do? This is a radical kind of thinking. This is a gospel-shaped care for our brother and sister. that is radically different than the count and counter-cultural to the current obsession with self-expression. That's what our culture is all about. It's all about expressing yourself. And it's all about basically highlighting you And what we're talking about here is actually this mindset that esteems my peers and my brothers and sisters more significantly. than myself so that I actually make adjustments with my freedoms and my choices to help my brother and sister. And build them up and encourage them. Church family, over the next two years, we will be formulating and launching a church plant. There are countless decisions yet to be made, and we will have countless opportunities to disagree with one another. What if instead of arguing for our personal preferences and our opinions, we seek the unity and the good of this assembly and the assembly to come? That God desires for us so that He would be praised and He would be glorified This is how Paul calls us to live in verses 1 through 2. As God's people, we must prioritize the spiritual good of our brethren. and our church above our own personal preferences. But Paul does not leave his line of reasoning there. If you've read Paul, you know that he is a thinker, and he's always drilling down in his logic to the very heart of the issue. So we must ask this question, why are we to live this way? Why are we to live this way? Well, he's going to answer that in verses 3 through 4. Look with me. At verses 3 through 4, God has given us no greater motive and pattern for selfless living than Christ Himself. In Christ's death, God has provided both the motive and the pattern for the church to rightly relate to one another. Verse 3 says this, for Christ did not please himself. But as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me. Beginning with the word four in verse 3, Paul grounds his exhortation in verses 1 through 1 and 2 in the example That Christ has given in his death. Christ's life and specifically his crucifixion for us is the ultimate example of not living for self. But living for the glory of God and the good of others. Verse 3 is a quotation From Psalm 69, verse 9. This is a psalm quoted or alluded to nine other times in the New Testament in connection with the Passion of Christ. And Paul cites these words as if spoken from the lips of our Lord. Look at verse 3 with me. It says, the reproaches of those who reproached you. fell on me. The you here is referring to God the Father. And the me is referring to who? You can say, who's the me referring to? It's referring to Christ. That's correct. To reproach here means to revile or to defame. It is full of anger and hate. In essence, Christ is saying to the Father, the hatred and hostility that man had towards you, they directed towards me. When in the life of Christ did men reproach our Lord? Well, there were multiple times, weren't there? I think of John 8. Christ identifies the spiritual origin of the Jew, the Jewish leaders. They were of their father, the devil. Well, they didn't like to hear that. And upon revealing himself as the I Am, who was the eternal existent one before Abraham, they picked up stones to stone him. In John 10, after Christ states, I and the Father are one, it says the Jews picked up stones to stone him, and Jesus answered them, I have shown you many good works from the Father. For which of them are you going to stone me? Providentially, Christ's life was not taken as pastor Brought out this morning until God's perfect appointed time. But nevertheless, it was in the heart of men throughout the ministry of our Lord. These are just two instances. But the event in Christ's life that Paul is referring to is almost certainly the crucifixion. And there is actually grammatical grounds for this conclusion. The verb translated reproach here is used twice In the scene of Golgotha in two different Gospels. While Christ was raised upon the cross, A crown of thorns upon his head with nails, piercing hands and feet, Mark records the chief priest with the scribes mocked him to one another, saying, He saved others. He cannot save himself. Let Christ, the King of Israel, come down from the cross that we may see and believe. That's one occurrence. Matthew then records the robbers who were crucified with him, they also reviled, there's our verb again, him in the same way. You see, the cross was not just Christ bearing the wrath of God towards sinners, though it was that. I really want us to see tonight. The cross in this light. The cross was Christ bearing the hostility of sinners towards God. Do you see it was both? It was certainly Christ bearing the wrath of God towards sinners, towards fallen man. But in Christ's death, he was also bearing the hostility of man, of sinners against their God. And that is the point that Paul makes by quoting Psalm 69. So now we must ask this question. How does Christ's example here instruct the strong in the Church of Rome? How does Paul apply the cross to the situation in Romans 15? Well, I want to offer four possibilities, four interpretations. First, it has been suggested that Christ is an example of enduring suffering in service to God, and that is true. Second, it is also suggested that the crucifixion of Christ is the supreme example of selflessness that Paul is calling for. Christ did not please himself, and he prayed, we know, not my will, but thine be done. So this is an example of the selflessness that Paul is calling for. Third, it suggested that it could be the Gentile, or excuse me, that the Gentile Christians may have been subject to persecution by association with Jewish brethren. And so Paul is essentially calling them to the one who was most greatly persecuted for righteousness' sake by evil men, and that was, of course, our Lord upon the cross. These are all true. None of these, I would say, are wrong. However, I think there is another point to consider that I want to submit to you tonight. I think there is an implied line of reasoning here that, though not explicitly stated, argues from the greater to the lesser. And of course, if you're familiar reading Paul's epistles, we know that that is a common argument that he employs. He often argues from the greater to the lesser. And I think that is implied here. So what I'm getting at, in case I've I've lost anyone here, is I'm asking this question, what is the significance Of quoting Psalm 69 and showing us how Christ bore the reproach of wicked men towards God. What does that have to do? with us living in a way that seeks to please not ourself but our brethren. We're trying to connect the logical dot. Okay? And I will submit this to you. Christ selflessly died on the cross bearing the hostility of wicked men for God's sake. Since Christ did that, should not we, as those united with him, be willing to bear not the hostility of wicked men? But the weaknesses of our brethren for the Lord's sake Did you follow? Since Christ was willing to set aside himself. And bear the hostility of wicked men against the Lord Should not we, as those who have come to know the Lord, be willing to bear the weaknesses of not wicked men hostile against our Savior, but our own brethren. Do you see the connection there? Do you see how he's arguing from the greater to the lesser? When you have a difference of opinion with your brother, should not instead of arguing for your rights or flaunting your liberty, You should realize that it's not about you. Christ was not about himself. If he was, he would have never come to the cross Christ was about the glory of the Father and the salvation of the world. He set aside his own rights for our good Follow Christ's selfless example for the Lord's sake and for the spiritual good of your brother. Now we're going to move on to verse 4. And for the sake of time, we're not going to give extended attention to verse 4. Paul simply makes the point that the Old Testament was written to instruct the New Testament believers and to encourage their faith so that they would endure in hope. The theme of encouragement Endurance and hope in God come from the broader context of Psalm 69, where the psalmist is raised from a desperate cry of salvation to uh in verse one to a triumphant declaration of salvation in verse 35. This past week uh a young aspiring I heard of a young aspiring pastor who is not connected with our church Who is taking the position that the Old Testament should not be preached because it is not relevant for New Testament believers And I just want to make the observance here, I just want to observe that verse 4 is making the very opposite point. Paul is saying the Old Testament is relevant for New Testament believers. It encourages you. It builds up your faith. Especially as you see it culminating in the person and work of Christ, as you hear from the pages of the Old Testament, the voice of your Savior, as Paul demonstrates in verse 3. So we must move on though from verse 4. We've considered verses 1 through 2. We have seen there that God calls us as his people to prioritize the spiritual good of our brethren above our own personal preferences. In verses 3 through 4, we've seen that our motive and our example for such an attitude is found in the cross of Christ. And now in verses 5 through 7, we're going to see that the ultimate goal or aim of Paul's instruction Here reaches all the way back to chapter 14 and verse 1. So follow me here now in point number 2. We only have two points, two major points in our passage tonight. Point number two, following Christ's example enables the church to fulfill her ultimate purpose of glorifying God. Verse 5 reads, May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus That together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. Verses 5 through 6 are a prayer that Paul shares on behalf of the Roman Christians. And I want you to see that he does not move away. from the example of Christ. Look with me at verse 5. It says Paul's desire is that our behavior would be in accord with Christ Jesus. And then verse 7, therefore welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you. That is in the same manner, in the same way that Christ has welcomed you. So he doesn't move away from the cross as he progresses in his application. He keeps our eyes there as he presses home his next point. Verses five through six Excuse me, I lost a page in my notes. But I do number them in case this happens. It's the first time in five years that it's happened, but my page numbers came in handy, so we're back on track now. Here we go. Paul doesn't move away from Christ's example. He calls us to walk according to it, to put the good of our brethren before our own liberties and preferences. When we exhibit the mind of Christ, This is what will be the result. So he keeps our eye on the cross and then he presses on to this next point. I want you to notice verse 5 again. It says, it uses the word harmony. Do you see that in your ESV? And then look at verse 6. He uses the word together. And then another expression, one voice. How would you summarize the point he's making there with those three terms? Together, harmony, one voice? He's speaking of unity. Paul makes the point here that when each of us put on the mind of Christ, we experience a deeply profound abiding unity. in the church. Now I want to suggest the imagery here of a choir I like this illustration because it's going to draw on this term of harmony and it's going to draw on this concept of one voice. We just finished up a choir rehearsal about an hour ago. A choir is made up of many different kinds of voices. Each voice is unique. Each voice has a different range, some high and some low. And each voice has a different timbre, different levels of strength. Some stronger and some weaker. In order for a choir to be beautiful and effective, a choir must sound like one voice. This is an established fact in choral pedagogy. And though there are differing pitches and rhythms to be sung in harmony, they must all sound like one voice. Now we have some exercises in our choiring to achieve this, and maybe if you've come early on a Sunday night, you've seen us do some of these things. I often have the choir stand in a circle and face inward. And then I tell them to listen to each other. to actually do more listening than they do singing. And then to match their voice with the person beside them. They may not be singing the same note. but to blend their voice together. And then to match with their section and then with the choir as a whole. The stronger voice must not overpower the weaker voice, or it will ruin the sound. Each person must listen and adjust themselves so that there is a balanced blend. That means they must think as one unit, not just as an individual. So that they come together as one voice. When this is achieved, the sound, there's actually, I'm not going to go into this, but there's there's a scientific phenomenon that happens where the sound is actually organically amplified because something called formits are all lining up. And that's why you can have a very a very fine choir of only or ensemble of only 15 people and they sing with the volume of 50. Because they are blending together as one. And I believe what Paul is saying here is that as each of us Align ourselves with the example in the cross of Christ, the same kind of humility and selflessness that Christ demonstrated. And when we as God's people, those who are strong in our conscience, yield their liberty for the spiritual good of their weaker brother. And as we esteem one another more significantly than ourselves, we will be able to come together as one body In perfect harmony to offer up with one voice the praise of our great God of glory. And it enables us to move forward as a church to carry out his commission for us. And so Paul concludes, therefore, and this is the primary command, this is the central command of this passage, he bookends it with 14. 1 and 15. 7. Therefore, welcome one another. As Christ has welcomed you in the gospel for the glory of God. So our primary point tonight is this. As God's people, we must follow Christ's example and prioritize the spiritual good of our brethren above our own personal preferences. so that the church may move forward united giving praise and glory to God Now I am well aware of the time , but this is, I've decided, the last message of this series. This is our sixth message. I was going to do seven. But because of some scheduling things, I decided that we would conclude tonight with this. So what I'm going to do in the last few minutes is I'm going to go back and I'm going to read for you 18 principles. I'm not going to expound on them, so I don't have 18 points coming, but I'm going to read for you the 18 principles regarding this subject that we covered. From chapter 14, verse 1, up to this point. I know for some of you here, this may be the very first message that you're hearing on this subject. We've covered a lot of material up to this point. So I'm just going to highlight these principles so that you can recover them, and then I'll make a concluding, closing application. Okay. Point number one, or we're going to call it principle number one, as believers we must recognize that every New Testament church has believers with differing conscience convictions. Number two, we must fully embrace believers in our church with whom we disagree as Christ has embraced us in the gospel. We must not argue, divide, or judge one another on matters of conscience and opinion. Number four. We must recognize that though all scripture is divinely inspired and authoritative, not all of Scripture is of equal weight or priority. There are levels of importance in God's revelation. We must not despise or cast judgment on one or another brother in matters of conscience or opinion, because such an indictment against another believer usurps God's divine prerogative as judge. Similarly, we must not judge another believer in tertiary matters because God has welcomed him. We must be fully convinced in our own conscience when making choices on matters that Scripture does not expressly command or forbid. Principle number eight, we must make the honor of the Lord our primary goal when making choices on matters that Scripture does not expressly command or forbid. And Assume that our brother with whom we may disagree is also doing the same. Number nine, we must remember that we are individually accountable to the Lord for our decisions in matters of conscience. Number 10, we must not exercise our liberty in such a way that causes another believer to violate his or her conscience. We must never hold on to our liberty in Christ to the spiritual detriment of our brother and sister. We must value kingdom priorities above personal liberties. Number thirteen. We should never denounce Nor flaunt our liberty in Christ in matters of conscience. Number 14, we must always maintain a good conscience. We must prioritize the spiritual good of our brother above our own personal preferences. That was from tonight. We must look to the cross of Christ. As the pattern and motive for how we are to relate to one another. 17. By following Christ's example, the church will fulfill her ultimate purpose. of glorifying God. And the concluding and summarizing principle is this: believers must welcome one another as Christ has welcomed us. Each of these points we expounded on and gave greater explanation throughout this series, but I just gathered them all, as it were, in a basket tonight to grasp. So I'm going to conclude with Just a point two points of very brief application. We as a church are Are growing significantly numerically. And this is not something that we've contrived, this is what God is doing. People are being saved, people are being discipled and growing in our church. And this is a wonderful thing. We have, I think, pretty consistently over 400 people on a Sunday morning with the two services. And with that growth, there are going to be believers among us with whom we will not share the same Uh persuasion on every matter regarding the Christian life. The big things, yes, of course And for some people, maybe you're listening to me tonight and you're new, maybe you've only been here for a couple of months and you're thinking about joining the church and you're thinking, wow, there's some people here that are stricter than I am. Or maybe you've been here for a long time and it kind of scares you to see other people who maybe don't share some of the same standards that you do. This is counsel that we need to hear tonight. These are principles that we must grasp and we must relate to one another in view of the cross of Christ. Christ. God does not relate to us on the basis of of our standards ultimately. He relates to us on the basis of his son. And aren't we so glad for that? He welcomes us when we were when we were wretched and miserable And blind, and our hearts were hostile towards him. He died for us and he welcomed us to himself And that's the kind of heart that we need to have towards every person who enters our church and professes to know Christ and whom we take into our assembly as part of the body of Christ. We should not have levels of of favoritism. We should not have levels of um uh uh of of uh preference, we need to have an open heart towards the body of Christ equally. And my third, excuse me, my second and final application tonight is this. As we look forward as a church to seeing another church planted, as I mentioned before, there's going to be many, many decisions ahead. And there's going to be many opinions as to what should be done or what shouldn't be done. Whenever you have multiple decisions that that need to be made, there's o and and a a body of people surrounding those decisions. There's going to be different views. We need to take these principles and hide them in our heart, keep them fresh in our mind. Because I believe that they are going to enable us as a church to move forward unified. for the purpose of seeing the gospel proclaimed throughout this area and beyond. And we must keep the cross in view. We must keep the unity of the body in view. And this instruction, and I hope, you know, I was thinking tonight. Our church right now is pregnant. And I'm not talking about the, I think there was 13 ladies that were actually pregnant. I think that we're now down to 11. But but our our church within itself has a nucleus of a new church that is forming And when that church is eventually launched, there's going to be even more decisions to be made. And I hope that we as a body will remember Romans 14 and Romans 15. And the instruction that Paul has given to us, the counsel he's given to us to how to resolve and to work through our differences with love and with a spirit of unity. That keeps the cross in view and the glory of God as our aim. And it's through that that we will go forth with one voice. And give him great glory and see his gospel proclaimed. Let's not let Satan or our own selfish ambition trip us up in the years to come. May God bless you and may God bless this passage to our hearts. Let's pray. Father, thank you for these truths. I pray that you would use them. I pray that these principles would become part of our thinking And that we would live in light of them, Lord, we ask in Christ's name, Amen