Judges chapter 6 Over a century ago there was a legendary theologian named Augustus Hopkins Strong He taught at a seminary up in New England for many years. And one day he had a student come to him and ask him , He said, isn't there a way that I can graduate from seminary in a much shorter time than in the course load that you have prescribed for me? And Strong the President said, well, it depends on what you want to be. When God wants to make an oak, he takes a hundred years. But when he wants to make a squash, he takes six months. I love to read biographies, especially biographies of Christian leaders. And one of the most fascinating aspects for me to consider in these biographies is the way God develops people for ministry, the way he equips them to serve him. And what you will find is the Lord has more than one way of making a man or woman that he will use. However, you will often find that there are similar challenges that they face. And the similar tasks that they encounter that the Lord uses to prepare them to take greater steps of ministry. This evening, as we continue our study of the life of Gideon, I want to look at what could be considered a preliminary assignment. Let me remind you that Gideon was a very reluctant leader. Remember, we first encountered him earlier in this chapter. He is down in a threshing floor by a great vineyard hiding from the Midianites trying to eke out a living to provide for his family. The angel of the Lord appears to him. And commissions him to serve the Lord and to deliver his people. The Lord's promise to Gideon is that he would go with him and that he would be victorious. Gideon is still unsure of the identity of his guest until the fire comes down and consumes the sacrifice that Gideon had prepared for him. This event brings peace and courage to Gideon 's heart, and so he builds an altar and calls it Jehovah Shalom. The Lord is peace. But Gideon is still not quite yet to face the Midianites. And so the Lord gives him this preliminary assignment. That is essential in preparing him for greater service. I want to read the paragraph this evening that begins in Judges chapter 6 and verse 25. It says, and it came to pass the same night that the Lord said unto him, Take thy father's young bullock, even the second bullock of seven years old. and throw down the altar of veil that thy father hath, and cut down the grove that is by it, and build an altar unto the Lord thy God upon the top of this rock. in the ordered place, and take the second bullock and offer a burnt sacrifice with the wood of the grove which thou shalt cut down. Then Gideon took ten men of his servants and did as the Lord had said unto him, and so it was, because he feared his father's household, and the men of the city, that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night. And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold the altar of Baal was cast down, and the grove was cut down that was by it, and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that was built, and they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they inquired and asked, they said, Gideon, the son of Joash, hath done this thing. Then the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring out thy son, that he may die, because he hath cast down the altar of Baal. And because he hath cut down the grove that was by it, and Joash said unto all that stood against him, Will you plead for Baal? Will ye save him? He that will plead for him, let him be put to death whilst he is yet mourning. If he be a God, let him plead for himself, because one hath cast down his altar. Therefore on that day he called him Jerubbabel, saying, Let Baal plead against him because he hath thrown down his altar. I want us to look at how God develops spiritual leaders, and I want us to notice four things from this passage this evening. First of all, would you notice with me that the Lord requires us to be faithful? in smaller tasks before he gives us greater assignments to accomplish. I'm glad that there are a number of young people here this evening because I think this message is particularly helpful and useful and applicable to them. Look with me at verses 25 and 26. It says, It came to pass the same night the Lord said unto him, Take thy father's young bullock, even the second bullock of seven years old, and throw down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the grove that is by it. And build an altar unto the Lord thy God upon the top of this rock in the ordered place. And take the second bullock and offer burnt sacrifice with wood of the grove, which thou shalt cut down. You see here the Lord gives him two assignments. It's interesting. You'll notice verse 25 begins it saying, Came to pass the same night, that is, the same evening of the day when the angel of the Lord appeared to him. And he offered up that sacrifice that same day, now the evening of that day, we would say, he gives him this assignment to accomplish. First of all, Gideon must tear down the altar of Baal that his father had erected, and then he was to build an altar to God in its place. He would tear down the altar by harnessing the strength of a bull and pulling down the various idols He would also cut down the trees that were used to shade this pagan worship center. I want you to notice several things. Notice that both altars could not exist at the same time. He didn't say, now, you can just leave your father's altar there and the idols there. Just go a little ways over and build your altar to Jehovah. He had to tear down the one before he could build the other. Now, although this is a preliminary assignment, I'm sure that Gideon didn't think this was a small matter at all. This was far outside his comfort zone. But it was a small assignment compared to what God would ask him to do in a few days, when Gideon would face the vast armies of the Midianites and the Amalekites with just 300 men. I don't think Gideon could have handled that challenge without first obeying and seeing God work through this initial assignment. Make no mistake about it, Gideon needed the confidence that God was really with him and that God would use him and work through him. He needed to know in a tangible way that God could use a weak man like himself. We see here once more how patient the Lord is with us. The Lord didn't just tell Gideon to go and defeat the Midianites. He gave him promise, a manifestation of his glory, and now he gives them a task to build his own confidence. The fact is the Lord uses various events in our lives like steps on a staircase. That enable us to rise to the next step of usefulness for the Lord. And often these steps involve us pushing through a comfort zone that we have established for ourselves. What happens if we never take that next step? Then we won't take the step after that or the step after that. We will never be as useful as the Lord desires us to be. We see this principle that I brought out in a message about a month ago from Matthew chapter 25 where it says, Thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things. This is a timeless principle. That 's found throughout Scripture that faithful service will be rewarded by the Lord with more opportunities for faithful service. I firmly believe that every Christian can serve the Lord in some way, in some significant way. Whether you're a child or whether you're a senior citizen, every Christian can serve the Lord in some way. It may be behind the scenes. It may be unappreciated, but the Lord knows, the Lord sees, and the Lord will reward. The first step to becoming a servant leader is to be faithful with what God has already given to you. The resources, the time, the talents, the skills, the contacts, the Equipment, all of those things are things that God has gifted you with, and He wants you to use them in some way for His glory. I think of this man, Charles Kelman, probably someone you've never heard of before. He was a missionary over a hundred years ago to Asia. And he worked in a big office complex, and the Lord saved him in a glorious way. And what Charles Pellman did is he went in the first six months after his conversion, this is amazing to me, and he led 75 of his co-workers there in that office building, the Lord. He was so filled with the Spirit of God. And someone said, you know what? You should be a missionary. And he was an incredible missionary. But he proved his faithfulness at his job site before the Lord sent him overseas. The second point I want to bring to your attention is that the Lord requires us. to be leaders in our own households before we can be leaders of the people of God. One of the reasons that Gidding was given this preliminary assignment was to boost his confidence, but perhaps an even greater reason was to remove all idolatry from his own household. Joash, Gideon's father, was obviously a leader in this community. As such, he had erected an altar in this village at his own expense. Some scholars speculate that it may even have been a pagan priest. We can't say for sure. What we can say, as clearly revealed here, is that Gideon's family was heavily involved in pagan worship. It's not a coincidence that the first assignment that Gideon is given is to remove this idolatrous shrine, you might say, from his own backyards. Gideon's family was like a microcosm of the nation. Now I think there is some intended symbolism in verse 25. Did you notice that this bullock that is mentioned throughout this opening verses is mentioned to be seven years old. Now if you'll turn with me to the first verse of chapter 6, this is what we read. And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years. Most scholars believe that there is symbolic significance to that. This bullock that was destined for a sacrifice probably to these idols was symbolic of the idolatry of the people and its slaughter was symbolic of an end of that idolatry and that bondage. Gideon 's message to the nation was, kill your idols. But he couldn't very well say that if his own family was still known. for their idolatry. He would have no credibility, no moral authority. You see, the real problem in Israel was not the Midianites, as they often thought. It was idolatry which brought about God's judgment of the Midianites. Before Gideon could deliver the people from Midian, he had to deliver his own family from the grip of idolatry. This principle is found throughout Scripture. Abraham had to leave his homeland of Ur of the Chaldees. And later Aaron, before he could come into the promised land, he had to sever those ties, and the Bible is clear he could never return there. Both of these locations were permeated with idolatry. We read of a very similar situation in the life of Jacob. I'm going to read from Genesis chapter 35. This is the most interesting passage in his life. Genesis 35, verse 1. And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel and dwell there, and make there an altar unto God. that appeared unto thee when thou fledest from the face of Esau, thy brother. Then Jacob said unto his household and to all that were with him, put away the strange gods that are among you. And be clean and change your garments, and let us arise and go up to Bethel, and I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went. And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods that were in their hand, and all the earrings which were in their ears, and Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem. And they journeyed, and the terror of God was upon the cities that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob. So Jacob came to Luz which is in the land of Canaan, that is Bethel. He and all the people that were with them, and he built there an altar and called the place El Bethel, because there God appeared unto him when he fled from the face of his brother. This was a turning point in Jacob's life. In earlier chapters, he had experienced the judgment of God upon his family, and now God calls him to come back to himself, to come back to Bethel. And of course, we see them getting rid of their idols. Moses, the lawgiver, was called to circumcise his son before he came to deliver God's people. The point here, the principle here is that God requires spiritual leaders to lead at home before they can lead outside the home. This is why we read of family qualifications for pastors and deacons. Sometimes people view these requirements as being unfair or rather strict. The fact of the matter is, it is not God's intent that these be a select few people who follow these. It's God's intent that every family in the church Would be a model because somebody is following everybody. And the fact of the matter is these are not exceptional qualifications, which should be true. for the vast majority of people. There are two reasons for these request requirements given in Scripture. One is a testimony to the world. Have you ever noticed that people in the world are very quick to point out hypocrisy in the church? Oh yeah, I know those church people. Let me tell you about their family. I live next door to one, and there's always yelling and shouting and things being thrown over there. I know what those Christian families are like And they love to say these people really know better than we are. Their homes and their marriages are just as dysfunctional as our own. And second reason is that spiritual leaders should be a model to other believers. People learn a great deal just by observation. just by watching the lives of others and how they respond and how they react and how they talk to others and how they deal with situations So the fact of the matter is that spiritual leaders must lead at home before they lead others. The third thing I want you to notice in this passage is that the Lord requires us to trust and obey him despite Look with me at verse 27. Then Gideon took ten men of his servants and did as the Lord had said unto him. And so it was, because he feared his father's household. and the men of the city that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night. This may have been a preliminary assignment. But it was not an easy task. There were two facts that made this task very difficult. Number one, it involved his own family. It says here that he feared his father's household. Who wants contention at home? Who wants to anger the people that you love the most? This is often why Christians find it more difficult to witness the family members than the complete strangers. But notice that Gideon obeys despite his fears. There's another thing that made this a difficult task, and that is that this task involved the removal of idols. Idolatry Is by definition a matter of the hearts. It's very personal. When you start pulling down and destroying people's gods, they get very upset. Whether that be a stone idol or Or something a little more sophisticated that is within a person's hearts. When Gideon pulled down those idols of Baal and Ashterah, he outraged the people of his village. They wanted to kill him. Why? Because idolatry, listen to this, gave them a sense of security that they were in some way in control. All false religion shares this concept that man can somehow manipulate his gods so that they will be favorable to them And they will protect them and provide for them. In the ancient world, there were very few safety nets. Security and life was dependent on many variables. The ability to have a large family, to have good crops, to have clean water, to have large herds. And the ancient superstitious people believed that the gods controlled all of these factors. And so what they desperately needed to do was somehow control the gods. If they could get the gods working for them instead of against them, then their lives would be secure, they would be prosperous, they would have a sense of peace in their lives. And so that is how idolatry gained such a grip on their hearts. The idolatry in Israel is a classic example of syncretism. Syncretism. I think if you were to go to the people in Gideon's village and you were to conduct a survey and you were to ask them, what is the name of your God? Do you know what I think they would say? I think they would say Jehovah. We're Israelites. We worship the one true God, Jehovah. But they were attracted to the gods of the pagan peoples that surrounded them. They looked at these people, they observed their lives, they seemed to be living good lives, they had large herds and bountiful crops. They have powerful empires and massive armies and iron chariots. They had palaces for their kings. They were much more advanced, the peoples that surrounded them, than they were on this little strip of land. And so they reasoned in their minds, you know, yeah, yeah, we might have the God Jehovah, but you know what? Their gods seem to be doing pretty well for them. So so why can't we have the best of both worlds? Why can't we go through some motions and show our allegiance to Jehovah, our patriotic God, if you will? But why can't we also do certain things that would gain us favor with these other gods, which, to be frank, seem to be more powerful than our God? Because look at their empires, look at their cities, look at their vast uh establishments, and so maybe we can have the best of both worlds. They wanted the blessings of God. And the pleasures of sin. But God has never allowed this and he never will. People, of course, still feel this way today. They think this way. I really want to live life on my own terms, but I also want to have the blessings of God. The scripture teaches from cover to cover it doesn't work that way. Unless, of course, you give your heart to God. And you're fully yielded to him and what you want and what you desire and what you're striving for is exactly what God wants for you. Then of course that will work out very well. Now I say all this to make this point. Gideon had good reason to be fearful. He was going up against family and society. I don't think that we should look at Gideon as like the world's biggest coward because he did this at night. The fact of the matter is, most scholars believe that if he tried this during the day, as you notice the response that you see in this passage, he wouldn't have completed the task. If people saw him in daylight hours tearing down these idols, cutting down their sacred trees, they would go out and they would kill the man on the spot. Because he was endangering what they considered to be their way of life, because they believed that by manipulating these gods, they were having some prosperity and at least surviving. So I don't think that we should say, oh, what a coward. Look, he did this at night. He really couldn't have done it at any other time. Having said that, I think doing it at night was a very fearful thing to do. This was a small village. It made a lot of noise. There would have been commotion I think that he responded with obedience, but that he was fearful. I suspect that his hands were trembling when he cut down those sacred trees, but he did it. I like what commentator Dale Ralph Davis says. He says, obedience was essential and heroism optional. Sometimes the best that we can do is to obey with trembling Sometimes obeying the Lord and taking the next step that he has for us will be very uncomfortable for us and very difficult and we will feel unsure about ourselves. And our hands might be shaking, our voice might be quivering, but we need to take that step of obedience if indeed that is what God wants us to do. We must never allow our fear to keep us from obeying God. People have asked me many times before, when does fear become sinful? And my answer is this, when it keeps you from doing God's will for your life, when that is the case, then it is sinful fear. People often respond in fear. They see things like, I just can't do this. Well, God says you can by his grace. If that is his will, you can do this People often have said to me, I know God wants me to do this, but Pastor, I just can't do this. I don't have the ability. You know, some people are comfortable doing things like this, but I can't. That is not true. If it's God's will for you to do it, you can do it by His grace. When we respond this way, when we allow walls of fear to keep us from advancing and doing what God's will for our life is, we forfeit his blessings. We sing this hymn, trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. How does God develop spiritual leaders? Well, he requires us to be faithful and smaller tasks before he gives us larger tasks. He requires us to be leaders at home. He requires that we trust and obey despite our fears. And fourthly, the Lord will often encourage us by allowing us to see the impact that we have had on others. Look with me at 28 through 32, we have the consequences of his obedience and the surprising response of his father. When the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was cast down, and the grove was cut down that was by it, and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that was built. And they said one to another, Who hath done this? And when they inquired and asked, they said, Gideon, the son of Joash hath done this thing And the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring out thy son, that he may die, because he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and because he hath cut down the grove that was by it. And Joash said unto all that stood against him, Will you plead for Baal? Will he save him? He that will plead for him, let him put to death whilst it is yet mourning. If he be a God, let him plead for himself, because one hath cast down his altar. Therefore on that day he called him Jirabbable, saying, Let Baal plead against him because he hath thrown down this altar. Notice, by the way, it says the men of the city arose early in the morning. They were willing to get up early for their false worship. And when they went to the grove that morning, they faced a shocking surprise. All that they held sacred was broken down and destroyed. Now how do they conclude that Gideon had done this deed? Perhaps someone saw him in the night? Or maybe one of his servants was pressured into telling on his master. Or perhaps, as many scholars conjecture, Gideon was an outspoken opponent of idolatry in their community. He had the reputation for condemning these pagan practices, and so when the people saw this the shrine in ruins, they instantly thought of Gideon. These idolaters demand his death, which is ironic, because that is what the law prescribed for those who were idolaters. They go to Joash. They lived in a patriarchal society. And although Gideon was, we would say, an adult man, yet they still, and they're societal structure, he was still under the authority of his father. Joash is obviously a shrewd man He knew how to quell this mob and defend his son. He says, will you plead for bail? The language that he uses Speaks of a controversy in a court of law that he says in essence, are you his defense attorney? Are you Bale 's defense attorney? Is Baal so impotent that you have to defend him? This line of questioning, of course, puts them on the defensive. These people were very superstitious, and they would have assumed that anyone who desecrated an idol would indeed be cursed. Some horrible event would occur because of their actions. And so Joash exploits the superstition and essentially says, Let's see what Baal will do to my son Gideon. Now many commentators think that Joash is doing more than just defending his son here. And I agree. I suspect strongly that his son 's actions remind him of a faith that he once possessed. He was brought up in a time when there was more following of Jehovah and his ways. Perhaps he was taught About Abraham and about Moses. He was taught about the fact that Israel was distinctive, was different from the nations that surrounded them, that idolatry was wrong. But as Israel began to implode morally and every man did that which was right in his own eyes, it became more common and more acceptable. And this man, at least, who at one time was very wealthy, built this shrine for the village. It marked him out as a leader, as a prominent man. But now as his own son, his own flesh and blood, stands up and defends the faith of his fathers. I think that Joash's heart is smitten with conviction. My son is doing what is right. I'm sure there are at least some parents here that at some time or another have felt conviction because of the example of your child 's. Maybe they were being faithful in some area that you were not being faithful. Maybe you saw them in prayer and in Bible reading and in and in Bible memorization. You see their eagerness to go to church And they possess something that you once had, but you don't have now. And their own example has refreshed your own spirit and stirred you up. And you say, yes, that is right. That's what I need to do. And I think that's what is happening here to Joash. He even gives Gideon a new name. Let Baal contend with him. If Baal is so powerful, if he is the Lord, which is what the word Baal means. If he is the one who controls the weather and the destinies of men and women, let him handle his own business. And I think that this was a great encouragement to Gideon. If God could use his obedience To even touch the heart of his father, who was a leader in the community in this matter of idolatry. If God could even use his feeble efforts His obedience to touch his father's hearts, then God could do anything with him What a wonderful blessing it is to see the lives of others touched by your influence. Have you ever seen that? It's one of the great rewards of serving the Lord. When Spurgeon was a pastor at this little village called Water Beach , He writes about his first convert. He was pastoring when he was 17 years old. And he speaks of this common woman there, very uneducated, but who was converted under his preaching. And he talks about the incredible joy that he felt that God used his words. His feeble words to bring life to this woman I don't like to get very personal, but I had a good week this week. I went down to a Bible conference where I went to school and got to see a number of our kids and One of the young men that I got to spend some time with was someone that many of you do not know, but some of you do. His name is Rob Lough. And he is uh he came to this church uh many years ago as a friend of some young people in this church who had invited him here. He lived and grew up in the Damascus area. He came to our church while he was all when he was home, when he was attending uh college in Shepherdstown. And Pastor Aaron worked with him more than I did, but we both ministered to him and prayed with him and counseled him many, many times. And we could see that God was at work in his life, and we were so delighted when he said that he felt that God had called him to preach and he was going to go to seminary. I mean it it was it was incredible and then he went and he's been there and now he is getting ready to graduate here in May. I went to a service with him and spent some time talking to him afterwards and He mentioned to me how that the church that he's been attending there in Greenville, that they have asked him to come on staff and he's going to be an associate pastor there. And it's great to see how the Lord has worked in his life. And he is so delighted and excited about getting into the work And he said to me, thank you for the impact that you have had on my life. I wouldn't be at this place today if it wasn't for your impact. That's a wonderful thing. It's a wonderful thing to know that you have been used of the Lord to guide and direct people in the path that they should go, in the destiny that God has for them. What a wonderful, encouraging thing that is. And I think that this was an encouraging situation. For Gideon. And it's my hope that all of us in some way can look for ways to impact and influence those around us, whether it be our children. Whether it be people in our Sunday school class, whether it be friends that we have at church or outside the church, but that we be faithful and being a witness for Christ and being leaders for Christ. And boldly doing what God has called us to do, because it does have an impact on others, sometimes in very unexpected ways. Let's close in prayer tonight. Father. We thank you that you take weak, fearful, flawed people like us And you use us to accomplish your will. We thank you, Father, that you give us tests and assignments. And you lead us up the staircase of responsibility, that we might be better prepared to take the next step. I pray that you would help us all here to be faithful. In serving you and in moving beyond our comfort zones to do those things that perhaps we've never done before that terrify us, but yet, Father, are the path of blessing. I pray, Father, for the young people that are here tonight. So many of them, Father, are gifted and talented, and we would assume that they have their whole lives before them. I pray That you would call out men and women to your service. And you would use them, Father, to advance the gospel when we are long off the scene. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen