Your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Genesis chapter 42? Genesis chapter 42. One of the most common genres of entertainment that we have today are shows that involve crime, detectives, who done it mysteries. And so all of us have seen countless times where detectives or police officers bring people into an interrogation room and question them and Almost always to begin with, they deny having committed the crime. They deny everything. And sometimes you will see that they will leave the accused alone in the interrogation room for a period of time. And then come back later to question them. And they do that. I'm told sometimes give them a chance to think, to consider their actions And to give their conscience an opportunity to work. We see something of this in the life of Joseph today as he questions his brothers. and seeks evidence that God is at work in their lives. The human conscience is an amazing thing. It is one of the clearest evidences that we have been made in the image of God. The Puritans called it God's spy in the soul. The conscience is one of the tools that God uses to bring us to repentance. Leo Tolstoy said the antagonism between life and conscience may be removed in two ways: by a change of life or by a change of conscience. As we return to our study of the life of Joseph, we come now to God's work in the life of his brother. So far, we have been looking at God's work in Joseph's life in these early chapters. And you may have thought that that had come to an end when he reached that pinnacle of success there in Egypt. But God was not just at work in Joseph's life. God also had a plan for his brothers and his father. And so the the focus of the narrator goes back to Canaan and back. to God's work in their lives. Genesis 42 begins a section of Joseph's story that's marked by three journeys to Egypt. We have First of all, the journey by the ten guilty brothers to buy grain, and then the return of the brothers, minus Simeon, who is kept, of course, in Egypt, but also with the addition of Benjamin. And then finally, we have the move of Jacob and his entire family into Egypt. And these three journeys represent three steps of reconciliation within this dysfunctional family. But before there could be a tearful reunion, there had to be a heartfelt repentance. God's dealing with these sinful brothers reveals to us God's work. in the lives of people still today. And so I'm going to preach to you from Genesis 42 on how the Lord brings sinners to repentance. Would you notice with me, first of all, that the Lord often uses a crisis in our lives to bring us to repentance? Look at the first two verses of this chapter. Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto his sons, Why look ye one upon another? And he said, Behold, I have heard that there is corn in Egypt. get you down thither and buy for us from thence that we may live and not die The writer Moses turns the attention of the reader back to Canaan, the same family that was afflicting Egypt. is also afflicting the land of Canaan. This was a regional change in the weather. This must have been truly a severe drought because even a wealthy man like Jacob, who had more resources than the average person, has come to the end of his tether and he needs help. He needs a way to procure food for his large family. He has probably heard from traveling merchants that there is food in Egypt, that they have vast quantities of grain That is his only hope of survival. Notice at the end of verse 2 that this was indeed a matter of life and death. Jacob says, Buy for us that we may live and not. This was not a matter of convenience or getting it at a good price. This was a matter of life or death. We see here a family in crisis. When a family goes through a crisis, it usually either brings that family together or it pulls them apart. In this case, the family is going to be pulled apart before it is brought together. There's a very telling exchange in verse 1. Jacob says to his sons, Why do you look upon another? The point here is that Jacob cannot understand why his friend are so reluctant to go and purchase food supplies in Egypt. They have no other options. There is no other place for them to find food for their family. So why are they so slow to admit the obvious? The answer, which the reader knows, is because they have no desire to return to Egypt. To go back to Egypt, to go down into Egypt would be to remind them of what they had done to their younger brother some 20 years earlier. It would bring back bad memories. And they wanted nothing to do with that. But God here is going to wall them in so that they have no other option. But as it were, to go back to the scene of the crime and to come face to face with the enormity of their guilt. The fact is that sinful humanity has always tried to find a way to cover sin. This was true of Adam and Eve in the garden. This was true of Achan, who buried his treasure in the floor of his tent. This was true even with a godly man like King David, who attempted to cover his adultery with murder. This is what fallen man has always done. The Bible says, be sure your sin will find you out, and whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. You cannot hide your sin from the holy gaze of God. It's a manifestation of a lack of a fear of the Lord today that so many people think they can. They think they can cover their sin. They think they can quiet their conscience. They think they can obstruct the view of God and that no one knows and no one will and they will never ever be found out. But the reality is that God does know and you will stand accountable to Him for your sin someday. God often uses bad things in our lives to accomplish good purposes. And here the Lord graciously sends a famine. To awaken the conscience of these brothers, to bring them to the reality of their sin. He does not let them get away with their sin. We often think that it would be a merciful thing if God would just turn a blind eye to our sin. But the most merciful thing that God can do is to awaken our conscience and make us face the guilt that we fear they we feel within. That is a merciful thing It was a famine that would bring these sinful brothers back to God. Because God often removes our crutches of self-sufficiency so that we desperately come to Him. He still does that today. He removes relationships. He removes financial resources. He removes the crutch of good health. He removes all these things that we trust in that we think that we can rely on, that we don't have to go to God. And he knocks out these props so that we fall flat on our face. And we come to face our sin. Secondly, I want you to notice that the Lord providentially Exposes our sin to bring us to repentance. Look with me now at verses three and following. It says, And Joseph's ten brothers went down to buy corn in Egypt, but Benjamin Joseph's brother, Jacob sat not with his brethren, for he said lest peradventure mischief befall him. And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came For the famine that was in the land of Canaan. And Joseph was the governor over the land. He it was that sold to all the people of the land. And Joseph's brethren came and bowed down themselves before him with their faces. to the earth. Every step of that 250-mile journey to Egypt must have been difficult. Not just because of the heat and the deserts, but because every step would remind them that this is where their brother was sent. Perhaps they would think, I wonder if Joseph traveled this road. I wonder what he was thinking as he made his way to Egypt. I wonder if Joseph is still alive. This was a painful journey, but it was also a providential journey. God had them right where he wanted them. Notice that only the ten guilty brothers made this trip. Benjamin is left behind. And there's something very telling in what Jacob says here. He says, I'm not going to send Benjamin lest peradventure mischief befall him It's almost as if he has some sense. I'm not sure what really happened with Joseph out there, but I know the last time I sent one of my favorite sons, bad things happened, and so I'm not doing that again God would use this journey to awaken their sense of guilt and sin. God providentially arranged so that they would come to the port of entry on the day when Joseph was speaking to those seeking to buy food. Now you might get the impression from verse 6 that every single person who came to Egypt for food was interviewed by Joseph. I and other Bible scholars would think that that would be impossible. There would have been thousands of people coming in many, many different ports. What this means in verse 6 is that Joseph was responsible for all of it. Even today we speak of someone or the president doing this. When the president actually does it, he just authorized that that be done. He was over and in charge of all of that operation. And so the same thing is taking place here. Now I say that to say this. God providentially arranged it so that on the day when Joseph was at one of these ports. That his brothers came before him, of all the ports of entry they could have come to, of all the days that they could have come, because certainly he was not there every day, people were streaming in. He had many other responsibilities. But God providentially arranged it so that on the day that Joseph was there, and on the day that they came to that specific port, at that time they came to a face-to-face encounter. I've mentioned throughout our study of Joseph that his life story is all about the providence of God. Things do not happen in our lives by accident or by mere chance. God has a plan. And that is perhaps more apparent in the story of Joseph than in any other biblical character. Now, all of the seeming bad events of his life, of Joseph's life, were ordained of God so that he would be able to rescue his family. And this providential occurrence is no exception. This famine Was actually a good thing, a merciful thing on God's part. God intentionally has brought Joseph back into interaction with his brothers. In fact, he will providentially make them face the brother they had so horribly mistreated so that they would repent and be reconciled. I often deal with people who come to me with a troubled conscience, and they talk about sin that they have been hiding that they have buried in their life for years that no one knows about. But they know about it. And it troubles them, robs them of joy and of peace, and of sleep. And so often they have convinced themselves that the wise thing for them to do, the only logical recourse for them, is to try to cover and bury their sin, to hide it. and to bury it as deep as they possibly can. And they're convinced that that is the way to handle it. But that's a lie. That is not true. When they tell me that I always quote for them Proverbs 28, 13, He that covereth his sin shall not prosper. But whosoever confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. And I asked them this question: Would you like to experience the mercy of God? Then you must repent and forsake your sin. You must confess it. You must turn from it. You must get right with the people that you have sinned against. There is no other way. God has hemmed you in. There's no other option. The option of covering your sin is a foolish response. God is a God of truth. He knows the truth. You're not fooling him. And the only way you can truly come back to a place of restoration and of joy and of experiencing his blessing is to come clean and break with your sin. So often people will want to repent part way. They'll want to take a few steps to quiet their conscience. But God wants them to come all the way and do whatever is necessary. To be right with God. And that's what God's doing in the lives of Joseph brothers. Thirdly, the Lord often uses human authority to bring us to repentance. Look with me now at verse 7. And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made himself strange unto them, that is, he concealed his identity. And spake roughly unto them, and said unto them, Whence come ye? And they said, From the land of Canaan to buy food. And Joseph knew his brethren, but they knew him not. And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them, and he said unto them, Ye are spies. to see the nakedness of the land are you come. And they said unto him, Nay, my lord, but to buy food are thy servants come. We are all one man's sons, we are true men, thy servants are not spies. And he said unto them, Nay, but to see the nakedness of the land are you come, and they said, Thy servants are twelve brethren, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan, and behold the youngest is this day with our father, and one is not a reference to him. And Joseph said unto them, That is it that I spake unto you, saying, You are spies Hereby ye shall be proved by the life of Pharaoh ye shall not go forth hence except your youngest brother come hither. Send one of you and let him fetch your brother, and ye shall be kept in prison. that your words may be proved whether there be any truth in you, or else for the life of Pharaoh, surely ye are spies. And he put them all together into ward three days. And Joseph said unto them the third day, this do and live, for I fear God. If you be true men, Let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison. Go you carry corn for the famine of your house, but bring your youngest brother unto me, so shall your words be verified, and ye shall not die And they did so. The Lord uses human authority to bring us to repentance. Joseph instantly recognizes his brothers, but they don't know him. And we should not be surprised. At least twenty-two years has passed. They, of course, were not expecting to see him. They all would have assumed that he would have died long ago. Because the life of a slave in Egypt was very difficult, their life expectancy wasn't very long. And Joseph certainly looked much more Differently when they last saw them. He was clean shaved. He was wearing Egyptian clothing and he was speaking the Egyptian language. Verse 7 says that he made himself strange to them. That is, he sought to conceal his identity from them. And when they bowed before him, his mind went back to that dream that God gave him some 22 years earlier when he was only 17 years old. Now, Joseph's dealings with them raises an important interpretational question. Was Joseph getting back at his brothers in this encounter? Let me give you some evidence that might support that. Number one, it says that he spoke roughly to them or harshly to them. He spoke to them with the voice of an interrogator. And we see that he interrogates them relentlessly, no matter what they say To turn his interrogation in another direction. He says it's just like I was saying, you're spies. He keeps repeating the charge. And then he has them in prison for three days. Now think about that. He didn't tell them how long they would be there. For all they knew, they may have been held indefinitely there That would have alarmed them. They may have begun to think after a couple days, maybe we'll spend the rest of our lives in this Egyptian dungeon. They did some real soul searching there as they considered their whole life story up to this point. And then he seems to frame them later by putting money in their sacks of grain. We'll talk more about that later. So, what is amazing is that there are many parallels between what they did to Joseph and what Joseph was doing to them. Consider this. His brothers once accused him essentially of being a spy for his father, a little tattletale. To run back to Daddy and tell the tell him about their misdeeds. And now he's accusing them of being spies We know that they threw Joseph into a pit for a time until they sold him to merchants, and now he has them down in a dungeon. And of course, they spoke harshly to Joseph as he speaks harshly to them. Despite these parallels, I want to suggest to you that Joseph was not seeking revenge. So why do I and other Bible teachers come to this conclusion? Well, think of the these factors. Number one, if Joseph wanted revenge, he could have had them executed on the spot. No one would have questioned him. He did not have to take them through a long uh court process. He was a powerful man. He could have easily just given the decree, and their lives would have been over. It's important to remember that what they endured was nothing to compare with what Joseph had endured. In other words, the punishment did not really fit the crime at all. The crime was much worse. And it's clear in the naming of his sons and in subsequent conversations that Joseph has that he was not holding a grudge against them. And it's also significant to think that Joseph's brothers never complained about this treatment during that time or afterward. So if he wasn't seeking revenge, what was Joseph doing here? The answer is he was testing them to see If they had changed, he was now truly an authority in their life. And though he's primarily responsible For doling out food stuffs for people who are starving throughout the world. He is a judge with authority and power, and he is going to use that God-given authority to test them. to find out what is in their hearts. There's a key phrase that comes up in this paragraph. Maybe you noticed it. They keep saying, like they do in verse 11, they say, we are true men. We're men of integrity. You can trust our word. We're not lying to you. We are what we claim to be. We are men coming to buy food. We're not spies. We're not covert agents. We see the same thing in verse 19. Joseph says, if you be true men. And so Joseph is testing his brothers. In fact, our passage tells us explicitly that he's testing them. In verses 15 and 16, he says, hereby Joseph Ye shall be proved. And that word proved means tested. He says, All right, we're going to find out if you are telling the truth. You are going to be tested. This term was used. Frequently in the Old Testament of the Lord testing and proving his people, like when the Lord called Abraham to take up his son Isaac, his beloved son, to Mount Moriah to offer him as a sacrifice. That was the ultimate test that God gave to Abraham. And the same word that was used in that encounter is used here of Joseph testing his brothers. You see, before Joseph would reveal his identity to his brothers, he needed to know what was in their hearts. Joseph was very effective in his interrogation techniques. He is relentless in his accusations. He won't let go of it. He says that they have come to spy out the nakedness of the land, which means that they were foreign agents sent to find weak places in Egypt's defenses. This was a very serious charge. And then he tests them by holding them in prison for three days. This was a time of reflection, conversation, and fear. The literary man Samuel Johnson said, nothing so concentrates the mind as the sight of the gallows. And that is true. When a man thinks he's about to die, he thinks very seriously about things. And that was true of these brothers. In verse 18, Joseph says unto them, I fear God. He reminds them of the God they've been trying to avoid. And the implication that he gives here is that I fear God, and maybe you should as well. Because your life is on the line. It's interesting to note in verse 19 that Joseph changes his original proposal. I don't know if you know this or notice this or not. First of all, he mentions that he's going to keep all of the brothers there in Egypt and just send one of them to go and collect Benjamin and bring him back to Egypt. But then just a few verses later he says, No, I'll keep one of you and I'll send all the rest of you to go and get Benjamin and bring him back. Now, why did he change this plan? We don't know, the Bible doesn't say, but let me give you the best speculation, and that is he began to think, you know, my father is so fearful, and he's old now. If just one of the brothers returns, the sight of just one brother coming back could could end his life, he might have a stroke or a heart attack because he loves his children and he might think and assume as he sees them coming in the distance that he's lost a whole bunch more of his sons. And he may have also thought, you know, Dad is also very stubborn, and it's going to take all of them to convince him to let Benjamin come to Egypt. And so Joseph wisely changes his plans. Joseph is testing them to see if they have learned from their sins of the past. Will they once again abandon one of their brothers in Egypt? Or will they return with Benjamin and demonstrate that God has truly changed their hearts? Joseph is the God-ordained authority that will bring his wayward brothers back to repentance. And God still uses human authority. To accomplish his purposes today. We often reject and hide and find it a bothersome human authority that restricts our freedoms and causes us to account for our transgressions. But Romans chapter 13 says, the powers that be are ordained of God. That passage goes on to say that they are the ministers of God to thee for goods. This was certainly true in the life of Joseph and of his brothers. His judgment of them may at first glance seem to be harsh and vindictive, but in fact it was just and merciful. It was the only way back. Because when God exposes our sin and troubles our conscience, it is an act of kindness. It is always good when God brings us to repentance. And fourthly, would you notice with me that the Lord often uses our guilty conscience to bring us to repentance. Now we read of their conversation during those three days. They are shut up in that dungeon. Look at verse 21. And they said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul. When he besought us, and we would not hear, therefore is this distress come upon us. And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake not I unto you, saying Do not sin against the child, and ye would not hear. Therefore, behold, his blood is required. And they knew not that Joseph understood them For he spake unto them by an interpreter, and he turned himself about from them and wept, and returned to them again, and communed with them, and took from them Simeon. and bound him before their eyes. Now the first indication that their hearts are beginning to soften is that they refer to Joseph as our brother. And notice how they confess their guilt. They say, we are barely guilty concerning our brother. They say, there's no doubt. No matter how long we have tried to evade this guilt and just not talk about it, we all know that we are guilty for doing this horrible transgression of essentially killing our own brother. What made their crime so disgraceful of course is that it was committed against their own flesh and blood. I wonder if this is the first time they'd ever had a discussion, if they'd ever said out loud, we are guilty. There is power in words. It is one thing to think about things. It's another thing to declare them. This is why confession, verbal confession, is an important and necessary part of restoration when you own up and acknowledge responsibility for your sin You don't minimize it or excuse it. You say, I am guilty. And that's what these brothers are doing here. Not realizing, of course, that Joseph can understand them, that he is not an Egyptian, he is a Hebrew, and he knows their language very well. It's his native tongue. This long trip to Egypt and these three days in prison have made them think deeply about their wicked betrayal. memories that they had sought to forget and bury have come back to the surface. It seems that what really bothered their conscience was their lack of compassion towards their younger brother. When he was down in that pit, he was crying out to them. He was pleading for his life, and they mocked him. They wouldn't listen to his cries. And those cries have been reverberating in their hearts now for twenty-two years. You see, time does not silence a guilty conscience. Many people think it does. They think if I can just hold out And put these thoughts away, then over time it will become dull, and I won't have to ever worry about it again. But that's not the way the conscience works. That's not the way God designed it to work. Notice how they interpreted the accusations of Joseph as the judgment of God. They looked beyond Joseph to the ultimate judge of all the earth. I wonder how often they'd made this connection in previous years. I suspect that they lived their life always looking over their shoulder. Always wondering, and every time something bad happened in their family, they all would look at one another and they were thinking the same thing. This is the judgment of God upon us for what we did to Joseph long ago. It's an awful thing to live with a sense of guilt. With a sense that you have done something horrible and you have just been trying to hide it. I spoke to a man years ago who in his youth Was involved in robbery. He robbed a store at gunpoints, got some money from it, and he got away, it seems. Took that money up to his apartment and had it there, but he told me in very picturesque language about how horrible it was day after day. Everywhere he would drive, he was looking around to see if there were any police officers. He couldn't sleep at night. He couldn't enjoy any of that money. He was afraid if he would spend it, somehow it was marked and he would be arrested. Months went by and finally one day his apartment door was knocked down. Police officers came in and arrested him and they threw him to the floor. And he said to me, the first thing he felt was a sense of relief that he had been caught. Because the months that he had with that troubled conscience and that fear of judgment were horrible. Sin is a serious matter. And God mercifully will not let us get away with it. Shakespeare was right when he said that conscience makes cowards of us all. In verse 22, Rubin seeks to appease his own guilt by saying, If only you would listen to me. He was the one that wanted to rescue Joseph out of the pit, but he was gone for some reason when that exchange occurred and he was sold into slavery. He is also assuming the worst, thinking that they are about to pay the ultimate price for their sin. And then we read of Joseph's reaction. His brothers are speaking to each other in Hebrew and assume that no Egyptian could understand what they were saying. Now, why is it that Joseph begins to weep here? Perhaps he was weeping because their discussion brought back the painful memories. Of when he was thrown into that pit and they mocked his cries for help. He hadn't thought about that for some time. Perhaps that was it, or perhaps he was weeping because he saw the anguish of their hearts. You know, you tend to weep when people around you are weeping. You tend to become emotional when people around you are emotional. And perhaps that was it. There was some sympathy there. But I think it's more likely that Joseph was weeping because he saw that God was at work and the hard hearts of his brothers. That they were not as callous and as hard as he thought they were, that God was breaking through, that he was doing a work of repentance as he had been praying for. How does God bring sinners to repentance? Well, He brings a, often brings a crisis into our life or He makes us face our sin in a providential way, or he uses human authorities, or he even uses our own guilty conscience to change our hearts. And finally, I want you to notice that the Lord often uses our fear and sorrow to bring us to repentance. Look with me at verse 25. Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn, and to restore every man's money into a sack, and to give them provision for the way, and thus did he unto them. And they laden their asses with the corn and departed thence. And as one of them opened his sack to give his asprevender in the end, he espied his money, for behold, it was in the sack's mouth. And he said unto his brethren, My money is restored, and lo, it is even in my sack. And their hearts failed them, and they were afraid, saying one to another, What is this that God hath done unto us? Now let me ask you a significant question. Why did Joseph put that money in their grain sacks? Was he trying to entrap them? That's certainly the way it looks, and that's the way they took it. They took this as the judgment of God. They say, why is this that God hath done this? Once again, they see this as a judgment of God. They must have felt like they were cursed. But was Joseph really trying to entrap them? It says in verse 25, Joseph's commanded to fill their sacks with corn and to restore every man's money into a sack, and to give them, what does it say? Provision for the way, and thus did he unto them. And if you'll turn ahead with me to the next chapter, to Genesis 43, look with me at verse 23. This is when they're talking to Joseph Stewart about this. And he said, Peace be unto you, fear not, your God and the God of your father hath given you treasure in your sacks. I had your money, and he brought Simeon out unto them. So Joseph was not trying to frame them. He was not trying to entrap them for some crime of theft. No, he was trying to be a blessing to them. He was essentially saying, I'm not taking any money from my own family members Notice the pathetic way that Jacob interprets this event when they return. Look with me at verse 29. And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan and told them of all that befell unto them, saying, the man who is the Lord of the lands spake roughly to us and took us for spies of the country. And we said unto him, We are true men. We are not spies. We be twelve brethren, sons of our father, one is not, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan. And the man, the Lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall I know that ye are true men. Leave one of your brethren here with me, and take food for the famine of your household and be gone, and bring your youngest brother unto me, that I shall know that ye are no spies, but that ye are true men. So will I deliver you, your brother, and ye shall traffic in the land. And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that behold, every man's bundle of money was in his sack, and when they Both they and their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid, and Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye bereaved of my children. Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjamin away. All these things are against me. What a pathetic response. He blames his son for all the problems of his family when in fact he has brought much of it upon himself. His words are full of sorrow and self-pity. He says, all these things are against me. This is a cynical view of life that I want to address in just a moment. Reuben the oldest makes a ridiculous and desperate offer in verse thirty-seven. And Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my two sons, if I bring him not to thee, deliver him unto my hand, and I will bring him to thee again. He vows to kill his own sons if he doesn't bring his brother back safely. Why would Reuben make such a disturbing statement? It's because Reuben has yet to forget the crushing sorrow in his father's face when they returned years ago without Joseph. And he is still trying to atone for his failure as the leader of the brothers. And he is overcompensating for his own guilt. Notice Jacob's predictable response in the final verse of this chapter. And he said, My son shall not go down with you, for his brother is dead. and he is left alone. If mischief befall him by the way in the which ye go, then shall ye bring down my grey hairs with sorrow to the grave. Jacob is still clinging to his son Benjamin, his last remaining idol. But the Lord will soon pry that idol out of his hands to bring him greater blessings. I'm going to make some concluding applications briefly. First of all, I want you to know that true guilt is a gracious gift from God. There is such a thing as false guilt, where people feel guilty about something they should not feel guilty about, something that is not sinful Sometimes Christians feel guilty about sins that God has already forgiven, that they've already confessed, they've already turned from, that are far in the past. I acknowledge that. However, true guilt is a gift from God. We live in a society today that has done everything it can to quiet And diminish mankind's sense of guilt. People use drugs, they use alcohol, they use diversions They use entertainment to quiet their troubled heart. Let me say something. This isn't the only reason, so please don't be offended. But one of the reasons why Americans have so much trouble sleeping at night is because they have a guilty conscience. And they've been on the go all day, and when they finally lay down, and then it's just them and their thoughts, they are reminded of their sin because their conscience will not be silenced. That is not a horrible thing. That is a good thing. That is a gift from God. He wants you to come clean and repent of your sin that you might be restored. I want you to notice that true repentance is essential for your salvation and our sanctification. Jesus said, Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. You cannot turn to God in saving faith until you have turned from your sin. You can't do one without the other. This is not works. This is what the Bible and our Lord and Savior explicitly taught. Repentance is the first word of the gospel. But repentance is also essential to our sanctification. Martin Luther said in his first theses of the 95 that the Christian life is a life of repentance, and he was correct. We don't only repent when we are saved, but throughout our lives we repent, we turn from our sin and we acknowledge them to our Lord in prayer. And thirdly, I want to say that just as Joseph forgave his brothers, so Jesus will forgive repentant sinners. Joseph was eager to forgive his sinful brothers, and Jesus is ready to forgive broken sinners One of the lies that Satan gives to so many people is that God will not forgive you. He will turn you away if you come to Him. For 1 John 1 9 says, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And that Greek word for confess means to say the same words. It means that we agree with God's verdict about our sin. We say, God, you're right. I am guilty. So let me ask you this morning, have your sins been forgiven? Or are you still living with a burden of guilt? Why would anyone want to live with a great burden of guilt only because they believe the lie? That repentance will bring even more misery into life, that exposure of their sin would be a horrible, embarrassing thing, but actually, it's a merciful thing, it's a wonderful thing. It is God's plan for you. Why not come to Christ today? But I'm going to conclude this morning by this point of application. Beware. of interpreting your life in cynical terms. In Genesis 42, 36, Jacob says this very interesting description of his life. He says, all these things are against me. He says, I've lost Joseph, and now Simeon, and you're about to take away my cherished younger son Benjamin. Jacob's viewpoint is that his life has been nothing but a series of disasters and disappointments. But you know what? His interpretation was all wrong. Because he didn't understand what God was doing. Joseph was not dead. He was alive and ruling in Egypt. Simeon would soon return from Egypt. And his beloved Benjamin would go to Egypt, but he would return with chariots from Egypt. You see, all of these things were not conspiring against him, they were working together for his good. The reality was the opposite of what he said. His dysfunctional family would be united, his cynicism would turn to praise, and his sorrow would be turned into joy. Jacob tended to live in the past, but his best days were yet before him. And so it is with all of God's people. Christians should not be cynics and pessimists. We should be the most joyful and hopeful people in the world because God is not against us but for us. And He is working all things together for our good. and his glory. May God help us to believe this and live this. Let's close in prayer. Father, We thank you that wherever we turn in your word, we see truth, we see our Savior, we see reminders of the gospel. I pray that you would use what we have heard today for your purposes. Pray that you would even use what is said to trouble the conscience of those who are your children but are hiding their sin. and refuse to repent. And Father, for those who are here who are lost in their sins, who have never thought very much about their transgressions, I pray that you would awaken their conscience. And remind them that there is a holy God who knows all about them that they must answer to. I pray that you would bring them to a place of repentance and faith. They might be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen