You have your Bibles, you can turn with me to the book of Ephesians, chapter 4. Perhaps you've heard the old joke about the man who was stranded all alone for years on a deserted island. When his rescuers finally came, they found three buildings on the island that he had constructed. They found this rather curious, and so they asked him about it. And he said, well, this first building here is my house, and the other building is my church. And they said, well, what is that third building? And he hung his head and said, Well, that's the church I used to attend Perhaps nothing more clearly reveals the depravity of man than his inability to get along with others. We see this every day, of course, in the world. There's conflict, there's war, there's terrorist attacks. We see it on the news, we see it in our personal lives, and unfortunately at times we see it in the church. Churches often experience contention, conflict, and even division. What a horrible testimony this is to a lost and dying world. Some of you here have firsthand experience with that. You have come from churches where there was contention and strife and splits that took place and horrible things that were said. I often run into people who no longer attend church, and they will mention some memory they have of such a split. And it's very difficult and wounding to people. So why do Christians battle with one another? Why is there animosity and strife even among the people of God? There can be many answers to this question, but certainly the most basic answer is pride. Proverbs 13, 10 says, only by pride cometh contention. It's usually proud people who sow discord among the brethren. And this is something that God says that he hates God desires that his people be united. He desires that they be a testimony to the world, an irrefutable evidence. Of the transforming power of the gospel. The night before Jesus died on the cross, he said, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if you have love one for another. And a few moments later, in his great high priestly prayer, he said, I and them, and thou and me, that they may be made perfect in one, and that the world may know that thou hast sent me and hast loved them as thou hast loved me. Unfortunately, Christians have not presented a picture of unity to the world, not on a global scale, nor even in the local church. And I want you to know that this is not a modern problem. The fact is that if you carefully read your New Testament, you will find that the early churches That first generation of Christians struggled for unity as well. We know that there was a huge problem of divisions within the church at Corinth. Remember, they were divided over personalities. There was a problem in the churches of Galatia. Paul rebukes them for devouring one another. The church at Ephesus, it seems, had some problems between the Jews and the Gentiles, and we know that there was some contention in the church at Philippi, because Paul addresses that throughout that epistle. It's a real challenge for a diverse group of people to be united. This was true in the early church, and it's true of us today. We have all different kinds of people in the church We have men and women, young and old, educated and uneducated. They come with different backgrounds, different experiences, different church traditions. And sometimes these various perspectives clash. In the early church, there were even greater divisions than we have in our society because Within the same congregation you had slaves and slave owners, and you had Jews and Gentiles, and they had a great long-standing animosity for one another. The Jews called the Gentiles dogs. They were unclean. And the Gentiles believed that the Jews were barbarians because anyone who did not speak Greek was a barbarian. And so there was great animosity. And just imagine the challenge of being in groups that did not interact with one another at all and bringing them together. As a body of believers , this is why the New Testament is filled with instruction and admonitions for our unity. And what we find throughout the New Testament is that humility is the key to unity. This is true in a family setting. This is true in a national setting. This is true in the global scale. And this is true in a local church. It is pride and arrogance and selfishness that creates friction and strife and division. But humility invariably brings unity. It's the only way that people with great diversity can enjoy the harmony that God intends for the local church. So I'm going to preach to this morning. as we continue our series on humility, that humility is the key to unity in the local church. But how can we demonstrate, how can we develop Unity in the local church. My first point is this: in order to enjoy unity in the local church, we must interact. with others in the spirit of humility. Look with me at Ephesians chapter 4. I want to begin reading at verse 1 Paul writes, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called. This is the opening verse in the second half of this epistle. Many of you know that in Paul's epistles, he divides his writings up into two basic halves. In the first half, he gives doctrine or instruction or principles of truth that are the theory behind the practice. And then in the second half of the book. He applies those truths. He gives examples and illustrations and admonitions about how that is to practically work out in the individual or in the community setting. And that's what he does here in the book of Ephesians. Now, one of the great revelations of this book. in chapter two is that it was God's eternal plan that the church be comprised of Jews and Gentiles. Look with me at Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 11. He says, Wherefore remember that ye being in the time past Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcised by that which is called the circumcision in the flesh made by hands. that at the time ye were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenant of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus ye who were sometimes were far off. are made nigh by the blood of Christ, for he is our peace, who hath made both one and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us. having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances, for to make in himself of twain one new man so making peace, and that he might reconcile both unto God and in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby, and came and preached peace to you which were far off, and to them that were nigh for through him we both have access by one spirit unto the Father. Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. These are incredible verses. God is Paul here is primarily addressing the Gentile audience. And he says to them that by God's grace it was his eternal plan that you be part of the household of God's. But that was a real challenge to their unity. Because the Jews despised the Gentiles, and the Gentiles despised the Jews. He goes on, he prays that Christ would dwell in their hearts in faith in chapter 3, that they would be rooted and grounded in love. He speaks here in this passage about the whole family in heaven and earth. Speaks of the inherent unity they have in Christ. And then in chapter four, as he transitions into the application point of his sermon, he tells them how it is That they can walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called. What does that mean? We have been called as Christians to be what? We have been called to be the church, the united body of Christ. But how do we practically do that? Look with me at verse 2. With all lowliness and meekness, with long-suffering, forbearing one another in love. It is only with a humble attitude or spirit that the church can be practically unified. It's only as in our interactions daily and on the Lord's day when we gather together that we deal with one another with that mindset That we can enjoy that unity. We come to this term lowliness. This is the most common New Testament word for humility. The Greek word really did not exist before New Testament times and the Greeks did not consider humility to be a virtue. This is a case where the literal meaning of the word does not really provide the actual meaning of the term Because a humble person, as I've mentioned to you previously, does not go around thinking, you know, I'm really worthless, I'm no good, and stare at the floor. No humble person has an accurate understanding of who they are. But because people naturally have an inflated view of themselves relatively speaking, to be humble is to have a low view of yourself. But only when you consider that most people have far too high a view of themselves. If you carefully look at everything the scripture says about humility, As I've labored to tell you in previous sermons, a humble person simply has an accurate view of who they are in light of who God is. When they compare themselves with the greatness of God and they realize that any gifts any ability, any wealth, any strength that they have has come from God. They have nothing to brag about. And so they will be humble. So what are the traits of humility? Let me ask you some diagnostic questions. Do you often find that you have conflict in your interactions with others? Some people have more conflict with than others. Some people are always having strained relations with somebody, whether it's in their family or in the church or in their community, whatever the case may be. The scripture teaches that this comes from pride. Do you find that your mind is often occupied with your own little world? You're oblivious to the needs of others around you because you're so focused on your problems, on your needs that are not being met. Do you often feel that you deserve better circumstances than you have? You feel like you're not being treated fairly. Now, is it possible that you're not being treated fairly? It is possible. But for some people, this is a perpetual way of thinking. They are always victims. Someone is always sliding them. This stems from pride. Are you easily hurt and irritated? Do you make people feel comfortable around you, or do you intimidate or ignore them? And are you able to submit to God's authority in your life, or do you find yourself always criticizing? God given authority in your life. You see, a humble spirit is like oil that removes the friction in our relationships. A person who is humble can diffuse a tense situation with just a smile and a few kind words. Have you ever witnessed that? Where there's this real tension between two people. And someone steps in and just with a few words diffuses the situation because they're responding in grace and humility. Now, Paul here in Ephesians 4 speaks of lowliness, and he also couples this with meekness, and we often find these two together. Meekness is, in a sense, just a uh a close cousin of humility. Meekness is not weakness. A meek person, perhaps the the best English uh one-word definition of this would be gentleness. A meek person is gentle in their dealings with others. So what are some of the biblical applications of meekness? Well, a person who is meek will not always bother to defend themselves from the attacks of others. I take this from Numbers chapter 12. We're not going to look there, but you remember Moses? He was criticized by his own sister and brother, by Aaron and Miriam. And God came down with a great cloud from heaven and defended Moses because the Bible Explains there that Moses was the meekest man on the earth, and he did not defend himself from their criticism A person who is truly meek and humble does not feel the need to always defend themselves. Instead, they leave the matter with God A person who is meek is able to restore someone who has fallen into sin because their approach is, but for the grace of God there go I. This is what we read of in Galatians 6 1. Paul writes, Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault. Ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. A gentle, meek person can go in and rather than saying, boy, I'm so much better than this person who has fallen. They show consideration and they're gentle in dealing with them. And thirdly, a person who is meek will receive correction from others. They're teachable. This is the culture that should be pervasive in the body of Christ, where there is humility. and meekness, where that is the mindset, where that is the atmosphere and the culture in which we worship and serve, there will be unity. It is very hard to get angry at a humble and gentle person. And so often arguments and tension can be so quickly abated by simply responding as God has called us to respond. And secondly, in order to enjoy unity in the church, we must respond to the offensive behavior of others with humility. Notice Ephesians 4, too, goes on, and it goes on and talks about now with long-suffering, forbearing one another in love. These two additional terms here are responses to the provocation of others. You see, it would be great if everyone in the church dealt with each other with love and humility, but that's not always going to happen. So what do we do when someone Annoys us, bothers us, offends us, or even sins against us. That is where the real challenge is with unity. Well, this is the scripture's admonition. We are first of all to be long -suffering. The New Testament uses two different Greek words for patience. One has to do with putting up with difficult circumstances, like a trial. And the other has to do with putting up with difficult people. This Greek word long-suffering is made up of two words, long and temper. It's the opposite of someone with a short fuse. It's a person that can put up with a lot of annoyance, a lot of negative comments without responding in anger. They are long suffering. Many of the applications for this virtue in Scripture are found in reference to ministry. We have some people here that want to go into the ministry that are training for the ministry, thinking about the ministry, praying about different aspects of ministry. I want you to know. That if you are going to go into the ministry and stay in the ministry, you are going to have to develop this fruit of being long -suffering. If you just want to serve in the local church as a Sunday school teacher, you're going to have to have long suffering. You're gonna have your students perhaps uh ask questions that irritate you or they show a lack of interest or they have sporadic attention. attendance and you put this effort into your lesson, you study, you sacrifice, you give up different things so that you can be an effective teacher. And then they don't show up, or they don't listen, or they pay no attention to what you're saying. And if if you don't have the right spirit, if you're not doing it for the right reason, you're going to say, enough of this. I'm not appreciated. I'm not accomplishing anything. I'm going to go do something else with my time. To serve the Lord effectively for the long term requires you to be patient. With difficult people. I'm so thankful for some of our Sunday school teachers. I look out and see some of them here this morning, and some of you, you just you just labor on You work and you teach year after year after year. And that's difficult. But God will bless you, and God is teaching you to be long-suffering. Some of you here perhaps want to go into the ministry. Some of you perhaps want to be counselors You're going to have to have a lot of patience if you want to counsel people spiritually. They will have complicated, sinful patterns in their lives. And they seem like such a mess, you cannot even begin to think of how you can unravel the life-dominating sins that they have been involved in. And you have to be long-suffering when you minister to people because troubled people usually wound those who try to help them. It's like an animal that perhaps, if you use this analogy, who has been injured. And you want to help that animal, but the animal is frightened and doesn't know you and doesn't trust you, and it's snapping at you. And it is telling you to keep away, but you're the only hope to save that animal. It's kind of like that sometimes in trying to help people. It goes on here to say that we are to be forbearing of one another. What does it mean to forbear some weather? Well, the a Canadian preacher named Gary Inrig. . Defines it this way, to forbear is to grit your teeth and to put up with differences, mistakes, and failures in an attitude of grace. Because we are deeply and humbly aware of our own need of grace. You see, in all of this admonition, there is this foundational element of humility. It's impossible to be around other human beings for any length of time and not be annoyed, irritated, or disgusted by something they say or do. That's just the reality. This perhaps is why some people live solitary lives. But that is not God's will for us. He wants us to interact with the body of Christ. It's a real challenge to have unity and to put up with the annoyances of others Because people have so many different tastes and so many different views of the ways things should be done. Some people here like individuals who are blunt and plain-spoken. That's the kind of person you are. Other people find those individuals to be rude and offensive. Some people here are very affectionate. You are huggers. You love to hug people. You come to church, you get 20 or 30 hugs in. You know, you're hugging first-time visitors, you don't even know their name, and you're hugging them. And some of you here, you don't hug your mother. All right? People are different. And people come with different theological backgrounds, with different perspectives, with different experiences. And the problem with us is in our pride, we all think that our perspective, our view, our experience is right and other people are wrong. And when two people are dogmatic about the fact that they're right and they clash, there's problems. We have to forbear one another There are some keys in Scripture, I think, to dealing with difficulties with people. And I want to invite you now to turn with me to the twin epistle of Ephesians, which is the book of Colossians. Colossians chapter 3, just a little further back in your New Testament. Colossians chapter 3. And verse 11. Colossians 3, 11. This is going to sound very similar. Same author, same context. Paul writes, verse 11, where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bond, nor free, but Christ is all and in all. Well, Paul, how do we attain that unity? Put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved. Bows of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering. This should sound very familiar Forbearing one another and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye Let me mention several keys here to maintaining unity when we have been offended. Number one, we must continually be ready to demonstrate grace towards others. This participles in the present tense. This is something we must habitually do. This should be our learned response towards difficult people. Every time we come to church, we should be ready to demonstrate grace and to forbear those who annoy us. Dave made mention of this earlier, but you know, in the church of Christ, you have a diverse group of people who come together. that we probably that you probably would not interact with some people here if it were not for your bond in Christ because you're so different and you have different perspectives and you come from a different background But what the New Testament teaches us is that what we have in common in Christ is much more significant and much more important than any differences that we might have. And that is what we must keep in mind. When we deal with graciously with others, we make allowances for people. That doesn't mean we excuse their sin. Let's say you have a theological difference with someone. It could be it could be, now this could be a point of arrogance as well if you're not careful, but it could be that they Do not have the training and the background that you possess. They haven't read the books that you've read. They haven't studied. They haven't read the Bible all the way through. And so that's something you need to take in mind. Someone who comes from a different background or from a different tradition or maybe comes from a different family where they didn't have they weren't shown the love, where they weren't trained how to be hospitable and to have good manners and things. We have to make allowances for people. We do this in our families, right? You have people in your family that annoy you, but you've learned to live with them. And to put up with those differences. I want you to notice that this is a reciprocal relationship. He has these one-another commands here, like in verse 13, forbearing one another, forgiving one another. Now that word reciprocal is a big fancy word. It means it works both ways. Have you ever thought about that? A lot of times people don't. You come to church and you say, Oh, I gotta put up with that person. They're gonna say the same things again. They're gonna get my goat again. You know what? They might be saying the same thing about you. You might be the person that annoys them when they come to church. It works both ways. They put up with you, and you put up with them. That's part of what is necessary in the body of Christ. And then Paul adds in Colossians here something he didn't have in that list in Ephesians 4. Did you notice it? He mentions here that we are to forgive one another, even as Christ forgave you. That's such a powerful thing That's worthy, of course, of an entire message. Let me just say this briefly. How did Christ forgive you? Well, first of all, he gave you graciously. That is, you didn't deserve it. Sometimes people will wrong another brother, and maybe they'll come and Make some type of attempt to smooth things over and give like a half apology, and the person will say, they don't deserve to be forgiven. You know what? You didn't deserve to be forgiven either. You are to forgive them as Christ forgave you. And you are to forgive them completely. In Matthew 18, Jesus says, from your heart. In other words, you don't just say begrudgingly, I forgive you, but I'll never forget. Sometimes people take that approach. That's not true forgiveness. That's not the way Christ forgave you And he forgives us repeatedly again and again and again in Luke 17. We have that amazing passage where Jesus taught his disciples: if someone sins against you seven times in a day. And turns and asks for forgiveness, you are obligated to forgive them seven times in a day. You just keep forgiving. You just keep forgiving If we would really get a hold of this truth, it would revolutionize our church and our families and our society. I've mentioned to you before how many people are bitter. How many people walk around nursing this grievance that someone did them wrong, that someone didn't treat them right, that someone uh brought such pain and misery into their life and they and that that sours their spirit for years to come. A man named William Arthur Ward says, we're most like beast when we kill. We are most like men when we judge, but we are most like God when we forgive. God has called us to forgive. And would you notice here the fourth key is that you must love your brother and sister in Christ. Look with me at Colossians 3:14 Notice how he rounds out this admonition, and above all these things, put on charity or love, which is the bond of perfectness. It is like a belt that holds the garments of grace together and brings unity, is what he's saying here. You see, when you really love someone, you can tolerate a great deal. Have you ever known a wife who was married to a difficult man and yet was able to look past many of his faults and live with him for years? And everyone's shaking their heads as I say that. Have you ever known a grandmother who only saw the best in her grandchildren, even though they were far from angelic? You see, we can put up with the people we love. We can deal with their annoyances and their grievances. And the things that they do because we love them and we genuinely care for them. That's the way it should be in the body of Christ. Where there's a great deal of tolerance and forgiveness because we love one another And that brings me the third point that I want to bring out this morning, and that is in order to enjoy unity in the church, we must be considerate. of the needs of others. And with this I'd like you to turn with me to the book of Ephesians. Book in between Ephesians, no, I'm sorry, Philippians. The book in between Ephesians and Colossians is the book Philippians. And we read from this this morning, Philippians chapter 2. This is one of the great passages. Especial beginning at verse 5 through verse 11, profound Christological passage on the Lord Jesus Christ and him humbling himself in the incarnation. But the entire purpose of this theological gem was to present before us an example of humility that would bring unity within the church. Notice how he begins chapter 2. Paul writes, if there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bows and mercies fulfill ye my joy. that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. And what he is focusing in here is he's saying, focus on what you have in common. And all that you have in Christ, these things should unite us and should remove and make our differences pale in comparison. And then in verse 3, he refers to the problem of pride. Let nothing be done Through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. The word strife here is a reference to selfish ambition. This is not the mind of Christ that Paul will speak of at the beginning at verse 5. This is the mindset of Satan, the selfish strife or ambition. In Isaiah chapter 14, you don't need to turn there, but we have an historic king. that served as kind of a symbolic representation of Satan. And it says here in Isaiah 14 and verse 12, How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning? How art thou cut down to the ground which did weaken the nations? For thou hast said in thy heart, I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will be like the Most High. And in this we see five eyes. That was the mindset of Satan. And when we are intent on getting our own way, our own agenda through, and we find our thoughts and our speech filled with eyes. We are not reflecting the mind of Christ. We are reflecting the mind of Satan. Selfish ambition will inevitably lead to division. And this is why Paul is addressing this here. And then he deals with vainglory. This is a rare word, but it describes a person who demands to be recognized. They want attention. The Church of Jesus Christ is to serve as a team, not as a collection of individuals who want credit for what they have done. We should be serving for the Lord's sake and not for the applause of men. There are all kinds of people in this assembly who do all kinds of things that are worthy of commendation. They do them behind the scenes. They do them without the glare of these spotlights. But they are essential to the ministry of this church. They donate so many hours, hundreds of hours in a year. To the service of the Lord for your benefit and for the progress of the gospel. And yet their names are never mentioned. But they do it joyfully. Because they do it for the Lord's sake, not for vainglory. And then he goes on to say here, but in contrast to this , Let in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves. This is an amazing thing to consider. This is so unnatural. He says that we are to esteem others better than ourselves. This is not suggesting that we adopt a false modesty. This doesn't mean that we can't evaluate others honestly and objectively. It doesn't mean that we minimize or lie about our own abilities. But what it means essentially is that we treat others with consideration. We put their feelings, their time, and their needs ahead of our own. Now I wonder what you think about that. That is the opposite. Of the way you naturally think. That is the opposite of the way your flesh encourages you to think. That's the opposite of the message of the world. The world says, look out for yourself, no one else will. That is not the message of the New Testament. That is not what Christ has called us to do He's called us to do something that is supernatural, something that is not only difficult, but it's impossible to do apart from the Spirit of God. And that is put the needs of others ahead of our own. Now in verse 4, the same idea found at the end of verse 3 is going to be amplified in just different words. He says in verse 4, look not every man or every person on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. What does that mean? The word for look there is the origin of our English word scope, like a microscope, or a telescope, or the scope on a rifle. A scope enables you to focus on something. This word is talking about the focal point of your life, the focus of your life. The natural normal thing for all of us to do is to focus on what? To focus on ourselves. To think about ourselves, to think about our problems and our concerns and our needs and our achievements. And it's so natural and easy for us to focus our lives on those things. It's easy for us to invest our money into our things, our pursuits, our hobbies, our sense of security. These things don't have to be taught. They are natural. It's the way we are in our fallen states. But the grace of God has taught us as Christians that we are not to focus our life on ourself. We are to think about those around us. We are to do something, not something that's natural, but something that's supernatural by the power of God. It's so easy to come to church and just think about your needs. Think about the problems that you have in your family, the financial difficulties that you're facing. Or the differences that you have with others and to sit there and to just stew and think about why aren't people ministering to me? Why aren't more people coming up and shaking my hand? Why hasn't anyone called me when I haven't been here in the last three weeks? It's so easy to think those thoughts. And yet you have come to a place where you have been called to worship God and think about Him and not yourself and to minister to others and not yourself. God has called us to be radically different. I've spoken to people before, and I don't usually take this tact. I almost always apologize profusely when they say, you know, I just don't feel like the church has really met my needs. I just really don't think that they've ministered to me. I mean I haven't gotten many phone calls, I haven't gotten any visits, and I will apologize for that, but sometimes I find in repeated visits that this becomes a theme, even though people have called. Even though people have inquired. And sometimes when I feel led of the Lord, I will say to them, Let me ask you a question. You know, you're a member of this church. You've been here for years. How many phone calls have you made? How many visits have you undertaken? And there's silence there. You see, the whole focal point of the Christian life is not about you being others serving you, but you serving others. And you're serving Christ by serving others. This is what he has called us to do. It is so easy for us to have tunnel vision. And some of the very best people I know fall into this trap where you just think about your needs, your problems, your concerns, and those of your immediate family And so you're always just thinking about your kids and their situations and their challenges and their achievements and you're focusing on that. And it's like there's nobody else in the body of Christ. God's called us to something much greater than that. That's what lost people do. Lost people think about their own concerns. They think about their children. They think just about their families. But we are to do something more than that. We are to do something supernatural, where we love those who are different from us. And we think about their needs ahead of our own. This is what we find consistently in Scripture. Romans 12:16 says, be of the same mind one towards another, mind not high things. But condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits. He says, Let not it let no man seek his own, but every man another's edification. In the great love chapter of First Corinthians thirteen Paul says, love seeketh not her own. If we truly are filled with the love of Christ, our focus will not be on self, on our own. But on others. So we need To show the love of Christ in this way. You know, if we would not focus so much on our own things , But on the needs of others. And everybody did that. Can you imagine what the church would be like? No one would feel Abandoned or left out. And you know, the thing is, is when others are ministering to you and they minister to you, there's a natural built-in desire that God has put in us. to reciprocate. In other words, when people have been a blessing to us, you know what we want to do? We want to be a blessing to them. And we want to minister to others. You see this, you've ever experienced the phenomenon of like going through a drive-thru and they say, hey, the person in front of you paid for your order. You know what most people do? Well, I'm going to pay for the order of the person behind me. Because it's kind of contagious. And that's the way it's supposed to be in the body of Christ. That we have a contagious desire to minister to one another instead of being focused on ourselves. This is the mind of Christ. This is what brings unity. Through our humility. Wachminni, the famous Chinese devotional writer, speaks of this rice farmer in China. This man had a little rice patty up on the side of a hill. It was the only land that he had that he could cultivate to feed his family, but it required a date a great deal of work. He had to pump water up there to irrigate it each day. And so he went through all the trouble of putting this irrigation system together and the piping together, and he would work for hours to get the water up there. But there was a man further down on the mountain who cut into his pipes and would steal his water, and there would be none going up to him. And this infuriated this Christian farmer, and he would talk to the man about it, and the man just was oblivious to it and kept doing it. And finally he had to do something because his rice patty was not going to bring forth the food that his family needed. And so he decided the only solution was for him to get up extra early and to put in a valve and to water his neighbor's crops And then have water for himself, and to go through the effort of ministering to his neighbor. And that's exactly what he did. In his time, his neighbor was so impressed. And he was so touched by this that he became a believer himself because he saw the love of Christ. He saw in this man a supernatural response. He didn't get even, he didn't get angry. But he saw it as an opportunity to minister to the needs of someone else. This is what we need in the body of Christ, the unity that comes from humbly serving one another. May Christ help us to do this. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it meets all of our needs. I pray that you would help us even this morning to think about someone and this assembly that you would have us to minister to. Be a blessing too, Father. Help us not to focus just on our own concerns, but also on the needs of others. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.