Have your Bibles with you. Would you please turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 5? 1 Peter chapter 5. If you're visiting with us, we We're making our way through the book of 1 Peter. We've been doing so for all of this year. And today we come to verse 5 of chapter 5. It says, likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility, for God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble. Right after the service we have a fellowship meal. We started doing this several years ago as our church was growing and more and more people were coming in, and we sensed that it was difficult for people to really get to know one another. People would come in here and they would run into somebody and say, it's good to have you here at church, and they would and they would say, Are you a first-time visitor? And they would say, Well, actually I'm a member of this church. I've been coming here for about five years and they just sat on a different part of the building and uh it shouldn't be that way. And so we started having every so often, usually on the fifth Sunday, but today on a first Sunday, since we're in the Christmas season. We have these kneels because the church is to function like a family. There is to be an inherent unity there that's found in Christ. But that unity is only possible as we know one another and care for one another. And so we started having these meals. We do so not because we think you folks will not be able to eat otherwise. I'm sure you have food at home. There's restaurants that you can go to, but we want there to be bonds that are formed today, and so we invite you to stay with us. The fact is that it is a struggle for a group of people to really be united. And the larger an assembly grows, the more that becomes a challenge. Perhaps nothing more clearly reveals the depravity of man than our inability to get along with one another. And unfortunately, this is not only true in the world, it's not only true on a personal basis, but it's true in the Church of Jesus Christ. It's a horrible testimony to a lost and dying world when the church is filled with conflict and contention and even division. The Bible reminds us in Proverbs 13, 10 that only by pride cometh contention. And so pride is the problem and therefore the solution. Is humility. We recently went through a study on humility. It was actually a year or two ago. And we saw how important that was. And this morning we come to a verse that focuses on this humility that brings about unity in the body of Christ. The problem of unity in the church is not a new one. Sometimes we have kind of a nostalgic view of the early church, and so often You will hear preachers say, if only the church of today could be like the early church. And the implication is that the early church was pure and vibrant and united, and they had no problems, and everything was great. The only problem is the New Testament gives us a different record. We all know about the huge problem at the Church of Corinth, where it was divided over personalities, where The people are described by Paul as being carnal. We know about the churches of Galatia. Paul rebukes them for devouring one another. That's quite an image. And the churches at Ephesus were divided along ethnic lines between the Jews and the Gentiles, and there was a power struggle in the church at Philippi. In fact, Paul even addresses people by name who were at the center of the division. So you see, the early church was not perfect. They struggled just like we struggle. The fact is that it is difficult to bring about people from diverse backgrounds, from different ethnicities, from different uh heritages And bring them together, young and old, educated and uneducated, with different political views, and then they come together and they're supposed to be united in Christ. That is a challenge. Paul provides much instruction about the need for unity in the church and the path forward through humility, and Peter touches on this as well. In chapter 5 and verse 5, I want you to notice that this verse is permeated with words like submit and humility. Let me read it again. Likewise, you younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility, for God resisteth the proud. and giveth grace to the humble. Humility is like oil that reduces all the friction in our relationships. And it's this humility that enables a local church to function in a Christ-honoring way. So this morning Before we enjoy our fellowship meal together, and as we continue our study of 1 Peter, I want us to examine how Christians should demonstrate humility within the local church. The first thing I want you to notice is found in this first phrase in verse 5, and it's this, that we should demonstrate humility By submitting to church leaders. Now in the first four verses of this chapter, Peter addresses the leaders of these early churches that he calls as elders or pastors. Look with me at verses 1 through 4. The elders which are among you, I exhort who am also an elder and a witness of the suffering of Christ and also our partaker. of the glory that shall re be revealed. Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof not by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre sake, but of a ready mind, neither as being lords over God's heritage, but being in samples to the flock. And when the chief shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. And if you look carefully at his admonition to church leaders, you will see that he calls them to humility. He implies in this passage that there will be suffering that they will face in taking care of the flock of God, and they should be willing to accept that. That's part of the humility that God calls for church leaders to accept. And then he says that they are not to use their God-given authority to abuse others, but in verse 3 They are to be examples to the flock. They are not to be dictators. They are not to be tyrants. They are to be shepherds who gently lead the sheep. And so now in verse 5, Peter addresses the younger. Now there's some question. About what Peter means by the younger and the elder in verse five A few would say that Peter is no longer speaking of elders as leaders in the church, but is now simply speaking of the elderly people in the assembly. Indeed, the Bible does say in many places that we should give honor and respect to the elderly. This is something that is vanishing, especially in the Western world. Our superficial culture tends to promote and focus on the young and minimize the old. But this is not biblical. Having said that, I do not think that Paul is suddenly using the term elder with a different sense than he did in the verses right before this. And this is the position of most commentators as well. In other words, when Peter speaks of the younger submitting to the elder. He is referring to the younger individual's relationship to leaders in the church. And of course, the reality is that most church leaders are older, or perhaps we could say more mature. And so why does Peter specifically address the younger members of the assembly? Well, it's probably because the younger were more likely to rebel or resist. the authority of older leadership. This is increasingly a problem in our anti-authoritarian age. The mantra of today, you've seen it on bumper stickers, is question authority. If you interact with different generations, you will see a very distinct difference. and the way they tend to think about authority structures and leaders. Those of an older uh Age and generation tend to have an inherent natural respect for those in authority. Often, their children or grandchildren will not have that kind of natural respect. In fact, they may view any authority, any leader, with suspicion. Because after all, power is a very dangerous thing. Now the fact is that the scripture sets up in all of its different avenues and all of its teaching that there is an authority structure and that we are to submit to the authorities in our lives. This is something that is very contrary to our fallen nature. No one likes to be told what to do. Your little toddler, who has all of two years of life experience, does not like to be told what to do. And when you're at work and your boss says to you with a certain tone, you need to get this done today, and I don't want to hear any excuses about it, something inside of you just bristles. Because no one likes to be told what to do. Now, Peter, of all writers, emphasizes this concept of submission. I want to show you this. You undoubtedly have remembered some of this if you've been with us. Look with me back at chapter 2. 1 Peter chapter 2. Verses 13 and 14. We read this: submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether it be to the king as supreme. Or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evil doers and for the praise of them that do well. Skip ahead, please, to chapter two and verse eighteen. We read servants, be subject, and that's the same word for submission. Be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward. Look with me at chapter 3 and verse 1. Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection or in submission to your own husbands. And then a little later in the same passage, verse 5, for after this manner in the old times the holy women who trusted in God adorned themselves being in subjection or submission to their own husband. So this is a theme that Peter has been developing again and again in different avenues of life We are to submit to the authority in our life, whether it be the government, whether it be our boss, or whether it be the husband in the marriage relationship. And now this term is mentioned twice in verse 5. To submit. means to voluntarily place yourself under another person's authority. There's a sense in which no one can be forced to submit. Because if your heart and your attitude is set against it, it's not really submission. It's important, as I often have brought out in our study, that this idea of submitting to someone else's authority is not an expression of inferiority, but of humility. In Luke chapter 2 and verse 51, the same term is used to describe Jesus' submission to his parents. And so we should understand this is not saying that somehow you are intrinsically worthless or not as valuable in the eyes of God or in society when you submit to an authority in your life No, this is the way God has structured and ordered human society. And every place where there are groups of human beings uh working towards a common goal, there has to be leadership. There have been companies, there have been churches, and there are churches that have started with the idea, well, let's just have nobody in charge. Let's just not have any leadership structure at all. Let's just let's just do whatever we want to do. And you know what? It never works. You have to have a leadership structure. Now I wanted to say right off the bat here that I feel very uncomfortable on this first part of verse 5 because it seems Very self-serving for me as the pastor to talk about submitting to the leaders of the church. Let me just say I'm not preaching this because I have a run-in with somebody this week, and this is my response to them. I don't do things that way. I am preaching this because we are going verse by verse through 1 Peter, and today we happen to come to verse 5. So what does it mean to submit to pastoral authority? There are many today who say there is no such thing. And in many cases, they are reacting to the abuse that pastors, unfortunately, have put upon their people in many times and in many places. But it is actually scriptural. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 13, please. There are two verses In Hebrews 13 that bring this out, and of course it's alluded to in other passages as well. I want to begin reading at verse 7 Verse 7 is speaking not of a person's current pastor, but someone who pastored and has now gone on with the Lord. Look at verse 7. Remember them. which have the rule over you. And this is actually in the in the past tense, who have spoken unto you the word of God whose faith follow considering the end of the of their conversation, or you might say their lifestyle. In other words, this is a call to remember and to imitate those who have had a godly reputation and in the past has taught you the word of God. Now look with me at verse 17. Very similar verse. Hebrews 13, 17, obey them. that have the rule over you and submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls as they that must give an account, that they may do it with joy and not with grief, for that is unprofitable to you. Let me try to explain this briefly. First of all, it's important for me to let you know that the word obey here that is found at the beginning of verse 17 is not the most common word for obey or obedience in the New Testament. It's not the kind of obedience that is called for of children to their parents. The word literally has the idea of this, to allow yourself to be persuaded. to allow yourself to be persuaded. It means that your disposition towards your spiritual leaders is that you want to follow their leadership. That is your natural setting. The natural way that you approach your leaders is that you desire to follow them. You have a trust in them. And you want to follow the direction that they are leading. Now, it goes on in verse 17 It says obey them, and then it goes on to explain what is meant by that, and that is submit yourself. And again, that means to voluntarily place yourself under their authority. In the providence of God. And then there's a reason why this should be done. It says, For they watch for your souls. And this is the language of a shepherd. God has given spiritual shepherds to watch over his sheep. That is a huge responsibility. And as I mentioned last time we were in 1 Peter together. The implication is that everyone who is truly a child of God, who has the chief shepherd, the Lord Jesus Christ, as their Savior and Shepherd, should also have an earthly shepherd. who is able to minister to them and help them. Now this passage also says something That I find very upsetting and very convicting, and that is it says, as they that must give an account. And what that means is that every pastor is going to have to give an account for how they have ministered to the people that God has providentially brought under their care. That is a huge responsibility. And when I think about that and I look at all of these faces out here today That is not something that I look forward to or something that I take lightly. Because it doesn't take me very long to think about the fact that in some way I have failed everyone. to some degree to be the shepherd that I should be. But this is something that a that a shepherd has. He has that responsibility to give an account. And then the verse goes on to give another reason why there should be this submission. It says that they may do it with joy and not with grief, for that is unprofitable for you. When individuals in the church develop an antagonistic relationship with the pastor, and it's not just that they disagree about something, but they are actively Fighting against the church leadership and it becomes uh it becomes a personal matter The writer here says that it doesn't work out well for the pastor or for the individual who's upset. They both lose And so that's something that is important for us to consider. Now, I want you to understand, I want to make two important disclaimers about the submission to your spiritual leader. Number one I think this goes without saying, but I'm going to say it. You should never obey any spiritual leader if they're asking you to violate Scripture. The Bible never calls us to blind allegiance. That is a cult, not Christianity. Cult leaders call their followers to blind allegiance. They insist on uniformity in every respect, but that is not the way it is in the Church of Jesus Christ. Christians must be like the Bereans that measure every statement by the word of God. Secondly , This does not mean that a pastor is above accountability. This verse tells us ultimately his accountability is to God. And it's the Lord's intention that that reality, that truth, should keep every pastor in line if he really thinks about it. But the scripture says there's another form of accountability in 1 Timothy 5 and verse 19. Listen carefully to this. It says, against an elder. receive not an accusation, but before two or three witnesses. And then it says, them that sin Rebuke before all that others also may fear. And the them there is a reference to the elder or the pastor. In other words, there is no one in the church that is above accountability. Everyone is accountable to someone else, including the pastor. And when the pastor is out of line and he's doing things that are wrong and sinful and clearly declared to be evil in the Word of God, the church body, the other leaders have the right and the responsibility. To publicly rebuke him. That is a very serious thing. It's not often done, but it is indeed found in the Word of God because no one is above accountability in the church. And it takes humility both to submit to the church leadership and it takes humility of the church leaders to be accountable to the body of Christ. Now secondly in verse 5, turn with me back if you're not already there to 1 Peter 5. Look with me in the second half of this verse. It says, Yea, all of you be subject one to another and be clothed with Humility. This call to humility and submission is for every believer. There are no exceptions No one gets to the place where they answer to no one and no one can challenge them about anything. If you're in an environment where it's that way, then it's unhealthy and an unscriptural environment. This command is also reciprocal, which means it works both ways. We are to submit one to another. We are to be clothed with humility. The fact is that this is an important consideration for us. We tend to respond to the way people respond to us. This is human nature. How do you respond naturally when someone just attacks you viciously and they're angry and they're f<unk>ing faces red. The natural response is for you to respond in kind. How dare you accuse me of this And likewise, when someone is gentle and meek and respectful to us , How do we tend to respond to them? We tend to respond to them in the same way. We tend to mirror the way that people approach us. And so this is important for us to understand in the body of Christ. We are not to treat some people in the church and others as if they're just beneath us. And we look at them as second-class citizens, and they're not important because we disagree with them about something, we don't care about them, we don't respect them. No, we need to be humble in our dealings with everyone. And when there is that reciprocity in the Church of Jesus Christ, there will be unity. Now, what does it mean to be clothed with humility? This term is only used here in the New Testament, and it's a command. This is something for all of us to follow. And here it's set in the context specifically of our interactions with one another. The verb that's used here describes a servant putting on the apron of a slave. What would that look like? Do you ever encounter anything like that in Scripture before? I'm sure you can think of this example. Peter is the author of this verse. And undoubtedly he's thinking of that time in the upper room when Jesus wrapped a towel around himself and did the work of a servant, including washing Peter's feet. And I'm not going to go into that whole passage in John 13, but you remember how Peter objected. He was embarrassed. Have you ever had somebody do something really kind for you, but it was kind of over the top? So much so that you now you felt uncomfortable and awkward because they were being so deferential and they were being so helpful to you. It just made you feel funny. That's the way Peter felt. That day in the upper room when Jesus washed his feet. But this is the kind of humility and selfless service that God has taught us to follow. So what's implied in this imagery of clothing yourself with humility? First of all, this must be an intentional decision that you make. Being humble is unnatural. Because of our fallen nature, we naturally want recognition. We naturally are selfish. We naturally are proud. We naturally are self-serving. We want others to serve us But not so much the other way. But God has called us to do something that's not natural, but something that's supernatural by his grace. And so he calls on us to serve one another. We need God's grace to be clothed with humility. We should pray for it. We should seek it. We should evaluate our dealings with others. We should remind ourselves of this. Can I put it in a very practical way? Every Sunday morning. When you're getting ready and you're going to be interacting with the body of Christ and you're going to be greeting one another and talking to one another and ministering to one another. You should clothe yourself with humility. You should remind yourself, I need not so much to focus on my needs and be thinking about what I need today. But I need to go out there with the attitude of a servant to minister to others. And I'm not going to be talking so much about myself. I'm going to be talking about about them and their needs. I'm going to be inquiring about them and how things are going in their life. I am going To be clothed with humility. And this is the way the Lord intends that it function in the church, that we come to one another and we say, how is it with your humility? soul. How are you doing? How was that job interview this week? And then they turn and then they ask us about our, and so we we minister to one another. That's the way the Lord wants the body to interact. Secondly, this should be a daily attitude that characterizes your interaction with With others. Just as you wear clothes every day, so you must put on the garment of grace every day. So how does humility transform our relationships with others? I want to quickly point out five things from several different passages. So I invite you to turn with me first of all to Ephesians chapter 4, please. Ephesians chapter 4. And I ask that you please bear with me as we go through these different passages. Look with me at verses 1 and 2. This is Paul beginning the second half of this epistle. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 1. I therefore the prisoner of the Lord Beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called. What does that mean, Paul? Verse 2. With all lowliness and meekness, with long suffering, forbearing one another. In love. Paul mentions four evidences here of our humble walk with one another. First of all, he mentions lowliness. This is the most common New Testament word for humility. And it doesn't mean that we go around saying, you know, I'm really a nobody. I can't do anything. It means that we assume our proper role in relation to others. And I want to invite you to turn with me to the next book now, the book of Philippians. Because we have this expounded a little further. Philippians chapter 2. And verse 3. Philippians 2, verse 3 and 4. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness there's our word of mind. Let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things. But met every man also on the things of others. We have this arresting phrase here, let each esteem other better than themselves. This does not mean that we adopt a false modesty. It doesn't mean that we minimize or lie about our own abilities. It means that we treat others with consideration. We put their feelings, their time, and their needs above our own. Now that is not natural, is it? That's not the way we tend to respond in the flesh. Our culture, our flesh, the examples before us encourage us to think about ourselves and to put ourselves first and our needs and our problems and our rights, but this is not what God has called us to do. This is really hard to do, but it's not impossible. uh with the grace of God. Notice what he says in verse 4. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. And that can be kind of confusing. What does that mean? The word look there has the within it the the origin of our English word scope. You know when you when you when you look through a telescope or microscope, what are you doing? You are focusing your attention on something. So think about it that way. Don't focus your attention, verse 4, on your own things. But on the needs of those around you. It is so easy for us to become so focused , That we develop a tunnel vision, that we come to church and we're thinking we come to church with these great burdens of problems in our family, of problems with our finances, of difficulties with our grandparents and and we're thinking about all of this and we come in and we have this tunnel vision and we're just looking for somebody to talk to us and ask us what's wrong. And we can share our hearts with them. Now there may be times that we going through an unusual crisis that that will be our experience. But if that's the way you come every Sunday, there's a problem. Because your focus, your tunnel vision is, look at me, woe is me, all these problems I have. Well, what about all the problems that everyone else has around you? God has called you not to be fixated and focused on your difficulties. but on those around you. That's a humble response. This is having the mind of Christ Now please turn with me one book back to Ephesians, where we just were, Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 2. Notice the next thing in Peter's list here is meekness. Meekness is not weakness. It's a person who is able to control their own passions in trying circumstances Well, they may be powerful, but they're not going to use that power to crush other people. Instead, they are going to deliberately, as it were, lower themselves. To minister to others. So what are some biblical applications of meekness? Well, a meek person often will not bother defending themselves from the attack of others. And I say that because it comes from the life of Moses in Numbers chapter chapter 12. Do you remember when he married that Ethiopian woman and then you have his brother and his sister come and they're enraged and they challenge him and then God comes down. And he takes Moses aside. And he says there that Moses is the meekest man because he was attacked by his brother and sister, and he wasn't even trying to defend himself. Sometimes there is a place for defending ourselves. We see the Apostle Paul defending himself from the attack. of false teachers in in books like 2 Corinthians. There's a place to defend ourselves, especially when the gospel is at stake. But often there's a situation where a meek person will say, you know what, I'm just going to leave this matter to the Lord. Let the Lord defend me. I don't need to defend myself. Secondly, a person who is meek is able to restore a brother who's fallen into sin. Because their approach is, but for the grace of God, there go I. Galatians 6. 1 says, Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, Ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou be tempted. And thirdly, a person who is meek will receive correction from others. They will demonstrate a teachable spirit. Do you have a teachable spirit? Can a brother or sister calm and say, you know what, what you did last week was not right? And can you think about that and consider their reasoning carefully? Or do you just instantly bristle and just blast them? With everything you have and reject their counsel. A meek person It's teachable. Now the third thing that we see here in Ephesians 4. 2 is long suffering It's made up, this Greek word is made up of two smaller words that mean long and temper. It's the opposite of someone we would say with a short fuse. A patient person can put up with the irritations of others without growing resentful or bitter. A humble person is a patient person. And then we have forbearing one another. What does it mean to show forbearance? Well, it's very similar to long-suffering. One commentator says to forbear is to grit your teeth. and put up with differences, mistakes, and failures in an attitude of grace because we are deeply and humbly aware of our own need of grace. You know, it's impossible to be around another human being for a long period of time. And not find yourself in some degree to be annoyed, irritated, disgusted, or angered by something they do or say. That's just the reality. But God has called us to forbear one another in love. But now I want you to turn with me to one more passage. We've looked at Ephesians and Philippians. Now I want to look at the book of Colossians, that next book. in these prison epistles. Colossians chapter 3 verses 12 and 13. This is very similar. To list in Ephesians 4, too, but it has a significant addition that I want us to look at. Look at Colossians chapter 3, verses 12 and 13. Paul writes the church there, he says, put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved, vows of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind. meekness, long-suffering, forbearing one another. We just covered all of those in Ephesians 4. 2. And Forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. God has called us to forgive one another in the body of Christ. This is something that people struggle with so much. To forgive, the Greek word, one of the Greek words translated forgive, simply means to let go. To let go. It seems like a simple thing, but so often we just want to cling to it. It doesn't seem like it would be right for us to let go because that person really hurt me. It would be unjust for me just to dismiss it and let it go, but God calls on us to let it go. It's only going to poison our system. And here, as in many other passages, it calls on us to forgive others as Christ has forgiven us. What does that mean? It means that we should forgive others graciously. What I mean by that, I mean when they don't deserve it. Did you deserve to be forgiven by the Lords? No, you did not That's the very essence of grace. You didn't earn it. You didn't merit it. You didn't come up to a place where he says, all right, now you've cleaned up your act, you're respectable, and now I can forgive you. No And so we must forgive others even when they don't deserve it. And we should forgive them completely. That is, we we can't say, you know, I'll forgive a little bit, but this part over here, I'm never forgiving that. I'll take that to my grave. Sometimes people will put it this way, I'll forgive, but I'm never going to forget. And usually when people say that, they mean I'm not going to forgive you. That's what that means. And then it means that we need to forgive people continually. In Luke chapter 17 The Lord says that if a brother wrongs us and repents of it, we should forgive him seven times in a day. And of course that's not the extent of it. The idea there is completion. You just continually, you just keep on forgiving. There isn't a statute of limitations. There isn't a point where you say, I'm drawing a line of sand, you cross that line, I will never, ever forgive you, no matter what. No, that's not what Christ has called us to do. Martin Luther said that the Christian life is a life where we must repent daily. And there's a sense in our Christian lives when we must forgive people daily. When people wrong us, when they say a little something, and if we meditate about that long enough, we're going to get ourselves all stirred up. You know what I'm talking about? And we say, no, I'm just going to let that go. Sometimes they talk without thinking. They kind of have an abrasive personality. I know how they are. It's not worth my consideration. I'm just going to let it pass by. That's the mind of Christ. That's what it means to dwell with our brother and sister in love and humility. William Arthur Ward said, we are most like beasts when we kill. We are most like men when we judge, but we are most like God when we forgive. Now look with me at the last part of 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 5. Would you turn with me back in your Bibles to that? 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 5. Notice what it says here. We have a reason why we should do these very difficult things. For God resisteth the proud and giveth grace. to the humble. So thirdly, we should demonstrate humility to everyone because of God's promise of grace. This is a quotation from Proverbs 334. It's also found in James chapter 4 and verse 6. This basic concept in different words is found throughout the Old and New Testaments. This is, you could say, Theology 101. Notice you have like two sides of the coin. These two reasons are complementary to one another. First of all We should be humble in our interactions with others because God resists the proud. And the word resist speaks of the attitude and the posture of a warrior. Do you want to go to battle against God? If you do, then just continue to be very arrogant and proud in your dealings with others. One evangelist years ago, in a very picturesque way put it this way, your arms are too short to box with God. You're no match for him. You treat people with contempt. You treat people like you're better than them You're constantly hurting people with your words. You know what? God is going to be resisting you. And this can be translated in two different ways. It could be that God will resist you because you are not a child of God. And therefore his wrath will be against you. Or it can mean that you are a child of God, and God therefore is going to chasten you. As mentioned in Hebrews chapter 12, God resists the proud. Psalm 138 in verse 6 says this: Though the Lord be high, yet he hath respect unto the lowly, but the proud He knoweth afar off. You see, our failure to be humble in our relationships with others reveals that we are not right with God. I've mentioned this to you before, but the more that we are saturated with the greatness and glory of God, the more we closely walk with Him, that will evidence itself by us being humble with others. A proud and arrogant person is telling on themselves that they have spent very little time with the Lord. Because when you're with the Lord, you're put in your place. You are humbled Then there's the second half of this wonderful promise that God will give grace to the humble. He giveth grace to the humble. Isn't this what you want? Don't you want the favor of God? Don't you want his blessing? Well, this is the path, the path of humility. Psalm 51, verse 17 says, the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. Isaiah 57, verse 15 says, For thus saith the high and lofty one that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell in the high and holy place with him that is of a contrite and humble spirit. to revive the spirit of the humble and to revive the heart of the contrite ones. And then Isaiah 66 in verse 2, one of my favorite verses, but to this man Will I look even to him that is of a poor and of a contrite spirit and trembleth at my word And one of the most frequently repeated sayings of Christ is this, Whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased, and he that shall humble himself shall Shall be exalted. God's way up is always down And we need to remember that. And your interactions with others. If there's someone right now that you have an antagonistic relationship with them, remember this. God gives grace to the humble. Make sure that you deal with them in humility. Now the fact is I've been speaking this morning about humility in the church. But the visible church contains people that are lost. And so I want to conclude by saying the fact is that only humble people, broken people, can be saved. Only people who humbly repent of their sins can be saved. To admit that you have sinned against God, that you have wronged, is an act of humility. That's why really proud people never say they're sorry. They never say that they were wrong. But the fact is, your sins were not some minimal character flaw. They're a pervasive problem in your very character and heart. And it's a big deal. It's an affront against the holy God. And only those who are broken and repent of their sins can be saved. And only people who humbly recognize that they can never save themselves can be saved. Proud and arrogant man thinks Even though he may admit that he is flawed and that he needs a savior, he thinks he can be that savior. He can save himself by turning over a new leaf and reforming his ways and working harder and perhaps being more religious or more caring to others. But that itself is a preposterously proud notion. You can never save yourself. You can never ever match God 's standard of perfection. You must come as a desperate beggar in need of the grace of God. And thirdly, only those who humbly trust in Christ like a little child. can be saved. Remember that Jesus said, unless you come as a little child, you cannot be saved. What does that mean? It means that children, small children, instinctively trust. They don't wonder when their daddy throws them up in the air. I wonder if dad's going to catch me. I wonder if he's strong enough to hold me up. They just with reckless abandon trust instinctively in the goodness and the strength of their parents. And that's what we must do as sinners when we come to Christ. We must cast ourselves on Him, trusting in Him, and Christ's work at the cross. It is all a work of grace, and when God's work of grace has been at work in a heart, it produces humility. And it produces someone who is willing to trust their eternal soul and give their whole life to the Lord. This is the only way to be exalted and to find a Savior who will save you. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father We thank you for your word. We thank you that it's consistent and it's sufficient. And it's all that we need. I pray that you would help us to take what we have heard today and apply it to our lives and think of those who are your people. who yet find themselves isolated and angry with their brother and sister. I pray, Lord, that you would help them. to be at peace with them and to be reconciled and to forgive and to love them as their brother and sister. And Father, for those who are not your children, who have never humbled themselves at the foot of the cross, I pray that today they might be saved. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.