Give your Bibles, please. Would you turn with me to James chapter one? I've heard that Franklin Roosevelt did not enjoy the long receiving lines that he had to endure at the White House. There would be long lines of people that would shake his hand and he would say something to them, but uh he complained that he felt that They didn't really listen to anything that he said, so he decided he would try an experiment. To each person who came and shook his hand, he murmured, I murdered my grandmother this morning. And his guest responded with phrases like, Marvelous, keep up the good work, we're proud of you, or God bless you, sir. It wasn't until really the end of the line when the ambassador from Bolivia listened carefully and heard what he actually said. He wasn't quite sure what to say, so he simply leaned over and whispered in his ear, I'm sure she had it coming. Listening is a valuable skill. It's essential in marriage relationships. It's very helpful in making friends, and it can even get you a job. But the most important application of our listening is when we listen to the Word of God. This morning I want us to continue our topical study of humility By considering our humility before the Word. The key phrase in our text this morning, as you may have discerned , Is found in the middle of verse 21 of chapter 1. And it's this phrase that says, Receive with meekness the engrafted word. And the word receive here is actually an imperative. It's a command in the Greek text. This is our Christian obligation. We are obligated before God. to receive his word with a spirit of meekness. Now the word for meekness here is a close cousin of the word for humility. In fact there's many versions that render this word as humble, humbly receive the word of God. Now in context here, James is talking about the receiving of the preaching of the Word of God. The book of James may well be the first New Testament book that was ever written. We cannot say dogmatically that is the case, but it certainly is very early. It was probably written by James, the half brother of our Lord, about 15 years after the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. And it gives us a very valuable glimpse into the early church. At this time, most Christians, unlike us, did not own a Bible. In fact, many Christians were poor. Some could not read, some could not afford a copy of the Old Testament, which was the only Bible that was available at that time. And so for most Christians, when they encountered the Word of God, it was when they gathered to worship as a small group of believers and they heard someone read the scriptures and then comment on that passage of scripture And therefore, it's no wonder that James exhorts these brethren to listen carefully to the word of God. For many of them, this was the only word they were getting in their week. I suspect that James is reflecting what he heard Jesus say years earlier when he said, Take heed therefore how ye hear. We're not going to take the time to look at that passage in other passages, but the Lord Jesus Christ put a premium on listening to the word of God. You see, it's very possible to hear the preaching of the word every week and never really benefit from it. It's even possible to read the Word of God daily and never really have it change your hearts. This is not to say you shouldn't read the word or you shouldn't hear preaching. Don't misunderstand me, but but my point is just because you do some things and have a routine in your life does not guarantee spiritual. Growth. It all depends on your attitude towards the word. Many people view the Bible as kind of a book of advice. To help them live a better life. To give them some comfort, to give them some mechanisms to cope with anxiety and stress. Some people might view the Bible as kind of a nice formal document that has some wonderful and beautiful readings for events like a funeral service or for a wedding. Something of that nature. But the Bible presents itself not as a book of advice Not as beautiful poetry, but as the word of God. And so if we're going to value this book and accept it, For what it claims to be. We have to accept it as the word of God that has inherent authority The authority of the word of God, when theologians defined it through the centuries, they said that the authority of the word of God is the same as if you heard the voice of God. That's the same way that you should regard the words of Scripture. It has authority. And therefore, we must be humble before God's truth. Now I suspect that most of you here have some degree of respect for the Word of God because you're here this morning. But how well do you really listen to the Word? Do you soak up the preaching of the Word? Are you eager to hear it? Do you take it in? Do you try to capture it and receive it? For some people, that means that they listen very, very carefully. For others, that means they take copious notes For some, that means they have to go back and listen to the service again because they didn't really catch a whole lot of it. But do you treasure the word of God? God has called us to humbly receive his word, and I want to show you in this passage that there are three ways. Three ways that we should do that. First of all, you must listen to God's word respectfully Look at verses 19 and 20. James says, Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath, for the wrath of man worketh not, the righteousness of God. Now let me pause there. There are some people who view these two verses as just A little unit in and of itself that is calling on us to be better listeners and not to argue so much with people Kind of the idea that God has given you two ears and one mouth, so you should listen more than you talk. And of course there's verses in the book of Proverbs that give us this kind of admonition. But I think a better way of looking at it, and the way most Bible scholars would see it, is that this is part, this is preparatory of what he's going to say in verse 21 and following. What he's talking about here when he talks about the wrath of man and the fact that we should be swift to hear and slow to speak and slow to wrath, he's talking about our response actually to the preaching of the words. I want you to notice that the first word in verse 19 is the word wherefore. Wherefore, he says, my beloved brethren. James is making a connection with what precedes the instruction. Look at the verse before it verse 18. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift of his own will, begat he us with the word of truth. That we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. James is saying it's the word of God And the truth within the word of God that has saved us. Therefore, or wherefore, because that is true. We need to be careful how we receive it. Because the Word of God is not just powerful in our lives when we're saved, it's powerful throughout our Christian walk. And we must, throughout our Christian lives, humbly receive the word. So often we fail to do this. We fail to reverently listen to the message of God's word, whether in our reading. whether in the preaching of the word. I love that passage in Ner Nehemiah chapter 8, when the Lord, when the people are called before the reading of the Word, and they have not heard the Word, For many years, and it says that the people stood up for the reading of the word. And then when the exposition was completed, it says that the people bowed down with their faces to the ground and wept. The word of God was precious to them. They had heard about the word from their ancestors, but but they had not heard the word of God because of the exile. They have not really heard it read and and publicly proclaimed, and now it seems so powerful and so uh authoritative that they responded with great reverence This is the same spirit that we see in a verse I mentioned a few weeks ago in Isaiah chapter 66 and verse 2. Where the Lord says, But to this man will I look, even to him that is of a poor and contrite spirit, and trembleth at my word. The idea is that this person is so fearful of disobeying God and so awed with God's power in his word that their hands tremble As they hear it, we can become so casual with the precious word of God. We forget so quickly the great treasure that we hold in our hands. Now in verse 19, James is about to say some very powerful things, and so He uses these words to begin. He says, my beloved brethren. He's telling them, you know I love you, you know I care for you, but I've got some hard things to say to you. And then he gives three instructions in verse 19, very quickly, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. And these are all basically Three phrases that are expressing a very similar idea of listening to the word with reverence. Now, how can you listen to the word quickly? Well, obviously he is saying that what we need to do is listen carefully and eagerly. We should have an attentive spirit. This is the way we should hear the Word of God. We should read it not like any other book. We should listen to it not like any other speech or any other oratory that someone might give. We should be also slow to speak. And what James is referring to here Most scholars think is that in the very early church, uh when when Christians were a persecuted minority, when they could not build church buildings, when they could not have large gatherings, they would meet secretly in people's homes And these were not very large gatherings. And there would be a reading of scripture, and there would be often comments that people would make, in some ways, perhaps like a Bible study or like a Sunday school class. And this, of course, has uh some strengths to it. It also has some weaknesses One of the weaknesses that I think James is getting at here is there were some people there in that gathering that were more eager to talk than they were to listen. They wanted to impress people with how much they knew about the Word of God , or they wanted to argue with other people about it. They weren't coming to the Word of God with humility. What a horrible thing it is to say about our fallen hearts that we can use God's holy word to impress people with how much we know. And what should humble us instead, they were being lifted up with pride. And so James says, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, and then slow to wrath. One commentator puts it this way, this is a call for restraint upon hasty and ill-considered reactions to what is hurt. What he is saying is that sometimes in the public exposition of Scripture there were people that were angered by what is said. And they might even speak out. Now, we don't have a setting like that here. But I can tell you that I know sometimes I say things that upset people because you can see it on their face. You can see it on their body language. Now let me be very clear. Preaching is not inspired. Every man who stands up and proclaims the word of God as accurately and as carefully that he can, undoubtedly misses something or misstates something, or places the emphasis somehow just a little bit off, because we are all imperfect. creatures. I used to know a preacher who would say that there were only two things that really upset him, that really got him stirred up. That's the way it goes. And that was good preaching and bad preaching. And I and I want you to know that bad preaching really bothers me too And there's nothing that gets me more angry than I hear someone's loudly and dogmatically proclaiming this is what God says when that's not what God is saying there So it's not wrong necessarily to object to something that you hear in the preaching of the words. The question, of course, that you must ask yourself is, is this what the Word of God teaches? Is this what it actually says? Is this what God intended for us to receive from this passage? We have this wonderful example in the book of Acts. Of these believers at Berea. It says these were more noble than those in Thessalonica. And that they received the word with all readiness of mind, so they had that eagerness to hear, and searched the scriptures daily whether those things were so. I do not want anyone to just come here and just soak in anything that I say and say, well, Pastor Lehman said it must be true. You are always to take the word of God and say, now, is that what that says? Let me look at this cross-reference over here. Because every preacher is fallible. But what James is getting at here is that often the reason why we get upset or angered is because the preacher or hopefully the word of God itself has touched on a nerve. Of some area in our life that is not in compliance with His will. Some area of sin in our life, some area of disobedience. where we have failed to do what God has called us to do. And when that is brought out Through the preaching of the word, it either humbles us and brings us to bow the knee and submit to God's authority, or it angers us. And creates in us a defiant spirit that says, I will not yield to the word of God. Now the fact of the matter is much of evangelical preaching today does not convict It does not anger people in any respect because it rarely addresses the issue of sin. And if sin is addressed, the person is often cast in the role of a victim of the sin of others or of societal ills but not something that they are responsible for. Much even of evangelical preaching today is man-centered and really convicts no one And so you will hear sermons about unleashing God's blessings and reaching your full potential or avoiding toxic relationships. And they'll have a Bible verse in there, and they'll bring a few general principles to bear That indeed may be biblical, but the whole perspective of the Word of God is let's glean out of here something that will help me in my earthly life that will not address my need of God's grace, that will not address my relationship to the Lord, but in fact will focus more on my relationships with others. But the fact of the matter is the Bible is presented as something that in and of itself is convicting. There are many people who think that any preaching that makes them feel guilty is obviously abusive and wrong. And if they feel uncomfortable, they will say he was being manipulative. Now let me just say it's very possible for a preacher to be abusive and manipulative. I've heard some. But just because you're convicted or you're upset or something is touched on does not mean that he has somehow wronged and mishandled God's word. Let me remind you That the Lord Jesus Christ, the greatest preacher that ever lived, upset a lot of people with his preaching. In fact, on two occasions when he preached at the conclusion of his sermon, they wanted to kill him. They were really upset. We read of the first Christian sermon preached by Peter on the day of Pentecost. In Acts chapter two and verse thirty seven it says, And when they heard this, they were pricked in their hearts and said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? They were pricked in their hearts. They were convicted. They were smitten with the truth that they had crucified the Son of God. And that day 3,000 people were saved. But they were convicted by the word. Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 12 tells us that of the word of God is like a sharp two-edged sword. And when properly used, it will pierce our hearts. I have a number of sayings up in my office of preachers of the past that are in various and sundry locations that I glance at and This one is so out of step with modern notions that I see it as corrective. It was said by Alexander White, a great Scottish preacher in the late 1800s. And you may have heard me say this before, but I'm going to say it again. He said, your minister may be an anointed bishop. He may be a gowned and hooded doctor. He may be a king's chaplain, he may be the minister of the largest and richest and most learned parish in the city. But unless he strikes terror and pain into your conscience every Sabbath , Unless he makes you tremble every Sabbath under the eye and hand of God, he is no true minister to you. I don't think he would be well received today. So how do you respond when you are condemned by the Word of God? When something is being preached, when a text is referred to and it's read and it's real plain, it's real apparent that you are in disobedience. You are wrong. Instead of getting angry and saying, who do they think they are, you need to yield. to the word of God. You need to repent and confess and bow before its authority. The response of anger is counterproductive. That's why he says in verse 20, For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God's. That's not going to advance you in your Christian walk. And your relationship with the Lord by becoming angry at the truth of God's word. So the first thing we must do to humbly receive the word is we must listen respectfully. And seconds, we must receive God's word submissively. We have This truth brought out in verse 21. He says, Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness. and receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. He says, first of all, we are to lay apart. The idea here is that we are to take off A soiled garment. The New Testament always often uses this as a picture of our sanctification, that we are to take off the old garment and put on the new garments. And then it speaks of filthiness here, that is moral impurity. How much moral impurity is in our society today? It defiles our minds and dulls our appetites for God's truth. And then he uses this wonderful King James expression, superfluity of naughtiness. Probably not a part of your regular vocabulary. It means an abundance of wickedness, just like a great wave of wickedness just sweeping onto the top of an ocean liner. It just engulfs everything. An abundance of wickedness. Now, what is the point that James is making here? He's saying that one of the reasons why we do not really benefit from the ministry of the Word, whether we are reading it. or we are listening to it being preached to us, is that our hearts have been so permeated with the wickedness of the world that they are in no shape to really receive God's truth. You see, if you've been feeding your mind on pornography, or filling your heart with greed and with materialistic desires, If that is what is always going through your mind, and then you come after a week of that and you sit down and you hear the preaching of the word, it's very possible that you will receive very little benefit from it. Because your thinking, your mind, your heart has been so distorted by the message of the world. This is one explanation for the lack of spiritual growth that is such a problem today. People can come to church every Sunday. I hope you do. People can read their Bibles. But if the few minutes of God's truth is measured up against hours and hours of filth and corruption, you're never going to get ahead spiritually. You're never going to become the person that God wants you to be. If your mind is so cluttered with the carnality of the world, the word of God will have no appeal to you. You will have no hunger for it. You will have no delight in it. Because anytime you are open-eyed enough to really understand it, it will simply condemn you and convict you. And who needs that? And so you will just avoid it again and again If you want to know where you are spiritually, you should ask yourself how you really feel about the Word of God. One of my favorite chapters of scripture happens to be the longest one, Psalm 119. In that psalm, the psalmist again and again speaks of God's word as his delights. He says, oh, how I love thy law. It is my meditation all the day. If you have no delight for the Word of God, if coming to church is like the most uncomfortable and miserable time that you have the entire week. If no matter what enticements you are given, you still have no interest in really reading the Word of God. There's something really wrong with your hearts. You might convince yourself that everything's good and you're a good Christian. After all, I am coming to church and after all Every once in a while I do open my Bible and read a few verses. But if you have no heart for that, if you have no delight in it, if it doesn't really nourish your soul, if it's just some obligation that you're Checking off your list. My friend, there's something really wrong with your hearts. And it could very well be that your mind is permeated. With the falsehoods of the world, with the filth of the world, do you have a hunger for the Word of God? Let's come to our key phrase here. Receive with meekness the engrafted word. The word order in the original text is interesting. It literally reads with meekness received the engrafted word. That is, the emphasis is on the attitude of meekness or humility. How does this really come into play? The question is this. Are you teachable? Can the word of God really correct your thinking and your behavior? Do you, when you hear a sermon and your heart is convicted, does that really make a difference in your life? Or do you say, well, that's interesting? Or that's something, and just continue on as if nothing has happened. The book of Proverbs places a great emphasis on this as well, the idea of being teachable. Of someone being able to come to you, a brother or a sister with an open Bible and say, you're doing wrong. The path you're on is not good. It leads to great destruction and difficulties in life You need to do what God has called you to do. Can someone open up the Word of God and read some verses and apply truth from it and you receive it? Or do you just become defensive, angry, and say, I'm going to live life on my own terms? This is one of the real tests of our humility to the Word of God. Are you teachable? There's one thing that keeps us from being teachable, and that is our pride. We must humbly receive the word. Now the picture in this verse is of soil that has been broken up It's been plowed. And it's tender and it's moist and it's soft. And when a seed is dropped in there, which will bring forth life, it will easily find a wonderful host and it will germinate and it will produce life. James may be having in mind what's known as the parable of the sower or the parable of the soils that Jesus taught. Receive with meekness the engrafted or the implanted word as a broken up soil receives the seed. But if pride hardens your hearts and the soil is hardened, it's been trodden down, says by the foot of men, then it will not receive the seeds. The whole of your Christian life is intended to be a perpetual reception of the word. In the preaching of the word, in Bible studies, in personal reading, every day you are to be intaking the Word of God. which will strengthen you and help you make right choices and help your mind to be adjusted and your thinking to be corrected. and and help to wash out the the filth that somehow inadvertently you've even picked up during the day. But if we don't receive it, if our hearts are hard and it makes no impression on us, and the seed can never get down there and germinate and bring forth life. Then we will be dry and dead and bring forth no fruits. Notice what it says at the end of this verse, verse 21, which is able to save your souls. You may say, well, I thought that James was talking to Christian people. He is. James is referring to the culmination. of our salvation. You see, the Bible speaks of our salvation as having a past, a present, and a future aspect The past aspect is that we have been justified. We have been saved from the penalty of sin. And if you're truly a born-again believer, right now you are in the present aspect. which we call sanctification. And that is that you are being saved from the power of sin. But in the future, in heaven someday, We have what's called glorification when you will be saved from the very presence of sin. You will be sinless. You will be as Christ. And what James here is saying is that the reception of the word on a regular basis is vital to the culmination of your salvation, to you gaining strength over the power of sin in your daily life. This is why we need to be reading the word and memorizing the word and meditating on the word and listening to the preaching of Your words. Your spiritual life desperately depends upon it. You will never grow unless you humbly listen to the word and you humbly receive the word. And thirdly, I want you to notice that you must respond to God's word with obedience. And this is found in verses 22 through 25. James says, but be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. For if any man be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in the glass. for he beholdeth himself and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work This man shall be blessed in his deed. James says in verse 22, a very important verse. He says, but be ye doers of the word and not hearers only. He's been exhorting those he's writing to. To listen and receive the word. But then he goes on quickly to say, but that's not enough. Yes, it's vital that you really reverently listen and receive the word in humility, but that's not enough. You must obey the word. You must become a doer of the words. And this is a command in the Greek text that expresses a continual obligation. You could render it this way. Keep on being doers of the word. There are no spiritual vacations in the Christian life. This term doer expresses a habitual practice. God wants us to be people who continually to grow in our obedience to the words. This is the way it works. When you take another step of obedience and you see where the Word of God reveals a weakness in your life. an area and you repent of that sin and you turn to Christ, you know what will happen when you are obedient to the word? The Lord's going to show you something else. Something else in time, he will show you that you need to do another step. And you need to keep taking those steps of obedience. God requires his followers to consider or to obey his word. He doesn't call us to consider his advice. We're not like some hired consultant. We're not like a neighbor giving us some advice over the backyard fence. No, he is our king and our master and our lord. And he said, Ye are my friends if you do whatsoever I have commanded you. We have been called to a relationship of obedience to Him. Now it's interesting this word hearers here. Be ye hears, be ye doers of the word and not hears only The Greeks placed a premium on education, and this word hears has the idea of someone who would go in. to a rabbi's uh lectures or a philosopher's lectures, and they would sit in with others and they would listen. kind of fascinated by what it's saying, but they made it clear that they were not followers. They were not disciples Kind of like someone auditing a college course. They don't get credit for it, but they find the information fascinating. And so they come in and they listen. But they're under no obligation to obey. That's the idea of the word that is here. Sometimes people come to church this way. Now we certainly don't mind mind people who are seeking the truth who come. Uh th they they would not profess to be Christians, but they want to know God's truth and they're seeking answers. I I I'm delighted to have those people visit our church. But what's a problem is when people come to church year after year and they believe somehow they are Christian, but yet they are really only spectators. They never apply God's truth to their lives. You'll notice that God gave us his word not to entertain us. Not to provide us with some advice for living a better life on this earth. He gave us his word so that we would be radically saved and changed and bring glory to his name. And notice the last phrase in verse 22 is very significant. It says, deceiving your own selves. Deceiving your own selves. What does James mean by that? He's saying that there is a real danger in constantly hearing the word of God. But never doing the Word of God. What's the danger there? The danger is, first of all, you might think that you are a Christian. Because you know some of the Word of God. You can quote John 3. 16. Maybe you know the Ten Commandments. You know some very basic foundational truths, and you go to church on a regular basis. And so if someone was to question you and say, hey, by the way, are you a Christian? The first things you would think of, well, of course I'm a Christian. I mean, I know some Bible verses. I can find different books of the Bible, and I go to church on a regular basis. Of course I'm a Christian. James says you might be deceiving yourself into thinking you're something that you're not. Because true followers of Jesus Christ, although we all do it imperfectly, we are followers who obey Another thing we might think, another way we might deceive ourselves is to thinking that we are really advancing in the Christian life. Because we read the Word of God and we go to a Bible study, or because we listen to a radio preacher, or because we go to church and we say, I am growing by leaps and bounds. I mean, yesterday I listened to the sermon on the radio. And today I'm going to a Bible study tonight. And tomorrow I'm going to church. I mean, I'm like a spiritual giant. I'm taking in all this information from the Word of God. Okay? But what difference is it making in your life? Are you really a different person? Is it changing the way you behave towards others and how you feel about God? and how you spend your money and how you spend your time. Is it really making a significant impact in your life? Or are you thinking that you're something that you're not? You think you're really growing by leaps and bounds. But you're not. Because nothing has changed. There has been no obedience. Now, James is going to provide contrasting illustrations here to make his point. And verse 23, he begins with this negative illustration, verses 23 and 24. For if any man be hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass, he beholdeth himself and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. Word of explanation. The word natural face here literally means the face that you were born with. You may not like the face you were born with. But it's what you see in the mirror every morning. And the word rendered glassier is a reference to a mirror Now, mirrors in the ancient world were actually polished metal. They were quite inferior to the middle the mirrors that we have today. And so a person had to really study in order to see the reflection carefully. And there's an intended contrast here. He says in verse 24, he's like a man beholding his natural face. And it continues into verse 24, beholding. And the word there can express a momentary glance. The idea here is this man Let's get this idea. He gets up in the morning. He looks in this polished piece of metal at his face. But he's maybe running late. He just takes a momentary glance. He makes no adjustments to his He doesn't fix his hair, he doesn't shave, he doesn't wash his face, he just takes a momentary look in the mirror. And he goes. The point that James is making is this, essentially, why does he even look in the mirror if he's not going to make any changes, right? Now I suspect that everyone here, when you got up this morning and you got ready and you looked in the mirror, I think you made some adjustments before you came here. But how often do we look into the mirror of the Word of God and we make absolutely no adjustment? We don't change at all. James's point is, what why are you even looking if you're not going to change anything? It says that he goeth his way and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was, out of sight, out of mind. He quickly rushes off into his day's activities, and of course, we don't think about what we look at because we don't see ourselves, generally speaking. And he's no longer troubled with his appearance, his hair that's out of place or whatever, because he doesn't see it. Then James gives us a contrasting positive example in verse 25. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty , And continueth therein. He being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. Now there's a contrast with that word beholding here. In this verse, we have this word looketh. It has the idea of bowing down to examine something carefully. This is not a momentary glance. This is a careful investigation. And it says, he continueth therein. He doesn't run off like the guy in the previous illustration. No, he continues, he studies, he looks carefully. If you're really going to glean life-changing truths from the Word of God, it's going to take more than a momentary glance. You're gonna have to think about it and maybe memorize it and meditate upon it and study it and compare cross-references And use study helps. And you're going to have to dig and think. And most of what we benefit from the Word of God is when we think. We really think through the scriptures. All right, what does this mean? What did the author mean when he penned these words? And how does that apply to me? Now that I know what it means, what does that really mean for my life? This is what God has called us to do. I like what it's the word of God has referred to here, this wonderful expression, the perfect law of liberty. Now, would you think of the Word of God that way? You know, the world thinks of the Word of God as this horrible, restrictive book. that keeps people from really enjoying life. That's a very effective lie that Satan has used. But you know what the word of God really is? It's a word, it's truth that brings liberty, brings freedom. to really live life in a significant and meaningful way, living for God's glory. It says this man is not a forgetful hear, but he's a doer of the work. This man has studied the Word of God. He's listened carefully to the Word of God. It's made an impact into his life and soul. And now he is going to go out and do something about it. It's going to compel him maybe to witness to his neighbor. It's going to compel him to make some changes in what he watches, or in how he speaks, or in how he spends his money. There is a definite change, or he's going to close up a relationship with someone. One of the very sad realities is that I think that if somehow, perhaps up in glory someday, we're able to see our spiritual life as it truly is, we will see in many Christians' lives entire decades. Where there has been no real spiritual growth because they've never put the Word of God into practice. They're just on cruise control. Yeah, they go to church every Sunday and they hear the word, but they go out. They didn't really listen carefully. They didn't receive it humbly, and they certainly didn't put it into practice. God has called us to a life of transformation and change. You don't need to turn here, but I want to read this verse in closing in 2 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 18. It uses the same analogy of a mirror. It says, but we all with open face beholding as in a glass or in the mirror the glory of the Lord are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. It's saying that as we look into God's mirror, the Word of God, and we study it, we see not only who we are and all those defects that we have. that we need to correct. But we also see the glory of Jesus Christ, and the more we gaze upon his face, the more we will become like him. Now this will not happen instantaneously. It says from glory to glory, that is, from one degree of glory to another, it will be gradual. It will be progressive. It will be like a staircase slowly and there will be times when we're going to slip and we're going to fall down a few stairs. And we get back up when we keep climbing. But overall, in time, we keep ascending that staircase until at the end of our lives, when we are with the Lord in glory, we will be like him. And what we are called to do today is to let the Spirit of God take the Word of God And change us, and we respond in faith and obedience to his word. One step of obedience to the Word of God is better than listening to a thousand sermons and changing nothing. God has called us to obedience. He's called us to faith, and faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And the only way that we can become That blessed individual that God has called us to be is by humbly receiving the word, by listening to it respectfully. and reverently by receiving it humbly and by obeying it submissively. And this way we can be changed and become The person that God wants us to be. Let's have every head bowed and every eye closed. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for your word How we all come short of being the hearers and the doers that you have called us to be. Help us, Father, not to take comfort in the fact that there are others who are not being changed. Help us, Father, to respond in the faith to what we have heard, and to obey you, and to follow your word, and let it transform us by your spirit. And Father, for those who are here today who are lost still in their sins, I pray, Father. that they would consider what has been said and seek the Lord. For this is the first step And the only way, Father, to be that blessed one. I pray, Lord, that you would use this word to bring glory to yourself, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.