Isaiah 65. This is uh if you remember the last couple weeks as we've been going through um In Isaiah 62, we have this message where the Messiah says, For Zion's sake, I will not keep silent. And for Jerusalem's sake I will not be quiet, until her righteousness goes forth as brightness, and her salvation as a burning torch. And we have the Messiah praying and interceding on behalf of the people of Israel. And then in verse 6 he says, I have set watchmen who are to intercede day and night. who are to put the Lord in remembrance until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth. And then in in chapter 63 We have the image of the conquering warrior coming in with blood-spattered garments from Basrah, from Edom, and he's coming to establish peace on the earth because he has brought judgment and now he's going to establish righteousness. And then we have this this prayer, an example prayer, a model prayer, you might say, of a watchman And this goes from chapter 63, 7 all the way to the end of 64. And we've spent the last few weeks looking at that. And we're coming out of 65, which is really in a tight connection with what we've been reading. 64 is the prayer. 65 is God's answer to that prayer. So it's very important to know the context here, what's happening so we can understand what we see in verse in chapter 65. But before we go there, let's not forget our theme. Return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. I'll probably say that several times tonight because it fits with our passage as well. And just again to see where we are, we're looking at God's comfort. through eschatology, through the study of last things, the ultimate end of our salvation that God has prepared for us. And here in chapter 65, we'll just read the first seven verses. We probably won't make it any further than that. We'll be fortunate if we make it even that far. He says, I was ready to be sought by those who did not ask me. I was ready to be found by those who did not seek me. I said, Here I am, here I am. to a nation that was not called by my name. I spread out my hands all the day to a rebellious people who walk in a way that is not good. following their own devices, a people who provoke me to my face continually, sacrificing in gardens and making offerings on bricks who sit in tombs and spend the night in secret places, who eat pig's flesh and broth of tainted meat is in their vessels. Who say, Keep to yourself, do not come near me, for I am too holy for you. These are a smoke in my nostrils, a fire that burns all the day Behold, it is written before me, I will not keep silent, but I will repay I will indeed repay into their lap both your iniquities and your father's iniquities together, says the Lord. Because they made offerings on the mountains and insulted me on the hills, I will measure into their lap payment for their former deeds. That'll be sufficient for tonight. But if you remember the watchman had asked a series of questions in his extended prayer, we see Several of those. For example, in Isaiah 63, verse 15, he asked, where are your zeal and your might? Where is the stirring of your inner parts and your compassion? Why are they held back from me? In verse 17 he says, O Lord, why do you make us wander from your ways and harden your heart? our hearts so that we fear you not. And we looked at that, tried to understand what that means. Not that God is is hardening our hearts, but that his his his restraining of his grace so that they turn not away because of their their continual sin. Then in 645 he says Behold, you were angry, and we sinned. In our sins we have been a long time, and shall we be saved? And then finally at the very end of chapter twelve, after looking and describing the fact that the temple has been destroyed, it's been burned by fire. He asks, will you restrain yourself at these things, O Lord? Will you keep silent and afflict us so terribly? And in this chapter, the Lord answers those questions, but and maybe in a somewhat unexpected way. The question is, will you keep silent? And you probably noticed it as I emphasized it in reading verse 6. But the Lord says, behold, it is written before me, I will not keep silent But the silence that we're going to find here is first of all a silence of judgment. The silence is going to come. When he breaks the silence, it'll be a judgment first. And then there'll be the salvation. But what he describes here in these first parts of these verses is he says, I was never unwilling to receive you. I was never unwilling to bring you back and to receive you repentantly to me. I have always been willing. I have always been eager for your repentance. The problem is you were unwilling. And the Lord speaks very boldly about this. He says that he spreads out his hands. In verse 2, to rebellious people. He says in verse 1, I was ready to be sought by those who did not ask for me. I was ready to be found by those who did not seek me. I said, Here I am, here I am. To a nation that was not called by my name. So in verse 2, the Lord says, I spread out my hands. all the day to a rebellious people. The idea of spreading out the hands is like a it's spreading an invitation. If you remember when we studied the book of Proverbs a few years ago We have this verse where Lady Wisdom is calling out in the street corners. She's calling out in the marketplaces. She's inviting people to come and receive her wisdom. And she says, Because I have called and you refuse to listen. I have stretched out my hands, and no one is heeded And this description of stretching out the hands is like, come, come, please, come. It's the stretching out of the hands with an invitation. And the Lord says, I have spread out my hands to you all the day long. What's interesting, this is a this is not the exact same Hebrew word, but these exact Hebrew words are found many times in the Old Testament. And they're descriptive of a person in the posture of praying. Of a person who's praying. For example, remember when Solomon prayed at the dedication of the temple? In 1 Kings 8, he says, Then Solomon stood before the altar of the Lord in the presence of all the assembly of Israel and spread out his hands towards heaven and said, O Lord God of Israel. And he prays in a posture like this, with his hands spread out to heaven. David in Psalm 143, verses 6 and 7, said I stretched out my hands to you. My soul thirsts for you like a parched land. Answer me quickly, O Lord. So you see, this is a the description of a person who is praying and beseeching God Pleading with God to work. Even when we come to the first chapter of the book of Isaiah, the Lord says, When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Even though you make many prayers, I will not listen. And why? Your hands are full of blood. Your praying is hypocritical. You're not serious. You are not truly repentant. So we see this is a picture of a person pleading in prayer. What's so amazing about this here is who is the one who's got his hand spread out. It's God. It's the Lord. God says, my hands have been spread out towards you. All the day, continually. I spread out my hands all the day. And to whom? To a rebellious God is the one who describes himself in this posture of prayer. Not that God is praying to man, but he's pleading with Israel. To what? Return and rest in Yahweh. For he alone is salvation. I alone am salvation. Return to me. Rest in me God is saying, I was willing to be found. In fact, I was eager to be found. The problem is you were not willing. So instead, he says, I will be found by a nation that was not called by my name. Maybe you notice that in verse 1. He said, Here I am, here I am, to a nation that was not called by my name. When I first read this, I wrote in the margins of my Bible, who? Who? Who's he talking about here? Israel is a nation that's called By his name. They're called the people of God, the people of the Lord. Um think about Second Chronicles 7. 14. He says, If my people who are called by my name. Who's he talking about? Not America. He's talking about Israel. If my people who are called by my name will humble themselves and pray and seek my face. So we have this reality here that God calls the nation of Israel a people who are called by my name. So that Who is he talking about here in verse 1? He said where he says, I said, here I am to a nation that was not called by my name. Honestly, when I was first reading this, I'm like, hmm, hmm. I need to answer that question. That is an important question to answer, because without answering that, we really can't understand what's being described here. Thankfully, we have a divine commentary on that verse. And so you don't have to just trust me or some commentator. The Bible is the best commentary many times on the Bible. And so when we can find other verses that reference this verse, it helps us tremendously to say with great authority who is being spoken of here. So would you turn your Bibles to Romans chapter 10? Romans chapter 10. And we have the Apostle Paul referencing this very verse. In Romans chapter 10, he actually references not only verse 1, but also verse 2. He says in verses 20 and 21 of Romans chapter 10, he says, then Isaiah is so bold as to say. I have been found by those who did not seek me. I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me. This is quoting from the Septuagint of Isaiah 65, verse 1. Notice what he says there in the next verse. But of Israel. He says, and now he's quoting verse 2, all day long I've held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people So we're talking about two different people. Verse 1 is talking about a certain people, and verse 2 is talking about a different people. Verse 2, we know, is talking about Israel. Verse 1 is talking about Gentiles. And we would see we'll see that as we kind of run through Romans 10 here very briefly. Romans 10 is one of the great evangelistic passages of the Bible. Which tells us things like this. If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Doubtlessly, if you've ever shared the gospel with someone If you ever use the Romans road, you've probably finished up with Romans 10, 9, and 10 and 13. And this this is where we come to these great verses. But the reality is this beautiful evangelistic passage is smack dab in the middle of a larger section of Romans. Romans 9 through 11. that deals with God's promises to the nation of Israel in light of the gospel going to the Gentiles. And the question comes up, has God abandoned his promises to Israel? Well most of us look at Romans 9, verses 1 through 3. Here's some of the verses. I am speaking the truth in Christ. I am not lying. My conscience bears me witness in the Holy Spirit. That I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart, for I could wish that I myself were accursed and cut off from Christ for the sake of my brothers, my kinsmen, according to the flesh. Who are the nation of Israel. The Apostle Paul speaking of the tribe of Benjamin. He's saying, I wish that I had such a passion for them that I would be willing to be cut off from Christ if they would be brought into Christ. In Romans 10, the first verse, he says, Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved. And it's important as you trace the words them and they throughout Romans 9, 10, and 11. The vast majority of the time it's speaking of the nation of Israel. And so that's very helpful as we work through these passages. Chapter eleven said, I asked then, has God rejected his people? By no means, for I myself am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, a member of the tribe of Benjamin. So we see Romans 9, 10, and 11 are kind of like a an excursus. in the doctrine of salvation, what do we do with the fact that the Gentiles have come into the kingdom and the Israelites, the nation of Israel, seems to have been set aside. The fact that the Gentiles had received righteousness by faith, and the Jewish nation as an entity, as a whole had in large part failed to respond by faith and therefore missed the promises of salvation, was a difficult thing for the Jewish people to be und to understand. How could it be that the chosen people had failed to be saved while the Gentiles had received salvation? The question comes: had the promises of God To Israel failed? Romans 9, verse 6. That question is specifically addressed. But it is not as though the word of God has failed. He's answering that question throughout Romans 9, 10, and 11. It's not that the promises of God to Israel have failed, for not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel. So in chapter 10, Paul is defending the fact that salvation is a gracious gift of God for all who will receive Christ by faith. or Gentile. Paul explains, if you look at Romans 10, verse 11, he says, for the scripture says, everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame. Well, where does the scripture say that? What scripture says that? Well that's Isaiah 28, 16. I might have that in my slide. Let's see. Yes, I do. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am the one who has laid as a foundation in Zion a stone, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone, of a sure foundation. Whoever believes will not be in haste. That means the idea of not being um in shame because they have been defeated. So whoever believes will not face defeat, but will ultimately be saved. Notice that the key word there that Paul is trying to bring out is whoever He says here, everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame. There's this tested cornerstone that whoever believes in will not be put to shame. Paul continues in verse 12 of Romans chapter 10 to explain that everyone or whoever refers not just to whoever among the Jews, but whoever, Jew or Gentile. He says in verse twelve of Romans chapter ten, For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. And then he quotes another verse. Now from Joel chapter 2. Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. And he's quoting Joel 2. 32 to buttress this fact that Jew or Gentile can receive the gospel. And then in verses 14 through 17, we have this beautiful passage of scripture that you've probably heard many times at missions conferences or at an ordination service. times like that where someone is being commissioned into ministry. And it's the process that is necessary for people to call upon the name of the Lord. For whoever shall call upon the name of the Lord Shall be saved. Well then how can they call on the name of the Lord? And he says in verses 14 through 17, how then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? You can't call on someone to save you if you haven't first believed in that person. You haven't trusted in that person. So there must be a belief. Well then, how are they to believe in him? Without having heard of him. He says, as we continue on here, and how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach? Unless they are sent. Remember the pastor's illustration Sunday morning to that about that preacher that was preaching in arrogance? Son, were you sent or did you just went? Has to be sent. There has to be a sending. By whom? By God. And then by the church, recognizing the gifts of that person. He says, How shall they preach unless they are sent? And then he says, as it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach good news. And here again we have the Apostle Paul quoting from the book of Isaiah, Isaiah 52, 7, to emphasize the glorious and vital nature of those who preach the gospel. It doesn't have to be behind the pulpit. It can be out one-on-one With your coworker and the cubicle. It can be with the with the mechanic next door to you. It can be with anybody. But he says, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. And we looked at Isaiah 52 when we were going through that passage, and the idea is a messenger who is bringing news of an existential battle. Imagine that Westminster is being surrounded by an invading military force and the Westminster army went out and fought against uh this invading military force and it's an existential battle. What's gonna happen to our our city of Westminster? And you see a messenger coming running in from the horizon with a message of good news, victory. That's what the gospel is. It's good news. Christ has been victorious over sin and death. And that's why he says the good news of Jesus Christ, when it is proclaimed, that messenger is truly beautiful. If you were there and your beloved city, your fair city of Westminster was under siege. And you heard the good news that that army, invading army, had been defeated. Wouldn't you be thinking that messenger who comes with that good news has uh is a beautiful sight to behold? In a similar way, does the person who brings you the good news of Jesus Christ, what a beautiful sight to behold The sad reality, though, as he continues on, is that although the good news has been preached all around the world, the Mediterranean world this time, the fact is that very few of the Jewish people had believed. And this may have been an objection that the people were using against the gospel of Jesus Christ, but Paul reminds them that's what Isaiah said would be the result of the preaching of the gospel. And he quotes Isaiah 53:1. The verses that we're memorizing right now here in church. Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? So what did Isaiah say? When the gospel of the substitutionary death of the Messiah is proclaimed, Very few will receive that message. Very few will believe that report. So the question comes in verse 18 of Romans chapter 10. He says, But I ask. Have they not heard? Has the nation of Israel, the days referred to the nation of Israel? Have they not heard? And he says, indeed they have. For their voice has gone out to all the earth, and the words to the end of the world. And there again he's quoting Psalm 19. Which is speaking of God's voice in general revelation. And he's saying, just as the general revelation of God has gone out to all the world, and many people have rejected it. So too the gospel message has gone throughout the Mediterranean world where the Jewish people have lived for centuries, and so too it has been rejected. Then he says in verse 19, But I ask. Did Israel not understand? Understand what? Understand that the gospel would go to the Gentiles. Do they not understand this? He's going back and answering a question that was asked at the end of verse 9, or at the end of chapter 9. Did Israel not understand that the gospel would go to the Gentiles? And he says, oh no. They understood because it's clearly described in the Old Testament. And he quotes Moses, then he quotes the prophets to prove this. He quotes Moses in Deuteronomy chapter 32. Deuteronomy 32, 21, when Moses told the people of Israel of a coming day. He was going off the scene, he was about to die, and he sings a song to them. I don't know about you. The song that I might sing might be a little more cheerful, but Moses, when he sings this song, the song of Moses, he tells them, You will worship idols. You will face the punishment of God. You will be taken captive. And you will be made jealous. By a people who are no people. And he says, he quotes here, I will make you jealous of those who are not a nation. With a foolish nation, I will make you angry. Moses tells them, this is going to happen. Under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he prophesies to them: this is the result of your rebellion against God that is surely going to come to pass. And so then Isaiah says, or then Paul says, I'm sorry, he butcher says this, not just with Moses, but then with the prophets. Then Isaiah is so bold as to say. So he says, this statement by Isaiah in Isaiah 65, 1 is a bold statement. Against the nation of Israel. I have been found by those who did not seek me. I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me. And he quotes Isaiah 65. 1. He's saying, You have said, Lord, you have been distant from us. Lord, you have been silent. And he says, no, no, I have been always willing. My hands have been stretched out to you. And to prove this, look, I have been found by a people who weren't even searching for me. I have been found by a people who weren't even a people. I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me. We think back, you know, many times we think, well, we're we're a Christian nation. We have a Christian heritage, but go back a little further. Many of us can find a non-Christian heritage not too far many generations back. But even go back further. Look in our heritages. Where were our tribal heritages before the gospel reached us? with no knowledge of the one true God, with no knowledge of his commandments, with no knowledge of a Savior until the gospel reached to us. But he says in verse twenty one, but of Israel, all day long I have held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. So going back to Isaiah 65, all of that was a little bit of a New Testament commentary on Isaiah 65 to help us understand what's he talking about? Who are these people? When he says in verse 1, I was ready to be sought. by those who did not ask me. I was ready to be found by those who did not seek me. I said, here I am, here I am. I would encourage you if you write notes in your Bible, right there next to verse 1, Gentiles, and then write Romans 10, 20. And then next to verse 2, write the Jews and wrote Romans 10, 21. God says, I am not hidden. And exhibit A is the fact that the Gentiles have responded to the gospel. I've stretched out my hands to you And you have rejected, but I have not turned my back on you. God is not hidden, but is calling all people to repent and believe. The second half of verse 1 is really beautiful. You think about it, it's almost like God is playing hide and seek with a little child. Says, here I am. Here I am. You pick like you ever played hide and seek with a child and you're like Hiding behind the door, and you're like, surely he can see my shadow, but he doesn't. And he's looking everywhere, I can't see you, I can't see you. Finally go, I'm over here. I'm over here Look up here. Maybe if you're up a little higher, look up here. And they're like finally they see you. That's kind of the idea of what's being described here. God said, I had to say, I'm right here. Before they finally looked and saw me and received me. We were a people who were not looking for him. God says, I want to be found. I am not distant. I am not disguised. I want to be found. The ultimate revelation of his love and desire to be found is in Jesus Christ Himself, God with us, Emmanuel. The eternal Son of God, taking on human flesh, born of a woman, born under the law, so that he could fulfill the law for us. He walked on the earth. He ate with sinners. He suffered persecution, rejection, torture, and death so that he could offer us salvation. If that's not God saying, here I am, here I am , Then what is? He came to the lowest and to the most despised. He was a friend of tax collectors and sinners. He cried out, Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. Even to this day, God is calling out to all people. Sinners and saints alike. Here I am. Here I am. He says, Return. Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth, for I am God, and there is no other. But the amazing thing is that God continued to spread out his hands. Even in the face of hypocritical religion, even to a people who were rebellious, and the word rebellious has the idea of just obstinate, recalcitrant rebellion. They were just refusing to believe. He said, I spread out my hands all the day. Notice he says all the day, but there God is just continually pouring out his open invitation to them, but at the same time, they are continually rejecting him. At the end of verse 3 Or in the middle of verse 3 says, A people who provoke me to my face continually. I am constant in my open, armed invitation to you. But you were equally constant in your rejection of my invitation. God says they provoke him, idea of enraging him. They're like smoke in his nostrils. And it's not just a occasional passing whiff of smoke. He says it is like fire that burns all the day at the end of verse 5. It's a constant smoke in his nostrils. And they provoked God with a number of things. He describes in verse 3 idolatrous worship. He says, A people who provoke me to my face continually, sacrificing in gardens and making offerings on bricks. What's so bad about that? Sacrificing in gardens and making offerings on bricks doesn't sound too bad. But it's interesting that Isaiah mentions this in chapter 1 and in chapter 66, kind of like bookends. of the book of Isaiah. In Isaiah 1, verse 29, he says, For they shall be ashamed of the oaks that You desired, and you shall blush for the gardens that you have chosen. You're like, gardens? What I don't understand Well then in Isaiah 66 verse 17, those who sanctify and purify themselves to go into the gardens, following one in the midst, eating pig's flesh and the abomination and mice shall come to an end together, declares the Lord. The worship in the gardens referred to the worship of the fertility gods and goddesses that were a major part of Canaanite idolatry. They believed they could go to certain groves where they would commune with the goddess Asherah through sacred trees. So this is not just like going into the garden and saying, Whoa, those beautiful flowers. They are seeking to commune. And worship idols in these gardens. It's not very much different from the current worship of Mother Earth and Gaia cult that we see today. And even the more extreme elements of the environmental movement, they worship and serve the creature more than the creator. There's not really very much different. It's just an age-old idolatry that's got new clothes on But it is still the same thing. They've chosen to worship the creature, the creation, more than the creator. And the reference to bricks. Again, you're like, why is it so bad to worship on bricks? Well God was very clear. Pagan idolatry was was done frequently on bricks. But God said because of that, he wanted his worship to be uniquely different. And he demanded his sacrifices to be done in the temple and only on an altar that would have uncut stones. He says in Oh, I missed that verse. Oh, I apologize. In uh Deuteronomy twenty-seven. And there you shall build an altar to the Lord your God, an altar of stones. You shall wield no iron tool on them. You shall build an altar to the Lord your God of uncut stones. And you shall offer burnt offerings on it to the Lord your God. It wasn't that somehow stones were more pure and bricks were more evil, but one was pagan. And the other was how God had demanded his worship to be done separate, distinct from paganism. The sad thing is, if you study the book of Ezekiel. You'll find out that God takes the prophet Ezekiel on this backstage tour through the temple in Ezekiel chapter 8. And what Ezekiel saw going on in the temple of God, the temple of Yahweh, was shocking. The Lord says, brings him to the temple, he says, here, see this hole in the wall? I want you to dig and go in through that hole. And he says in verses ten of Ezekiel 8, So I went in and saw, and there engraved on the wall, in the temple, all around, was every form of creeping thing and loathsome beast, and all the idols of the house of Israel. And before them stood seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel, with Jazaniah, the son of Shaphan, standing among them. Each had his censor in his hand, and the smoke of the cloud of incense went up. So there in the temple there's 70 elders of Israel worshipping idols in the house of God. And the Lord says to him, Son of man, have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel are doing in the dark, each in his room of pictures? For they say, The Lord does not see us, the Lord has forsaken the land. He said also to me, You will still see greater abominations that they commit. And he brought me to the entrance of the north gate of the house of the Lord, and behold, there sat women weeping for Tammuz A false God. And he said to me, Have you seen this, O son of man? You will still see greater abominations than these. And he brought me into the inner court of the house of the Lord, and behold, at the entrance to the temple of the Lord. Between the porch and the altar were about twenty-five men with their backs to the temple of the Lord and their faces towards the east, worshipping the sun toward the east. And he said to me, Have you seen this, O Son of Man? Is it too light a thing for the house of Judah to commit the abominations that they commit here? That they should fill the land with violence and provoke me still further to anger. Behold, they put the branch. To their nose. Like, what what does that mean? Most likely it's referring to the Egyptian unk. It looks something like a cross with a circle at the top. And it was Designed to be part of the fertility worship, and they would put it to the nose when they were sack of the sacrificer, when they were sacrificing to the fertility God. He says, here in the temple, my temple. They're worshiping false gods. And this is what the Lord is describing here. They're provoking him to anger. in this way. My arms are stretched out to you. Repent. Return and rest in Yahweh alone. For he alone is salvation. But instead they provoke him. They provoke him with necromancy and spiritualism. In verses four and following he says, Who sit in tombs and spend the night in secret places, who eat pig's flesh and broth tainted of tainted meat in their vessels. So here we have them involved in necromancy and the occult doing demonic things. Instead of desiring to hear from God, they desire to hear from Dead ancestors. This was already brought out in Isaiah 8, verses 19 through 20. And he says, And when they say to you, inquire of the mediums and necromancers who chirp and mutter. Should not a people inquire of their God? Should they inquire of the dead on behalf of the living? To the teaching and to the testimony, which is to the Word of God. Let the Word of God be what you inquire at. If they will not speak according to this word, it is because they have no dawn. We see this in our culture more and more today People following after seances and fortune-telling and Ouija boards and shamanism, which is rapidly on the rise in our culture. Christians are to have no part of the demonic. This is clearly and demonstrably spoken against in the Word of God. God says, this angers me. And they provoked God with elitism. He says in verse 5 that they say, even though they're doing all this wickedness, they say, Keep to yourself, do not come near me, for I am too holy for you. These are a smoke in my nostril, a fire that burns all the day. As we see in the New Testament with the Pharisees and their Their elitism, their self-righteousness, they desire to be known as holy. But truly they were not holy. They desire to maintain this external holiness, and they believe that's more important than internal righteousness This is what Jesus defied in his teaching about the Good Samaritan when they wouldn't help a man who is injured up by the side of the road because they're afraid of defiling their own external holiness. Remember in Luke 7 when Jesus was eating at the table of the Pharisee Simon and the sinful woman came in and she's weeping and she pours out the ointment on his feet and she anoints his feet with her hair. And Simon the Pharisee says, if this man were a prophet, he would have known who and what sort of woman this is who is touching him, for she is a sinner. He only was concerned with externals. But we see the heart of God in Jesus Christ spreading out his hands. Again saying, I spread out my hands all the day. All who will come in humble repentance I will receive. This is the beautiful message of this passage. There's more I'd like to say, but we're out of time. The fact is, God says, I have not been distant. I have not been hidden. I have been stretching. I'm not even sitting here with my hands folded. I am stretching out my hands to you like I am the one praying to you to come to me. But you would not. But I was found by those who weren't looking for me. I was found by those who didn't know me I said, I had to tell them, here I am, I'm over here. I had to come in human flesh. So that they would understand. But the beautiful truth is that God is stretching out his hands all the day. And if there's anyone here that says, I have done too many things, I have sinned so many times. I've sinned so far. There's no hope for me. The Bible says what? My hands are stretched out all the day. Return and rest in Yahweh, for He alone is salvation. Repent. The idea of return is to repent. Turn to the Lord and be saved all the ends of the earth. For I am God and there is no other. God delights in mercy. He does not delight in judgment. But we'll find out here as we look next week. He will judge. He will not keep silent. He must judge. But he delights in mercy, and his hands are stretched out to any and to all who will come to him, Jew or Gentile alike. pray. Father, we thank you for your mercy. We thank you for your abundant kindness and grace to us. that you are eternal creator, you the holy one of Israel, would stretch out your hands to a rebellious, to a recalcitrant people. And offer salvation to all who will call upon the name of the Lord. Father, we praise you and thank you. Lord, I pray if there's any here tonight that have never done that, have felt that maybe they've gone too far. Pray that today that they would recognize this free invitation to come and find grace and forgiveness in Jesus Christ. We pray, Lord, that today their eyes would be opened and they would respond in humility and in faith. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.