If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Hebrews chapter 5? Hebrews chapter 5 I think it's safe to say that nobody likes to be called a baby. One of the factors that encourages children to grow up and mature if we're honest, is the ridicule of their peers. I can remember as a small child struggling to learn to tie my shoes Maybe you did as well, I don't know. But I can remember being taught and trying to learn it, but having some difficulty with it. And of course, you could always get some adult somewhere to tie your shoes if you couldn't do it, so it wasn't a big deal. But I can remember once playing with one of my friends and my shoes weren't tied and I didn't tie them. He says, wait, you don't know how to tie your shoes? What are you, a baby or something? And suddenly I was highly motivated to learn to tie my shoes. In this passage before us this morning that we read together, the anonymous writer of Hebrews is goading his readers. because of their immature response to the Word of God. In a sense, he is shaming them for their arrested spiritual development. He's telling them in a loving but very direct way that they need to grow up. Much of the Bible, of course, was written to encourage us to become who we are in Christ. It calls believers to grow in grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And it's a lifelong process that we call sanctification. But sadly, many believers never go very far. They never really grow up. They remain spiritual toddlers. And unfortunately, this is not the exception today. I think that in our broader Christian culture, it's more the rule. And no wonder our churches are venues of entertainment, often and not houses of worship. Our sermons are often motivational speeches without any biblical authority. And our songs often say more about us than they do about God. So how did we get to this place in our contemporary Christianity? I believe that our text this morning provides one of the explanations. Look with me at this passage together, verse 11, of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing that ye are dull of hearing. For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again the first principles of the oracles of God. And there are become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat. For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. But strong meat belongeth to them that are full of age, even of those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. This is the third of five warning passages in the book of Hebrews. These passages were written to admonish these early Jewish believers not to abandon their faith in Christ because of the hardship and persecution that they were facing. They were being cast out of their Jewish communities. They were barred from the synagogue. Their parents disowned them. In many cases, they lost their jobs. Some were imprisoned. It was a very high price to pay to follow Jesus of Nazareth. And some of those who started out saying that they were followers of Jesus Christ said, you know what, it's not worth it, and they went back. And so the writer of Hebrews writes this book to admonish them not to go back, and he includes within this wonderful book these various warning passages. The passage that we're looking at this morning is really a digression from his discussion about the priesthood of Christ. That's why I included in our Bible reading today verse 10, which talks about the fact that Christ is a priest after the order of Melchizedek. And what we find in verses 11 through 14 is that there is a correlation between a person's response and use of the Word of God and their spiritual developments. The reason why we live in a generation of spiritual pygmies in large part is because many professing Christians are nearly biblically illiterate. They don't know their Bible very well. They don't know what God has said in His Word. They know a few basic ideas. They know a few famous verses, but that's about it. They don't really know the teaching of God's Word. And the Bible is clear that it's impossible for us to mature and grow as we ought without the ministry of the word, just as it's impossible for a child to become healthy and strong without nutritious food So it's impossible for a Christian to really grow up spiritually without taking in the Word of God. Your spiritual maturity is revealed by the way you respond to the Word of God. I want to show you some marks of spiritual immaturity that come out of this passage. I don't want this to be a negative message at all. I don't want you to leave her saying, I was really beat up this morning. That's my desire. My desire is to challenge us and to encourage us. And I know that there are many people here. Many people here. That I know have a wonderful response to the Word of God. You are people of the book. You study it, you read it, you memorize it. We have many people who memorize scriptures. in this church. We have many people who really soak in the Word of God as it's preached, and it's a privilege to preach the Word of God in this assembly. But I want everyone to be on board. I want everyone to be students of the Word. I want everyone to be growing in grace. And so as we, as it were, go back to school here, as many of our families will be entering a new schedule, I wanted to preach something to deal with the Word of God and remind us. Of what of the importance of the Word of God in our spiritual maturity. Would you notice with me, first of all, that immature believers are unwilling to carefully listen to the Word of God. He says in verse 11, of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing that ye are dull of hearing. Now, many scholars think that the book of Hebrews is kind of like a transcribed sermon. It's one of the very best examples we have. of what it would be like to hear a sermon in the early church. You want to know what it would be like to go to a service in the first century and hear a message? Turn to the book of Hebrews or another one would be the book of James and you would have an example of a discourse there. Now The writer of this book is right in the middle of some deep doctrine, wonderful doctrine. He's talking about the fact that Christ is a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. That's what he's talking about in verse 10. But I suspect that he's looking out as he's going into this deep doctrine, this wonderful truth. And he sees what preachers sometimes see, and that is this glazed over look on people's eyes. And he really and of course I've never seen that, but He notices that they're not with him. They're not following him. And he still has so much more that he wants to unpack about this profound doctrine. But he's going to pause here, and he's going to give them a word of admonition , about a proper response to the Word of God. The problem is not so much that the doctrine is too hard to understand or that the teacher is here unable to explain it. The problem is that the students are not really motivated to learn. We have a number of people here who are teachers or have taught, maybe in a grammar school, maybe in a Christian school, maybe in a public school, maybe Sunday school, but we have lots of teachers here, and you know That it makes all the difference in the world whether or not your students are motivated to learn. If they are not motivated to learn, you can stand on your head. You can jump up and down, but they won't get it because they don't want to. He says here that they are dull of hearing. Now this word doll, the Greek word that's used here, is used only one other time in your New Testament. And it's very convenient because it's the very next chapter. Turn with me to chapter 6 and verse 12. Hebrews 6 verse 12 says that ye be not slothful. There's our word, the same word that's translated dull. So a person who is dull of hearing is a person who is lazy. I want you to notice some implications of this. What's the opposite of being lazy? Well, working hard, being attentive, putting some effort into it. Did you know that it takes hard work to carefully listen to the Word of God when it is preached? It does. I want you to listen to the words of an old Puritan preacher by the name of Richard Baxter. He said, make it your work with diligence to apply the word as you are hearing it. Cast not all upon the minister. You have work to do as well as the preacher and should all the time be as busy as he is. It's very easy to settle back in your seats and become entirely passive and just completely zone out and hear nothing that is preached. Everyone has done that at one time or another in their life. The fact is, the odds are stacked against us. You think about it. You know your flesh does not want to listen. Every single person, every single child of God has the flesh remaining within, the Bible teaches, and your flesh recoils at listening to the word of God. It would much rather be out on the golf course or sitting by the pool or watching the NFL today or something else or in beds. Your flesh Does not want to hear the preaching of the word, and so you've got that obstacle against you. You also have been conditioned by modern society to only listen to short sound bites. You know, commercials 30 seconds long, or maybe a little bit longer, but they're very brief, very short, and You've been conditioned to hear just little things, not listen to a discourse for like 45 minutes. Maybe people in the past had no trouble with that, but modern audiences struggle with that. You also consider this have been conditioned to respond to the visual Rather than the verbal. Our ancestors were much more attuned to the verbal, to reading and to listening to speech. We want to see color. We want to see pictures. We want to see video We have been conditioned to learn in that way. And then there is the fact that so many people come to church Sunday morning and they're absolutely exhausted. They're worn outs. They've had a hard day of work. And maybe on Sunday, on Saturday they were doing all kinds of yard work or they went on some activity. You know, their whole day was just filled with nonstop activity. They got to bed late. They come to church Sunday morning, and this is the first time in six days that they had a moment's rest. And they get it during the morning worship service. Not only that, but the Bible tells us that Satan wants to snatch the seed of the Word of God away before it can germinate in a person's heart. So he creates distractions, both internal and external. So that you're distracted by things that might be happening elsewhere in the service or things in the back of your mind that you think of I've got to deal with a Monday morning at work or whatever. But those things plague on your mind and you no longer receive the Word of God. You see, the odds are really stacked against us. From really receiving the word, we have all these obstacles and hindrances against us That's why we have to work hard. We have to realize that there's a spiritual war going on, even as the word of God is being preached, even within our own hearts. We must not be lazy, slothful, dull of hearing. Not only were they lazy, often we can be scripturally apathetic The verb tense here would indicate that they had become dull of hearing. That is, they weren't always dull of hearing. They weren't always lazy and attentive to the Word of God There was a time when they were first saved, perhaps, and they took in every word from the preacher. They couldn't wait to come to church. They couldn't wait to hear Peter puts it this way, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word, they have a healthy appetite for the Word. You want to know where you are spiritually. Just ask yourself if you have any appetite for the Word of God. Young people, you want to know where you are spiritually. Would you ever read the Word of God if you weren't forced to? If your parents, hey, have you read your Bible today? Or if a teacher or peer or somebody else said, hey, you know, you really should come to a Bible study, you really should read the Word of God. Would you ever open the book if it was completely up to you? What is your attitude towards the Word of God? Do you love it? Is it your comfort? Is it your light? Is it your nourishment? Do you seek it? Do you want to study it? Do you want to learn it more? Do you want to master it Or is there set in this dullness, this apathy, you no longer regard it as a great treasure? It's no longer like fine gold, as the psalmist says, or like honey that's sweet to the taste. Something that's become commonplace and it no longer connects or reverberates in your soul. The fact is that the Word of God And our appetite for it must not just be a phase of our lives. It should be ongoing throughout our lives. Just like a person's health can be determined by their appetite. If a person has no appetite for food at all, they're just not hungry, or they just never want to eat, they're just always pushing the plate away, they never want to eat any food, something is wrong. Something is desperately wrong if they have no appetite for nourishment. The same is true of the Word of God. So what do we do if we don't have much appetite for the Word of God? Well, there's many things we can do One thing you need to do according to 1 Peter chapter 2, I'm not going to take the time to look at that passage, but a lot of the reason that we don't want the Word of God is because we've been feeding other appetites. We've been filling our hearts with sinful things, and they've been crowding out and dulling our appetite for God's word. Because we have sinned that we have not dealt with, that we have not confessed, that we are still indulging in, sort of like a kid. who eat some candy before the meal and when the meal comes around, the kid doesn't want any substantial food because they have no hunger anymore Often we are like that. Often that is the reason why we can go to church week after week after week after week and not profit at all. Because we've come to the dinner table, but we haven't really taken it in. Because we have been savoring the candies of the world. One thing that we need to do is we need to get on our knees and cry out to God. I would encourage you to pray. Psalm 119 has so many beautiful expressions about the quickening of the spiritual life of the word of God and about God uh uh working in his heart to renew him and restore him to where a person needs to be. Why don't you try that? But Something else you must do is try to intentionally structure your life so that you don't get more so that you get more of the Word of God. We all live by various routines, don't we? It's very easy to settle into a new routine that really is not good for you. One of the things that I have noticed over the years, and I've talked to numbers of people about it, is you know It doesn't take long for people to establish a new routine where they don't come to church anymore. Only takes a few weeks, for a few times they feel a little guilty about it, feel a little troubled about it, but that will soon dissipate. And then the devil will use many different things to keep you away. One of the most powerful things I have discovered that he uses that I never would have thought of was this. When people have been away for like weeks or months. And they used to regularly attend a church and they come back, well-meaning people. This isn't a wrong thing, I'm not saying, but people come, hey man, I've missed you. Where have you been? I mean, it's been like three months and I haven't seen you. And people think about that and they say, I don't want to face that when I go to church. I don't want to be interrogated. So they just continue to stay home. And something that they would never have imagined. That they would stop going to church, all of a sudden becomes their new norm, their new pattern of living. We need to make attending church the habit, the routine, but the delight of our life. As we come to fellowship and to receive the preaching of the word, I would encourage you to get as much as you can. You know, if you just come here Sunday morning, And that's all the formal biblical instruction that you get in your week. Can I tell you, I can't give you all that you need. You may say, well, I can listen to other sermons, or I can read my Bible, I can be involved in Bible studies. That's true, and I hope you do But I would encourage you to consider other avenues as well. Let me just put in a plug here for Sunday School. We have a wonderful Sunday school program. We have some wonderful teachers. We have teachers for every age group. We have wonderful facilities downstairs for them to meet in. We make a convenience right before the morning service. It's not like you have to come back at another time. It's based on the Word of God. And we have wonderful adult teachers for various age groups, from college age to young marriage to middle-age to Elderly folks, we have all kinds of different offerings, all based on the Word of God. What a wonderful provision to study more of God's Word and to learn more of God's Word and to connect more deeply with other people in the church. We have frontline clubs for our children on Wednesday nights and youth groups I'm going to encourage you to take advantage of these. Maybe you used to attend some of these things and you've gotten out of the habit. I'm going to encourage you to consider Coming back and making that part of the structure and routine for your family. We desperately need the Word of God. to strengthen us and to help us grow. But I want you to notice secondly, not only are immature believers unwilling to listen to the word of God , But they are unable to effectively teach the Word of God. Look at verse 12. For when, for the time you ought to be teachers. Ye have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God. Now this might be an eye-opening verse. You ever thought of the implications of this? The clear implication of this verse is that every single believer who has been saved for a sufficient number of years, it says Speaks of the time element here, should be able to in some way to teach the word of God. That's what the implication of verse 12 is. Now, does that mean that every person should be able to preach a sermon or get up before an adult Sunday school class and teach a lesson? That is not what that is saying. The Bible is clear that God has given gifts in the area of teaching, but every believer should to some degree be able to communicate God's truth after they have been saved for some time. What does that look like? Well, let me give you some examples. Every Christian parent should be able to talk to their children about God. Did you know that? That's teaching. Every Christian parent, we find that in the book of Deuteronomy, chapter six, it talks about the fact, that's the key passage on that. Here, O Israel, the Lord our God is one God, and we are to teach them to our children. And it's not talking about that you sit them down and at a certain time of the day and and you have this little lesson that you give to them. It says that when you're coming or going or sitting down or rising up. In other words, throughout your normal everyday activities, you should be looking for opportunities. and teachable moments to explain God and His truth to your children. Every Christian parent should do that. So dad, do you ever talk to your kids about gods? Obviously it's got to be age appropriate. It's going to be different conversation you have with a three-year-old than you would have with a 23-year-old. But we need to talk to our kids about God. Moms, you need to be able to give biblical reasons for why you do what you do to your kids, giving them biblical instruction. They need to hear from your mouth. One of the things that I think is far too common is that good Christian people, people who come to church every Sunday I've discovered that a lot of the parents never ever share anything that God has shown them or taught them to their children. That is so powerful when you can say to them, listen, let me tell you how God worked in my life. Let me tell you how God opened my eyes. Let me tell you how God kept me from making a huge mistake. And I went this path and said, let me tell you how God forgave me. Those things resonate with your children. But if they see that you keep that entirely private and you never share what God is teaching you, you never share your own growth and grace, your own mistakes. your own lessons that you have learned, they're going to think that there is no real element to this, that this is all just kind of A show and you go to church and and uh and so forth, but you never talk about what's really important to you. We've got to be able to teach your kids. We can't leave that up to the Sunday school teacher or to the pastor or the Christian school or whatever. That's got to come from you, mom and dad. So this is one way, one way that we should all be teachers, and that is that we should all teach our our children. Another way is that we should be able to witness and defend what we believe. 1 Peter 3. 15 says Be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. He doesn't say this is something that pastors should be able to do. He doesn't say this is something that deacons should be able to do. He says this is something that every believer should be able to do. Someone works and says, hey, why are you Christian anyway? Why do you believe that that book is the Word of God? Why do you believe that Jesus is the only way? I mean, that's kind of bigoted. What about all these other religions? Why do you think yours is right Do you have any answers for those questions? According to 1 Peter 3, you should be able to. You should be able to provide some reasons of why you believe what you believe. And the fact is that every believer should be able to provide biblical counsel to other believers. Sometimes we put way too much emphasis on like the professional or the expert. The fact is every believer should be able to provide some basic spiritual counsel to other believers. Romans chapter 15 and verse 14, Paul writes, Nevertheless, brethren, I have written the more boldly unto you in some sort as putting you in mind because of the grace that is given unto me of God. And then he says in the previous verse, I am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye also are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able to admonish one another. You should be able to help your brother and sister in Christ. And they come to you and they say, you know, I'm struggling with this problem You know what most people say? Talk to the pastor. And obviously there are times they need to talk to the pastor. But you know what would be really powerful for them? If you were said, you know, let me let me show you some verses that it that that have been helpful to me like that in this area Let me show you some principles. I've never been exactly where you are, but let me show you some truths in God's word that I think apply to this situation. What a wonderful thing. Every Christian should be able to do that to some degree. Let me give you a quiz here. Man, if a brother in Christ comes to you struggling with pornography, would you know some verses to turn to? Would you know some principles? Would you be able to give some concrete help to that person? Ladies, if a woman came to you and she was really interested, she was a Christian woman in this church She was really interested in an unsaved man. And she asked, you know, do you really think I should pursue this relationship? What counsel would you give her? And would you have biblical texts that you could tie it to? Not just you're talking off the top of your head, but you could say, well, let's look at this verse here. You should be able to do that. Any Christian woman here should be able to do that if you've been saved for any length of time. And every Christian should be able to disciple or mentor new believers. The Lord wants all of us to be kind of in a cycle. That is, we come to Christ, we are saved. and were discipled by other brothers and sisters in Christ. And they show us the ropes, as it were. They show us how the Christian life practically works. And then you know what happens in time as we mature, we should be mentoring other people, other believers. Ideally, in a perfect situation, everyone here would have people that are mentoring them and that you are mentoring. We're all working and strengthening and helping and supporting one another on the basis of God's truth. That's what this passage is telling us. And would you notice with me it says that every believer should move beyond the basics? The basics are important, the basics are essential. But have you moved beyond the basics? Notice what it says here. For what time you ought to be teachers you have need that one teach you again. Which be the first principles of the oracles of God. Now all the commentators mentioned that this term first principles is a reference to the ABCs. All right, the alphabets. Okay? Those are basics, right? What little kids learn. They learn their ABCs The building blocks of language. The basics are so important we must have those down, but God expects us to move beyond the basics. So that we can go to deeper doctrine and grow in grace. What does he mean by the basics? Well in chapter six and verse one, part of this very passage, he talks about things like repentance and faith. We're talking about the gospel. And we never get away from the gospel. We never get, as it were, beyond the gospel, because the gospel permeates everything. But we should know more than John 3. 16. We should know more than just what it means to be a Christian, how a person comes to know Christ. There are so many Christians when that's about all that they know God wants us to go on. There's always more to learn. You never arrive in your knowledge of God's Word. You never come to a place where you say, you know what, there's just nothing more for me to learn. No. I have to tell you, you know, I've been uh uh a a Christian now for a number of years. And uh I was thinking uh A little nostalgic this weekend, 30 years ago this weekend that I went away to college to train for the ministry. And I took my son to the same place in the same dorm on the same day. But you know, I've been studying God's Word seriously for 30 years, and I've been preaching and teaching for much of that time. And you know what? I still am learning every day. And I never think to myself, you know, I don't know what else to preach. You know, I've kind of preached, I don't That never occurs to me. I'm always thinking, boy, I wish I had more time. I wish I had more time to study and more time to preach and more because there's so much more. You're not going to exhaust God's truth. We can always move on and go further and go deeper. This writer saying continues in verse 13, for everyone that uses milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. He's saying that they're like little infants that can't take solid food, they can't eat meat. One of the great indictments of modern Christianity. is that there's a relative lack of solid spiritual food. And it's a two-way street Because we live in a market-driven world, a consumerist mentality, when preachers realize that most people don't want anything deep. They don't want anything controversial. They don't want anything that's going to confront them. They don't want anything that's going to challenge the status quo. When they realize that and they want to build a ministry that is going to be really large but not deep, they will cater to the appetites of people. And so we have a lot that passes for spiritual teaching or Christian teaching today that is really junk food or at best baby food. It's just milk. There's nothing in it. There's no depth. It doesn't go far. It's not solid. It's not going to really build up a person so that they're strong. And they know God's truth, they're able to discern air, and they're able to repel the attacks of the wicked one. It's not going to really equip them for real life and for the combat of the spiritual life. You know, little children, they like flavors. They like junk food. And a lot of places are serving up Doritos and birthday cake. You know, it's really tasty. It makes you feel really good right after you eat it. But it's not going to build you up so that you're a strong, healthy person. Maybe you've seen some of these Trials and things of uh people do crazy things like say what would happen if I were to eat at McDonald's every meal for 30 days, you know, stuff like that. It 'll look so good after 30 days. I often wondered if people could physically see how we look spiritually, what would we look like? Some people be walking around like a living skeleton because they live on a starvation diet. Or other people who are completely out of proportion and out of shape spiritually because they only feed on stuff that makes them feel good, spiritual, junk food, but they don't have anything substantive and nutritious that's going to build them up. God wants us To have solid spiritual food and to develop a taste for solid spiritual food. You know, it doesn't take effort to learn to like junk food, right? But it does take some effort to learn to like some vegetables and some things, but people can acquire that taste. It's the same way in the spiritual realm. We need to stretch ourselves and develop ourselves so that we do not need a little kitty meal. That we can take strong food because we have developed by the Spirit of God the ability to do that Let me give you another test. Immature believers are unable to effectively use the Word of God. Verses 13 and 14. speaks of this word, useth, or only takes milk. One of the questions that commentators debate about in this passage is what is the word of righteousness? Some scholars Say that the focus is on the word that they can't speak or explain the righteousness of God. In other words, they they know some truth, but they can't articulate God's truth. That's possible Others say this is focused on the judicial aspect of righteousness. That is, it refers to the justification of the believer. But most likely, most scholars think this is a reference here in this passage to ethical righteousness. It means that immature believers who have not on a regular basis taken and used the Word of God cannot live out the application of God's word in their life. They compartmentalize God 's truth so that what they hear Sunday morning has no reference, has no impact on how they live the rest of the week. So they will come to church Sunday morning and they will sing hymns about the fact that God is holy. They will hear preaching about the greatness and the glory of God. They will hear about God's truth. But then they go out Monday through the rest of the week and they live a lifestyle that is completely the opposite of God's truth. There's been no connection there. They have this great moral disconnect. They don't understand that their relationship with Christ changes everything. And it should permeate every area of their life. And so they go out and there's no change in their language. They talk like everybody else at the office or everybody else at the job site. There's no difference in their families. They're just like their neighbor in their home. It's a war zone. Or there is an uneasy truce where there's tension in the air. There's not yelling, but there's a tension. There's a stifling quietness there because there's no communication taking place between husband and wife. Or their entertainment choices are just like their lost counterparts filled with violence and sensuality. And with the elements of the world. So often there's a disconnect between what we say we know and what we believe and what is said in God's word and the way we live. We haven't made the connection that what God says is true and this has changed everything in our lives. How does that happen? Well, one of the things to mention here is that they don't use it. They haven't exercised it. They haven't put it into practice. This word exercise in verse 14, we get our English word gymnasium from this Greek word. Exercise, put it into practice. How do athletes get so good at certain sports? How does a baseball player come to hit a hundred mile an hour fastball? Well, one thing is Innate talent and skill. A lot of people could practice and never hit a hundred mile-an-hour fastball consistently because you just don't have the reflexes for it. But even with those who do have the reflexes, they have to hone that skill. They have to be in the batting cage. They have to practice and practice and practice and practice until it becomes second nature. Some of you know the name of Pete Merevich, known as the pistol, a real basketball legend who later in his life came to Christ. He's still the all-time leading scorer in college basketball, even though he only played three seasons. In those three years, he averaged 44 points per game in college. He once scored 68 points in an NBA game. He was very talented and skilled, but he was also an incredibly hard worker. How did he become so skilled? He practiced every day for at least eight hours growing up. In the winter, he would shovel the snow off of his driveway so he could practice shooting baskets. He became incredibly skilled because he practiced all the time The Word of God should not be a strange book to us. It should be like an old friend. And we can find things very easily and very comfortably because we're always turning its pages. We're always looking at it and consulting it We should be able to know the Word of God so that in an instant when we need a verse, when we need to give counsel, when we need to repel a lie of Satan, we can find it, we can consult it. It's there, it's been hidden in our hearts. And this makes all the difference in the choices that we make in life. It says here to discern both good and evil. One of the great needs of the day is spiritual discernment. Spiritual discernments. Do you possess spiritual discernment? Are you able to distinguish between truth and error? I've said this to you before, you know it would be really, really helpful as false teachers wore a sign around their neck that said false teacher. That'd be so helpful. Be such a blessing. Save so much time and effort, but it doesn't work that way. And how many Christians get off track and go astray because they have no discernment and they take in Spiritual nourishment that is poison to them. And it's not just being able to distinguish between what is good and what is bad, what is truth and what is error. But even being able to distinguish between what is good and what is great, what is better and what is best. This is really often what distinguishes a Christian and their ability to live the Christian life effectively, is they're able to make those right choices. And the choices are not based on the fact that they're a brilliant person. But because they know what God has said and because they've handled and used the Word of God throughout their lives so often that they have an innate instinct about what is right and what is true, because God 's word is a part of the very fiber of their being. This is what the Word of God teaches again and again in Ephesians chapter 4. You don't need to turn there But Paul writes, till we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. that we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine by the slight of men and cunning craftiness whereby they lie in way to deceive But speaking the truth in love may grow up into him in all things which is the head, even Christ. Spiritually mature people are not tossed about by the latest trends, but the latest ideas that come and go as quickly. as they came, but they seek God's eternal truth and they're grounded in the rock and nothing shakes them Spiritually mature people make good decisions in life. The Hebrew word for wisdom comes from a root that actually means skill. A wise person, a skillful person, when they come to a fork in the road of life, they take the right fork. They take the right fork because God is leading them. His word is a lamp to their feet and a light to their path. How much misery, how much difficulty comes into people's lives because of poor choices that they make. And they often compound those choices one after another after another after another, and their life becomes like a big knot. You don't even know how to begin to unravel it. God's way, God's truth. Making choices according to his will is the only way that we can really live the Christian life. Many years ago there was a lady who came to me and told me a story that was tragic. She met a man who seemed to be a good guy. She liked him, he was funny. And he asked her to marry him. The only problem was that he was lost. And he made it clear that he had no interest in spiritual things, would not go to church, wouldn't interfere or keep her from going, but He said, no, thank you. That's not for me. It's not something I want in my life. This lady was a brand new believer, and she didn't know her Bible well at all. But she was part of a woman's Bible study where there were many mature women who had been Christians for 30 and 40 years. And they were part of this Bible study. And so she brought this before them. She poured out her heart to them. She said she did care for him, but she didn't want to make a mistake. And they asked her if he was a good provider and if he loved her. And she answered, yes. And they told her to follow her heart. And she married him and her life was a disaster. And she came to me and she said, Pastor, why didn't those godly mature women who had sat under preaching all their lives in good churches, who carried the Bibles everywhere. Why didn't they tell me what God's Word says? The Word of God is essential to our spiritual growth and maturity. It's a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. May God help us to mature and all of us to grow up in Christ. As we take in the nourishment of God's word and as we make our choices based on God's truth. Let's have every head bowed. Every eye closed. Maybe you're hearing God has spoken to your heart because you do not have an appetite for the Word of God like you once did You don't come to church nearly as often as you used to. You don't read it like you used to. You don't study it. You don't memorize it. That's a problem. God wants you to grow through his word. Maybe you need to restructure your routine and that of your family that you might better avail yourself of God's truth. Maybe you're here. And the reason why you have absolutely no appetite or interest in the Word of God is because you don't know God. You're not a believer. You need to seek the Lord. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. I would encourage you to continue to put yourself under the preaching of the Word and to read it and seek it with all your heart. And if you're here and you recognize that you are an immature believer, you haven't grown up. Cry out to God and beg of Him to strengthen you that you might become the man or the woman of God that He wants you to be. That you might be a blessing to your family and to others. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for this wonderful treasure that you've given to us. Help us, Father, in the days and weeks ahead to be a people of the book. And to grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.