It is so good to have you with us here this morning. If you have your Bible, you can be turning with me. We'll be looking at several passages this morning, but you can be turning to Matthew chapter 13. One of the great classics in Christian devotional literature is a book by Andrew Murray entitled Abide in Christ. It was first written in 1864 after a period of revival in South Africa where he ministered It was originally designed as a manual for these new believers to understand the essence of the Christian life. And Murray understood the essence of the Christian life as abiding in Christ. And he believed, as John 15 teaches, that if you abide in Christ, you will bear fruit. In the Bible, we often find the metaphor Of fruit being used to picture the effects of spiritual growth. As you know, we are getting ready to, we we are in the midst of a study of the fruit of the Spirit, but before we start going through these one by one. I still want to have one more introductory lesson this morning, more broadly about this matter of spiritual fruits. My question to you this morning is, are you producing spiritual fruit? In order for you really to answer that question, you would need to understand What is meant by spiritual fruit and the different kinds of spiritual fruit. The fact of the matter is, the Bible uses this analogy of fruit about many different aspects of our Christian lives. We have first of all the fruit of new converts. In 1 Corinthians 16, 15, Paul speaks of the first fruits of Ochah. meaning the first believers that responded to the gospel in that region of the world. The fact is the Lord intends that the normal Christian life produce itself. That we would be witnesses, that we would see people come to Christ. The sad reality is that the vast, vast majority of Christians never bring another person, never lead them to the Lord. If every Christian brought just one person in their lifetime to Christ The church would grow by leaps and bounds. So we have the fruits of new converts. We have the fruits of praise. In Hebrews 13, 15 it says, By him therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name. Praising God is not a nicety. It's not something that some people like to do. It is actually a spiritual fruit. It is something that we offer to God that we lift our voices that we verbally or vocally we bring praise to God. Praising God is something that pleases Him, and a life without praise is a life without fruit. Then there's the fruit of giving. In Romans chapter 15, Paul speaks of a collection that he took from the Gentile churches. and that he brought to the ailing church at Jerusalem that was experiencing a famine at that time in that region of the world. And these Gentiles uh raised up a considerable offering and they sent that to them and that was a powerful token of the unity of the church, though there was often great racial and and ethnic tensions between the Jews and the Gentiles. Yet this offering was a great symbol of unity. And Paul says that that was fruit. It was the fruit of their faith. When a person has truly been born again, their values change, and they want to invest in God's cause and in God's work. There's the fruit of giving. There's a fruit, of course, of godly living. In Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 11, in the context of repentance, it says, now no chastening for the present time. seemeth to be joyous but grievous, nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness. The real evidence of repentance is when you begin to bring forth the fruit of righteousness. And then we have the fruit of answered prayer in John chapter fifteen, verses seven and eight, the Lord says, If ye abide in me and my words abide in you, Ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Herein is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit. And then there is the fruit of the Spirit or Christ-like character, and we have that wonderful list that we are going to be examining in days to come in Galatians 5. We have other lists in Scripture, like in 2 Peter 1, that are also described as fruit, and they refer to this change that takes place in our hearts. Where we are controlled by the Spirit of God instead of our flesh, and we respond to people, we respond to God in completely different ways, and ways that are not natural to us As normal, selfish, fallen human beings, because we are controlled by the Spirit of God. This is what it means to live a life of fruit. All of these different facets of it. some that are tangible, some that are intangible. Now perhaps as we look at this matter of fruitfulness And as we begin our study of the fruit of the Spirit, some of you would be thinking inside of you, you know, I'm not really all that concerned. About bearing fruit. Maybe there are some very intense and devout and serious-minded Christians who really want to bring forth fruit, who really want to grow, but to be honest with you, I'm just content going to heaven I just want to live my life out on my own terms, and I'm not really concerned at all about being a productive Christian. What I want you to see this morning is that the Bible really does not give you that option The Bible does not speak of salvation and God's supernatural work in your heart as something that He does so that you have a fire escape. The Bible is crystal clear that it's his will that every believer bear fruits, and that if there's absolutely no fruit in a person's life, then it really calls into question as to whether or not they are believer. This is not some esoteric instruction for the spiritually elite. It is absolutely essential and foundational for every believer. So I want to preach to you this morning on the importance of bearing spiritual fruit. And I want to survey some significant passages in the New Testament. We're not going into microscopic detail today. We're looking at the view as it were from a helicopter at these great passages of scripture that speak about fruitfulness. And I want us to see several reasons why it's essential. The first one is this, because the bearing of spiritual fruit is the unmistakable evidence of spiritual life. And I hope that you're here at Matthew 13 now. I want to begin reading at verse 3. This is what is commonly known as the parable of the sower, sometimes also as the parable of the soils. And he spake many things unto them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went forth to sow. And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the wayside, and the fowls came and devoured the nut. And some fell upon stony places where they had not much earth, and forthwith they sprung up because they had no deepness of earth. And when the sun was up, they were scorched, and because they had no root, they withered away. And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprung up and choked them. But others fell into good ground and brought forth fruit, some a hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirtyfold. He who hath ears to hear, let him hear Now, fortunately for us, the Lord provides the interpretation of this parable in verses 18 through 23. What we have here are four types of listeners. four different heart responses to the gospel. First of all, we have the hard heart as described in verse 4. And then interpreted in verse 19. The Lord said, When anyone heareth the word of the kingdom and understandeth it not Then cometh the wicked one and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart. This is he which receiveth seed by the wayside. All of the Lord's hearers that day would have been very familiar with the planning procedures described here. A sir would have a large bag of seed tied about his waist. He would broadcast that seed all around of him. And some of it would fall on good soil and some of it would fall on the hard path, that footpath that had been baked hard by constant impact and by the strong sun. It was as hard as a rock. And when the seed would land on that hard substance, that hard level, it wouldn't be long before the birds would come and would consume that seed. And our Lord explains that the seed is the Word of God. Here, specifically in context, the preach Word of God The soil is the hardened earth, and the fowls of the air are Satan and his dark forces that quickly remove the truth before it can begin to germinate in the human hearts. This picture is of a man with a hard heart. He comes with a spirit of skepticism. He comes into a service and he listens and he finds some things that are curious and interesting and perhaps even to some degree convicting. He may at times even leave the service and he's a little agitated, but by the time he reaches the parking lot, it's going to be completely dissipated from his mind. As a preacher, you see this sort of thing all the time. People who come in and they hear the word and they begin to attend to the word and listen to the word. But there never comes any fruit because their hearts are hardened by unbelief. And then we have the shallow hearts. This is the seed that falls in a thin layer of soil, a rocky soil that's on top of a layer. This is the kind of terrain that's very common in Galilee. The soil looks fine, but really just a few inches down there's a layer of stone. And the seed will germinate all right, but it will quickly wither in the sun. There's not enough soil there. There's not enough room for the roots to really get the nourishment that they need. And Luke adds that it also fails to thrive because of a lack of moisture. In verses 20 through 21, the Lord explains here, but he that received the seed And of the stony place is the same as he that heareth the word, and anon that is immediately with joy receiveth it. And he hath not root in himself, but dureth for a while, but when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, by and by he is offended If you've ever been in a church for very long and you've worked with people, you have seen this, unfortunately, play out exactly like this before your eyes. There are some people that will come to church. They will respond enthusiastically to the gospel. Everyone rejoices. Someone has come to Christ. And they may for a time attend church, they may be very faithful, they may seem to be involved, it seems, and everyone's just rejoicing at God's work of grace in their life But then some difficulty comes into their life and they're gone and you never see them again and they have no interest in God or in his word or in anything spiritual And people wonder what happens. The answer is that they were never truly converted. They had a form of godliness. They had a form of faith. Now you might say, well, they must be a Christian because it says here that they believed. Well, the same word is used in James 2 of the demons that believe and tremble. So you should understand that not all faith is saving faith. Neither is this saying that Christians can lose their salvation. It's simply saying that sometimes people give the appearance Of being believers, when in fact they are not. But when it begins to cost them, it says here, when they are persecuted because of the word, because they identify as Christians, then they say, this is not worth it. and they walk away. And then we have the preoccupied heart described in verse 7 as this place where there are thorns that choke out this new growth. And interpreted in verse 22, he also that receiveth seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word And the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and he become unfruitful. This is the idea of a seed that's been planted where there are many weeds around it. These weeds are described as cares or anxieties. and riches, preoccupation with money. And one of the other gospels we have a third one mentions pleasures. These are the big three weeds of the world that destroy would-be Christians. And there's no fruit here. Again, there might be some semblance of salvation. It may appear to some that this person has truly been born again, but there's no fruits. They are distracted and preoccupied with the things of this world, the things that animate and drive lost people. And then finally we have the fertile heart described as good ground in verse 8 and interpreted in verse 23 by our Lord, but he that receiveth seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word and understandeth it, which also beareth fruit, and bringeth forth some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty And the good soil, the seed, germinates and brings forth fruit. This is the only one who truly received the word in faith. Let me ask you, has the Word of God truly penetrated the soil of your heart? Has it gone down to the depths of your being? You might say, well, how would I know? The answer is when the word of God really takes root, when there's really been supernatural light in your heart, there will be fruits. True faith always produces real fruits. But notice, please, that it will not always be in the same quantity. We see different levels of fruit mentioned here, some bringing forth a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. But there's no mention here of those who bring forth no fruit. You see, this matter of bearing fruit is very important. It's very easy for us in our churches, and we see this all the time, and I understand that people are not wanting to be judgmental or to make wrong assumptions But so often there are people who come in who might claim to be Christians, but there's absolutely no evidence of spiritual life. There's no fruit. There's no growth. There's no vitality. There's no love for Christ. The scriptures are clear. Life brings forth fruit. Now let's turn to another major passage that touches on this matter of fruitfulness. And it explains to us why this is so important. And secondly, because the bearing of spiritual fruit is a clear indication that you are abiding in Christ. Turn with me to John chapter 15. This is the passage that we read earlier today. John chapter 15, the Lord is in the upper room with his disciples, and he says these marvelous words to them. John 15, verse 1. I am the vine, and my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away, and every branch that beareth fruit. He purgeth it that it may bring forth more fruit. Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. Abide in me And I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself except it abide in the vine, no more can ye except ye abide in me. I am the vine, ye are the branches, he that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me ye can do nothing. A wonderful passage for us to consider. We see the emphasis here on abiding in Christ. It's mentioned three times in verse three. It's mentioned again in verse five. And we see this matter of fruitfulness sprinkled all through this passage in verse two and in verse five and verse eight and verse sixteen. And in verse 4, the great condition given here for bearing fruit is abiding in Christ. Notice what it says. that if we abide in Christ, we will not just bring forth fruit. It says we will bring forth what? Much fruit. A bumper crop, a great harvest. So what does it mean to abide in Christ? It means that we depend, rely, and gain all of our strength and life. from that relationship with Christ. It is an aspect of walking by faith, of trusting in God. It expresses a desperate dependence that we realize If left to ourselves, we will produce absolutely no fruits. If we allow the flesh to control our lives, that fallen nature that is within us. Our fields will be barren. There will be no fruit. But if we allow the Spirit of God to work in us if we abide in Christ, remain vitally connected and dependent on him, drawing our spiritual life and energy from him, there will be fruit The Greek word here, when he says cannot bear fruit, speaks of inability. It's utterly impossible for a believer to bear any spiritual fruit. Apart from communion with Christ. This is why Murray taught this passage to his new believers, because the whole key to the Christian life is abiding in Christ, keeping that close connection. Now look with me down at verse 5. We have this astounding statement, for without me you can do nothing. And here in the Greek text, John is being emphatic and he employs a double negative The idea is that you are not able to do anything, not even a little thing. You can't even produce one little grape, as it were, in your spiritual life. Oh, you can be active. You can teach a Sunday school class, you can be a deacon, you can be a pastor, you can preach a sermon, you can visit people, you can do things. without abiding in Christ, but there won't be any fruit from your efforts. You'll just be going through the motions. Now, this is a wonderful truth for us to consider. It says here that any believer that abides in Christ will bear much fruit. I wonder if you believe that. I think a lot of Christians do not fully believe that. I often hear Christians make statements. That they use to help explain why there's very little fruit in their Christian lives. They will say things like this: I got saved later in life. I didn't come from a Christian home. I never went to a Christian college. I didn't marry a Christian spouse. I've been involved in a messy divorce. I don't have a very good education. I didn't get saved till ten years ago. I mean I have all these bad habits and bad patterns in my life. There's no way I can bring forth any fruits. But this passage says that if you abide in Christ, you will bring forth much fruit. Did you know that God is not satisfied with just a little fruit in your life? He intends that you bring forth much fruit. And there is only one method of bringing forth fruit, and that is communion with Christ It is only by walking with Christ, depending on Christ, that you will become more like Christ, and in your character you will bring forth the fruit of the Spirit. You see, bearing spiritual fruit is very serious business. And that brings me to my third point. The bearing of spiritual fruit is more important, believe it or not. than even your personal comfort. Did you know that? This is a truth that many Christians do not grasp. This is why when a difficulty comes into their life, they cry out, Why God, why have you allowed this into my life, this agony, this pain, this discomfort, this distress? Because they believe somehow, some way, that God's perfect will and plan for their life is that they have as comfortable a life as possible. But that's not what God's word teaches anywhere. Notice what the Lord wants from us. Verse 8, herein is my Father glorified that you bear much fruit. So shall you be my disciples. The idea is And in this way, by bearing much fruit, you will demonstrate to all the world that you are truly my disciple. Look at verse sixteen. Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you and ordained you that you should go and bring forth fruit and that your fruit should remain, that whatsoever you shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. God saved you so that you would bring forth fruit Now I've mentioned earlier that the great and the emphatic condition for bearing fruit given in this passage is abiding in Christ. But if you are a careful reader and you've been paying attention, you saw there was another condition mentioned in verse 2 Notice what it says in verse 2. Every branch in me that beareth fruit he taketh away. And notice this, every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it. that it may bring forth more fruit. I want you to notice that very significant word, every Every branch, every believer, every Christian who is truly born again will be at some time and some way purged or we might say today pruned by the great cultivator of our hearts , Lord. This is God 's plan for every one of us who's truly a child of God. God wants you to bring forth much fruit in your life. This is what we find in verse 8, as I just read, and in verse 16. Well, how does the Father prune his people? How does the Father do that? Well, in verse 3 we have one expression of that. Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you, and the idea there is of of a gardener who is cleaning out dead branches, dead growth, and so forth. Not the idea of cleaning by washing with soap and water, but but like cleaning out a bush or cleaning out a garden, someone might say. That's the idea. It's the word of God that helps to purge our lives. This most often happens in the preaching of the word. The fact of the matter is there should be pruning in every sermon. Now I don't want to get off on a tangent here, but there's an awful lot of preaching that is popular today that does not include this element at all. There is no purging. There is no pruning. There is no conviction. There is no sense that what I am doing is wrong. Where I'm at in my life is unacceptable. the fruit that is missing in my life is something of grave concern. There's never anything revealed like that in those sermons. Real preaching of the word will bring to bear the two-edged sword of the Word of God and will bring conviction. And what should happen when something is mentioned, when something is said that strikes a chord in our hearts, we should yield to the Spirit. I said something earlier about the fact that it's God's will that every believer seek to bring others' people to Christ. Maybe that's something that strikes a chord with you, and you say, you know, I I haven't ever even shared the gospel with anyone in my life. I'm not actively praying for people that I know to come to Christ. That should convict you. That's part of God's purging that out of your life. All of us just naturally settle into this comfortable state where we go about our Christian lives and we live our lives to ourselves and we don't reach out. We're not a lights. We're not salts. We're not permeating the people around us with God's truth. We're not a witness as he has called us to be. That's one expression of how God would convict us. The question is, are you letting the Word of God correct you? This is one reason why it's very important. to attend church on a regular basis. Because it is one of the great means that God uses to prune out the sin and the worthless ideas in our minds. He cuts it out with the preached word of God. But if we're not there to hear it, if we're not there to let the Spirit of God work through his word, then that pruning will not take place. That is why there is so often a correlation between your faithful attendance of the Word and your own spiritual well-being and growth. But I want to be clear about this. You can also attend church three times a week, year after year after year. and yet not receive spiritual benefit from it at all. You can very easily get into the state where you just sit there And the words come in one ear and go out the other. Your mind is is somewhere else. You've kind of gotten into this very bad habit of just daydreaming during the preaching of the word, and you get up and you leave. And honestly, if someone were to ask you, what was the sermon about today, you couldn't tell them. And you do that Sunday after Sunday after Sunday. And there's no pruning taking place. There's no cutting away at the sinful manifestations of the flesh in your life at all. So we need to be faithful to hear the word, but we also have to truly be hearers of the word. As he said in John in Matthew 13, we have to have ears to hear. We have to be ready listeners. We have to have soft hearts that have been plowed up and are ready to receive God's truth. But what happens if we don't respond to the word? Listen to the words of the famous Baptist preacher Charles Spurgeon. He says the word is often a knife with which the great husbandman prunes the vine. And brothers and sisters, if we were more willing to feel the edge of the word and let it cut away even something that may be dear to us, We should not need so much pruning by affliction. It is because the first knife does not always produce the desired result that another sharp tool is used by which we are effectually pruned. So the Lord prunes us through his word, but he also prunes us through affliction, through difficulties. This does not mean that every difficulty in your life Is God somehow correcting you or punishing you? I'm not saying that. But certainly some are. The Bible tells us that one of the evidences that we are a child of God is that God does not let us get away with things. Did you know that? He chastens us. He corrects us like a father should his child. Turn with me to the key text on this, Hebrews chapter 12, please. Hebrews chapter twelve, we're going to be looking at verse five. It says , And ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children, my son Despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him for whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth. every son whom he receiveth. Notice again that word every, every son, no Christian is exempt from this. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all that are partakers, then are ye bastards and not sons. Furthermore We have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us and we gave them reverence. Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits and live? For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure, but he for our prophet, that we might be partakers of his holiness. Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous But grievous. Nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. These are strong words for us to hear, but very important words for us to understand. I want to make two observations about this practice of pruning. I want to first of all say that plants are often pruned differently. Two plants in the same vineyard may receive very different treatment from the cultivator And there may be different reasons for this. They may have uh different they may be at different stages of growth One must may be much more immature and the other is much full-grown and it needs more pruning. Or it could be that one has a disease, some type of a blight or something, the other does not The point I'm trying to make here is that God does not deal with every believer in exactly the same way. Have you noticed that? One size does not fit all. He deals with us differently. Some people seem to have great hardship, great difficulties, great struggles. It seems like God is constantly cutting away at them. And if we are not careful and you find yourself being that person you might think that somehow God doesn't love you or or God doesn't care for you or God's not being fair to you and why doesn't he treat you like he does other people? Why is it that other people seem to have happy marriages and they seem to have healthy, thriving children, and they seem to be financially secure, but I don't have those benefits. We need to remember that God treats us differently according to what we need. to be fruitful. And we need to realize that first of all we don't know all the pruning that's going on in the lives of others. So much of it is hidden. And so we need to be careful that we don't compare ourselves with others. God is the master gardener. He knows what he is doing. He knows what is best for you. And it's his purpose and his plan to bring forth fruit in your life So don't fight against his purposes by becoming bitter and angry and discouraged. That's why it says in Hebrews 12 here, wherefore lift up the hands which hang down and the feeble knees and make straight paths for your feet. Don't be discouraged. Don't quit. Don't say, oh, this is so hard. No, get up. Go forward. Understand God is doing this for your good. that you would bring forth a great harvest of fruits. And the second observation I want to make Is that pruning to an untrained eye often seems cruel? Have you ever seen a gardener do this, go through and There's a plant there and it might have all this new bright green growth on it, and he just starts cutting off all this stuff. And you say, that looks so nice It's so fresh, it's so beautiful, and he's just lopping those things off. It seems cruel, it seems unnecessary. Sometimes when a master gardener goes to the plant, it looks like he's going to till it. He cuts so much back. But he knows what he's doing. And often it means that when harvest time comes, the fruitfulness will be multiplied. This is something we need to understand. We need to trust in God that He knows what He's doing, that He is the master gardener, that He is the great cultivator of our hearts. And that his pruning is intended so that we will bring forth much fruit. I think of these verses in Psalm 119, which are so instructive for us. The psalmist writes, before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now have I kept thy word And then a little later, it's good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. Oh, that we would have that kind of perspective, that we would readily accept the chastening of our Father. That we would not despise his correction, that we would not question his wisdom, that we would not become bitter and discouraged. But that we would receive it as an expression of his love and his care and his concern that we would bring forth more fruits The Puritans often wrote about this sort of thing. One such book was written by a man named Thomas Brooks. Their titles were not like our titles today. His book was entitled The Mute Christian Under the Smarting Rod. The mute Christian, that is the Christian that doesn't complain and get angry and bitter, but who submissively responds to the chastening hand of God. He says, and there surely these afflictions are but the Lord's pruning knives by which he will bleed my sins and prune my heart. And make it more fertile and more fruitful. It takes faith to receive that. It takes faith to respond in that way. But this is the person who brings forth fruit, the person who abides in Christ. And the person who receives the correction, the pruning of the Lord through all of the afflictions of life. A person who responds in faith to those difficulties. will bring forth fruit to the glory of God. So you see, bearing fruit is not an insignificant thing. It's the reason we were saved. Our salvation was not about us, it's about God. It's about bringing glory to God. It's about showing people in the world that God's grace can change a sinful, fallen heart like mine. It's about turning our focus of our life away from ourselves and to God and to others. This is the fruitful life That brings glory to God. This is what God desires from all of his children. Are you bearing fruit? Let's close in prayer. A father We need your help. We need your strength and your grace to receive these words because they are hard for us to hear. We are naturally comfort-loving creatures who want to take the easy road. But yet, Father, your purpose is not. That we would have a life of ease, but a life of fruitfulness , a life that brings glory to your name. This is why you have chosen us. This is why you have saved us. This is why you have redeemed us. That we might glorify you through the fruit in our life. And so, Father, I pray for those who are here Who lives honestly have no fruit. They have not been changed inside They have not been serving you and growing in grace. There's no vitality there, I pray, Lord, that you would work in their hearts. Show them, Father, perhaps their need of a Savior. Show them, Father, this is not an optional thing, but this is your will for every believer. I pray, Father, for those who are bearing fruit, that it would be their desire to bring forth more fruit. And that they would abide in Christ and walk with him every day, maintain a vital relationship with him And I pray, Lord, that they would yield to your pruning in their lives, that they might bring forth much fruit and glorify you. Thank you, Lord, for your word. We pray that you would let us respond to it in faith today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.