Would you turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 2? John Fox was born in England in 1517, the same year. That Martin Luther nailed his 95 theses to the door of Wittenberg Chapel. As a young man, he attended and studied at Oxford University. And received his bachelor's degree and stayed on for more education. Before he reached the age of 30, he had read all of the Greek and Latin fathers and had taught himself Hebrew. He was quite a scholar and a devout Roman Catholic. But as he continued to carefully study the scriptures He came to faith in Jesus Christ. And shortly after his conversion, he announced that he was no longer Roman Catholic and he was cast out of Oxford University and was poor and destitute And eventually he made his way to the continent of Europe to find relief from religious persecution. And it was there that he began to research and write his monumental work entitled Acts and Monuments, and it grew to be ten volumes. But we know it today as Fox 's Book of Martyrs. John Fox had experienced just a little bit of persecution, and that turned his attention to all the saints that had come before him. and has suffered for their Lord. He includes in his classic book accounts of martyrs like Polycarp and John Huss and Nicholas Ridley and Hugh Latimer. But no example in that wonderful book can equal our Lord's example of suffering. This morning, as we come to our study of 1 Peter , We come to some verses that turn our attention to the suffering of Christ. I want you to look with me At verse 21 of 1 Peter chapter 2. It says, For even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example. that ye should follow his steps. The Greek word that's translated example is a rare word that's only used here in the New Testament. And it literally means to write under. It refers to the common practice of children learning to write their letters by copying under the line, the letters of their teachers. This is what we are called to do as the people of God. We are called to carefully follow our Savior's example of suffering. Let me remind you that this instruction is found in a section where the key word is submission in verse 13 of this chapter. Peter begins the section by calling on these early Christians to submit themselves to the state or to the government in which they lived in. And he mentions this as an important part of their testimony. And then in verse 18, he calls on servants or slaves to be subject. to their masters using the same term. He will use it again in chapter 3. Christians are people who submit to the authority in their lives because they are submitted. To God's authority. But this is a very difficult thing to do, is it not? It is difficult to submit to the will of another. Our text this morning follows right on the heels of that exhortation that slaves were to submit to their masters. I spoke about that last Lord's Day Just imagine that you were in that situation. You were a first century house slave, and perhaps through the witness of a friend or another house slave, you attended a service, you heard the gospel, your heart was thrilled at the idea that there was freedom in Christ. That your sins were forgiven, that you could have a new life, and you began to follow the Lord with all your heart. But when your master in the home where you worked, heard that you were a follower of Christ, he began to make your life miserable. He just did everything he could to make things distasteful and difficult for you. And your heart was disturbed and confused because perhaps you thought that everything would go well after you came to Christ, and now it seems that your situation is worse than it was before. And one day you attended a church service where someone read to you a new epistle by the great Apostle Peter. But to your dismay, it called on you not to revolt, not to run away, not to try to get back at those who treat you cruelly, but that you in fact were to submit to your master even though he may be crooked. And remember, that's the term that is used. And that just seemed so Difficult to follow. The instructions seem so beyond the realm of what was normal. And so Peter, knowing this, follows up that difficult command. With a wonderful example for us to follow. And that is the example of our Lord Jesus Christ. His example is both instructive and inspiring. It's as if Peter says, you want to talk about suffering unjustly? Let's consider the example of the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, no one could look at our Savior's example and say, well, you know, his suffering was not nearly as difficult as what I'm facing. No one could ever say that. And so you see his example of suffering is both perfect and irrefutable. Notice what our text says in verse 22 and 23, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. The no one here today is exactly in the same situation as the target audience that Peter was speaking to in this context. No one here is a slave to my knowledge. No one here to my knowledge is being persecuted for your faith where you are being horribly treated on a regular basis because you're a follower of Jesus Christ. But there are parallels here. All of God's word is profitable for us. And there is great value and profit in this instruction that we consider today. There are people here who are suffering and have been suffering for some time and see no end to their suffering. That would have been the situation and the perspective of the early slaves who heard these words. There are individuals here who have been treated unfairly by others. And there are Christians who are facing today unexpected difficulties And the verses that we are considering this morning provide answers to the suffering children of God that I would like us to consider this morning. I want us to consider how to follow Christ's example. I would like you to note with me first of all that we should recognize that we have been called to suffer Like Christ. Notice what it says in the first phrase in verse 21. For even hereunto were ye called. What were we called to? We are called to suffering. Now Peter is fond of this term calling. You'll notice with me if you want to turn back a page in chapter 1 and verse 15, he says, as he exhorts them to holiness, but as he which hath called you is holy, So be holy in all manner of conversation. So we have been called to holiness. And look with me at chapter 2 and verse 9. A few weeks back we considered this wonderful verse. It says, but ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness. into his marvelous light. And if you'll look with me ahead at chapter 3 and verse 9 Peter exhorts them, not rendering evil for evil or railing for railing, but contra -wise blessing, knowing that ye are thereunto called that ye should inherit a blessing. So we have been called to inherit a blessing. And then he concludes this book with chapter with a statement in chapter 5 and verse 10. Where he says, but the God of all grace who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. Now we like these things that have been mentioned about our calling. We have been called to holy living. We have been called out of darkness into his marvelous light. We have been called to adhere to a blessing, and we have been called unto his eternal glory. But we also have been called to suffer. This is part of what it means to be a Christian. I know that there are many false teachers abroad in the world today. who for the sake in many cases of marketing the gospel have taught a different gospel. what we call sometimes the prosperity gospel or the health and wealth gospel. The gospel that they distort is that a person that Christ came and died so that we would have a life that is free of difficulty, of pain, of suffering, and unpleasant circumstances. But that is precisely the opposite of what the Bible teaches. Listen to these words. Jesus said, in the world ye shall have tribulation. The apostles commended the new converts in Acts 14. 22 with these words. We must through much Tribulation, enter into the kingdom of God. Paul wrote in Philippians 1. 29, for unto you is given in the behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake. He said again in 2 Timothy 3. 12, yea, and all who will live godly in Christ Jesus Shall suffer persecution. And then Peter is going to come back to this theme later in this book. In 1 Peter 4, verses 12 and 13, he says, Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you as though some strange thing happened unto you. But rejoice in as much as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy. So you have all of these scriptures, and I haven't even looked at the Old Testament, that tell us that we should expect to face difficulty, hardship, and suffering. as the people of God. And yet Peter says here that we should not count it a strange thing. Why does he say that? Because so often we do, don't we? When some difficulty, some affliction comes into our life, we say, what is this? Why would God do this to me? I mean, I go to church. I read my Bible. I thought everything was going to be smooth sailing. So Peter writes: don't think of this as a strange thing. This is what the Bible says we should expect. This is what we will encounter in a fallen world. This is part of what it means to follow Christ. We so naturally adopt a man-centered theology that pictures God as our personal assistant. We think of him as someone here who has been called to make our life a little bit better, to make our families stronger, to make our financial situation more stable and prosperous. To give us better health, a better way of dealing with conflicts and issues. And the Bible does include information Of this variety, but that is not why we have been given the scriptures. This is not why Jesus came and died, so that we would have an easy life This is our calling as Christians. This is God's plan for us. So what suffering are you facing right now? Do you see this as a horrible intruder in your life and as evidence that God doesn't really love you or care for you as Christians so often do? Or do you see this as your calling? As this is something that is involved in the Christian life. Suffering is one of the tools that God uses to shape us in the image of His Son. Often we think that all that God needs To make us what He's called us to be is the means of grace of reading His Word and spending time in prayer and hiding God's word in our heart and and serving him and gathering with the people of God and using our gifts. And yes, those things are all avenues that God uses to change and shape us, but he also will use and must use suffering. Because there are many lessons that we would never learn apart from difficulty and hardship, disappointment and suffering. And notice what it says in verse 21, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow his steps. Now it's important for us to understand that there are some aspects to Christ's suffering that we cannot duplicate. It says here that Christ suffered and died for us. Providing a sacrifice for our sin. However, our suffering does not save us or anyone else. In that sense, his suffering was unique, and we cannot follow him in that. In that respect. However, the fact that he died in our place should make us willing to follow in his steps. There's something in leadership that when the leader is not willing to do something that everyone else has to do, it makes them much less willing to follow. That's why people get upset when Congress enacts laws or policies that they are exempt from. Doesn't seem fair. But when a leader faces hardship and difficulty and plays by the same rules as the followers then the followers are much more likely to follow his example. This was one of the great lessons that Alexander the Great knew. the great, the man who conquered the known world, his followers were so devoted to him because he faced hardship and privation and difficulty just like they did. Well, our Savior suffered and he died for us And therefore we should be willing to follow him in his example of suffering. Now the imagery that's used here, it says that ye should follow his steps. refers to one person walking in the tracks of another. Think of a child, a young boy following in his father's Footsteps in the snow, and he's trying to elongate his stride so that he can follow in the footprints of his father. This is kind of the imagery here. We must follow our master deliberately But what exactly does that mean? We've already noted that it doesn't mean that we can die for ourselves or for others. So Peter in the next two verses is going to explain what it means to follow him in his example of suffering. Would you notice with me secondly, we should recognize That we should respond to our suffering like Christ. When we face suffering, our primary concern is to get it to stop as soon as possible. God 's primary concern is how we respond to it. Look with me at verses 22 and 23. Notice what it says of our Lord's example, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. Peter here is quoting from Isaiah 53 and verse 9, and these two parallel phrases are essentially saying the same thing. Jesus was sinless. in his suffering. Suffering often dredges up the iniquity of our hearts. Have you noticed that? You're going along in your Christian life and you think you're walking with the Lord, you think everything's great, and then some great catastrophe comes into your life that just Shakes everything up, ruins your routines, takes away many of your supports, changes the way you feel about everything, and it brings out of your heart things that perhaps you didn't think were there. Things like bitterness and anger and doubt and fear and mistrust And you realize I really wasn't as spiritually strong as I thought I was until I came to face great hardship in my life. There have been many Christians, the finest of Christians, who their initial response, especially to suffering, is not ideal. And sometimes they have a good initial response, but as the trial goes on, month after month, year after year, through the attrition of difficulty, they start to lose, it seems, their faith, their love for the Lord, their desire to serve the Lord. It all begins to cave in. But when our Savior faced suffering, there was none of that. His example was perfect from beginning to end. This is one of many verses in our New Testaments that testify to the important doctrine that Jesus was sinless. I saw some poll recently that said that most Americans who profess to be Christians also believe that Jesus was a sinner. Well, it raises the question as to how do you find a Christian, because one of the cardinal doctrines of Christology is that Jesus was the sinless Son of God. And the Bible says that plainly again and again and again. Judas Iscariot said, I have sinned and that I have betrayed innocent blood. Pilate said, I find no fault in him at all. Jesus himself said, I always do those things that please him, that is his father. And he said to his antagonist, Which of you convinced me of sin? 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Hebrews 4. 15 declares that our great high priest is without sin. And in 1 John 3. 5, we read, in him is no sin. If Jesus was a sinner like us, then he could not be the spotless Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Peter's declaration, you ever thought about this, was all the more impressive because Peter knew the Lord well. He lived with him for three years. He followed him around. It's very, very likely that Jesus was a house guest of Peter for about a year in Capernaum. He lived in the man's house. He saw him in the morning, noon, and night. You know, people are really good at putting on a front. And and making you think that there's something they're not, and we always want to put our best foot forward, and and when we go out in public to have a good persona, we want to be thought well of But sometimes when you really get to know a person well and you live with them and you spend night and day with them, you really see them for who they are. Well, Peter saw Jesus for who he was, and his declaration is that he was without sin. What a wonderful confirming declaration this is. Now this was true for all of our Lord's life. But what Peter is focusing on in is especially during his time of suffering, he was without sin. Notice how Peter brings out this detail in the next verse in verse 23, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not. But committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. Now Peter mentions two ways that Jesus did not respond in his suffering. We have two negatives, and these are good things. He did not respond to his verbal insults by returning in kind. He didn't insult those who insulted him. Just consider the insults that he endured during his earthly ministry that are recorded in the Gospels. We read that he was once called a Samaritan. That was a racial slur. He of course was not a Samaritan, but they called him that. He was called a glutton and a wine bibber. He was called a blasphemer. He was called demon-possessed and to be in league with Satan. He was called a perverter of the nation, that is a revolutionary. He was called a deceiver of the people. And they even alluded to the fact that he was of illegitimate birth. And every one of these accusations, these insults were false. But Jesus never traded insults with his enemies. He never repaid hatred with hatred. He practiced what he preached. He loved his enemies. He blessed those who cursed him. He prayed for his persecutors. He said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. This kind of gracious response to those who attack us is to be a model for us to follow Oh, this is a difficult example to follow, is it not? Following in those steps is no easy road. Did you know that sometimes you have to even be gracious with those you shouldn't have to be gracious like those in the body of Christ? who through their words have abused you. Look with me at chapter 3 and verse 8. Notice he's addressing Christians here. He says, finally, be ye all of one mind. Having compassion one of another. Love as brethren. Be pitiful. Be courteous. That's the positive. Now this. not rendering evil for evil or railing for railing, but contrawise blessing, knowing that ye are thereunto called, that ye should inherit a blessing. Even within the body of Christ, even within the local church, we are called to repay those painful words. That people bring our way, whether intentionally or unintentionally, we are called to respond not in kind Not meeting them or exceeding them, which is often what we do, right? Someone hits you as a little kid, what do you do? You hit them back a little bit harder. Someone insults you, well I'm gonna take it up a notch. How do you like that? And there's a self-righteous part of us that says, well, they deserve it. They started it. They said that first to me. But Jesus is example. is to return their curse with a blessing, to repay their hatred with love. This is what he called his disciples to do, and this is what he lived out in his life. That brings us to the next thing he refused to do. He did not threaten those who mocked him and crucified him. For this, I would like us to turn to Matthew chapter 27. If you would keep a finger here in 1 Peter 2, turn with me, please, to Matthew chapter 27. I'm just going to le read two little portions here. Matthew 27 and verse 27. It says, then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the common hall and gathered under him the whole band of soldiers. And they stripped him and put on him a scarlet robe. And when they had plaited a crown of thorns, they put it upon his head, and a reed in his right hand, and they bowed the knee before him. And mocked him, saying, Hail King of the Jews, and they spit upon him, and took the reed and smote him on the head And after that they had mocked him, they took the robe off from him and put on his own raiment and led him away to crucify him. Now skip down with me to verse 39. Jesus is now on the cross. And they that passed by reviled him, wagging their heads and saying, Thou that destroyest the temple and buildest it in three days, save thyself. If thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross. Likewise also the chief priest mocking him with the scribes and elders. Said, he saved others. Himself he cannot save. If he be the king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe him. He trusted in God. Let him deliver him now, if he will have him, for he said, I am the Son of God. The thieves also, which were crucified with him, cast the same in his teeth. Those are difficult words to truly picture and to receive. You see, Jesus didn't just endure a little comment that had a little bite to it, or someone who kind of questioned his integrity. No He endured far worse than you and I will ever face. And we see here that he did not return in kind. It was common for those in the agony of crucifixion. To cry out with bitter curses upon their executors. You know, it's one thing to face ridicule It's another thing to face ridicule while you are really suffering, while you are dying. We can't imagine that. We don't have that as part of our culture. It used to be that way. In centuries past, when there were public executions, people would come and they would ridicule people as they were suffering It's bad enough to be suffering, but to have people there to laugh at you and mock at you and to say hurtful things to you. And Jesus did not reply with a curse. So often, you see, the reasons why we don't retaliate, why we don't get even is because we can't. We're in a situation where we're powerless to do anything. And so what makes our Lord's restraint and response so remarkable is that he could have done something. As the song says, he could have called 10,000 angels. He could have, with one shout from his voice, reduced them all to dust and come down from that cross. But he never responded that way. The Jews of the first century idolized the martyrs from the Maccabean revolts. This is when Judas Maccabees and his followers sought to overthrow pagan control of their nation. And they ended up dying for their revolt. And they proclaimed loudly with their dying breasts that Yahweh would judge his enemies. And they died with that imprecation upon their lips. But that's not the way Jesus died. He died primarily in majestic silence. Once again, Peter is going back to Isaiah's prophecy, Isaiah 53, verse 7. It says he was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shears is dumb, so he opened not his mouth What exactly does this mean? We know that Jesus did speak briefly during several of his trials. What it means is that Jesus did not seek to dissent, defend himself before false witnesses He did not defend himself before the false accusations of the religious leaders. He did not answer the curious questions of Herod. He did not answer the insincere questions of Pilate. And even when his life was on the line, he remained silent. The godly pastor Edward Payton would write of this silent, meek, and unrepining, he stood before butchers, at once innocent. and patient as a lamb. No murmurs, no complaints, no angry recriminations escape from his lips. If they were opened, it was but to express the most perfect submission to his father's will and to breathe out prayers for his murderers. What an incredible example the Savior has set for us. We have been called to follow in his steps. And many of the Lord's people, true believers, get tripped up with this. where some suffering comes into their life and just completely rearranges their plans And they have great difficulty recovering from that. They may develop a cynical, sour spirit They may continue to come to church, but there's no joy there. There's no desire to serve or minister to the people of God. They come really out of duty. Perhaps because of their desire to please a family member, but there's no real desire to worship God because in the depths of their being they believe that God has failed them, that He has let them down. But he has not done that. They have failed to consider the path of the Savior and to walk in his steps. Sometimes we think that all suffering makes us better and stronger. That's not the case. It's only when we respond in faith and submission That it has the desired effect and molds us and shapes us more into the image of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. But when we respond with resistance and anger and doubt and bitterness , We become derailed in our Christian pursuits. And how many Christians I encounter like this? People who, I believe, genuinely know the Lord. But there were some incidents in their life. Some tragic difficulty, perhaps involving a child or another. believer in a church or there was some injustice in their life. Maybe a pastor didn't treat them right. He didn't know the whole story. He wouldn't really listen to them. And that injustice completely turned the trajectory of their life from being a joyful follower of Christ. To a miserable Christian. It's so easy to develop a complaining spirit And be critical and cynical of everything and to see the flaws in everything. It doesn't take great talent to do that. To see in every church and in every ministry and in every person inconsistencies and some degree of hypocrisy But God has called us to follow the steps of our Savior. And we read that for the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross. And we must face our suffering not with anger, but with submission and ultimately with joy. But what are we to do when we suffer unjustly at the hands of others? We find this found in the last phrase in verse 23. It says he didn't do these things, but he committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. That brings me to my third point we should remember. To commit our suffering to the Lord like Christ. We need to respond like Christ. We need to accept suffering as part of the calling to follow Christ, and we need to commit our suffering to the Lord like Christ. Look with me. How this begins, this phrase, this clause with the word but because it's said in contrast, in contrast to the way that people naturally respond to unjust treatment. to suffering at the hands of others. We are to commit our situation to the Lord just like our Savior did. I want you to notice that this is different from advocating a passive resignation to suffering and injustice. There are some philosophies and some religions that this is how they cope with suffering in the world. The Stoics, which had a great impact upon the Roman soldiers, especially of the early centuries of the Christian era. Many of them were Stoics This is how they could endure suffering and hardship without showing any emotion because they trained themselves To just accept the difficulties, the injustices of life, and to do your duty. That's not the message of Christianity. Buddhism has a form of this, that you must just realize that there will be suffering and you must accept it. And you must not respond in any respect to it. This is not The biblical solution that we find in Scripture. No, in Scripture, we are to take our difficulties, our injustices, and we are to take them to our God's We do not simply absorb them and try to, in some inhuman way, have no response to the most difficult situations imaginable in our lives. No, we cast our cares upon the Savior. We take our burdens to God. This is the biblical response to suffering, and this was the path of our Savior. You see, this is not a cliche or a psychological trick. It is the way our Savior dealt with his suffering and degradation at the cross. We have this term in our text in verse 23, committed. It has the idea of to hand over something. This is what we are to do when we have been wronged. We are not to say as Christians, well, I'll fix his wagon. I'll get even. I'll make him regret that he ever met me. That's not the Christian response. What do we do? We take the matter to the Lord and we leave it with Him. Genesis 18, 25 says, Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? Do you think the Lord will do what is right in your situation and your injustice? Does the Lord know the truth? Does he know all the facts? Even though others may misjudge you and some authority figure may make the wrong choice and someone may do something and they seem to do it without any consequence. Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? Romans chapter 12, we read this, dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves. But rather give place unto wrath, for it is written, vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord's. Colossians chapter 3 verse 25 says, He that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which he hath done, and there is no respect of persons. That is, God doesn't have favorite people, like he says, all right, I'll give this guy a lot of judgment. Well this guy not so much. You know, he's kind of my buddy. No, no, no. God is a just judge. He's not bribed. He doesn't show favoritism. We often don't think about this truth very often. But the Bible teaches that God is going to justly judge everyone and every act that has ever been committed. God put within our hearts a natural desire for justice. And for vindication when we have been wrong. Sometimes we take it to a wrong extreme, but that desire is there because we have all been made in the image of God, and God is a just being And God will bring about justice in the ends We read in 2 Thessalonians 1. 6, seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you. Do you believe that God will vindicate all those who have suffered for his name's sake? You know, I'm told that on average, every day, there are several hundred Christians who die for their faith. Now we find that hard to grasp because we don't know anybody like that in our circles. We haven't had, we've had some missionaries be persecuted and face very dangerous situations, but we haven't had any missionaries killed for their faith. I know some of you may know some like that, but we haven't had any that we support like that. We don't know of any pastors that are in prison for preaching the gospel in our country. But every day in remote parts of the world and places there where there's no report of this violence, there are Christians who are killed for being followers of Jesus Christ. And it's horrible. Is God just going to pretend that never happened, or is he going to bring about justice someday? Is he going to vindicate his people? The scriptures teach that he will vindicate his own. This does not mean that we cherish the thought of God's judging those who have wronged. That should not be our response. Our response should be that we pray that God will bring them to repentance and reconciliation. And God has often delighted to turn the enemies of the cross into preachers of the cross. We all think, of course, of the Apostle Paul in this situation, but there have been many others. One of the most famous martyrs of the 20th century was the murder of five American missionaries in Ecuador in 1956. The most famous of those five men was Jim Elliott. Life magazine sent a crew down to take pictures shortly after the murders, and from their perspective it was a senseless tragedy tragedy. But God knew exactly what he was doing. God used that massacre to reach those remote Indians with the gospel. Many came to Christ. One of the men who killed Jim Elliot became a preacher of the gospel and was baptized in the same river that once ran with the blood of those missionaries. And Jim Elliott's wife, Elizabeth, began to write about her experiences and launched a career That would minister to millions of people in years to come. The Lord used the death of those five missionaries to wake up thousands to the call of world evangelism. You see, God is able to take the tragedies, the suffering for his name's sake, and transform them into avenues of blessing. and bring glory to his name. This is what the Word of God teaches. This is what we must receive by faith. And so whatever suffering you're facing right now, it may not be that you're being persecuted for your faith in Christ. But whatever suffering you are facing, whatever difficulty right now has brought turmoil into your soul, it is important for you to know that God designs to use this for your good and for his glory, and you must ultimately submit to his will and do so with joy and gladness. This is the path of our Savior. Let's close in prayer. Our Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you that it has all that we need for life and godliness. I pray that you would help us to follow in the steps of our Savior. I pray that you would use what is said to minister to someone who has been grappling with some injustice in their life. that has completely soured their spirit and turned their heart away from you. I pray, Lord , that they would release this to you. This injustice, this suffering, this pain that they would give it to you, and Father, that you would refresh and restore their heart for you. And Father, we think of those here today who are at odds with you, who are strangers to your grace Who cannot begin to follow these exhortations because they are not following the steps of the Savior because they are lost. We pray that they would come to see that Christ is their only hope, and that they would put their faith and trust in him. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.