Well, tonight I want to finish a series that I've started uh like a year or so ago. Did a little bit last year. But a series on introductions to the Gospels. And now last I did Matthew, last Um last October it was, and I did Luke before that. And so tonight I want to finish by going through Mark. So it's a bit of a break from Isaiah from Biblical Theology. We're going to talk about the book of Mark. But we're going to talk about it in an introduction format. And so what that means in a sense. And if you haven't noticed, there are notes in the back. I know I I forgot to put them out by this door, but there are some notes for this evening that may be helpful. to go through. But the purpose of introduction and why I enjoy introduction so much, you know, it sounds like a strange term, but introduction is the study of the background, the context. the foundational elements of the books of the Bible. So when you do introduction, the field seeks to provide kind of a comprehensive set of information around the book. What was going on, what was the context. Which helps us understand more of what's going on in the book. Things such as authorship, when was it composed, the audience, the purpose. All of these things bring bearing or bring meaning into the book as we study it. So introduction helps do two things in my mind. As we think about why study this. I mean this is really, when you think about it, some of you have study Bibles. This is like the first five pages of every book that you kind of skip over. to get to the Bible, right? To get to the actual word. Covers all these elements. Good study Bibles have a good section of introduction. But the value of it is important. And I give you two main reasons why. First, the introduction helps attest to the historical credibility of the Bible When we take a step back and we start studying the book as it was written, as it was understood, we can simply see how the scriptures were created to deliver this message to us. Many have used the topic of introduction to really start creating a polemic against the scriptures. They'll research dates, they'll research authorship, they'll do these things trying to attack the Bible and its credibility. Yet more and more research drives into this. It actually has gone further to credit the scriptures in their original writing. And it really attests to the miraculous work of God in creating these documents thousands of years ago for us to have. Also, it helps anchor us in the redemptive work of God. This is history we're talking about. We're not just talking about a story, but it's history, specifically in the Gospels And we are a part of it. What we read is not a fabrication, but it's a historical document. In this case of the Gospels, and this event changed Of course, the course of history. You know, it's like when you visit a place that you've read about, the story that you've read becomes realer as you start identifying the places and the understandings of that as you see it with your eyes Introduction hopefully does the same thing for us tonight as we go through it and kind of think about these bigger pictures, these things outside the book as we consider the book. So, as I get into it tonight, I hope that, one, that the appreciation of the historical process and kind of the way the Holy Spirit took in crafting these gospel messages would be encouraging to you. As we see more of the richness of the Gospel of Mark, it might renew you and encourage you to read it again and to read it in different ways and read it in a sense of understanding more about what was going on contextually around it. But also it would help you inform your interpretation and your study. As you understand more about the book, it may influence how you think about things, how certain aspects of the book kind of stand out to you, which hopefully you'll see some tonight. which will take your study a little bit deeper. Also helps you draw context connections. We're going to talk about a little bit more of the synoptic challenges, which are really When we talk about that, we talk about how Matthew, Mark, and Luke all share things. It's called synoptics. They all see the same. So how does Mark fit in with the other Gospels and how can we mesh that up? It also helps us with our interpretation, just our hermeneutic in terms of how we interpret. But also, I hope we see that the Gospel of Mark is unique. It has very unique features that helps us understand its rich character and really how it fits into the history of the church. And I think it's quite exciting. You know, there are some unique pieces of Mark that are only in the Gospel of Mark. But what's interesting, even in that same sense, 97% of the Gospel of Mark is in the book of Matthew. So something we have to consider. Why write Mark when 97% of the same content is already in the book of Matthew? Something to think about as we go through tonight. So we're going to talk about date, we're going to talk about authorship, we're going to talk about the content of it, and again, hopefully some of the handouts help us in that process. But let's jump in and talk about the date of Mark. Now you probably weren't thinking this morning, well, I hope we get to talk about the date of the Bible books tonight in Sunday or uh Wednesday worship. But it's an important thing for us to understand as we think about the date of a book. Why does the date matter? How do we understand this? As we understand certain realities, certain events that happen in the biblical timeline And this timeline I'm showing here shows two key points. Now here's, I don't have any candy up here or anything to give out as treats, but who knows what we believe happened in 33 AD. Okay. We'll let that one go. About 70 A. D. The temple. Exactly. Good. Wonderful. So the temple construction, so here's where we start building our timeline understanding this. Many scholars have produced different theories about the date of Mark. And of course it all has to tie together what was happening in the early church. So we're going to start with uh oh you know what I updated the slide but I didn't get it here, so I'll hold there for a little bit. Well, there's some range for us to think about. There's the forties, there's the fifties, sixties, seventies. We could consider the forties. And many authors have thought this is kind of early apostleship. Um, this is kind of coming out of um when, you know, after the after the death of Christ into the early apostles, what was going on at this time? One theologian, C. C. Tori, argues that part of the Book of Mark is in reference to in 40 when Emperor Caligua was taking over, and actually he wanted to put an image of himself. in the temple. And in Mark, when it talks about the abomination that causes desolation, in Mark 13, 14, some authors think, or this this man thinks that This was what he was talking about, a Roman emperor wanting to put his bust in the temple. But he's the only one that really holds this view. Additionally, in the 40s, some of the Qumran fragments, which are cut these, you know, the Qumran fragments are parts of the Bible they found in the caves of Qumran. They found these in the 50s or dated to the 50s, are argued to contain some of the book of Mark. So if they were dated in the 50, that means that Aldership and Mark would have happened before then. Yet the dating of ancient documents is difficult and not really consistent. But one of the bigger challenges is an early date in the 40s makes it hard to explain why other authors like Paul or Peter don't talk about the Gospel of Mark. If clear that if it existed that early, Paul would have been talking about it, Peter would have been talking about it, but it's kind of silent, it's not really quoted in their books. So that makes the slide a little bit further into the 50s. One of the challenges with the 40s as we get to the 50s is the tradition of how the Gospel of Mark was created. So when we think about these books, we just have them in our Bible. We don't necessarily think about how they got there. We maybe have this vision of Matthew sitting down and kind of writing this out from his own desire or what were the kind of the impetus for creating these books. The tradition behind the book of Mark involves one of the apostles. It involves the Apostle Peter. So one of the way the tradition goes is that Mark wrote down the preaching of Peter while Peter was in Rome. This is how they believe this book was formed. And it's from, we'll get to some of the quotes in a minute. Peter was known to be in Rome in the late 40s and mid-50s. So it's believed that, while some of Peter was in Rome after his release in Acts 12, it could have been in the late 40s, but Eusebius, a church historian, claims that Peter was in Rome during the reign of Claudius, who died in 54 A. D. So that starts putting us somewhere in the early part of the 50s where Peter's in Rome. Mark could be there copying down what Peter's saying, and we start getting some interest in the book. Yet most scholars are going to start putting Mark beyond that into the 60s. The reason why this is because most people favor that Mark probably wrote everything down once Peter stopped talking. And Peter died under Nero in 64 to 67 A. D. So Peter died. somewhere around here. So maybe he started writing it down here as Peter was imprisoned or being persecuted. The eternal evidence of the book, meaning the content of the book, talks a lot about the persecution of the believers, and we'll get into this as we talk about the themes. Mark has much to say about persecution as a theme. What's going on in the book of Mark, the suffering, the persecution? This makes sense if we start talking about what's happening in the 60s in Rome, which is the beginning of the persecution. It wasn't until 64, the burning, um, the fire, the great fire in Rome. Under Nero, the persecution of the Christians really kicked in. Now the fact that he's not talking about a direct persecution in a sense makes me think it might be a little bit before that. So there's some thoughts about how we kind of put this. And some commentators think that is really going to be happening before the end of that time. So really what we end up with is a date of mark that's going to be somewhere in the late 50s. early sixties in terms of where this book was written. So after that long explanation kind of answers we have to ask ourselves the question, why does this matter to us? Why does this date matter? Well, from a big picture perspective We're only talking a few years after the death of Christ. We're talking about the eyewitness. to these events. Now Mark, we know, is not a direct eyewitness, but Peter, who was the one that Mark was writing this down from, was, of course. So as he's writing these things down, he's writing them from Peter, who's speaking these things, and he's starting to capture this testimony. In a sense, even though it's written by Mark. Scholars believe in the testimony of the early church is that really this is Peter's attesting of the gospel. And of course, we understand this. And the date matters. Obviously, when we get to the synoptic studies, we understand that Matthew came earlier. If you remember back when I did Matthew about a year or so ago, Matthew's believed to be the earliest gospel. And of course it makes sense if Matthew's earliest gospel, that is, Peter is sharing these stories and he's preaching in Rome, he's preaching content. that matches what's coming out of the first gospel, which is Matthew. So we start seeing this connection where it makes sense that 97 % of Mark is from Matthew drawing this out. And of course Luke, maybe the third book in the Bible Because Luke says early in the scripture, I've taken this account of Theophas and looking at witnesses and writings, Luke's kind of summarizing and putting it all together, which makes sense he would see both Matthew and Mark as he's putting his gospel. So, this matters. If you think about this book, when someone says, oh, you know, Mark, the Gospels, the Bible, it's all just written by some people hundreds of years later. You know, it's just made up by the church. They just wanted something to say. It's not true. We have evidence, we have understanding, we have different facts that help us guide the understanding of where the date of Mark was written. So best best ranges in that fifty to sixty AD, likely the second gospel written. Oh man. Yeah, I'm going to stop here and go back to place real quick before we get into who wrote it. But the place of Mark matters as well. We understand where Mark was written. So if we're following that tradition, we're understanding the story that Peter was preaching in Rome. Mark's writing it down, we have to argue for the case of why we believe Mark was written in Rome. Well first there's an abundance of Latinisms in the Greek, meaning it's Greek phrases, Greek catchphrases that are really known to a Greek-speaking world. That'd be, I'll say something like Rome. These are people who are speaking Greek not in a translation, but clearly, fluently, and as their native language. Obviously, Peter being in Rome is a big factor to that. And the Gentile audience of the book is pretty inherent in some of the way that the book is structured in terms of how the language is. Think about Matthew. Matthew uses a lot of Aramaic. He uses a lot of reference to Jewish tradition. Mark does not do that. So he's not taking the time to painstakingly kind of understand things to Jews. He's really speaking to a Gentile audience. in the sense of being preached to. Also, we talk about this allusion to suffering. There's suffering in the book of Mark. Of course, this would align well to what's beginning to happen in Rome. And also there's obviously nothing there's nothing contrary in the book of Mark to say that it's not Rome. But all these things kind of come together to help us put it into Rome. So let's talk about who wrote it. Well, we we read the Gospel of Mark, we think, well, Mark wrote it, of course. But again, as we take the study with understand and refute these things, where do we get this from? Obviously the book of Mark, you've likely all read it before, doesn't say, hi, I'm Mark, I wrote this book. It's not a, there's nowhere where he identifies himself as the author. So how do we know it's Mark? Well the Mark is traditionally identified as John Mark, and he's mentioned in the book of Acts, Acts 12, Acts 25, and 15. He was the cousin of Barnabas, we learned from Colossians 4. 10, and he's associated with Paul and Peter. If we follow this tradition of Peter and Mark coming together, writing this, we have this verse in 1 Peter 5. 13, where he says this. She who is at Babylon, who is likewise chosen, sends you greetings, so does Mark, my son. Peter calls Mark his son. likely a spiritual relationship. And this early tradition holds that Mark was Peter's interpreter and companion in ministry, especially in Rome. Of course, we have the manuscript evidence that assigns this to Mark. This was all through the manuscripts, and by the third century, there was no doubt that this was Mark's gospel. Second century had in common practice, but there's no manuscript that says it's written by anyone else. So we're not fighting a contest here. It's really a matter of just looking at the evidence. But outside of manuscript evidence, we also have church tradition. And we've been talking about this. And I believe I've put in your notes here two different quotes which kind of hold this for us. Pretty much the entire witness of the early church points to this authorship. So we say, well, how do we know Mark wrote this? Eusebius, Justin Martyr, Arenaus, Terillion, Clement of Alexandria, basically everyone who is someone in the early church points to Mark writing this. That's a pretty strong case. There's really no other reason to believe someone else would do it if the entire corpus of the early church is pointing this out. But you have this quote from Papias, who is just, again, um lives in 10 uh 110 and irrenius in eighty one eighty where this tradition kept on they didn't necessarily challenge it But they understood the role of Mark and Peter and this whole account of how this came to be. Again, with no other evidence otherwise, there's really no reason to refute it. Why would these guys just make up this story? They have they're writing down church evidence. They're kind of talking about the spread of the gospel in ecclesiastical history. Once you get to the 110s you have a um you have a a peaceful reign where you start having the Christianity start to spread. They're really just starting to document what's going on in the church and how it's growing. So again there's no reason otherwise to believe that. But also there's this great implication of the connection to Peter. And when Peter and Mark are together, and we think about the great pairs, you know, of Paul and Silas and Really this Peter and Mark pair is quite interesting. This connection, obviously, through the church history is one aspect. But when you start thinking about this in other ways, it helps us understand why we get the nature of the book of Mark. The connection to Peter works itself out in a couple interesting ways. First, one thing we probably all know about Mark, which you've you've heard and you've kind of been commented on, every preacher talks about this, is that the book of Mark used uses this phrase like immediately or shortly, like then he went here. The book of Mark is full of action. He's moving quickly. Well, this can be explained by a couple of different reasons, but one of the reasons why I think it makes sense for Peter is that this is Peter's preaching. It fits a shorter kind of dialogue kind of approach. It's not prose, it's Peter speaking. So he's saying something, this is, then this happened, then this happened. This sounds a lot like how we talk. Right, we're going quickly through we're not drawing out long narratives saying this happened and this happened and this happened. So thus if you're scribing down while Peter the apostle is preaching publicly, You're making these movements and it's kind of putting it together. So this connection between Peter and Mark starts drawing this out. Also in the book of Mark, there's this picture of the disciples. And this is a unique aspect to the book of Mark. There's a picture of the disciples that shows more in a different emotional sense, the cowardliness and the spiritual blindness of the disciples. It's particularly vivid in the book of Mark. The only way this could have come is from a first-hand experience, which again points this connection to Peter being there. And of course Peter being one of one who's highly convicted of his cowardice. and his spiritual blindness. This is kind of a detail that would only come from Peter. It also helps that Peter is predominantly featured in the book of Mark. He talks about Peter quite a lot in the book of Mark, which again points to this connection between the two of them. And what's also interesting is that the structure of Mark, the following of the gospel, is closely aligned to Peter's evangel evangelical message in Acts 10. So as Peter goes through the gospel in Acts 10, as he's preaching this gospel, it aligns topically with the book of Mark, kind of right down in order. Which is really kind of interesting when you think about that. Like his sermon over here and the book of Mark line up. It's like he kinda had a game plan. He knew what he was he knew what he was saying, or that he's repeated this enough times as he's preached that gospel. So I feel like the book of Mark And a written biark is a pretty well locked-in component or good answer for who wrote this book. But now we know the date, we understand who, why did Mark read it? Now, or why did Mark write it? Sorry. Mark is no direct answer to this or no explicit reason. In Luke, he talks about the beginning of his gospel why he wrote it. I want to create this gospel record for you, most excellent Theophilus He's writing it down to kind of create this record. But Mark doesn't state anything like that, doesn't give an exact reason. And there's actually many different views. Of all the gospels, Mark is the one that's the most kind of debated on what the actual purpose of the gospel was. And it's actually the one that's debated the most in terms of kind of where it falls in the gospel order. It's kind of this strange gospel doesn't quite fit as clearly as Matthew and as Luke. So it has a lot of, it's almost like it pinballs a little bit inside of the record. There's one main idea, but I'm just going to briefly walk through a couple. There's theories that the theme could possibly be about encouragement amidst persecution This is a completely legitimate idea. We know Nero 's starting to reign. Things are starting to get bad for the Christians. There's this kind of heightening historical context of persecution makes total sense There's this emphasis on suffering can be aligned there. And obviously this call to discipleship, this call to walk in the way of the Lord. We can understand that he's trying to make this theological case for what's about to happen or what is happening in Rome. Another theme is could be instruction to the Gentile converts. Now again, Luke, if you remember from the book of Luke, Luke was written with Paul as they go to the Gentiles. And so the Gospel of Luke is very Gentile focused. Gentile focused, women focused, it really brings this whole different world to the gospel, different approach to it. So, you know, Luke kind of amplifies this a bit more. But there's obviously some aspects of this, when Luke, or sorry, when Mark does clarify things, he talks about some Jewish traditions and he clarifies it almost like he's explaining it to a non-Jew. Does that make sense? You know, this action-oriented kind of thing appealing to the Roman sensibilities possibly. And there's obviously this universal appeal. You can read it with Jew or Gentile eyes and it makes sense. It's not leaning one way or the other. But what I think really is the main theme of the book of Mark is Jesus as the suffering servant, as the suffering Messiah. Mark emphasizes Jesus' identity as the Messiah who must suffer and challenges prevailing expectations of a triumphant political deliverer. There's some things that go along with this, this significant component in the book of Mark about Jesus' suffering. There's a lot about Jesus' suffering. There's also this reinterpretation of messianic expectations. As Jesus goes through, he clarifies what the Messiah must do and he works through these different expectations. And also in Mark, we find where Jesus often instructs his disciples to not talk about his concealed identity. He says not to talk about this, not to expose him. It's a lot of that in Mark. And so there's this whole big narrative of Jesus as a suffering servant , one who's going forward in suffering, but is redefining what it means. to be the Messiah. What did they think the Messiah was going to be? This political leader, but no, Mark is helping redefine that as the suffering servant. So I'm going to walk you through a little bit of Mark's structure just as you think about the book and how it kind of connects this theme. On the back page of the handout, I've got a diagram for you to kind of think through. Mark is the shortest of the Gospels, only 16 chapters. So it's this thing here. I'm going to walk through real quick. Just to give you an idea as you think about how to look at the book as a whole. Really, it's broken into three sections. The first eight chapters are about the identity of Jesus. These sections talk about who Jesus was, this idea of who he would be, what the Messiah would be like. And there's three elements to this. First, there's this idea of the new king in the birth context. It talks about the king's arrival, this son of God, the way that John the Baptist prepares the way, this baptism in divine affirmation. Then there's this kind of aspect where his authority is being built up. He's preaching the kingdom of God. This kingdom language starts coming in to the book of Mark, right in chapter 1. And his authority is starting to be displayed as well. There's a big component of authority in the Gospel of Mark. He is the authority to do these things, the authority that only the king would do. In this new king area, Mark shows that Jesus is not just a teacher, but he is the divine king with authority over sin, sickness, nature, and religious norms. Then he moves to this new kingdom. The kingdom of God spreads despite opposition. Jesus calls a people, he teaches the parables, he demonstrates the kingdom power over nature, death, and evil. He starts seeing his conflict with the religious leaders and his formation of a new family of God. He gives the kingdom teachings. The kingdom of God is like this. He calms the storm in in Mark 4. He casts out the demon out of Legion in Mark V. And he's rejected by his earthly family in his hometown in the six. And he sends out the twelve and he feeds the five thousand and later in chapter six. The new kingdom is a powerful, growing, often rejected thing. Jesus is a king building a kingdom that defies the human expectations of what the Messiah would do. And then the end of this section is this new rule. As he challenges the Jewish traditions, he reveals the scope of his mission. He begins to clarify the nature of his rule, the suffering nature of his rule. He challenges the old rules as he rebukes the Pharisees in Mark 7. He extends grace to the outsiders, the Syrophysian woman, his daughter in Mark 7, the healing of the deaf man. warns against eleven of the Pharisees in Mark 8. And he forbids them to tell about his suffering and talls about his suffering. And he calls them to take up his cross. So he sets this section, this new rule of Jesus is not about political uh to nom domination, but it's about sacrificial leadership. The king must suffer, and so also must his disciples So as he sets up this identity of who he is, he moves into the next section, which is the mission of Jesus. These chapters are really all about his movement towards Jerusalem. He tells about the Passion in chapter 9. Jesus reveals that his glory in the transfiguration, yet also while preaching and predicting his suffering. The disciples are confused and struggling to grasp this path they're on to the cross. Again, this narrative of suffering starts and plays out. The transfiguration, the second passion prediction, teaching on greatness, anyone who must be first must be last. It all happens in chapter 9. And they start on this journey to Jerusalem in 10. Jesus prepares his disciples for what lies ahead, suffering, service, and sacrifice as they journey towards the cross and towards Jerusalem. upholds the sanctity of marriage. He talks about wealth as a barrier to the kingdom. Jesus explains his death more clearly. You know, James and John request their seats in glory. All these things start rattling. And then the core verse, I believe, of Mark is in chapter 10. And this is really kind of the statement verse for how I view this theme. And it's on your sheet here. But it's Mark 1045. The Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. He's building this up on his path to Jerusalem in a way that as they're walking towards Jerusalem, as they're traveling towards the city, he's preparing them for his suffering and also their suffering as they move closer to the city. They get to Jerusalem in 10, or sorry, in 11, the triumphal entry , the fig tree, this symbolic act representing Israel's fruitfulness or lack of fruitless. or the fruitlessness in that way, the cleansing of the temple. Jesus enters as a king but judges spiritual hypocrisy. His mission confronts both the external systems and the internal heart of many who follow him. He's at the temple. He engages the religious leaders in twelve, exposes their motives, and teaches them with authority. This king, this new kingdom, this new rule, brings this authority all the way to the temple and confronts the religious leaders. And he talks about the apocalypse, the apocalypse discourse in Mark 13, where the king prepares his people. He foretells of the destruction of the temple, future tribulations, and his return to glory. His mission includes preparing his people for endurance and hope. All of these things start leading up, and then the last section is the suffering of Jesus The passion narrative in Mark 14 and 15, the king suffers and dies. Jesus' mission reaches a turning point and he willingly suffers betrayal, injustice, and death to accomplish redemption Mark presents Jesus as a fully aware and in control, even as he is abandoned, mocked, and crucified. He's brought to trial with the Sanhedrin. Peter denies him three times. In the ninth hour, Jesus cries, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? The centurion confesses, this man truly was the Son of God. And he is buried in Mark 15. And then the resurrection in chapter 16. The final chapter shifts from sorrow to surprise and hope. Jesus rises from the dead, confirming his identity and his commission. Yet, what's a unique feature of Mark, unlike any other gospel, is that the Gospel of Mark ends abruptly We don't really understand why it is. There's some other versions. Your Bible probably has some notes on why they think it's added. There's some of you have that 9 through 20 later edition in your Bible. But just as we get this immediateness, this m always moving nature of Mark, it ends just as abruptly as it changes. So it fits well with the overall theme. The resurrection confirms his victory over death, validates his identity as the Son of God. And now, as his mission becomes our mission, the reader is drawn into the story of discipleship. This is a brief overview of the book. We've kind of flown through the book at a certain speed here, but hopefully this helps you to see and think about this book as you read through it, as you would go through understanding these are bigger movements, these are pieces. of the overall gospel and how it fits in. And there's every gospel has similar kind of structure. Obviously the life of Jesus is the same. Yet in Luke, for example, the journey to Jerusalem is longer in the book of Luke, and it's met with other different types of teaching, where this is really this preparation for his suffering and their suffering at the same time. as they approach Jerusalem. So let me end on a couple more uniques as we think about the book of Mark. We've mentioned this one already, but this idea of immediately. The book of Mark is a fast-moving book. In terms of a read, it's there's very few sections that don't move quickly. There's not long dialogues over certain topics. I think Chapter 13 on the apocalypse might be the longest kind of concentrated single um kind of pricopy in the book. But it moves quickly, it's it's easy to digest, it moves well. Many people will use the book of Mark. as a uh kind of inductive Bible study for like uh seekers or people who are wondering about the gospel using Mark. You've probably heard, you know, take people to John if they're a new believer, but I've seen studies and actually led a study that used Mark just because it is like shorter and chunkier and helps people kind of work through some of the stories quickly. But this word immediately occurs 40 times in the book of Mark, far more than any other gospel. But there's this sense of urgency, the sense of movement all moving towards Jerusalem. That urgency again ties in as we think about what's going on in Rome. There's probably an urgency in the air as persecution is ramping up, as the times are seen as this Emperor Nero is really coming after the Christians. There's an urgency, there's an uncertainty, and Mark starts drafting. This gospel. Mark is fast-paced. Jesus acts quickly, moving from one scene to scene with authority. There's also this element of the messianic secret, Jesus talking about not sharing who he is, keeping his identity under wraps. This whole first section of eight chapters about his identity, as he's more is exposed, he he asks them to kind of keep it under wraps until it's finally exposed. And that comes out actually in um chapter 9, when Peter confesses that he is the Lord. So there's this this kind of secreting, this keep it, keep it closed, keep it down, and then when Peter finally reveals it, they start heading to Jerusalem. It's kind of he's up in Galilee, kind of doing his ministry, and as soon as Peter says, You're the Christ, they start going to Jerusalem. And he shifts from who he is to who then they must be as disciples as they move towards Jerusalem. kind of a really interesting shift. This true identity in Jesus can't be really understood without that movement to the cross and what he will do for his followers. This one I find is really interesting. We talked about this a little bit earlier on too, is that Jesus and the disciples in the book of Mark have much more emotion than other books. You know, Luke has some really unique aspects of it in terms of the different types of people. You know, we think about the book of Luke, there's so many different characters, women, Gentiles, all different types of people, but in Mark, there's a lot of emotion. There's things like anger and grief in Mark 3, lots of compassion, Mark 1, fatigue while Jesus is sleeping on the boat. Agony in Gethsemane. He was sorrowful and troubled in Mark 14. Mark drawing this out, this idea of emotions and what's going on in the heart of people, really comes out in the book of Mark. And of course the abrupt ending. Talk about this the it's just a unique feature. There's lots of debate. You can spend a long time googling why Mark ends the way it does. There's lots of information and insights about this. But something we expect and it just it just fits the way the gospel goes. It's immediate, it's quick, it's fast moving, and it ends just as quick as it started. There's some belief that abrupt ending has something to do also with kind of what's going on while why acts ends the same way in terms of this abruptness of acts. just kind of stops while Paul um is imprisoned. So again not really sure we weren't there, but has a unique feature to it. So, I want to leave you with this thought. We've covered a lot of ground with the Gospel of Mark. We have a lot of information in this and hopefully it was helpful. But my goal in doing this tonight, again, just to think through the bookmark. You know, as you open your Bible, some of you are doing Bible reading plans, you're working through things. You know, it's we can always come to the scripture and just read it on the surface level. We can just see what it says, understand what it says, and you know, take a bit from it. But as we understand the context of the scripture, we understand where it comes from, its historical context, some things are bound to stick out to us more. We see things a little bit deeper with an angle. It's like when you you know when a friend of yours, you know, if they're a joyful person and they say something kind of sad, you think, that's not them, because I really know them. In the same way as we understand the book of Mark and what's going on, we understand this context that Peter was preaching these things and Mark's writing it down, we look at it and we say, is this is this characteristically something like Peter would do? Do we see the way this is written? Or when we see these connections or even quotes of Peter did this or Peter did that, it's this connection of Peter giving some of his firsthand accounts. Hopefully again it just drives us deeper into the word in appreciation, understanding what's going on as we read it. The Gospel of Mark plays a large role. in the gospel story. Without it, we would have um we missed some really critical parts. Yet its core delivery for us is this urgency. this emotional delivery, this quickness, this summary version of the gospel, which is a shorthand for us to work through and understand we can understand the richness to certain audiences, but this Gospel of Mark is quick. It's palatable. It's easy to explain. It's easy to go through. It moves us through. It's almost like when we talk about um you know, uh our articles these days and people just kind of read headlines. You know, Mark kind of reads more like that. It's just a quicker, easier read. But Theologically, it gives us this idea of the suffering of Christ. It really goes deep into the suffering servant, so I think it's the theme. And more so as Christ suffers and the details of his suffering, it talks to us as disciples, as those who follow Christ, what we must suffer in addition. We know that all but John of the disciples were martyred for their faith. And hopefully it encourages us and helps us think about what we must do as we follow him, the cost of discipleship. is a great way of thinking about the book of Mark. When he says, for even the Son of Man came to be s came not to be served, but to serve and give his life as a ransom for many. He calls us to follow him the same way, to suffer for him, to follow him at every cost, that we too would follow our Messiah, our Savior. In his life and in his work. Let me close in prayer. Father, we thank you for all that you've done in the cross. Lord, we are. Thankful that we can join together in the body, Lord, because of the blood of Christ and your sacrifice, Lord. As we study this book, I pray that tonight this was an encouragement to many to reading the book of Mark, to hear and to read the gospel story, especially as we come off of Easter and the story of the resurrection, Lord, that we would go back, look through the gospel. And understand what it meant for you to come to the cross, for your suffering, for your betrayal, and the cost you call us to, Lord, as we seek to follow you Not to glory or to riches or to fame, but we follow you as the one who gave all that we could have all, that we too would give our lives for you, Lord, as a sacrifice that's pleasing. And so we ask all this in your son 's name. Amen.