Turn to 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 this evening as we begin a new series, shorter series, Lord willing. uh from the epistle uh to f of the first of Thessalonians, the first epistle of Thessalonians. And we're going to have our Memory verse from the 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verses 1 through 2. And I know you just sat down. Would you join me in Stanley as we quote this together, read it through together? I know we're not quoting it, we're just reading it through two times. We'll say the reference and then the verse together. 1 Thessalonians 5, 1 through 2. Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need to have anything written to you. You yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. First Thessalonians 5, 1 through 2. Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need to have anything written to you. You yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. Thank you, you may be seated. Lord willing over the next few months we're going to be putting not only these two verses to to memory, but also then the following verses to memory, verses that are really helpful for us as we are brought to remember the fact that Christ is coming again, which is a major theme in the book of 1 Thessalonians. This evening as we start this book, I really think it's important for us to get an understanding a bit about the background and the the purpose for the writing of Thessalonians, there's questions that you need to have answered whenever you come to a new book study. And so the Lord willing tonight we're going to look at six questions. And then we're going to do something a little bit different, not very different. But a little bit different. We're going to read through the entire book of 1 Thessalonians in one sitting. I'll read it out loud. It takes 11 minutes and 30 seconds to read through First Thessalonians. And we'll do that at the end after we've kind of had a little bit of an overview of this book to kind of prepare us to understand the message as a whole. So the first question that we want to answer this evening is who was the author? And we find that in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, the first words of the first verse. He says, Paul Sylvanus and Timothy to the Church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace to you and peace. So we have here, obviously, Paul is the primary author. Paul is the apostle. He is the leader of the missionary band. And when Paul writes this, we say this is a Pauline epistle, he is writing as the primary author. And a few times we see him going into the first person singular. We also see him mentioning himself again as I, Paul. And then he continues on in description of things later on in this book. So Paul is the primary author, though it's almost like Sylvanus and Timothy are there with him saying. . Hey, don't forget, mention . this. They're writing together with him. It's a group. It's kind of like the idea if I write a letter from and I sign at the end. the Scheite family. It's not necessarily that Hudson is writing everything that's there, but that I'm representing the Scheite family. But it seems pretty clear that Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy all have a significant part in this letter, though it is Paul who is the primary author of this. If you look at chapter 2, verse 18, you'll see this again. When he says, because we wanted to come to you, I, Paul, again and again. So you see, Paul is the primary author of this. But then we have another man named Sylvanus, and this name is not unfamiliar in the New Testament, but uh we see him as the amanuensis of 1 Peter in 1 Peter 5, 12. He says, by Sylvanus, a faithful brother as I regard him, I have written briefly to you. So Peter used uh Sylvanus as his Emanuensis to write. The first epistle of Peter. But the name Sylvanus is a shortened name, or it's a long name of the shortened form of Silas. And so when you think of the second missionary journey, And you have Paul and Silas going out on the second missionary journey. We have Paul and Silas in the Philippian jail. That's the same person as Sylvanus. Sylvanus. Is another name for Silas. So you'll catch me calling him Sylvanus throughout the series and Silas. Silas is probably the name that we are more familiar with. He's mentioned twelve times. in Acts 15 through 18. And he is the messenger who carried the letter from the Jerusalem Council And Acts 15, 32 identifies him as a prophet. So he was a significant person in the early church. When you see the name Sylvanus, you should think Silas. Also, Timothy. I don't think Timothy needs a whole lot of introduction. He's more easily identified as the recipient of 1st and 2nd Timothy. He was Paul's son in the faith, and he joined Paul and Silas. On Paul's second missionary journey, and we find him in Acts chapter 16, there in Lystra and Derby. He was the son of a Jewish mother and an unbelieving Greek father. And when Paul brought him along on his journey, he went and had him circumcised so as not to be a stumbling block, because people knew that he had a Jewish mother and a Gentile father. Although with Titus he did not have Titus uh circumcised because he was Gentile. So we see this as a uh he is a crucial member of the early church. So we had these three men who were the missionary team, part of the missionary team that came to the church of Thessalonica and planted this church and then also continued to instruct the church. So who is the audience is the next question we want to come to. Obviously, we have it again in verse 1, part of the answer to that. He says, Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. So the first verse tells us that the audience is the church of the Thessalonians. He's writing to the church in Thessalonica. So if you want to think a little bit about Thessalonica, the modern city of Thessaloniki, is there in that place. And so if you were to go to Greece today and look for Thessalonica, you would find Thessaloniki It's in northeastern Greece at the tip , northern tip of the Aegean Sea. I believe I've got a map of that. Yeah. And so you have right there is Thessaloniki, right there at the top of the Aegean Sea. And it's a very significant location. Because you see this red line that goes across through there, and my shaky hand brings it across. That is the Ignation Way which connected Istanbul, to the western coast of Greece, 700 miles over land. And it was known, Thessalonica was known for its fertile farmlands, but also very strategic location. where there there was a if you want to take a just a a view of the Ignatian way that's still available visible today you can walk on this to this day. pretty good road system for the first century. This actually actually goes back to the second century BC, uh, where they had good Roman roads that allowed transportation across this large area. So here's here's Italy, you get all the way over here into Turkey, up into the Black Sea. by the Ignatian way. And so it was on a strategic location. The history of Thessalonica is also rather significant. It was founded by the Greek general Cassander. If you know your Greek history, after Alexander the Great died, it divided into four heads of the generals, and Cassander was one of those heads. And he named it after his wife, Thessalonica of Macedon, and who was the half-sister of Alexander the Great. And so Thessalonica is named after the half-sister of Alexander the Great, the wife of General Cassander. What's significant as well is During the intense power struggle that resulted after the death of Julius Caesar in 44 BC, the city of Thessalonica remained loyal to Octavius. Octavius is Oh, yeah, we have Alexander's divided kingdom. So we have this area right here in the pink is what Cassander ruled. And that was where, right up there is where you have then Thessalonica. But when in in 44 BC, when Julius Caesar passed away, not so pleasantly, those who remained loyal to Octavian were like like the city of Thessalonica were given freedom. And the city of Thessalonic was made a free city by the Roman Senate. And if you think of Octavian, you can think of Caesar Augustus. who made the decree by which Mary and Joseph should go from Nazareth to Bethlehem. That's the same Caesar that ruled at that time. so that Jesus would be born in Bethlehem. Because Thessalonica remained loyal to Caesar Augustus or to Octavian. They were given the status of the free city with rights to form their own government and exemption from Roman taxation, a pretty significant gift by the Roman Senate. And what's significant about that is because in Acts chapter 17 We have the reference to Luke describing what in our English translation is just the city rulers, but it's a Greek word known as the polytarch. And for 1900 years, skeptics said, well not 1900 years, several hundred years afterwards, skeptics came along and said, Luke was probably not the writer of Acts. And he used the whoever wrote it wrote used the wrong term. Polytarch is not the right term for a ruler of a of a Roman city. Well, because Thessalonica was a free city, they actually went by a different word for their rulers, which was Polytarchs. And in 1885, Ottoman authorities decided to demolish some of the walls in Thessalonica, and they discovered the gate of Thessaloniki, and on it it has the reference to the leaders. of the city of Thessalonica that were known as Polytarchs. And since then, numerous other examples have been unearthed to describe or to reveal that was the name that was used by the Roman officials of of uh first Thessal or Thessalon Thessalonica Now we come to talk about the founding. So here's the city authorities. These are the polytarchs. When Paul or Luke says and when they could not find them they dragged Jason and some of the brothers before the city authorities, these polytarks and Skeptics came along and said that's not the right term. They must have it must have been written much later by someone who didn't understand the proper Greek word for the city authorities. Come to find out Luke was there, and Luke actually knew the right name to call them. We come to the the founding of we'll get to that in a second. The founding of the church in Thessalonica. The story of the founding of the church of Thessalonica is found in Acts 17. So if you turn your Bibles back to Acts chapter 17, this is a significant passage of scripture for us to be able to understand the founding of the church and some of the the background behind this young church. The founding of this church is found in Acts 17. And if you know your history of Acts well, this was part of Paul's second missionary journey. In Acts chapter 16, we have the story of how the gospel first came to Europe. In Acts 16, if you go back just a little bit and look at verses 6 and following, it says, And they went through the region to Phrygia and Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia. And when they had come up to Mysia, they attempted to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit of Jesus did not allow them. So passing by Mysia, they went down to Troaz And a vision appeared to Paul in the night. A man of Macedonia was standing there, urging him and saying, Come over to Macedonia and help us. And when Paul had seen the vision, immediately we sought to go on into Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them. And at that point we have the story of the founding of the church then in Europe. Prior to this time, the church had been in Africa, the church had been in Asia, but the church had not reached into Europe. And this is the beginning of the church going into Europe. Based on this, Paul, Silas, and Timothy went to the city of Philippi, which was a major city of Macedonia. We're gonna From here, and this is where they received their vision, and they went up into Philippi. And from there they traveled then over to Thessalonica. Paul, Silas, and Timothy went to Philippi, which was a major city of Macedonia. They preached the gospel. They began to see converts. We see converts like Lydia. coming to know Christ. But when Paul cast a demon out of a slave girl who was a fortune teller, her masters incited a riot against Paul and Silas. You know the story how Paul and Silas were then beaten and thrown into the jail at Philippi. And Paul and Silas at midnight are singing and praising God and and praying, and God sends an earthquake and the Philippian jailer comes in thinking that the prisoners have escaped and he He's about to kill himself, and Paul says, Do yourself no harm. And the Philippian jailer says, What must I do to be saved? Because he had heard the amazing testimony of these two men who had been beaten and imprisoned. singing and worshiping the Lord and praying. And we know the story then of how he took him to his home and they preached the gospel to his family. And the Philippian jailer along with his family got saved and they got baptized that same night. Immediately after this event, the next day, the authorities send the police to the prison and say, Tell them to go. And Paul says, No, no, no, no, no. You beat us unlawfully. We're Roman citizens. They need to come out and ask us to leave nicely. And so they did. They came and they asked them to leave Paul and Silas had the freedom then to go to the church community to strengthen the brothers, and they went on from there to Thessalonica. You read in chapter 17. Now when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews, and Paul went in as was his custom And on three Sabbath days he reasoned with them from the scriptures, explaining and proving that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead. saying, this Jesus whom I proclaim to you is the Christ. So we have Paul coming into this new city and there's a synagogue there. In Philippi there was no synagogue. In Thessalonica it's a large city, there's a synagogue. Through archaeological records we know there are at least twenty five other religions and gods who are worshipped in Thessalonica. It's a large city, possibly as much as 200,000 people in Thessalonica. Very large city. But a synagogue of the Jews was there. And he comes in, and as is custom, he goes immediately to the synagogue. He preaches the gospel. And what does he preach there about the gospel? Using the Old Testament, using the Hebrew Bible, he explains to them it was necessary for the Christ to suffer, to die, and to rise again. I wonder where he got that. I wonder if Isaiah 53 was a major part of his preaching. I think it probably was. I think Isaiah 53 was a major part of Paul's preaching because it explains that very clearly. It says that he did this for three Sabbath days. And then, if we continue on in verse 4, it says, And some of them were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas. As did a great many of the devout Greeks, and not a few of the leading women. The devout Greeks are those who were God-fearers. They would come to the synagogue, they would hear the Word of God preached, but they weren't willing to convert to Judaism, which would require circumcision And so they were God fearers, they were devout, they often supported the work of the synagogue, but they were not full-fledged Jews who would take up circumcision. But many of them believed. And it says, but the Jews, meaning those who did not believe, were jealous. And taking some wicked men of the rabble, they formed a mob, set the city in an uproar, and attacked the house of Jason, seeking to bring them out to the crowd. And when they could not find them, meaning Paul and Silas and Timothy, they dragged Jason and some of the brothers before the city authorities, the polytarchs. Shouting, These men who have turned the world upside down have come here also. And Jason has received them, and they are all acting against the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another King, Jesus. And the people and the city authorities were disturbed when they heard these things. And when they had taken money as security from Jason and the rest, they let them go. Then in verse 10 it says, the brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. So we have Paul and Silas teaching in the synagogue for three Sabbath days. And then we have the story of a riot that takes place that was incited by the Jews who did not believe. And as a result, there are some who look at this and say, Paul and Silas were only in Thessalonica for three weeks. I don't think that's the best way to look at this. I believe Paul and Silas preached in the synagogues for three weeks. They continued their preaching ministry outside the synagogue for a period of months. And eventually the Jews were so upset that they incited a riot against him, but not immediately after the three weeks. And there are several reasons I think that. First, the Thessalonian church was comprised primarily of Gentiles who came to know Christ. If you look at 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 and verse 9, Paul is speaking primarily to Gentiles, not to Jews who converted. He says, you turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God. So he's writing to Gentiles who formerly were idol worshippers. And so it was more than just this three weeks ministering in the synagogue. He had a period of time where he ministered outside of the synagogue before the riot took place, in which then they had to flee out of Thessalonica. Secondly, Paul was in Thessalonica long enough to receive financial aid from Philippi at least twice. If you were to look at Philippians chapter 4, verses 15 and 16. Do I have this in here? Oh, I don't, I apologize. Philippians 4, verses 15 and 16, he says, and you Philippians yourselves know that in the beginning of the gospel, remember the church went to Europe and go he goes to Philippi first, and then he travels to Thessalonica. The gospel came there first. When I left Macedonia, no church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving, except you only. Even in Thessalonica , You sent me help for my needs once and again. So I think it's pretty clear that it would take more than just three weeks of ministry for the Philippian church to take up an offering and send a person along the Ignatian way over to Thessalonica and give it to them. Have that messenger go back. Take up another offering and send it along the way over to Paul. So a period of time had elapsed for the Philippian believers to support Paul at least twice. That word actually could mean even more than twice. While he was in Thessalonica, the Philippian believers sent support to Paul and to help him in his ministry. Third reason why I think he was there longer than three weeks. He had to be there long enough to establish his trade as a tent maker to the point where he could describe himself as a model of self-sufficiency for them to follow. He talks about this in 2 Thessalonians, how you remember how I worked night and day. making taking care of my own needs and the needs of those that were with me. And it you just don't walk into a city and immediately take up a trade. It takes a little bit of time to establish yourself as someone who is worthy of doing that trade and find your way into that community. So it seems like he was there for a long enough period of time where he could set himself as an example of how he worked faithfully. And also I think this it three weeks seems a little too short to be able to train and appoint church leaders like He did, because we know they tell them to submit to the elders of the church, the church leaders. So three weeks is an awful short time to be able to appoint the elders. So most likely Paul was in Thessalonica for a period of six months. or more, but probably not much longer than six months. Fairly short time. And this church was founded in the face of severe persecution. Not only were Paul and Silas and Timothy persecuted, But the new converts were as well. We've already seen many of those who came to Christ did so out of that pagan background And in that pagan background, they turned from serving God to or from serving idols to God. And as a result, they faced a lot of persecution. If you go back to 1 Thessalonians, Let's take our Bibles and go back to 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 and in verse 6. Paul says, and you became imitators of us and of the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction. with the joy of the Holy Spirit. So that fledgling church, those young Christians who came out of idolatry and learned about Christ and received Christ, they faced stiff persecution within their community for turning away from the idols that were common in their land and serving the Lord. And he says, You receive the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit. So we'll look into this a little bit more as we continue on in our study of 1 Thessalonians, but that's the essence of the founding of the church in Thessalonica. So the next question is: when was Thessalonians written? One of the amazing things is that because of Luke's accuracy in writing Acts, we can date with great clarity and great confidence, the founding of the Church in Thessalonica, also the second missionary journey of Paul. If you were to go back, you don't need to do this, but in not only does Luke mention the Polytarchs as the civic leaders of Thessalonica, but he also mentions in Acts 18, verse 12 that when Paul was in Corinth, shortly after leaving Thessalonica, he goes from Thessalonica to Berea to Athens to Corinth. While he was in there, Paul was attacked in Corinth, and it says, when Gallio was proconsul of Achaea. And most of the time when you're reading your Bible in Acts, you just go, oh, whoever Gallio was. But if you were to do a Google search, you could find out who Gallio was. And Gallio was a relative. He was known in the Senate. He was a well-known man. But he only was the proconsul of Achaea for about a year to a year and a half, from 51 to 52 A. D. And so we know that the church was formed probably a little bit before this, roughly around 50 to 51 A. D. and the letter was written while he was in Corinth. 51 to 52 A. D. So we have a great deal of specificity because of Luke's accuracy in recording the events that take place. in the book of Acts, we can say with great confidence, this book, 1 Thessalonians and 2 Thessalonians, was were written around 51 to 52 A. D. which would make it one of the very earliest of the books of the New Testament. Probably Galatians was written before this, but after that you would find 1st and 2nd Thessalonians as the first books that were written. Where was 1 Thessalonians written from? Oh here's here's an inscription actually that shows you Gallio as the pro-council of Achaea. So the little inscription that remains even to this day of about Galio. What is where was Thessalonians written from? That's the next question. Paul wrote the letter from Corinth after Silas and Timothy had returned from Macedonia. Again, in Acts chapter 18, we know Paul stayed in Corinth for 18 months. And in verse 5 in Acts chapter 18, it describes a time when Silas and Timothy returned from Macedonia. Probably Silas had gone back to Philippi and was checking on the church in Philippi, and Timothy had gone to Thessalonica to check on the church in Thessalonica. We read about that. than in 1 Thessalonians chapter 3. So if you're in 1 Thessalonians, look at chapter 3. In verse 1 it says, Therefore, when we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left behind at Athens alone. And we sent Timothy, our brother, and God's co-worker in the gospel of Christ, to establish and exhort you in the faith, that no one be moved by these afflictions So at this point, Paul sends Timothy from Athens back to Thessalonica. Check on them Encourage them. Make sure they're doing okay. Let them know that we are doing okay. The persecutions that have come to us, they should not be surprised at them. These are normal. At this time it seems very likely that Silas then was sent over to to Philippi and he was serving there. And then the two of them return when Paul is now in Corinth and Timothy gives an encouraging report. The church is doing well. The church loves you. The church has a few questions. They long for you. They long to see you again. They wish you could be there, but they're doing well. And it's because of that report. And the questions and some of the concerns that Timothy brings while Paul is in Corinth, Paul writes the letter of 1 Thessalonians, and then When that letter is delivered, there's a few more questions that come back, and he writes the letter of 2 Thessalonians for them. So that's the the the structure or the the the reason why this was written and the location from where it was written. So what is the structure of 1 Thessalonians as we go into this book, just to get a rough idea in our head of how this works out. Basically the book divides into two halves. Pretty nicely. Chapters 1 through 3, you can think of it as a look back. Paul's looking back at the work of God among them and Paul's ministry among them. So it's a backwards look. I thank God for what he has done. Look what he did in this case. And in this case, remember how I lived among you. It's a backwards look. in chapters 1 through 3. And each of those chapters, chapter 1, we have thankfulness for what God has done among them. And it's full of thanksgiving. Thanksgiving is really the heartbeat of Paul. You see this again and again in all of his epistles, but especially here in 1 Thessalonians. So there's thankfulness for what God has done among them in chapter one. A reminder of how Paul acted when he was with them. He said, Remember how I acted? Remember what I did? Remember what I taught you? And he's a reminder of those things. And then rejoicing in chapter 3 in Timothy's good report about them. The second half of the book is chapters 4 and 5. I know it's not exactly half. Second two-fifths of the book is look forward to the return of Christ. And he's urging them to grow in holiness, love, and diligence in chapter 4, because of the return of Christ. and to be watchful and sober in chapter 5 because of the return of Christ. What's one of the most significant things about the book of 1 Thessalonians is that at the end of every chapter, he concludes the chapter with a reference to the coming of Christ. He speaks to them about the coming of Christ, which is significant because here we have a baby church. Paul was with them probably no more than six months. And he had taught them significantly about the coming of Christ. The return of Christ was a significant part of Paul's teaching to them. So if we look at this, what is the theme of 1 Thessalonians? Very simply, continue to grow in faith, hope, and love in light of Christ's imminent return. Continue to grow in faith, hope, and love in light of Christ's imminent return. At this point, I'd like to read the book of 1 Thessalonians to you. But before I do, I want you to look at 1 Thessalonians 5. And look at verse 27. This is the reason why we're doing this. Well, it's one of the reasons. He said, I put you under oath before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers. We're under oath. Paul has put us under oath to have this letter read to all the brothers. And so We do. This is what we should do. We should read it. And it's helpful to read it in one sitting. Sometimes if we read a chapter and then we come back the next day and read another chapter, we miss some of the flow. It's very helpful to read a book, especially an epistle, in one sitting and to hear the flow through the chapters, because we have to remember these chapter divisions were not original. They're artificial. But as I read it, I'd like you to think about two points. First of all, the Christian ministry is one of deep affection. That unites the hearts and lives of those who proclaim the gospel to the hearts and lives of those who receive the gospel. First Thessalonians 3:19, Paul says on behalf of Timothy and Silas, What is our hope or joy or crown of boasting before our Lord Jesus at his coming? Is it not you? For you are our glory and joy. When Paul writes 1 Thessalonians, it's not a sterile relationship that he has with them. I'm just writing an academic paper here. I'm just writing something that you need to know these facts, these are important. He loves them. He prays for them. He prays for them by name, as we'll find out. He counts them as his crown and joy. And he's filled with thankfulness because of them. Christians must live with this. We all have ministries. We all have people we minister to. God hasn't called us to a sterile academic relationship with people that we keep them in their boxes, but one of deep love Where we know people, we serve people, and our hearts go out to them. Paul's heart goes out to the people of Thessalonica, and it's very evident. As we, you know, I believe you'll see it as we read through this. And I would encourage you to listen for that. Listen for Paul's heartbeat to the Thessalonians. And the second thing, Christians must keep the return of Christ constantly before our eyes if we are to live with a proper view of this world in our life. And again, although Paul was only there for probably no more than six months, he taught them extensively about the return of Christ. And if you were to read 2 Thessalonians, you'd be like, wow, he taught them extensively. About the return of Christ. And a lot of times we say, well, you know, don't tell baby Christians about end times things. That wasn't Paul's philosophy Paul's philosophy was baby Christians need to know this, and adult Christians need to know this. We all need to know this. How many times this week did you think about the fact that Christ is coming again? How would that truth have impacted the way you have lived your life this week if it had been a part of your regular thinking process? Paul thinks it's significant. And so as we read through 1 Thessalonians, I would encourage you just to listen to how many times he mentions his coming. And then Allow the Lord to help us to grow in that area where we are conscious of his return more and more. Do not fear. It only takes 11 and a half minutes to read through 1 Thessalonians. So I'm going to read it. So encourage you to follow along in your own Bible, and I'll try to read it clearly. Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy, to the Church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace to you and peace. We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers, remembering before our God and Father your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. For we know, brothers, loved by God, that He has chosen you, because our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit, and with full conviction. You know what kind of men we proved to be among you for your sake. And you became imitators of us and of the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction, with the joy of the Holy Spirit. So that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia. For not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaea , But your faith in God has gone forth everywhere, so that we need not say anything, for they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you. And how you turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. For you yourselves know, brothers, that our coming to you was not in vain. But though we had already suffered and been shamefully treated at Philippi, as you know We had boldness in our God to declare to you the gospel of God in the midst of much conflict. For our appeal does not spring from error or impurity or any attempt to deceive But just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak not to please man, but to please God, who tests our hearts For we never came with words of flattery, as you know, nor with a pretext for greed, God is witness. Nor did we seek glory from people, whether from you or from others Though we could have made demands as apostles of Christ, but we were gentle among you, like a nursing mother taking care of her own children. So, being affectionately desirous of you, we were ready to share with you not only the gospel of God, but also our own selves, because you had become very dear to us For you remember, brothers, our labor and toil. We worked night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you while we proclaim to you the gospel of God. You are witnesses, and God also, how holy and righteous and blameless was our conduct toward you believers. For you know how, like a father with his children, we exhorted each one of you and encouraged you and charged you to walk in a manner worthy of God, who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. And we also thank God constantly for this. That when you receive the word of God, which you heard from us You accepted it not as the word of men, but as what it really is, the word of God, which is at work in you believers. For you, brothers, became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea. For you suffered the same things from your own countrymen as they did from the Jews. Who killed both the Lord Jesus and the prophets and drove us out and displeased God and opposed all mankind? By hindering us from speaking to the Gentiles that they might be saved, so as always to fill up the measure of their sins. But wrath has come upon them at last. But since we were torn away from you, brothers, for a short time, in person, not in heart, we endeavored the more eagerly and with great desire to see you face to face. Because we wanted to come to you. I, Paul, again and again, but Satan hindered us. For what is our hope or joy or crown of boasting? Before our Lord Jesus at his coming, is it not you? For you are our glory and joy. Therefore, when we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left behind at Athens alone. And we sent Timothy, our brother and God's co-worker in the gospel of Christ, to establish and exhort you in your faith that no one be moved by these afflictions. For you yourselves know that we are destined for this. For when we were with you, we kept telling you beforehand that we were to suffer affliction, just as it has come to pass, and just as you know For this reason, when I could bear it no longer, I sent to learn about your face, for fear that somehow the tempter had tempted you, and our labor would be in vain. But now that Timothy has come to us from you, and has brought us the good news of your faith and love, and reported that you always remember us kindly and long to see us as we long to see you. For this reason, brothers, in all our distress and affliction, we have been comforted about you through your faith. For now we live. If you are standing fast in the Lord, For what thanksgiving can we return to God for you? For all the joy that we feel for your sake before our God? as we pray most earnestly, night and day, that we may see your face, that may see you face to face and supply what is lacking in your faith. Now may our God and Father Himself and our Lord Jesus direct our way to you, and may the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all as we do for you. so that he may establish your hearts blameless and holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints. Finally, then, brothers, we ask and urge you in the Lord Jesus that as you receive from us how you ought to walk and to please God, just as you are doing, that you do so more and more. For you know what instruction we gave you through the Lord Jesus. For this is the will of God, your sanctification That you abstain from sexual immorality, that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor, not in the passion of lusts, like the Gentiles who do not know God. That no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter, because the Lord is an avenger in all these things, as we told you beforehand, and solemnly warned you For God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness. Therefore, whoever disregards this, disregards not man, but God, who gives his Holy Spirit to you. Now concerning brotherly love, you have no need for anyone to right you, for you yourselves have been taught by God to love one another. For that indeed is what you are doing to all the brothers throughout Macedonia. But we urge you, brothers, to do this more and more. and to aspire to live quietly, and to mind your own affairs, and to work with your hands, as we instructed you, so that you may walk properly before outsiders and be dependent on no one. But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, and with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will always be with the Lord. Therefore encourage one another with these words. Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers You have no need to have anything written to you, for you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night While people are saying there is peace and security, then sudden destruction will come upon them, as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night, we're of the darkness So then let us not sleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with Him Therefore, encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing. We ask you, brothers To respect those who labor among you, and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you, and to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves. And we urge you, brothers, admonish the idle, encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak, be patient with them all. See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone Rejoice always. Pray without ceasing. Give thanks in all circumstances. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. Do not quench the spirit. Do not despise prophecies, but test everything. Hold fast what is good. Abstain from every form of evil. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful. He will surely do it. Brothers, pray for us. Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. I put you under oath before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Lord willing, over the next few months, not too many months, not years, we'll be able to investigate this epistle a little more and find the encouragement. and hope that Paul intended for this message, that we might walk in faith, love, and hope. In the expectation of the soon return of Christ. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. It is alive and it is powerful. It is sharper than a two-edged sword. Father, we confess that we need this. We need your word to mold us and to shape us, to change us, to convict us. And Father, I pray as we begin this study in 1 Thessalonians that you would use this in our lives, that this would be a pivotal point That we would be more aware of your teaching on the imminent return of Christ, and that we would live daily praying for and hastening to that day Father, I pray that Christ would come soon and that we would be faithful until he does. Father, I pray that we would grow in holiness We will grow in faith. We will grow in love. We will grow in hope through this time. Father, we commit this to you in Jesus' name. Amen.