Well we are in Isaiah 60, the very tail end of it. We didn't get everything done that I wanted to last week. If you remember where we are in the book of Isaiah, the theme is return and rest. in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. We are coming here near the end. We've been marching through the book of Isaiah. You might have felt like it wasn't marching. But we're marching, and we're we're nearing the end of the book of Isaiah. We're coming to this section of comfort through eschatology, and we're going to see the anointed warrior tonight. That's a significant. That's been up here on our board for a while, but we haven't talked about the anointed warrior. We're going to see him introduced in this passage. Well, that's we're going to be in Isaiah chapter 60 where we are finishing up last week when we come to verses 19 to the end. It says this, the sun shall be no more your light by day, nor for brightness shall the moon give you light, but the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your God will be your glory. Your sun shall no more go down, nor your moon withdraw itself, for the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your days of mourning shall be ended Your people shall all be righteous, and they shall possess the land forever. The branch of my planting, the work of my hands. that I might be glorified. The least one shall become a clan, and the smallest one a mighty nation. I am the Lord. In its time I will hasten it Now, if you remember, there's a lot of similarity between this passage and something that we read about in Revelation chapter 21. beginning in verse 22 about the new Jerusalem. I'm just going to read to you some of those verses. Beginning in verse 22 of Revelation 21, it says, And I saw no temple in the city. For its temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb. And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives its light, and its lamp is the Lamb. By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it. If you remember when we began Isaiah chapter 60 , We ask the question, does Isaiah 60 refer to the millennial kingdom? The new the Jerusalem of the Millennial Kingdom? Or does it refer to the eternal state, the new Jerusalem that's part of the new heavens and the new earth? And if you remember what I said at that time, I said it refers, it refers to the millennial kingdom, not to the New Jerusalem. that's described here in Revelation chapter 21. But as you're looking at this, you might be saying, but there's a lot of similarities between what's described here in verse 20, 19 and 20, and what we read in Revelation 21. But there's a couple things that are important for us to remember. I put these in your notes last week. So if you're looking for them in your notes tonight, they're not here. They're last week's notes. We just didn't finish it up. But Isaiah 60 describes a Jerusalem that has a temple. But when we read Revelation 21, the very first thing I read out of verse 22 says, And I saw no temple in the city. So Isaiah 60 describes a Jerusalem with a temple. Revelation 21 describes no temple. Isaiah 60 describes a world where there is still sin. that is being punished. In verse 12 and also in Zechariah chapter 14 we see this that there is still sin in the millennial stage. In that millennial kingdom. But in the New Jerusalem, there is no sin. There is no evil at all. Isaiah 60 describes the rebuilding of a city. In fact, the foreigners are the ones who come and they rebuild the city. Where the new Jerusalem comes from where? Comes down out of heaven. It's already built. So there's a distinction there between these two things. And Isaiah 60 describes day and night. If you look back to verse 11. He says, Your gate shall be open continually, day and night. They shall not be shut. So there's a day and night aspect of it. So when we come here to verses 19 and 20, the question is, what's going on? What's going on? Because it seems like there isn't a sun and a moon. What is going on? He says, the sun shall be no more, your light by day. Nor for brightness shall the moon give you light, but the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your God will be your glory. Your sun shall no more go down, nor your moon withdraw itself. For the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your days of mourning shall be ended. Well, there's a couple possibilities to what's going on here. There's two consistent possibilities. One, this is what's called a prophetic condensing. And I think that's Pretty likely. Much like the view of mountain ranges. Have you ever been travel traveling maybe out towards Colorado and you're at the foothills and you look up and you see these mountain peaks off in the distance? And as you look at them, they look like the first mountain peak is right next to the second mountain peak. But if you keep driving and you get to the top of that first mountain peak, you'll realize to the next one is quite a distance. But from a from the vantage point of the foothills, they look like they're right next to each other. And many times in prophetic literature, you find this vantage point. The prophet is speaking, and as he's looking at the future, he's seeing the peaks of prophetic history as if they're right next to each other. He's describing them almost like they're right next to each other. But in reality, there's a vast difference. There's a vast distance between the two of them. This is found we've already seen this in Isaiah chapter 11, and we're going to see it again tonight in Isaiah chapter 61, and we know that's the case. because of what happens when Jesus gives his interpretation, his interpretation of Isaiah 61, verses 1 and 2. If you look at Isaiah 61, verses 1 and 2, It says, the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And then the next part says, and the day of vengeance of our God. Interestingly, when Jesus preached on this passage in the synagogue in Nazareth, he stops mid-sentence. He reads Isaiah 61. He reads the first clause of Isaiah 61, 2. And he doesn't finish the sentence. And he rolls up the scroll and he gives it back to the attendant. And he says, today this scripture has been fulfilled in your eyes. And he's saying, this first part refers to now. This next part, not now. And so we see that there was a mountain peak between the clause of Isaiah 61. 2 and Isaiah 61. in the second part of Isaiah 61, too. There's a mountain peak and a vast range. The whole church age, so far 2,000 years, is between that clause just in there in the in the space, that one little space between that first part of the sentence and the last part of the sentence. And so very likely what's going on here In Isaiah 60, verses 19 and 20, is Isaiah is prophesying about the New Jerusalem. And he's seeing these mountain peaks. He's putting them right next to each other. And so therefore, what we're seeing here is an aspect that refers to the new Jerusalem that's part of the new heavens and the new earth and not the millennial kingdom. But another possibility is that the description that Isaiah is giving here is referring to spiritual light And not to physical light. And the reason that may be the case is that if you look at verse 20, it describes the sun and moon as your sun and your moon. And then he links that with their mourning. The darkness that is depicted would refer to the darkness of sin and destruction and oppression And this is kind of bolstered by what we read in verse 21 when he says, your people shall all be righteous. So he's describing here. Your sun and your moon. We wouldn't say that we're talking about the sun or the moon. We wouldn't say your sun. We'd say the sun. The moon And you're like, why would you say your sun and your moon unless you're trying to express the fact that this is a this is not a physical sun and a physical moon you're talking about, but a spiritual aspect. He's describing this as the light. of of uh um like the the the darkness is then referring to the the struggle and the the the persecution that they have been going through and he says for the Lord will be your everlasting light and your days of mourning shall be ended. So those are two possibilities and how to understand these last verses of Isaiah 60. Either one are are valid, they could be valid. It's not necessary to know for certain what's being described here, but those are the two possibilities that seem like most likely to be uh to deal with the data that we find here in our text. But what is so beautiful is this last verse of Isaiah 60 when he says, The least one shall become a clan, and the smallest one a mighty nation. I am the Lord. In its time, I will hasten it. And he's saying, these things that I have told you about. They have a time, just like the coming of Christ the first time had its time. And we read when he says, For in the fullness of time, God sent forth his son. Born of a woman, born under the law. But there was a time, and when it was God's time, it happened rather quickly. But not until it was God's time. In a very similar way, the second coming of Christ has its time. And he says, I am the Lord, in its time, I will hasten it. I will bring it about at its right time. And so this is kind of reminds me of what Habakkuk says in Habakkuk chapter 2, when he says, for still the vision awaits its appointed time. It hastens to the end. It will not lie. If it seems slow, wait for it. It will surely come. It will not delay. So this verse just is kind of interesting because he says, if it seems slow, if it seems like it's taking a long time, don't worry. Wait for it. It will surely come. It will not delay. What does he mean? Well, I thought we were waiting for it. Yeah, it will not delay God's timetable. When it is God's time, it will happen. And it will happen quickly. It could happen in our lifetime. It could happen. In a very short time, are we living expectantly for the Lord's return? This is what this verse challenged us to do, to wait expectantly. Because when God's time has arrived, he says, I will hasten it. And nothing will stop it when it's God's time. When Christ came the first time, Herod couldn't stop it. No man could stop it. It was God's time, and Christ was born. So on that note, we come into Isaiah chapter 61. And we read this beautiful passage that I just started to read. Already about the Spirit of the Lord coming upon one who is anointed. So we have here the Messiah and his anointing in verses one through three. And the question, naturally, when you read this passage, he says, the spirit of the Lord God is upon me. The question is, who is the me? Is this Isaiah that's being referred to? Is this A king? Who is the me that is speaking in this passage? Some have called this passage, verses one through nine, the fifth servant song. If you remember, as we've been going through the servant songs, we said there are four servant songs Some have called this the fifth servant song because it uses very similar language to the other four servant songs. It's written in the first person, like the second and third servant songs are. It's also followed by a song of praise, like all the other servant songs are. And so there's a lot of similarities to the first four servant songs. There's really one significant difference, and that is the fact that the word servant isn't found. In all the other servant songs, the word servant is found, which identifies it as a servant song. But in this passage of scripture the word servant is not found. So some do call it the fifth servant song. I think it makes more sense to to look at the first four as the actual servant songs. And the culmination of that is the passage of scripture that we're memorizing, Isaiah 53. But regardless of whether this should be classified as a servant song, what is significant is that we do know who the me is. We do know who the speaker is because our Lord Himself gave the infallible, inspired interpretation of this passage of Scripture. And so we have absolute confidence when we come to this passage of Scripture. who the me is. In Luke chapter 4, if you turn your Bibles to Luke chapter 4 and keep a thumb or a piece of paper in Isaiah 61, because we'll be coming back there. In Luke chapter 4 Jesus comes to his hometown synagogue, the synagogue in Nazareth. And reports of his miraculous ministry in Capernaum have already reached Nazareth. And so Jesus is a little bit famous. They've heard about his miracles, they've heard about his preaching. And now the hometown hero comes to his home church, you might say, to his home synagogue, and they kind of have an expectation that he's going to do similarly to what he did in Capernaum. And the Bible says in Luke chapter 4 and verse 16, he came to Nazareth where he had been brought up, and as was his custom, he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day. So he had likely been to the synagogue hundreds of times, if not over a thousand times in his childhood. He was a regular there in the synagogue. And he stood up to read. And the scroll of Isaiah was given to him. We're not told whether he asked for the scroll of Isaiah or it was just given to him as it was the lot that fell to him. And Jesus purposefully unrolls the scroll to find the spot that is Isaiah 61, verses 1 and 2. Now you remember back in those days there weren't verse numbers, there weren't chapter divisions. So it takes a while to unroll a scroll to find Isaiah 61. Talking about some degree of quiet anticipation of the reading of Scripture. Things didn't go as precisely as maybe we would like them in America in our church services, but the unrolling of the scroll takes place. And he reads verse 1 and part of verse 2. And he stops mid-sentence, and the Bible says he rolls up the scroll and returns it to the attendant. The attendant takes the scroll and he puts it in the scroll container. And he waits until it's quiet. And every eye is looking at him. Everyone's anticipating what's he going to say next And he says, today this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing Jesus says, although these words were written 700 years prior, they're my words. I am the speaker in Isaiah 61. Imagine how hard it would have been for those who had known Jesus since childhood. Who had known about the virgin birth. And you can imagine the scandal that that would have been in the community. And they'd watched him grow up and come to the synagogue week after week on the Sabbath day. And to now hear this kid that you watch grow up say , Those are my words. That's talking about me. I am fulfilling this prophecy. You can understand how it could be a little bit difficult for them to accept that. Jesus went on to preach a message that so startled the people that they were filled with rage and they wanted to throw him off the cliff face at Nazareth. Now there's Nazareth is is built on a cliff. And you can l see here that little red section. That's probably where that was. The synagogue will be right around there. The existence of it is is there's a church on top of it now. But probably this used to be a much larger cliff, but they filled in the gap. It used to be about fifty feet. And um there's another place they call the precipice that people say is the place, but it wouldn't make sense that they would travel a couple hours to throw him off the cliff. This is probably where that took place. Right at just a seven-minute walk from the synagogue. And They tried to throw him off the cliff and he escaped and went the other way. Instead of establishing a fan base in Nazareth, He rebuked them for their unbelief and announced to them that they had the same hard hearts that their fathers had who had rejected the prophets in the previous generation. He wasn't giving a feel-good and warm sermon to his hometown. He was rebuking them And they didn't appreciate it. But this does make my job a lot easier when I come to Isaiah 61. Because we can say without a doubt. This is the words of our Savior Jesus Christ. And he says, the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me because the Lord has anointed me. To bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. and the day of vengeance of our God to comfort all who mourn, to grant to those who mourn in Zion, to give them a beautiful headdress. instead of ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit, that they may be called the oaks of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he may be glorified. So what does it mean that he is anointed? You've probably already noticed in this passage something that's kind of interesting, a little bit of a side note before we get to answer that question. But this is one of those amazing passages in the Old Testament that has what the ancient Hebrews used to describe as the mysterious plurality of God. There is something, although God is one, there's this mysterious plurality that is found in this passage of Scripture. We have the Spirit of Yahweh We have Yahweh, and then we have the Messiah, all being referenced in this verse. It's kind of like what we saw in Isaiah chapter 48. Remember that in Isaiah 48, verses 12 through 16, where it says, Listen to me, O Jacob, and Israel, whom I called. I am he. I am the first and I am the last. Then he says, This, draw near to me, hear this. From the beginning I have not spoken in secret. From the time it came to be I have been there. And now the Lord God, Adonai Yahweh, has sent Me. Who's the me? The first and the last. Interesting. And he sent me and his So in one passage of scripture in Isaiah, we have this mysterious plurality that the ancient scribes looked at and said, God is one. Yet the first and the last is talking about Adonai Yahweh and his spirit. And so we see in this one passage of scripture, what we refer to as the Trinity very clearly brought out. We also see this in Zechariah chapter 2, verses 8 and 9. Not the full Trinity, but we do see two members of the Godhead in Zechariah chapter 2. The Lord of hosts. And the Lord of hosts, he says here, and he says, Sing, O, and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for behold I come and I will dwell in your midst declares the Lord. And as you study that, you'll realize that there are two different Lords, Yahweh's, that are described. And that can only be possible if we have this Mysterious plurality which we know as the Trinity, that the three persons of the Godhead, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, all equally God. And so when we come to this passage of Scripture, we see this again. But the anointing that is described in Isaiah 61 is often found in the Old Testament. There was the priests were anointed, the prophets would anointed. And kings were anointed. And the anointing had a twofold purpose. One was to set apart that person for service. And secondly, it was to equip that person for service. The anointing would be an oil that would be poured out upon that person. And the oil was symbolic of the power of the Holy Spirit, the presence of the Holy Spirit enabling that person to do the work that they had been called to do. We see this. specifically described when David was anointed to be king in the presence of his brothers. All his older brothers are there. David is brought in. The Lord says, This is the one, the man after my own heart. And Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers. And the spirit of the Lord rushed upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up and went to Rama. So the anointing was a setting apart for service, but also an enabling for that service. The Spirit enabling that person to do that work. The anointing of Jesus is significant because he is the Messiah or He is the Christ, which is literally means the anointed one. He is anointed in a unique way. We can see this even prepared for us in Psalm chapter 2. He says, Why do the heathens rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. Saying, let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. And then we find out later on in that psalm that the anointed is described as the Son, the Son of God. So this reference to the anointed is significant. When Andrew first learned of Jesus, the disciple Andrew first learned of Jesus. Remember, he went and he found his brother Peter. And what does he say to his brother Peter? He says, we have found the Messiah, which means the Christ. We have found the anointed one We have found the one who has been described in Isaiah 61 and in Psalm 2. We have found this one who is uniquely the anointed one. So it's not surprising that Peter continues to use this designation of Jesus throughout his ministry in Acts chapter 4. After they faced persecution for the for the cause of Christ, in verses twenty-seven and twenty-eight, it says, The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his anointed. What is he quoting here? Psalm 2. He's quoting Psalm 2 and he's saying Jesus is the anointed one that is prophesied in Psalm 2. For truly in this city they were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed. So the question comes up, when did this anointing take place? We don't have any record of Jesus having oil poured out over his head in a unique anointing. I think the most logical and most common answer to that is in the baptism of Jesus, when John the Baptist baptized our Lord. Luke chapter 3 describes it in verses 21 and 22, and it says, Now when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, The heavens were open, and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove. And a voice came from heaven saying, You are my beloved son. With you I am well pleased. The Father anoints him at his baptism with a visible manifestation of the Holy Spirit and a voice from heaven declaring: This is my Son. Which is the same designation found in Psalm 2, where he's described as the anointed one. All of Jesus' ministry was done in complete dependence upon the Holy Spirit. John chapter 3 says that Jesus was given the Spirit without measure. And as a result, whatever Jesus spoke or did, he did by the direction and the enablence and the dependence upon the Holy Spirit. This is described multiple times in the Gospels. John 12. John 5, John 8. It describes the fact that Jesus did his ministry in the power of the Holy Spirit. He was anointed with power by the Holy Spirit. And he spoke only that which was of the Spirit. I think that's significant for us. Our Lord set an example for us that if the second member of the Trinity spoke and ministered only by the power of the Holy Spirit. How much more so do we need to walk by the Spirit day by day? How greatly should we fear grieving the Holy Spirit? Jesus said in John chapter 15, verses 4 and 5, Abide in me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he is he it is that bears much fruit. For apart from me, you can do nothing. We are desperately dependent upon the Holy Spirit enabling us. And it's so vital for us as believers as we witness and as we raise our children and as we serve in the church That we don't do it by our own power, but that we are abiding in Christ. We are walking by the Spirit. We are living in dependence upon His Spirit. We fear grieving the Spirit. That we might not lose his power in our lives and ministry. If our Lord served and ministered in the power of the Spirit, how much more so do we need to? But we have here this testimony of the Lord, the proclamation of the Messiah. And you'll notice I have in my Bible I highlighted three things: the word bring. Proclaim and proclaim. And it's speaking of the fact that he is what says bring good news. It's a word that literally means to announce victory. Like when a runner would come back to the city after a battle, he would, this is the word that's used that he would announce the victory. When it says to bring good news, he is announcing victory. And he's proclaiming this message. So the ministry of Christ, largely in his first coming, was a ministry of proclamation. And he gives a message of good news, a message of victory and deliverance. And he says here, to bring good news to the poor. And this is kind of like the cumulative. Statement that everything else underneath it, there are seven other infinitives that come out underneath it. They're descriptions of what it means to proclaim this victory to the poor. The word poor, when we think of poor, we usually think of someone who is economically poor. But the same word is translated in the New American Standard as afflicted. It's translated in the King James Version as meek. And here it's translated poor. Saying, well, which one's right? They all are, actually. It's a Hebrew word that doesn't have a perfect English equivalent, and so it encapsulates all of these things. But when The Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament, it uses the word that is for poor. So when Jesus speaks of it, he uses the word poor. And that's why the ESV translators thought this would be a better word, because it's what is used when Jesus spoke of it. In Luke 4. 18, he uses this word that means destitute or bankrupt. It's the same word that Jesus used in Matthew chapter 5 and verse 3 when he preaches saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit. He's not primarily talking about economically poor. He's not talking about a person that doesn't have the finances that they need. He's referring to a person who's been worn down by trouble and oppression. He's a captive, and he has recognized the fact that he is absolutely bankrupt in a spiritual condition. And the good news is that the Messiah brings a message that is directly in line with our souls' needs. We are bankrupt. We are destitute. We are unable to present anything of value before the holy God. God said, Christ says, blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are those who recognize that they are bankrupt. Then he goes on to say here, he has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted. Now I don't know what you think of when you think of binding. You might think of someone who's bound in handcuffs or in chains. It's not the idea here. The idea here is like first aid when you're binding up a wound. You're taking care of a wound. He's binding up the brokenhearted. He's applying bandages. But again, the wounds are not primarily physical, but spiritual and emotional. It's very similar to the second of the Beatitudes. Remember, blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. What does it mean that they're mourning? It doesn't refer to a broken heart because your girlfriend broke up with you or because you lost a loved one. That's not what it's talking about. It's a broken heart because it realizes the horrific magnitude of its sin against God. Behind the sorrow that is described here is a recognition of the merciless power of sin. And our helplessness in ourselves to do anything that makes us acceptable to God. And so we say, I am poor. I am bankrupt. I am destitute. What can I do? And I weep and I mourn because of my sin. And he says, You shall be comforted. And he binds up the brokenhearted. And he cares for those who realize that we are helpless. This morning is a cry to God in distress. And what does he do here? He continues on. He proclaims liberty to the captives. This is a beautiful reality that's being described here. It's a phrase that has an allusion to the liberation of slaves in the year of Jubilee. The year of Jubilee is this beautiful reality that 's found in Leviticus chapter 25. Every 50th year would be a year of Jubilee. He says you shall count seven weeks of years, or seven times seven years, 49 years. So that at the time of seven weeks of years shall give you 49 years, then you shall sound the loud trumpet on the tenth day of the seventh month on the Day of Atonement. You shall sound the trumpet throughout all your land, and you shall consecrate the 50th year and proclaim liberty throughout the land to all its inhabitants. It shall be a Jubilee for you When each of you shall return to his property, and each of you shall return to his clan. It's a once-in-a-lifetime experience. If you were a slave, you're set free. The amazing thing about this is you could go from being a bankrupt slave one day to being a free man with property the next. You might have sold off your tribal inheritance because you were bankrupt. You went and you enslaved yourself because of bad financial decisions, because of bad crops. because of just plain bad luck. But in the year of Jubilee, you're no longer a slave, and that land that you sold becomes yours again. What an amazing year. Can you imagine what it would be like to be a slave that experiences this Jubilee where he goes from destitution and enslavement, and the next day he's a landowner and he's free? Wow. This is a picture of what Christ does for us. We are destitute and we are enslaved. And he sets us free. And he gives us an eternal inheritance. And he says, you are sons of God. and you inherit with me. Wow. This is a beautiful picture. Absolutely gorgeous picture. But the message of comfort and liberation is for all who truly humble themselves and see that they are captives to sin. Jesus said in Matthew 8. 34, truly, truly I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever. The son remains forever. So if the son sets you free, you will be free indeed. And the Son, the anointed one, is proclaiming liberty. He's saying, you are free. Have you ever acknowledged that you were a slave and that you need Christ to set you free? That your sins have separated you from God. They've bound you. They've wounded you. And that Christ is your Liberty? Have you looked to him and received him as your Savior? He proclaims the opening of the prisons to those who are bound. He continues on here. He says, and the opening of the prison, the last part of verse 1. To those who are bound. It's interesting. This word's a little bit difficult to translate, and so it the The opening of the prison literally can mean the opening of the eyes. It's used that way in other places in the Old Testament, like Isaiah chapter 42, for example. And the the inference here is one who is Who is bound with a blindfold in a dungeon? Excuse me. He's bound with a blindfold in a dungeon. And the liberator comes and he takes him out of the dungeon and he releases the blindfold. And the light comes in. This is what he says. I am here to proclaim light, life , freedom, forgiveness. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4, it tells us that the lost are blinded by the God of this world. Says, in their case, the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ. Who is the image of God. And the message of the gospel is to open their eyes so that they can see the glory of Christ, the freedom, the forgiveness, the liberty, the healing. that is available in Jesus Christ. And lastly here this evening, he proclaims the year of the Lord's favor. The year of the Lord's favor. This is again a reference back to the year of Jubilee. If you remember this right here, he says Then you shall sound the loud trumpet on the tenth day of the seventh month, on the day of atonement. You shall sound the trumpet throughout all your land, and you shall consecrate the fiftieth year. and proclaim liberty throughout the land to all its inhabitants. And he says, I am proclaiming the year of the Lord's favor, a year of deliverance. Christ was proclaiming this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. Now is the day of salvation. Today is the day when you can be set free. In 2 Corinthians chapter 6, Paul jumps on this. He says, In a favorable time I listened to you, and a day of salvation I have helped you. Behold, now is the favorable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. There is a wide open door of grace. There is a wide open door of forgiveness that Christ has made for all of us if you will but enter. I entered in 1982 Have you entered yet? Have you entered into the gift of salvation? Have you received the gift of eternal life and forgiveness of sins? Have you enjoyed the year of God's favor that is available through Christ alone? Lord willing, we'll continue on with this passage next week. But it changes. The next clause is where Jesus stops reading right there. In that synagogue he stops and he rolls up the scroll and he hands it back to the attendant because he says, This is what I am proclaiming right now. But I am coming again, and what I have not finished, I will finish. And what does he say? A day of vengeance. What? It's all been good news till now. But he says there is a day of vengeance. Now is the day of grace, but there is coming a day of vengeance Jesus knew that between the first phrase and the second phrase of verse 2, there was a gap. And he had not come for the day of vengeance yet. But he will. The fact is, if you do not receive his day of grace, you do not receive the welcome Of the year of Jubilee that he offers, then the only thing that you can expect is the day of vengeance. He delights to forgive. He delights to set free. He delights to pardon. But if you reject his offer, there is nothing but vengeance. That's why Hebrews says, how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? How shall we escape if we neglect God's glorious gift of salvation? that he purchased with his own blood. When Christ comes again, he will not come as the suffering servant But he will come as the anointed warrior. And he will come and he will bring vengeance upon this world. He will come with a sharp sword in his mouth, as Revelation 19 describes. And he will bring judgment upon the wicked of this world. I want to encourage you if you've never received that offer of salvation, let today be that day. Yield to him. receives that gift of salvation in Christ. He's proclaiming it. It's for you to receive by faith. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you for Jesus our Savior. We thank you that He proclaimed for us the year. Of Jubilee, that Jesus is our Jubilee. Lord, I pray for those who do not know Christ. Lord, today would it be, would you be kind and gracious to draw them to yourself? And open their eyes to see the glory of Jesus Christ. We pray in his name. Amen.