Isaiah 61 this evening. Isaiah 60. I'm sorry, Isaiah 60. Yeah, Isaiah 60. I apologize. If you did not get notes, I well, I clicked print many hours ago. But apparently they did not print. And so they are now out there. I had to restart my computer and now they are out there. I apologize if that when you came in there were not notes available. We are in Isaiah 60, the second half. We'll be looking at verses 10 and following from Isaiah chapter 60. If you remember , the theme for the book of Isaiah is Return and Rest. in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. And this is really what is coming to pass in Isaiah 59. God brought a a strong condemnation upon the nation of Israel because of their sins. And it's not just the nation of Israel, it's not just the people of Jerusalem that are condemned with this, but all humanity is condemned in this condemnation Because the verses that are used in Isaiah 59 were quoted by the Apostle Paul in Romans chapter 3 to say that all the world is guilty before God But you find then in verses 9 and following of Isaiah 59 a confession and a repentance, and then God saying that he himself with his mighty arm will bring salvation. And we see that this is what is taking place here. As they returned and rested in Yahweh, they find that He alone is salvation. By His mighty arm, He brings salvation. And we're going to see the multiple levels of this. This salvation. The theme or the focus of this passage is actually found in verse 16 Where he says in verse 16 of chapter 60, you shall suck the milk of nations, you shall nurse at the breast of kings, and you shall know that I, the Lord, am your Savior. And your Redeemer, the mighty one of Jacob. And that word Redeemer really is the focus of this this chapter of the the idea of Christ being our Redeemer. And we think of redemption, I was tempted to sing some songs on redemption this this evening, but we have multiple levels of redemption. In Revelation chapter 5, we have the saints from all kindred, tongue, tribe, and nation singing praise to the Lamb because he has redeemed them by his blood. out of all the kindred tongues and tribes and nations of the world. We think of Romans chapter 8, verse 23. So there we we have the redemption from sin. The redemption of our souls. We also have the redemption of our bodies in Romans chapter 8, verse 23, which is not yet but it shall be the redemption of our bodies. We await the full adoption. We are not yet adopted. We are born into God's family, but the adoption that we await is the full legal status of sons. For those of us who are born again, we have been born into God's family, but we await adoption. Adoption in the Bible is different than what we think of in adoption in a Western culture. Adoption in the Bible is that place and time when you become a full legal son and you have all the rights and privileges of a son. And that is what we await. with the the redemption of our bodies when we are given glorified bodies as it speaks about in Romans chapter 8 and verse 23. But there's also another aspect of Christ's salvation and redemption, and that is the redemption of national Israel that we spoke about throughout this study on Isaiah. And more particularly in Isaiah 59 and into 60, and particularly as it relates to the city of Jerusalem as the capital of The millennial kingdom. And we see in Isaiah chapter 60 this redemption of Jerusalem. We mentioned last week that the chapter is addressed to Zion. Zion is the one that is addressed beginning in chapter 59 in verse uh 20, Zion is spoken of, and then The words you and your are found over fifty times in this chapter. And he's not speaking to you and I particularly, he's speaking to Zion. He is addressing Zion or Jerusalem as the capital city of the millennial kingdom where Jesus Christ rules and reigns for a thousand years on the earth. And we were told, remember last week we looked, there were two commands that were given to Jerusalem. The first in verse 1 is to arise from their devastated and demoralized condition and to shine. And they are called to shine or to reflect the glory of God to the nations of the world. Jesus Christ Himself is to be the light that they are to reflect. And the Lord has intended all along, as we've been going through this study in Isaiah for the last year and a half to two years, we've noted that the plan for God all along with the nation of Israel is to make them witnessing servants. to the nations of the world, that their redemption is to be an example to the nations that draws others into that relationship with God. And in large part they have failed. But God says He will complete that work with them. And the second command that they are given is to lift up their eyes and see. In verse 4, lift up your eyes all around and see. And the two things that they are called to see here Is the nations of the world hurrying to them, bringing their children from afar? And along with that, they bring abundant wealth. So the nations come bringing their children. We we noted last week that there are over fifteen million uh Jews around Although there has been a great return to the nation of Israel in the past seventy years, less than half still live in that land. But the description here of this time is that they will be brought to Jerusalem and brought by the other nations with joy, and they'll be brought along with gifts of abundant wealth being brought in by the nations, and they will be brought with praise to God for his redemption. He says in verse 6, the latter part, they shall bring gold and frankincense, and shall bring good news, the praises of the Lord. So they come and they also in verse 7 bring sacrifices to the the temple that are accepted before God. And we see that this is the description of what God is doing, and the command then to the people of Israel is to shine and to see. Beginning in verse 10, we have this story of redemption being played out in more detail. And it begins with destruction. And then from that destruction there is a rebuilding, but it's a rebuilding that is done by the nations, by the foreign nations. So from destruction to foreign rebuilding. And we begin to see this that he starts off in verse 10, Foreigners shall build up your walls, and their kings shall minister to you. For in my wrath I struck you, but in my favor I have had mercy on you. God 's wrath to Zion is the background of this rebuilding. And in this passage in verse 11, we see that God is describing his rule over history, ruling over the nations of the world, ruling over Jerusalem, ruling over Israel, ruling over all things. When Babylon conquered Jerusalem, it was the wrath of God for their sins that brought about the destruction that the Lord gave Jerusalem into the hands of Nebuchadnezzar. We can read about this. But we're going to skip through some several things here. In Daniel chapter 1, in the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem and besieged it. And the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into his hand, with some of the vessels of the house of God, and he brought them to the land of Shinar, to the house of his God, and placed the vessels in the treasury of his God. Although it looked like Babylon and Nebuchadnezzar as the king had defeated Jerusalem, ultimately it was God in his anger at Jerusalem for their idolatry, for their wickedness, for their for their hypocrisy. That he sent them into Babylonian captivity at the hand of Nebuchadnezzar. It was God who was doing this. When God allowed later Rome to conquer Jerusalem again in A. D. 70, it was the wrath of God on the people for their rejection of their Messiah. Remember when Christ was going to Jerusalem for the final time in Luke chapter 13, verses 34 and 35. Christ laments over Jerusalem. He says, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it. How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not willing. Behold, your house is forsaken And I tell you, you will not see me until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And the Lord says to Jerusalem, Because you have rejected it, your house is forsaken. And there will be a wrath and a judgment that will come upon your land as a result. And you will not see me again until your Heart is broken, and your spirit is ready to receive me in the name of the Lord. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. So we see here the background to this Idea of rebuilding is because God is controlling all the events of human history, and he is bringing them to the place where they are repentant and able to receive the Lord as their Savior. We see here he says in verse 10, For in my wrath I struck you, but in my favor I have had mercy on you. And again, this is another indicator that the subject of this chapter is the literal city of Zion. Some have spiritualized this chapter to say that this is referring to the church. But the church has never been the recipients of the wrath of God, but Jerusalem has. And so we see that this is another ex indicator that This is referring to the literal city of Jerusalem. But what's so amazing is that although God has brought destruction and devastation upon that city because of their sins, God is not, that is not the end of the story. God has rich love and mercy for that land, as he does for those of us who are his children. And he says here, foreigners and kings will build up their walls. Notice he says, foreigners shall build up your walls, and their kings shall minister to you. The clear implication is that this city has faced some devastation and therefore it needs to be rebuilt. You don't build walls unless the built walls have come down. And we think of the history of Jerusalem, we can immediately think of Nehemiah. And the rebuilding of the walls that Nehemiah spearheaded with the project that was at least partially funded by King Artaxerxes I. And so there's some parallel to what we're reading about here and what would later take place under Nehemiah. In Nehemiah chapter 2, the interesting story of Nehemiah approaching the king and asking for permission to go back to Jerusalem and to rebuild the walls, and even then requesting assistance. from the king, from the king's treasury, for that purpose. And he says, and I said to the king, if it pleases the king, let letters be given to me to the governors of the province beyond the river. that they may let me pass through until I come to Judah. And a letter to Asaph, the keeper of the king's forest, that he may give me timber to make beams for the gates of the fortress of the temple. and for the wall of the city, and for the house that I shall occupy. And the king granted me what I asked, for the good hand of my God was upon me So when we think of this event here, these this this verse here, the foreigners shall build up the walls, there is a similarity to what takes place under Nehemiah that King Artaxerxes I enables it to take place and he provides some of the uh financial needs for it, but ultimately There is a difference. When Nehemiah built the walls of Jerusalem, foreigners were trying to thwart the work. Foreigners were not helping in the work. Foreigners were fighting against the work All of the work was done by the people of Israel. And many of the other descriptions that we find in this chapter do not fit that time. So we're forced then to keep looking forward to the time when this will take place. But they're described as bringing several things. The kings come and they bring provisions for the rebuilding of the city. He says in verse 11, Your gates shall be open continually. Day and night they shall not be shut, that the people may bring to you the wealth of the nations with their kings led in procession. For the nations and the nation and kingdom that will not serve you shall perish. Those nations shall utterly shall be utterly laid waste. The glory of Lebanon shall come to you, the cypress, the plain, and the pine to beautify the place of my sanctuary, and I will make the place of my feet glorious. So the kings come bringing the wealth of their nations to enrich the city of God from which Christ will physically reign over the earth. And you think of Solomon in his day when he built the first temple and the riches and treasures that were brought to Jerusalem. The Bible describes the wealth that came in Solomon's day, the gold that came was so significant. that silver was accounted as nothing. I think of that as if you were walking down the street and you were to find a silver piece on the ground, you would You would step over it. Much like we would step over a penny today, you may maybe you're you're a a frugal person and you would bend down and pick up the penny. Maybe you're not. But that's kind of the idea that gold was so abundant in Solomon's time that silver was accounted for nothing. You would you would see the silver on there and you'd just step over because it wasn't worth anything, because of the wealth that was brought in. And God used that wealth of the nations for the building of his temple. Gold was brought in, timbers were brought in, experts in building were brought in. It's interesting as well that there is some similarity to how John describes the New Jerusalem in Revelation chapter 21. New Jerusalem in Revelation 21, verses 23 through 27, describes the wealth of the nations being brought in. He says here, in the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it. For the glory of God gives its light, and its lamp is the lamb. By its light will the nations walk And the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it, and its gates will never be shut by day, and there will be no night there. They will bring into it the glory and honor of the nations. But nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone who does does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life. So there is clearly a similarity. There is definite I believe John is describing things in Isaiah type language as he looks at the New Jerusalem, though we're going to notice later that there are differences and some significant differences as well. So I it would seem to be that these are not talking about the same things. But what's interesting is that in verse 10, we find that foreigners are coming and kings come willingly, but in verse eleven, if you notice, It says, Your gates shall be open continually, day and night, they shall not be shut, that peoples may bring to you the wealth of the nations with their kings led in procession. That phrase here, led in procession, has the idea of being led captive, much like Rome would lead the conquered kings and the conquered generals in a parade through Rome to show, look who we have conquered. They were coming, but they were not coming willingly. They were conquered and defeated. The fact is that all will recognize the Lordship of Christ. And all will serve him. Some will serve him voluntarily, and others will serve him involuntarily. I believe it's what Paul spoke about in Philippians chapter 2 when he says, At the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, in heaven and on earth. and under the earth, meaning the demonic powers. Even the demonic powers will bow the knee. They will acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord. They're not doing it willingly out of reverence and awe, but they are doing it involuntarily because they are compelled to by his glory and his power and his majesty. And every tongue confesses that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. You remember when when Paul said those words in Philippians chapter 2, he's quoting Isaiah. He's quoting Isaiah 45 and verse 23. But verse 11 makes it very clear that there will be some who come and they are compelled. And they are brought in procession not willingly, but involuntarily. Verse 12 makes it clear that a refusal to worship Christ Will result in destruction. You notice verse 12 says, For the nation and kingdom that will not serve you shall perish. Those nations shall be utterly laid waste. Now if you remember, if you've been reading your Bible in Psalm chapter 2, the description of Christ as the Son and how the nations are supposed to respond to Christ with humble obedience, says, Now therefore, O kings. And again, it's interesting because it's directed specifically to kings. O kings, be wise. Be warned, O rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way. For his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all those who take refuge in him, all those who come to him. And they return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. All those who come willingly, blessed are those who take refuge in him, but those who refuse to take refuge in him. They will find that they are recipients of his wrath and of his dominion, whether they like it or not This is similar to what we found in Zechariah chapter 14. We've read these verses on a few different occasions as we've been going through this study because of the parallel that is very significant. This is describing the time after Christ returns and sets foot on the Mount of Olives, and the Mount of Olives splits in two, and he begins to rule and reign from Jerusalem. It says, Then everyone who survives of all the nations that have come up against Jerusalem shall go up year after year to worship the king, the Lord of hosts, and to keep the feast of booths. And if any of the families of the earth do not go up to Jerusalem to worship the king, the Lord of hosts, there will be no rain on them. And if the family of Egypt does not go up and present themselves, then on them there shall be no rain. There shall be the plague with which the Lord afflicts the nations that do not go up to keep the feast of booths. So we see very clearly, those nations and those kingdoms and those kings who refuse to bow and refuse to worship will face severe destruction. That's what he describes in verse 12. So there are many who come joyfully, willingly, rejoicingly, praising God for his grace. But there are others who are brought in procession and are forced to bow the knee. But these kings that do come They provide not only provision for the work, but they also provide people for the work. He describes the fact that the foreigners themselves are the ones who are building the walls of Jerusalem. And again, this is reminiscent of what happened when King Solomon built the first temple. In 1 Kings chapter 5, we're told how King Hiram of Tyre sent workers and material to help with the building. But the difference is pretty significant too. In that in that time, Solomon was forced to pay them. And there was a payment and a payment plan that was worked out between Solomon and Hiram for the laborers. In this case, they come and they offer their labors and they offer their services and they offer their wealth joyfully. As worship to God, as worship to Christ. They are coming to Jerusalem not because Jerusalem in and of itself is anything, but because the king reigns from Jerusalem. The King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and they come and they offer this to him. The city is characterized by a perpetual peace. Verse 11 says that the gates of Jerusalem will be opened continually, day and night. This speaks of a pervasive peace. So much so that people do not fear traveling by night. I have walked through the streets of Jerusalem at night, and it is something that gives you a little bit of Trepidation. I've walked through the the a number of foreign cities at night and there is something unique about walking through Jerusalem at night. But it is something that should cause a degree of fear. But in this day there will be no fear. The gates will be open because peace will reign and there will be no fear. But also, the gates will be open because there's a constant flow of traffic, of merchandise that is being brought. Notice what he says here, your gates shall be open continually, day and night they shall not be shut, that, or so that people may bring to you the wealth of the nations with their kings led in procession. The implication is clear that people are coming continuously. Caravans are coming and going, vehicles are coming in and out, bringing in the wealth of the nations to Jerusalem. And so there must be a continual flow of traffic. To make this possible. To do otherwise would be disruptive. But the people of God are being honored abundantly for the sake of their God, of Christ, who himself will literally and physically reign from Jerusalem We also see in verse 14 and following that they go from being despised to being delightful We have another picture of Jerusalem's sad condition, but also the transformation that takes place. The city is forsaken and hated. He says in verse, I'll read verse 14 and 15, the sons of those who afflicted you shall come bending low to you, and all who despised you shall bow down at your feet. They shall call you the city of the Lord, the Zion of the Holy One of Israel. Whereas you have been forsaken and hated, with no one passing through, I will make you majestic forever, a joy. From age to age. This language of forsaken and hated, as we've studied Isaiah, we've already seen these words on several occasions, but it's The language of Israel going into exile and God using the analogy of a wife who has been forsaken by her husband to picture the state of Jerusalem being taken captive. Forsaken by God, not because he could not care for them and protect them, but because they had turned their back on him. And you can think of the book of Hosea. where Gomer had repeatedly gone into adultery and into prostitution, and she had willingly chosen to reject her husband and his protection and in a very similar way The nation of Israel had done that, and God had forsaken her and deserted her so that she might learn and return back to him. We read of this in Isaiah 54. Verses 6 through 8, for the Lord has called you like a wife deserted and grieved in spirit, like a wife of youth when she is cast off, says your God. For a brief moment I deserted you, but with great compassion I will gather you. In overflowing anger for a moment I hid my face from you, but with everlasting love I will have compassion on you. Says the Lord, your Redeemer. And here again we see this word, your Redeemer. That's the same word we found in verse 16, where the Lord describes himself as your Savior and your Redeemer. the mighty one of Jacob. The word Redeemer is a significant word in Isaiah. It's found repeatedly, especially from chapter 40 on, as we learned about the the story of ruin in the first half of Isaiah. and then redemption in the last half of Isaiah. And the Lord himself describes himself as their redeemer. It's the same word you can think of that with in the book of Ruth. When you have Boaz, who is the redeemer of Ruth, or the kinsman redeemer. When you think of that, you need to think of something like someone who is destitute and they take their last possession down to a pawn shop. And they sell off that last possession and they take that money to buy what they need and they're out of money. You can picture then Maybe a rich relative saying, you know what? No, no, that's too precious. And coming along and buying that back, redeeming that back out of the pawn shop. But it's not a thing that is being redeemed. It is us who are being redeemed. It is the nation who is being redeemed. The word Redeemer is a word that speaks of a near relative who could intervene in mercy to rescue another relative who was in danger, danger of slavery, danger of bankruptcy. Danger of destitution. When Christ does this for the nation of Israel He not only redeems them from physical danger of extermination at the hands of the nations who have surrounded them, but more significantly he delivers them from eternal damnation by faith in him. And he says here in verse 16, You shall know, you shall know that I, the Lord, am your Savior. And your Redeemer, the mighty one of Jacob. And he says, you will know experientially not just the redemption from bondage and destruction. But the redemption from damnation, the redemption of your souls. And he makes them who were despised and forsaken delightful. He says, Whereas you have been forsaken and hated with no one passing through you, I will make you majestic forever, a joy from age to age. And is that not a picture, an illustration of what The Lord does to us as we turn to Him. And He takes us who were dead in our trespasses and sins when we turn to Christ. He makes us sons of God. And we talked about the redemption from sin that he does through Christ, but also the redemption of our bodies. And we join into a full adoption as adult heirs in Christ. This is what he does for us. In Isaiah chapter 62, if we go forward just a little bit, verse 4 of Isaiah 62. We see the same language being used. You shall no more be termed forsaken, and your land shall no more be termed desolate. But you shall be called my delight is in her, and your land married. For the Lord delights in you, and your land shall be married. He says, not only am I going to save you, but I'm going to redeem you and your land. I'm going to transform your land and make it a place of delight. The city that was abandoned or depopulated is what is being described here when he says that there was no one that was passing through in verse 15. Jeremiah prophesied at the time of the destruction of Jerusalem of Nebuchadnezzar in 587, and he wrote this in Lamentations chapter 1. Would you turn your Bibles to Lamentations 1? I just think it's good to look at this passage and consider what it's like when a city is decimated and depopulated. And Jeremiah in deep tragic lament Writes the Book of Lamentations. And in chapter 1 of Lamentations, beginning in verse 1, he says these words, How lonely sits the city that was full of people! Hmm. They're depopulated. How like a widow has she become? She who was great among the nations. She who was a princess among the provinces has become a slave. She weeps bitterly in the night, with tears on her cheeks. Among all her lovers she has none to comfort her. All her friends have dealt treacherously with her. They have become her enemies Judah has gone into exile because of affliction and hard servitude. She dwells now among the nations, but finds no resting place. Her pursuers have all overtaken her in the midst of her distress. The roads to Zion mourn, for none come to the festival. All her gates are desolate. Her priest groan, her virgins have been afflicted, and she herself suffers bitterly. Jeremiah witnessed the destruction. He describes it as just like these words here: a city with no one passing through. What is a city that has no people? It's nothing. It's not a city anymore. In AD 70, a very similar destruction and depopulation happened when the Roman general Titus destroyed the Temple and Jerusalem. In fact, I believe we have Oh yeah. This is this is an uh carving on the Arch of Titus. If you go to Rome, just about 150 yards from the uh Colosseum where many Christians lost their life is the the Arch of Titus, the general Titus. And on the Arch of Titus is this depiction of the ransacking of the temple in Jerusalem. Titus was the general at the time who who was in charge of that. Josephus writes of that that he ordered the whole city and temple to be raised to the ground. Leaving intact just the three towers of Herod's palace to exhibit the city's former grandeur, and the western wall to safeguard the Roman garrison stationed there. However, all the rest of the wall encompassing the city was so completely leveled to the ground as to leave future visitors to the spot no ground for believing that it had ever been inhabited. It's an amazing thing when you think of. The city was utterly desolate, desolated, and there was no one there. But he says, Whereas you have been forsaken and hated, with no one passing through, I will make you majestic forever, a joy from age to age. And describes this sad condition being permanently reversed, not just temporarily reversed. That's why we know that the return from Babylonian exile is not the completion of this prophecy, because They continued to face destruction and decimation. And even to this very day, these prophecies remain unfulfilled. But they go from forsaken to majestic And they're described as the joy of the Lord. This is an amazing reversal that will take place ultimately in that day And we long for that day. But what we find as well is those who hated Jerusalem, the nations of the earth that hated Jerusalem, will now come bending and genuflecting and in reverence because the Lord Himself And he describes the really tender metaphor here, you shall suck the milk of nations, you shall nurse at the breasts of kings. And obviously this is understood as figurative language since Nations and kings do not have memory glands. And so it's very clear that this is a figurative a figure of speech, but it pictures the self-giving and tender care of the nations of the world for the good of the people of Jerusalem. It it pictures a willingness that there are there's a willingness Not merely a compulsion. A mother isn't compelled to nurse her child. A mother delights in nursing her child. A mother is tender with her child And that's the the imagery here. And while we look at the nation of Israel today, and many nations are supplying Israel with significant foreign aid, our nation roughly four billion a year, most of it is in the form of military aid. In that day it will be gifts of peace and not weapons of war. And while this What we see going on today is not an ultimate fulfillment. It seems clear that the re-establishment of the Jewish state in Israel with its capital in Jerusalem, after nearly two thousand years of exile, is the beginning of this reversal. That will culminate with the return of Christ. And God will deal not just with the nation of Israel physically, but also with their sin issue. He will redeem them. He will be their savior. And he calls himself the mighty one of Jacob. And that's not insignificant. He doesn't use that term lightly because Jacob, what does Jacob mean? It means supplanter. And he's saying, I am the mighty one of Jacob. I will transform your sin issue. And I will make you holy and righteous, and you will be my people. As we continue to study this passage, we see that there is a building back better. Build back better plan. This one is a much better plan. And the clear implication of verse 17 is that the rebuilding will be done with superior material. He says, instead of bronze I will bring gold, and instead of iron I will bring silver, instead of wood, bronze. instead of stones iron, I will make your overseers peace and your taskmaster's righteousness. And there's a lot that can be said here, but uh the the words here Overseers and taskmasters. They are harsh words that are used mostly in the Old Testament to refer to a harsh judgment. The word taskmaster is used of the taskmasters in Egypt. Who when when Israel was in Egypt, they had the taskmasters who enslaved them. And now he describes their taskmasters as peace and righteousness. I think it's kind of an ironic description. Basically, the worst is going to be wonderful. The worst is going to be wonderful. This is the graciousness of our God. When we turn to him in humble repentance, he is gracious to us. In the very next chapter, we're going to read the amazing words in verse 3, where he takes our ashes. And he gives us a beautiful headdress in replacement. Praise God. He takes our brokenness and our sinfulness when we come to him in repentance. He transforms them and he builds back better. It's almost hard to imagine an Israel without violence and devastation. He says in verse 18, Violence shall no more be heard in your land, devastation or destruction within your borders. You shall call your walls salvation and your gates praise. I remember staying in a hotel on the shores of the Sea of Galilee that had been struck by a rocket shot from Hezbollah from Lebanon. I remember watching two jet fighters in Beth-Sheehan that released missiles going into Jordan. I remember walking through the Muslim quarters to the east of the temple and seeing Soldiers in with automatic weapons on guard stands 24 hours a day. Jerusalem is not a place of peace. Violence is common. But there is coming a day when violence and destruction and war will no longer be heard within that land. It's beautiful to think of this, that this will be this will be what Christ will bring to the world. He describes Peace and righteousness. You can never have peace without righteousness. The two must go together. You can think of Cain and Abel. When there was a loss of righteousness, what came immediately afterwards? Murder. Peace and righteousness are always brought together. But in that day, the salvation that Christ will bring through his death and resurrection will result in a reign of righteousness and peace. Because the Son of God will rescue them from foreign nations, but more significantly from their sin. And they will call the walls of the city salvation and the gates they will call praise. I was hoping to finish up this chapter tonight, but I don't think we're going to be able to I'll just read the remainder of this chapter, and then Lord willing, next week we'll jump into it and hit it right off the bat. But he says, the sun shall be no more your light by day, nor for brightness shall the moon give you light. But the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your God will be your glory. Your sun shall no more go down, nor your moon withdraw itself, for the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your days of mourning shall be ended. Your people shall all be righteous. They shall possess their land forever, the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that I might be glorified. The least one shall become a clan, and the smallest one a mighty nation. I am the Lord. In its time I will hasten it. And I love that last phrase. And there's much that we could say about these verses here that I just read over quickly. But I think it's very important to remember that this is all in God's hands. The timing of this is his. The Lord will quickly bring it to pass. He says, I am the Lord. In its time, I will hasten it. We speak of Christ's first coming at the fullness of time. There is a fullness of time for his second advent as well. Habakkuk chapter 2 speaks of this reality saying that the vision awaits its appointed time. It hastens to the end. It will not lie. If it seems slow, wait for it. It will surely come. It will not delay. And we're in that period of waiting. But how long do we wait? I don't know. But I think the encouragement is as we look at this passage of scripture and as we see what God has done in the world, is that we need to wait expectantly. Eagerly, with anticipation. We ought to purify ourselves as we wait expectantly for his turn, for return. First John 3. Says that everyone who has this hope purifies himself even as he is pure. This is what we ought to do. We ought to pray faithfully for our Lord's return. Jesus taught us to pray, Your kingdom come. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And we ought to proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ to all who will hear as we wait for his return. This should be an encouragement to us as we face troubles and difficulties and trials in our lives. Christ is coming again. He will take the sin and the darkness and the evil of this world and he will transform it. And his light will shine on this world. And we should meditate on these passages of Scripture like Isaiah 60, like Revelation 21 and 22, and encourage our hearts in times of difficulty. Because It awaits its time, but Christ Himself will hasten it. It will come and it will come speedily. And we don't know just when it might come, and so we need to be prepared. Let's close in prayer this evening. Father, we thank you for your word and for your promises, and we do pray your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. We long for that day when at the name of Jesus every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that he is Lord. Lord, we pray that you would help us to be faithful until that day That we would live expectantly, purifying ourselves, praying for that day, and proclaiming the good news of Jesus Christ. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.