Just by way of reminder, where we are in the book of Isaiah, where the theme, of course, is return and rest in Yahweh. For he alone is salvation. And the entire message of the book is to call people to repentance, to return to the Lord, to find their rest in him, to stop their striving, to stop their trying to Trust in their own righteousness, their own ability, but to rest in the righteousness that is provided in Christ, in the suffering servant that we have been reading about in Isaiah 53, which Of course, it was written 700 years before Christ came, but was prophesied for us so that we might know it and expect this. As far as the layout of this last half of the book, which is summarized by the word of redemption, it's a message of comfort. In the first half of the book, there's a message of judgment, of ruin, because of their sins, because of the sins not only of the nation of Israel, but of all the nations, judgment is pronounced upon the entire world. In the second half of the book, a message of redemption is given. And this message is one of comfort. He begins the last half of the book in chapter 40 with a message of comfort. When he says comfort. Comfort my people. And then right after that we have that interesting prophecy, which is a prophecy of John the Baptist. And we begin to see that this This comfort that is going to come is not just a comfort in words. Like oftentimes when you go to a funeral and people don't know what to say, they provide empty platitudes that really are They're intended to bring comfort, but they have no basis in truth and reality. That's not the comfort that is found in the last half of Isaiah. It is a comfort that comes through Jesus Christ. through the suffering servant. And we've already seen that as we have a comfort through theology, understanding who our God is, the salvation, soteriology, which means the study of salvation. There's a comfort as we learn about the way in which God has ordained and has planned to bring about our salvation, and then comfort through eschatology. And eschatology simply means the study of last things. And as we see God's plan to bring about the final culmination of his plan of redemption. And that's being revealed in chapters 58 through 66. And we're smack dab in the middle of that in chapter 61. And we're going to continue on with that. But as we enter into this section 58 through 66, we find the Messiah is described more as an anointed warrior. the conqueror, the one who sets things right, where in the first half he is described as the suffering servant, the one who dies. to bring us salvation. Which brings us to Isaiah 61 perfectly. Because if you remember last week we read the first three verses of Isaiah 61, and we mentioned how in these three verses In the New Testament, Jesus quotes these verses in Luke chapter 4, verses 18 and 19. Remember he was in the synagogue in Nazareth, and he asks for the scroll. The scroll is brought to him. He unrolls the scroll to Isaiah 61, verses 1 and 2, and he reads those verses. And it says, And the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prisons. the prison to those who are bound to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And then he rolls up the scroll in the middle of the sentence, and he doesn't even finish the sentence, doesn't finish the verse. And he hands it to the attendant, and every eye is looking at Jesus, and he says, this day, these words are fulfilled in your sight. And he begins to explain who he is and even then rebuke them for their sinfulness. But it's interesting that he stops in the middle of that sentence. not proclaiming the day of vengeance of our God, which brings us to The divide here, the suffering servant and the anointed warrior. He is now acting in in Luke chapter 4, he is describing the fact that through his suffering and death, he will open the prison to those who are bound. He's proclaiming liberty to the captive. But in the latter half of that verse There will be a day when he comes back as the anointed warrior who will bring vengeance, judgment on all that sin, but also Comfort to all who mourn. And we see here this is a description of the Messiah's reign as we continue on into this Part of the chapter, all the way to the end of this chapter, we have a description of the blessings that come to Zion because of the Messiah's reign. And so we see here There's essentially seven blessings that come to Zion because of the Messiah's reign. We're going to look at them this evening. The first blessing we see is to transform mourning into celebration. Not morning like daytime morning, but the crying, morning into celebration. When Christ comes again, he will comfort those who mourn in Zion. If you remember Zechariah chapter 12, we've read this passage on numerous occasions in our study of Isaiah because they are linked. intricately, but in Zechariah chapter 12, verses 10 and 11, it describes the coming of the Lord the second time. And he says, and I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. a spirit of grace and pleas for mercy, so that when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced, They shall mourn for him as one mourns for an only child, and weep bitterly over him as one weeps over a firstborn. On that day the mourning in Jerusalem will be as great as the mourning for Hadad Ramon. in the plain of Megiddo. Now the mourning of Hadad Ramon in the plain of Megiddo refers to the death of Josiah when he was killed on the battlefield and the great mourning that took place. And he'll say it'd be a tremendous mourning, because when Josiah died, a righteous king who the nation had hoped in now died. And he says, it'll be a morning like that. And so we read here in Isaiah 61, verse 2, that He'll comfort all who mourn, to grant to those who mourn in Zion, to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit. We have here this picture of the nation with ashes on their head. When you think of ashes, I don't know what you think of you. You think of a fire, but the the implication here, the the symbolism here is one who is clothed in sackcloth. They are mourning and they've thrown ashes on their head. Sackcloth and ashes. You've heard that expression throughout the Bible. It refers to someone who puts aside the traditional comforts of life to repent and to mourn over some great calamity. You can picture uh someone mourning because of a devastation that has taken place in a land, or a death of a loved one, someone that they had put their hopes in. and they put on sackcloth and they throw ashes on their head, and it's an outward symbol of the brokenness in their heart. We see an example of this in Esther chapter four. When you think of Mordecai when he found out that what was prescribed to happen to the Jews He was mourning because of the persecution, the death that would come as a result of Haman's evil plan. And it says, when Mordecai learned all that had been done, Mordecai tore his clothes and put on sackcloth and ashes, and went out into the midst of the city, and he cried out with a loud and bitter cry. Here we have the imagery of the nation of Israel mourning over the death of their Messiah when they realize they had rejected their Messiah. They were responsible for the death of their Messiah. And they realized that when Christ steps foot back on the Mount of Olives, they suddenly realized that they are the ones who had rejected their Messiah. And they recognize him, and the Lord says he brings them comfort in that time. It's this imagery that is described here of this great reversal from sackcloth and ashes. to celebration, the clothing of celebration, a beautiful headdress, the smell of costly oil. And garments of praise are described. This could refer to garments that excite praise. They're beautiful, and people say, wow, those are glorious. Or their garments which are expressions of praise to God. They're rejoicing because of what God has done. But the imagery is one of a complete reversal from mourning with sackcloth and ashes to celebration and the garments and the clothing that accompany that celebration. And this is a vivid description of what will transpire at the end of the tribulation when Christ comes and sets his foot on the Mount of Olives. and rescues his people, Israel, from their devastation. He will take the ashes of their pride and self-determination and religiosity and transform them into beautiful headdresses and garments of praise. But this is not just a picture of Israel's restoration, but also of our salvation. Jew and Gentile are brought into this. We come to God with the ashes of our lives, with with the ashes of our pride and the wreckage of our lives, and we have we have nothing to show for ourselves. And we come in repentance and faith in Christ. And he takes away the shame of our sin. And he gives us a beautiful headdress, a crown of grace. Freely. Not something we've earned, not something that we deserve, but something He has given us. He takes away our mourning And he gives us joy and celebration. That's why Jesus says, blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And then he says, blessed are they who mourn. For they shall be comforted. And we find that comfort in Christ. He continues on here in this passage, and he says That they may be called oaks of righteousness, the planting of the Lord Oaks of righteousness. So the first blessing is he's transforming mourning into celebration. The second one is he transforms dead oaks. into oaks of righteousness. The imagery of a tree is frequent throughout the Bible Mostly used for spiritual fruitfulness. You can think of Psalm chapter 1, which speaks of the righteous one being like a tree planted by the streams of water that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers, or Proverbs 12, 12, which speaks of the wicked. It says, Whoever is wicked covets the spoil of evildoers, but the root of the righteous bears fruit. Or in Jeremiah chapter 17, probably a verse that we're a little less familiar with, but it says, Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, whose trust is the Lord. He is like a tree planted by water that sends out its roots by the stream. And does not fear when he comes, for the leaves remain green, and is not anxious in the year of drought, for it does not cease to bear fruit. I used to think of this frequently as we would climb up the mountain that we lived on in Tanzania. There was a massive fig tree that was right next to the stream. And it was it was a phenomenal tree. Probably took ten Ten men to get their arms around this tree. It was a massive fig tree, but it was sitting right next to the streams of water, and its roots went down deep into that area. And there was never a time when it wasn't green. Even though African heat and drought came, it remained green. And this description of believers who find their strength not in themselves, not in their situation, but in Christ. is what is being described here. But here as we look at this passage, this is a metaphorical description of the spiritual renewal of the nation of Israel that'll take place during the millennial reign of Christ. And this is a reversal of God's condemnation against them. Now this goes all the way back to Isaiah chapter 1. This oak metaphor goes all the way back to Isaiah chapter 1. If you remember when we looked at Isaiah 1, there's a judgment on the nation, the city of Jerusalem, because it was a faithful city, but he says, you have become a harlot. Wickedness reigns in Jerusalem, and therefore judgment will come. And it's in that context, he says, For you shall be like an oak whose leaf withers, and like a garden without water, and the strong shall become tender, and his work a spark. and both of them shall burn together with none to quench them. He's describing the judgment that he's going to bring upon the nation of Israel in the terms of this metaphor. But they are an oak, not an oak that is luxurious and is planted by the rivers of water, but an oak that is burnt up and the leaves are withered and it is a dying or dead oak. And now, here in Isaiah 61, he says that they may be called oaks of righteousness the planting of the Lord that he may be glorified. This idea of the planting of the Lord shows that this transformation is a divine work of God. It points back to what he said in Isaiah chapter 60, just the previous chapter, in verse 21. Where he says, Your people shall all be righteous. They shall possess the land forever, the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that I might be glorified. The spiritual transformation that the Lord is going to work in the nation of Israel will result in righteousness. But not a temporary righteousness. You can think of the righteousness that transpired when they came back from Babylon, and you have Ezra and Nehemiah. And there was a righteousness, and the fervor of righteousness rose in the land, and then very quickly it faded away, and the righteousness was no longer there. The imagery of an oak is something that endures. I was looking for some pictures today for the slides, and I came across a tree out in Missouri called Profoundly, the big tree. Very profound name. They spent a lot of time researching the best name for this tree, and they came up with the name the big tree. And what they say on the website was that this tree was 200 years old when Lewis and Clark traveled nearby. It gives you an idea of the enduring nature of a tree. And so when the Lord describes their transformation here as becoming oaks of righteousness, he's describing an enduring Perpetual righteousness, a transformation that changes them from the inside out. They are no longer just externally influenced towards righteousness, but there is an internal transformation. So that the Lord will bring about a change in his recalcitrant people. They become those who love righteousness from their heart. As believers in Jesus, we have been grafted by grace into God's promises to Israel. And like Israel, We are saved for the purpose of being bringing glory to our God. That's why the description here is of these oaks of righteousness. And it says in verse twenty-one of chapter sixty, he says, that I might be glorified. Then he says in chapter sixty one, verse three, at the very end, there the planting of the Lord that he may be glorified. The purpose of this righteousness that comes from the inside out, this transformation when we become new creatures in Christ Jesus It's not just so that we can have fire insurance and we don't have to worry about going to hell, but there's a transformation that changes us from the inside out, a work of God's Spirit, so that God is glorified in our changed lives. Matthew 5, 16, Jesus says, in the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. God's desire for all of us who know Christ is to transform us into oaks of righteousness. enduring in righteousness, growing in righteousness, because of the work that He has done in us, making us new creatures in Christ Jesus. So we see that they've turned from dead oaks to oaks of righteousness planted by miraculous work of God. Thirdly, we see when the Messiah comes, he will bring about the rebuilding of ruined cities. In verse 4, they shall build up the ancient ruins. They shall raise up the former devastations. They shall repair the ruined cities, the devastation of many generations. Generations of destruction and devastation have Taken place. It's one of the interesting things. If you go to Israel, you can go and you can find layers in the cities. that are there where this was this city was destroyed and it was rebuilt and it was destroyed and it was rebuilt and it was destroyed and rebuilt and they're actually mounds. I remember going to one place And if I'm not mistaken, they said there's something like 30 layers of civilizations that had been destroyed and rebuilt and destroyed and rebuilt and destroyed and rebuilt. But he's describing here a rebuilding. That will not have to be destroyed again and rebuilt, but a permanent, enduring rebuilding. And this is consistent with what we've already seen in Isaiah. If you remember Isaiah 54, verse 3. It says, For you will spread abroad to the right and to the left, and your offspring will possess the nations and will people. the desolate cities, describing the nation of Israel that your your offspring will people, they will inhabit what are now or what will be desolate cities. In Isaiah 58, verse 12, it says, And your ancient ruins shall be rebuilt. You shall raise up the foundations of many generations, meaning things that have been demolished for generations. You shall be called the repairer of the breach, the restorer of streets to dwell in. This is The consistent testimony of the book of Isaiah, but not just the book of Isaiah. It's also found throughout the Old Testament describing the millennial kingdom, the return of Christ, that when he does, there will be a rebuilding of the cities. In Amos chapter 9, he speaks of this. But I think more particularly if we look at Ezekiel chapter 36. Ezekiel chapter 36, if you know the context. of Ezekiel 36. It's in the context of God's promise for a new covenant renewal of the nation of Israel. And where God promises to take the people of the of Israel from the nations of the world and return them to their land. And then he describes sprinkling them with clean water and giving them a new heart and putting a new seed. spirit within them. All these things are very clear descriptions of a spiritual transformation that will take place at the time that the Lord restores them. Now if you look at the nation of Israel, they were out of the land for Nearly 2,000 years, but there has not been this spiritual renewal. As we continue to study, we'll realize that it's not until Christ comes again does this spiritual renewal take place. As we continue on in Ezekiel chapter 36, if you're going to look at verses 32, well, I just have 33 in our slides here, but I'll read from 32 on. It says, It is not for your sake that I will act, declares the Lord God. Let that be known to you. Be ashamed and confounded for your ways, O house of Israel. Thus says the Lord God, on that day that I cleanse you from all your iniquities, I will cause the cities to be inhabited. And the waste places shall be rebuilt, and the land that was desolate shall be tilled, instead of being the desolation that it was in the sight of all who passed by. And they will say, This land that was desolate has become like the Garden of Eden, and the waste and desolate and ruined cities are now fortified and inhabited. Then the nations that are left all around you shall know that I am the Lord. I have rebuilt the ruined places and replanted that which was desolate. I am the Lord. I have spoken. And I will do it. God swears by himself that he will bring this about, that the desolations of the land will be repaired. And that he will receive glory from it. This is what is being described here in verse 4. They shall build the ancient ruins. and they shall raise up the former devastations, and they shall repair the ruined cities, the devastations of many generations. So we see here, one of the blessings of the Messiah is a rebuilding, a permanent rebuilding of the land. Next we see foreigners will gladly serve them. In verse 5, it says, strangers shall stand and tend to your flocks. Foreigners shall be your plowmen and vine dressers, but you shall be called the priests of the Lord. They shall speak of you as the ministers of our God. Verse 5, we have the relationship of Israel to the Gentile nations being, again, vastly transformed. So we noticed in chapter 60, verse 10, foreigners are the ones who rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. Here they're described as the ones that are doing the menial work, the shepherds and the farm workers. And in the next verse that we just read in verse 6, the nation of Israel is described as being priests and ministers of God to the world. The implication is that the foreigners aren't brought into subservience, but they are joyfully giving themselves to serve the menial tasks. so that the nation of Israel will be able to fulfill her calling as being priests to God. This does not mean that foreigners are not part of the covenant. Because the exact same word for foreigner, which is a bit of an unusual word, is found in just a few chapters back. And we looked at this in Isaiah 56, verse 3. Where it says, Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord say, The Lord will surely separate me from his people. He says, No, don't do not say that. You will not be separated. The foreigners are brought in. They are joyfully offering their services. to the people of God, so that they can be about their priestly function. Notice carefully that in verse six of Isaiah 61, it says that the foreigners who speak of the Israelites They speak of them as ministers of what? Our God. Not their God, but our God. So those who are doing the menial tasks of shepherding and farming are saying, these are priests of Our God. They are also worshippers of Yahweh. They're not outside looking in, but they are on the inside recognizing a relationship with Yahweh through faith in Jesus Christ. This argues against those who replace Israel with the church here. Otherwise, who are the Gentiles who are worshiping Yahweh? It would be hard to make a good explanation of that. But foreigners come in and gladly serve them, which brings us to the next blessing that the Messiah brings. Israel will act as priests and ministers of God to the nations. The nation of Israel is not acting as a lord over the people, not as rulers of the world, but priests. of the world as God had originally intended them to be. In Exodus chapter 19, these words were given through Moses. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be my treasured possession among all peoples. For all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the people of Israel. Israel never fulfilled this responsibility. The nation never became a nation of priests. And in fact, just a few chapters later, we find that the Levites, one tribe of the nation of Israel, is designated as priests. But the nation of Israel itself never became priest to the nations. This reality that we see here in Isaiah 61 is prophesied as well in Zechariah chapter 8. In verses 22 and following, where it says, Many people and strong nations shall come to seek the Lord of hosts in Jerusalem, and to entreat the favor of the Lord. Thus says the Lord of hosts, in those days ten men from the nations of every tongue shall take hold of the robe of a Jew, saying, Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you. This is what we saw earlier in Isaiah chapter 2, verses 1 through 3, the description of the nations of the world coming into Jerusalem to worship Jesus Christ, who physically is ruling and reigning from Jerusalem. And they come and they inquire of the people of Israel because God is there in their presence. This reality of being priests to God, to the world, is something that Paul spoke about in Romans chapter 11 when he speaks of the nation of Israel and that unique relationship when the nation of Israel finally comes back to trust the Lord. Do we have a one minute. Okay. Romans chapter 11, verse 12, when he said of the re speaking of the rejection of the gospel. By the first century Jews, he said, which meant the riches of the gospel for the Gentiles. He says then this: how much more will their full inclusion mean? If the rejection of the gospel by the first century Jews meant riches to the Gentiles, what will be the result of the full inclusion when they when the nation of Israel is redeemed? It will result in a worldwide gospel explosion. It 'll result in what we see in Isaiah, that the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the seas. Verse 15 of Romans 11 seems to indicate that not only will it result in spiritual transformation to the world, but also physical transformation, as Romans 8 speaks about. We see that this transformation that takes place in verse 7 of Isaiah 61, he says, instead of your shame, there shall be a double portion. instead of dishonor, they shall rejoice in their lot, or in their inheritance. Therefore in their land they shall possess a double portion. They shall have everlasting joy. Shame will be erased and in its place will be the restored position of firstborn sons of God. The word double portion refers to the inheritance of the eldest son. In Deuteronomy chapter 21, when speaking of the inheritance that the older, the oldest son was to receive, is he's to get a double portion. And that was the inheritance that the elder son would have. Here the description of the double portion is saying that they will retain their right as the firstborn. And the Lord will bless them abundantly. Where there was shame because of what they had done and where they had rejected their Lord will now be rejoicing and the inheritance of the firstborn. And it will result in everlasting. Now the only way they can have everlasting joy, or that anyone can have everlasting joy. is if our sin problem is dealt with. And our sin problem is dealt with entirely. The nation of Israel has repeatedly brought the wrath of God upon them and been sent into exile because of their sin problem. But there is a day when they will be given new hearts and a new spirit by the work of the new covenant, and they will have the experience of everlasting joy. As all true believers in Jesus Christ experience as we have been grafted into these great and precious promises The glorious truth is that because of the rejection of the gospel by the nation of Israel to this day, in this age, we have been grafted into the privileges that they that were theirs. and their responsibilities. This same language that is being used here is being used of us in the New Testament in 1 Peter chapter 2 saying to Jewish and Gentile Christians, but you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh which war against your soul. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. The beautiful reality is that one day the nation of Israel will be priests to God, as God has always intended. But the Glorious truth, as Paul describes it in Romans 11, is that we have been grafted into that as well. We've been grafted into that opportunity to become priests. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. In this age, all of us, Jew and Gentiles who are believers in Christ Jesus are a special people for his own possession. We have been set apart for the purpose of proclaiming his excellencies to a lost and dying world. Because he has called us out of darkness into his marvelous light. At this time, we are sojourners, as he describes in 1 Peter 2. We are exiles, we are foreigners in this world. But in that future fullness of the kingdom, we will not be sojourners. There won't be exiles. All will be citizens. And the world will be transformed. You see this beautiful transformation that the Messiah brings to the world. Israel next will be transformed through an everlasting covenant of righteousness. An everlasting covenant of righteousness. If you look at verse 8 in your Bible, it says, For I, the Lord, love justice. I hate robbery and wrong. I will faithfully give them their recompense, and I will make an everlasting covenant with them. Now, if you have an ESV Bible, or maybe even a New American Standard Bible, some of some Bibles that have a footnote. in the margin there that says like underneath mind says where it says I hate robbery and wrong it'll say or robbery with a burnt offering. Now they seem like very different things. I hate robbery and wrong, or I hate robbery with a burnt offering. I don't know about you, but they seem like very different things. So why the difference? The big difference has to do with the Hebrew language. The Hebrew language that the Old Testament was written in. didn't use vowels. In fact, Hebrew to this day doesn't use vowels. They have vowel pointings to help, but technically they don't use vowels. So if you go and you see Hebrew written, it is without vowels. And so that means that most of the time you can look at a word and you know exactly what it's being what's being said, but sometimes two words can have the same consonants. And so you have to base it on context to understand what's being said there. For example, this word here. It could be step in time or stop on time. So you'd have to base it on the context. This is obviously English. But uh you have to base it on the context to know what is being said. The difference here with that footnote, whether it's I hate robbery and wrong, or I hate robbery with a burnt offering, has to do with the vowels. The word the consonants are the same, and so those who are translating have to say, what is being described here? What is being described here? Is it robbery and wrong or robbery with a burnt offering? Both of them could make sense. Personally, I think it should be robbery with a burnt offering. And he's describing about the hypocritical worship. That he's talked about in the previous chapters that has characterized the nation of Israel at that time and to this very day. And he's saying the blessings that God will bring upon the nation of Israel cannot happen until their sin is fully dealt with. And this will only be dealt with when they are transformed by Christ. as they receive the new covenant. Which I think is important for us then to look over at Jeremiah chapter 31. If you have your Bibles, turn to Jeremiah 31, which is One of the primary places in the Old Testament where the new covenant is described. In Jeremiah chapter 31, beginning in verse 31, this is one of the places that makes it easy because it's 3131, we have this description of that day. when the nation of Israel will be brought under a new covenant, a transforming covenant. He says, behold, the days are coming. declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah, not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. my covenant that they broke, though I was their husband, declares the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them And I will write it on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord. For they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more. Unless you say, well, they lost that opportunity when they rejected Christ, the next verses tell us that's not possible. It says, Thus says the Lord, who gives the sun for light by day, and the fixed order of the moon and the stars for light by night, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar, the Lord of hosts is his name If this fixed order departs, what fixed order? The moon and the stars for light by night, and the sea with the waves that roar. If this ever changes. From before me, declares the Lord, then and only then shall the offspring of Israel cease from being a nation before me forever. Thus says the Lord, if the heavens can be measured and the foundations of the earth can be explored, then I will cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they have done. declares the Lord. He says, if you can explore space and find the uttermost parts of space and get to the very edge of space, then these promises I have made to transform Israel. Will expire. But until then, they're valid. And I will see them through. And he's saying, there is no way that this will not happen Because what is described here is a spiritual transformation, the forgiveness of sins, a total national revival. And an unchangeable promise. And he says, I, the Lord, will do this. I will bring about this transformation. And I will make them righteous. I will make them, he says, an everlasting, I'll give an everlasting covenant with them I will deal with all their injustice and all their robbery and all their hypocrisy, and I will bring about an internal transformation that will make them righteous when I make an everlasting covenant with them. Again, the beautiful reality is that this is true of all who will receive Christ by faith. Salvation in Jesus Christ always transforms us and always deals with our sin issue. The reality is that there is no change in our lives when we come to Christ Then there has been no change. If there is no change, there has been no change. God hates hypocritical worship. God always changes his people. into the image of Christ, not perfectly, for those of us who know Christ. We are new creatures in Christ Jesus and we are being conformed to the image of Christ Steadily, consistently, but not instantaneously. What's described here is a radical transformation that takes place to the nation of Israel in that day, which we also will become a part of. And lastly, this seventh change or blessing that comes as a result of the Messiah's reign is that Israel's transformation makes them witnessing servants of Yahweh. He says in verse 9, their offspring shall be known among the nations, and their descendants in the midst of the peoples. All who see them shall acknowledge them that they are an offspring, the Lord. Now it's not as clear in our English, but he is referring back to the Abrahamic covenant. The word offspring is the word that is found in Genesis chapter 12 and in Genesis chapter 15 when God gives the Abrahamic covenant. He's describing the blessing that I shall bring upon them will be to the benefit of all the peoples and all the nations. He describes, all that see them shall acknowledge them that they are the offspring that the Lord has blessed. When Christ physically reigns on the earth, he will bring a blessing to the people that will be even greater as he establishes justice and righteousness on the earth. These promises that we read about in the servant songs, the first three servant songs, to establish justice. to establish righteousness. He will fulfill them in that day. And that's why Paul says in Romans chapter 11, we don't have time to go through all this. Speaking of Israel, now if their trespass means riches for the world, and if their failure means riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their full inclusion mean? For if their rejection means the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance mean but life from the dead? We see God has a beautiful plan for the nation of Israel, but it doesn't just involve the nation of Israel. It includes Jew and Gentile. And when God blesses them, He blesses us in them. Going back to the Abrahamic covenant. Which results then in Zion's song of praise. Verses 10 and 12 are these beautiful, this beautiful song of praise. Zion will be filled with rejoicing. It says, I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall exalt in my God. For he has clothed me with the garments of salvation. He has covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decks himself, like a priest with a beautiful headdress, and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels. For as the earth brings forth its sprouts, and as a garden causes what is sown in it to sprout up, so the Lord God will cause righteousness and praise to sprout up before all the nations. We see here that Zion will be filled with rejoicing, but it's a rejoicing that's focused on God. The imagery here is of a wedding feast, of a bride and a groom in their glorious garments. And it reminds me of a song that we often hear at weddings, Samuel Rutherford's song, The Sands of Time Are Sinking. The bride eyes not her garment, but her dear bridegroom's face. I will not gaze at glory but on my King of grace, not on the crown he gives, but on his pierced hands. The Lamb is all the glory of Emmanuel's land. And Zion sings and gives glory to Christ because he has brought about the full redemption that he has promised, that has been Prophesy for generation upon generation. And Christ is exalted by Jew and by Gentile. And the earth is full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the seas. And he says that he will make righteousness and praise to sprout like grass after the rain. That it'll come up almost naturally. But we know it's supernatural. Because it's a transformation that God does in the hearts of mankind. One quick point of application. We who are grafted into the promises given to Israel should not be arrogant toward the natural branches, as Paul says. But rather we should delight in our gracious position, and we should fulfill our mission as kingdoms, as a kingdom of priests to God. We are called to be holy witnesses to the nations, so that they too might be drawn into fellowship with Jesus Christ. And this ought to make us worshipers. We ought to be filled with worship to think that we have been brought into these great and precious promises That God has has given to the nation of Israel and He has given to us. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for these glorious truths. Lord, did you thrill our hearts with them? And we pray, Father, your kingdom come. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven Lord, we pray you'd speed these things to pass and keep us faithful until you do. In Jesus' name. Amen.