In the book of Isaiah. And I would encourage you this evening, we're probably going to be going to a number of passages. And if you would if you have your Bibles with you, it would be a good experience to actually just go through as I mentioned passages. tonight to kind of go through and look at some of these passages in your own Bible rather than just relying on the PowerPoint tonight. But before we do that, I want to make sure that we go over our memory verse. this evening from Isaiah 66. This will be our last in our series on the book of Isaiah. I'm very excited to be able to say that. I'm thankful for the opportunity. Several of you encouraged me to teach this. two years ago and I'm really thankful that you did and I knew it would be a big task and a hard book to teach and it wasn't That was correct. It was a very challenging book to teach. Um but I'm really thankful for the opportunity. I'm thankful for the time that that I was able you you allowed me to invest in studying this, to be able to bring it in your patience in working through It's 88 lessons through the book of Isaiah to date. And so I'm thankful for that opportunity. And I trust it's been a blessing. But this will be our last time working on this memory verse. If you're able to quote it, I would encourage you to do so. So would you join me in standing while we work on our memory verses? We're going to say it through two times. We haven't done that in a while. Say the reference and the verse through two times. Isaiah 66, 1 through 2. Thus says the Lord, Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What is the house that you would build for me? And what is the place of my rest? All these things my hand has made, and so all these things came to be, declares the Lord. But this is the one to whom I will look, he who is humble and contrite in spirit, and trembles at my word. Isaiah 66, 1 through 2 Thus says the Lord, Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What is the house that you would build for me? And what is the place of my rest? All these things my hand has made, and so all these things came to be, declares the Lord. But this is the one to whom I will look, he who is humble and contrite in spirit, and trembles at my word. Remember our theme for the book of Isaiah, return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. Let's say that together. Return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. Excellent. We have been going through this book and we're actually completed, I'm I'm gonna skip this slide actually. We're completed our series, but we began Two years ago, as we began the study in the book of Isaiah, looking at this cave in Qumran, cave number one , very lush area of the world, as you can tell. But the first scrolls that were found in the Qumran caves were found in February of 1947 by a Bedouin shepherd boy. And you're thinking, what was a shepherd doing with sheep in that area? That's a good question. But he had lost one of his sheep near the ruins of Qumran, which was an ancient Jewish community at the north of the Dead Sea. And he was looking around in these caves, and instead of climbing into each one, he decided he would throw a stone in there. Perhaps he would he would startle one of the sheep and he would come out. But as he threw a stone into one of the caves, he heard the sound of pottery that was cracking, and it piqued his interest, and he climbed into that cave. with a friend and they discovered two large earthenware jars filled with old parchments that they couldn't make heads or tail of. A few months later, the boys showed the scrolls to two antiquities dealers in Bethlehem. And these Arab dealers accompanied the shepherd boys back to the cave to search for more. And that began the discovery of several more of what are known as the Dead Sea Scrolls. And altogether they came up with seven that time. Many, many more have been discovered since then. Through an Armenian contact, they were able to contact an archaeology professor at Hebrew University named Eliezer Sukanik. And when Sukanik was invited, he actually came to a checkpoint, and through the checkpoint, he saw some of the scrolls. They were able to show him the scrolls. He recognized instantly some very ancient Hebrew writing, which in his mind looked like it came from one the first century BC. He was invited to Bethlehem on November 28, 1947, to examine them more fully. But although he was curious, the UN was going to vote on the partition of Israel that day, November twenty-eighth, nineteen forty seven. And he knew if they voted to, agree to, partition to, divide up the promised land was part Palestinian and part Jewish uh population areas, the clashes would erupt immediately. And Bethlehem is a Palestinian area, and he knew that he would be in danger. And so he decided he would not go. But providentially, news came that the vote in the UN was delayed for a day. And so he got on a bus and went down to Bethlehem, and he came back with two scrolls that he would examine more carefully. And on November 29th, he brought these two scrolls. One of them was called the Thanksgiving scroll, and the other was the war scroll. He later found a third scroll that contained portions of Isaiah. The full scroll of Isaiah was not found till a little bit later, and it is that scroll that is housed in the shrine of the book in Jerusalem. As Sukunik was pondering the enormity of these fines, news came that the partition had been voted on and approved, and the creation of the Jewish state had been approved. By the next morning, fighting had broken out throughout uh Jerusalem and Israel and several different places. And significantly, Sukhanik died just a few years later, but his son Yegal Yadeen took up his profession. He became an archaeologist as well as a soldier. And he was able to purchase the great Isaiah scroll, the entire book of Isaiah. in a clandestine way through an American agent because they wouldn't agree to sell it to anybody in any Jewish representative. So he he was able to purchase it through an American agent in New York. for $250,000 and that scroll then went on display in what is known as the the shrine of the book. You see, this is what the outside of the building looks like. It looks like the top of this jar. It's designed to look like that. Here is the inside, and this is what to look like a scroll container. And this is the book the the scroll of Isaiah is unwrapped around that. It's actually not the original. They put up a copy of it so that it wouldn't be destroyed by the lights and by the people that are coming in. But you can go in there Any day of the year and see that. I've been inside of that. The scroll that is there is the scroll that has the entire book of Isaiah and that was hidden in the caves in Qumran. for two thousand years until it was discovered by Bedouin shepherds. Yadin, the son of Sukhanik , Said about this discovery, I cannot avoid the feeling that there is something symbolic in the discovery of the scrolls and their acquisition at the moment of the creation of the State of Israel. It is as if these manuscripts had been waiting in caves for 2,000 years, ever since the destruction of Israel's independence, until the people of Israel had returned to their home and regained their freedom. So we have been studying this, but one of the things that was amazing about that discovery is what they thought that the book of Isaiah had been probably corrupted by scribes over the course of 2,000 years. What they discovered was that it had not been. It was almost identical to the the Hebrew that we uh the Isaiah that we had that was a thousand years younger. There had been no corruption of the text of Isaiah for those 2,000 years. The book of Isaiah was written by the prophet Isaiah during the Assyrian crisis. When the Assyrian Empire began to threaten and would ultimately destroy the northern kingdom of Israel and threaten to the continued existence of the southern kingdom of Judah. is when this book was written. And it's significant that there it is on display even to this day. There's actually another picture of it. You can see the text. and the the the ancient nature of the the the paper that it was written on or the parchment it was written on. But what is significant is that you can go in there and you can read these exact words. that we have in our our Bible today. You can actually go online. Google has this scroll mimeographed online and you can mouse over any verse in the Hebrew scroll and it'll give you an English translation of it. as well. And it's really remarkable that we have this preservation of this ancient scroll available for us today. And it's significant because it has such a message, not only for the nation of Israel, but for the entire world. When we think of this book, there are questions that come out that make us wonder. And some of the questions that we started with was, is God the sovereign ruler of all creation? If the godless nations like Assyria and Babylon are able to defeat and subjugate the people of God That's a natural question that the nation of Israel would have to ask. Is God the ruler of all creation if we can be subjugated by another nation? Does God's judgment of Israel and Judah mean that God has abandoned them as a people? Another question is, what is the role of God's people in the world? What is the role of God's people in the world even to this day? So as we're going through the book of Isaiah, I hope we've been able to answer those questions in a significant way. for you. But the book of Isaiah proclaims that the Lord is the unique God. He is a God who is unique. He is like no other. He is the incomparable God. We looked at Isaiah chapter 40, verse 25, and it says, To whom then will you compare me that I should be like him? says the Holy One. There is no other God. There is no other God that is like him. And there is no other book of the Bible that like the book of Isaiah that presents a more exalted view of God. Obviously God is exalted in all the books of the Bible. But there is none that presents a more exalted view of God. He is seen as the sovereign ruler of history and creation. As we were studying the book of Isaiah over the last couple of years, We came to chapters like chapter 10, where we have the mighty Assyrian Empire that brought nations and kings to their knees. And God says The the king of Assyria is the tool in my hand. The nation, the army of Assyria is a tool in my hand. They think that they are doing their will, but they're actually the tool in my hand. He is so mighty that the nations of the earth are compared to being a drop in a bucket in comparison to him, and as less than nothing. He's so mighty that the mighty Cyrus, called Cyrus the Great, was merely God's shepherd to do what God wanted him to do. And God says a hundred years before he's even born. You are my shepherd. I call you by name, so that you will do what I want you to do. And God declares that to show his might. He's so mighty that the unstoppable Assyrian army encamped around Jerusalem was decimated. By the Lord in a single night. And to this, even modern historians attest they don't know what happened to the army of Assyria that night, but they know something happened. God Stopped the unstoppable Assyrian army. He's also more than just a mighty ruler of creation and history, but he is described in this book as the awesomely holy God. Although the book of Isaiah reveals the Lord in some of its most exalted vocabulary that is found anywhere in the Bible, the truth about God that gripped Isaiah the most That transformed his life was the holiness of God. We see from the very commissioning of Isaiah in Isaiah chapter 6, when Isaiah was given a vision of the Lord sitting upon his throne high and lifted up. Surrounded by the seraphim who cried out, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. That awesome holiness gripped the soul of the prophet. The use of holy three times, the triple holy, is an expression of superlative. He is the the unapproachably, the uncomparab the incomparably holy God. There is no one or nothing more holy than Him. When we think of holy, I don't know what you think of, but often when I think of holy, my first thought is along the lines of righteous. And that's a good understanding. There are terms that are related, but more precisely, holiness expresses otherness, uniqueness, separateness. Yahweh is other than his creation. He is not part of his creation. He is separate from. He is transcendent, far above his creation. He is not part of creation. He is the creator. He is in a category of his own. And Isaiah realized that when he stood in the presence of the Lord. And that reality transformed his life. So when Isaiah speaks of the Lord, he frequently calls him the Holy One of Israel. You probably notice that as we've been going through the book of Isaiah, it's found twenty-five times in the book of Isaiah, the Holy One of Israel. It's only found 30 times in the whole Old Testament. 25 of those are Isaiah. the Holy One of Israel. He never lost sight of that. The primary mark of God's holiness is his complete moral and ethical purity. God is completely separate from any evil and is opposed to it. And that really brings up some challenges as we come through the book of Isaiah. How can a people like you and I, how can a people like the nation of Israel have a relationship with a God who is incomprehensibly holy? God 's steadfast love and Israel's covenant unfaithfulness really come to the fore as we've studied this book. The book of Isaiah begins with God calling the heavens and earth. to listen to his charges against the people. If you would go back to Isaiah chapter 1. If you remember as we began this study, I said, probably should have emphasized this more, but that this was God 's charging documents. Against the nation of Israel for their covenant unfaithfulness. And in verse 2 of chapter 1, he says, Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth. For the Lord has spoken. And he says, Children I have reared and brought up. But they have rebelled against me. The ox knows its owner, and the donkey its master's crib. But Israel Does not know. My people do not understand. Ah, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, offspring of evildoers. Children who deal corruptly, they have forsaken the Lord, they have despised the Holy One of Israel, they are utterly estranged. The sad problem is, how can the people who are known as the people of the Lord, who is the Holy One of Israel, live in relationship with the Holy One of Israel and not be holy? So the Lord would punish them, but they were completely unchanged by his punishments. In verses 5 and 6, he says Why will you still be struck down? Why will you continue to rebel? The whole head is sick and the whole heart faint. From the sole of the foot even to the head, there is no soundness in it, but bruises and sores and raw wounds. They are not pressed out or bound up or softened with oil. He's describing Israel to be like a fool who has been beaten repeatedly and put in the stocks, and yet when he's released, he continues to break the law. He has been beaten. He has been punished. The wounds are everywhere all over his body to where the the the one who whips him doesn't know where to lay the next blow. Because there is no place that has not been receiving of blows. He describes Jerusalem as being full of corruption in verse 21 of chapter 1. He calls the faithful city, he says, they've become a whore. She who was full of justice, righteousness lodged in her But now murderers. The land is full of murder and bribery, theft and hypocrisy, false religion. They are known for their covenant unfaithfulness. So God is determined that he will purify his people. And this is the message that we are seeing. Throughout the entire book of Isaiah, God will purify his people. He will bring judgment and chastisement upon them, so that a remnant of them will be purified, and they will turn to the Lord. In short, God is going to redeem a remnant of Israel and also a remnant from the nations of the world. The problem is that Israel is proud and arrogant and sinful. John Oswalt said the big question the book seems to answer is, or seeks to answer, is, how is this Israel going to become that Israel? How is the Israel that we see here that is corrupt and wicked and full of hypocrisy and murder going to become that Israel? that knows the Lord and is transformed and becomes a witness to the other nations. How is that going to happen And the short answer that is fleshed out in the rest of this book is that God Himself will smelt away their dross, he says in chapter 1. And he will remove all the alloy from their lives. God, through trial, through through difficulty, is going to smelt that away. He will judge them so that they are so refined that they will Return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. He will bring them to that point. But the question is, how is he going to do that? God demands that they turn from all of their worldly reliances and they put their trust in God. Return and rest in Yahweh, for He alone is salvation. He will not tolerate any competition. So he'll have to break them of their other confidences. He'll have to break them of trusting in foreign alliances, which is what they wanted to do. He'll have to break them of trusting in their own might, their own cleverness, their own military, their own intelligence If the trust break them of trusting in their own righteousness. In the first thirty-nine chapters of the book of Isaiah are God's expression of that. What is the anyone know the one word theme for the first thirty-nine chapters of the book of Isaiah? The one word theme for the last 27 chapters is redemption. Anyone know what the one-word theme for the first half is? Ruin. God's ruin. The ruin or the ruin of the nation of Israel through God's judgment. Ruin and redemption. And God is going to bring about that as we progress through these chapters. In the face of a Syrian invasion. Judah wants to put their trust in political alliances and in their military might and in their cleverness, but God says, return and rest in Yahweh. For I alone am salvation. In chapter 7 through 12, you remember as we were going through this section, we came to King Ahaz, and Isaiah is sent to meet King Ahaz, and he offers him an opportunity to to be quiet and to return to the Lord and to rest in the Lord, and the Lord would deliver him from the threat of invasion by the the the uh the northern kingdom Israel and by the country of Syria. But if you remember, King Ahaz says, yeah, no, I've got my other plans. I'm going to trust in this alliance with Assyria. And ultimately, the Lord tells him through Isaiah that his rebellion will result in captivity for Judah. With the name of Isaiah's son, Shir, Jashob, a remnant shall return, because you refuse to trust in me, and instead you trust in foreign alliances. You will go into captivity, and only a remnant shall return. Later on in chapters 36 through 39, we find another story where the face of another king is tested, King Hezekiah, another king of Judah. Once again, he's under a threat from Assyria. They surrounded the capital city. And many, many towns, 48 towns of Judah have been destroyed already. The question is, would Hezekiah do like what Ahaz did? Initially he kind of did. He reached out to Egypt, and he reached out to Cush, and he reached out to Babylon, he tried to make alliances, and when all those failed. Hezekiah put his trust in the Lord, and he found deliverance , and God was faithful. In between those chapters, chapters 7 through 12 and 36 through 39, we have a series of oracles. You remember as we were going through them? That was kind of a challenging section to work through. We have an oracle against Babylon, an oracle against Assyria, an oracle against Moab and Damascus and Cush and Egypt and Babylon again and Jerusalem and Tyre, and then an oracle against the whole earth And thus we get the term, the one-word term for the summary of the first half of Isaiah, ruin. God is going to bring judgment not only on Jerusalem , but on all the nations of the world, because they have rebelled against him. And these oracles are intended to answer the question, is God greater than the nations of the world? Can he deliver his people from the mighty nations? And the answer is yes In the end, we find that Hezekiah, although he does well in one response, he trusts the Lord. He ultimately fails in the sense that when the envoys came from Babylon, he boastfully shows them his wealth, and he boasts about his power, and he shows them all the wealth of the land. And because he trusted in an envoy and an alliance that he could make, we found in Isaiah 39 That the Lord said, you'll be taken into captivity by Babylon, the people you tried to impress The people you try to depend on will be the ones that even your children, Hezekiah, will be taken into captivity by. The existential crisis here is the hinge of the book of Isaiah, the nation of Judah taken into captivity. Is God done with Israel? Will he fulfill the promises he made to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob? Will they be restored to the land? And if so, how will God deal with the sin problem that is at the foundation of their rebellion And what caused them to go into the prom or into the into Babylonian captivity, will he be able to deal with their rebellious hearts? And that's what we find as we come into the second half of the book of Isaiah. In Isaiah chapter 40. If you're in Isaiah 40 or Isaiah 1, move forward to Isaiah chapter 40. The second half of the book is a marvelous description of God's redemption. And it begins with these words where he says, comfort. Oh, I skipped a few verses here. Comfort. Comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem, and cry to her, that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned. that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. If you remember when we went through this passage of scripture We notice this beautiful message of comfort that God gives to the people of Jerusalem. And he says, your warfare has ended. There's a tenderness, there's a compassion that he speaks to them. And he says, your iniquities are pardoned. And you've received from the Lord's hand double. We mentioned that phrase double doesn't mean that they should receive twice as much punishment as they deserve But the idea of like a double, the exact copy of their sin, the exact punishment, the exact payment for the sins that they have done. What is that payment for her sins? Does Israel save herself by enduring God's punishment? Does Israel's punishment make her righteous somehow with God? The answer, of course, is no. Israel can't save itself by its enduring of punishment. It's an unmerited forgiveness. that is expressed and revealed throughout the remainder of the book of Isaiah that's purchased by God And revealed in these last chapters. This in verse in chapter 40, verse 3, we have three voices that are found. The first one says, a voice cries. In the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill made low The uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. Now when I read those verses, your mind probably runs very quickly, even if you weren't here for this study, to the New Testament. These words are repeated in all four of the New Testament Gospels. And they refer to one person, the message of one person, John the Baptist. John the Baptist is the forerunner of the Messiah, and he's proclaiming the Messiah who is the glory of the Lord. And through whom God will work his awesome work of redemption. We have the second voice in verses 6 through 8. A voice says, Cry. And I said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all its beauty is like the flower of the field. The grass withers, the flower fades, when the breath of the Lord blows on it. Surely the people are grass. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. This second voice declares that human power Human ability is empty. It's vain. All flesh is grass. The grass withers. The flower fades But the word of our God will stand forever. Israel's redemption, Israel's transformation will not come through human power. It will not come through by a man bringing a transformation to the people. Armies and nations and kings are powerless. All flesh. Armies and nations are and kings are flesh. All flesh is as grass. The men who made Israel fear in those days have graves today that have been lost to history. And even if their grave is found, it's been robbed. The people that cause the world to tremble are no more. They're like the grass which has withered away. God alone will accomplish this redemption. God has declared it and God will do it. And nothing can stop his plan because God has spoken. The third voice we have is in verses 9 through 11. It's a command for Zion to be a herald of good news. He says, go on up. to a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news. Lift up your voice with strength. O Jerusalem, herald of good news. This is where we get the word gospel from. The good news. Lift it up. Fear not. Say to the cities of Judah Behold your God. Behold, the Lord God comes with might, and his arm rules for him. Behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him. He will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arms. He will carry them in his bosom, and gently lead those that are with young. They are to proclaim this message of salvation. And this message of salvation is God Himself, behold your God. Who is the Messiah that will come? your God. We saw this already in Isaiah 7. A virgin shall conceive and bear a son. And his name shall be called Emmanuel, God with us. We saw it already in Isaiah 9. This baby would be born. A son would be born to us, who would be called the mighty God. And he says, this Messiah, behold your God. He is the one who will bring redemption. This message Jerusalem is to give to all Judea. And then it is to go to all the earth As we've been studying this book, we mentioned that there are three main messages of comfort that God brings to the nation of Israel in these last 27 chapters. And those three main messages have to do with comfort through theology, comfort through soteriology, and comfort through eschatology. We've been going through that over and over again. That's this point we're going to bring through here as well. God's message of comfort is in the person of God. It is in God Himself. And this section is going to answer the question, is God able To redeem? Is God able to redeem his people? They are so wicked. They are so far gone. Is God able to redeem them? After declaring in Isaiah 40 this message of comfort, God goes on to show in these next chapters. that his might is incomparable. He describes the nations as being like a drop in the bucket to God. In Isaiah chapter 40 verse 23 He says that he brings princes to nothing. And in verse 26, he alone is the one who created the seemingly numberless stars. And yet what does he do? He calls them all by name. Not a single one is missing. Even though we looked at the fact that there are billions upon trillions of these stars, he knows them all by name. And he says in verse 27, Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, my way is hidden from the Lord, and my right is disregarded by my God? God doesn't see. God can't help me. His promises have failed. That's what they're asking. They're saying, God, your promises have failed. He says, why do you say this? I am the God who calls all the stars by name. The nations of the earth are a drop in the bucket to me. And to this the Lord says in verse 28, have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary. His understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the faint and to him who has no might. He increases strength. And he says, I am the unwearyable God. I will fulfill my word because I am the unwearyable God. God is the one who gives strength to those who wait for the Lord. And to wait for the Lord means to declare our confidence that God will act in his time and on our behalf. He also is the God who has a firm commitment in Isaiah 41, verses 8 through 10. He says, But you, O Israel, my servant Jacob, whom I have chosen, the offspring of Abraham, my friend. You whom I took from the ends of the earth and called from its farthest corners, saying to you, You are my servant, I have chosen you, and not cast you off. Hear what he says. Fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. He says, I have made a firm commitment, and you have no need to fear. I will bring to pass what I promised. My promises to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob. are true. My promises to David, I will fulfill. What I have said I will do, I will do. And God says, yeah, well they they say yes, but how are you going to do this? And God says, let me just put you to the test. I'm going to put a test here. And in these next chapters, God calls the idols. You know the mocking and the sarcasm that we saw as we went through these chapters, Isaiah 42 and 43, and he says, What is an idol? It is nothing. And he says, I'm going to ask the idols, tell me what's going to happen in the future, and we'll see if you can do anything about it. Declare to us the things to come. Tell us what is to come hereafter, that we may know that you are gods, he says. Here in Isaiah 42, 1 through 4, what is interesting, he says, I will declare what's going to happen. My servant will come. And this is the first of the servant songs. He says, My servant, whom I uphold, my chosen in whom my soul delights, I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice or make it heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench. He will faithfully bring forth justice. He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice on the earth and the coastlands. wait for his law. And this is a long view prophecy. And he says, so that you may know that I will do this, I'm going to give you something a little more Current to help you know. And that's what we find in chapters 44 and 45. At the end of chapter 44, the Lord says, I'm going to call a man named Cyrus. If you look in your Bible at Isaiah 44 , Verse 28, he says, Who says of Cyrus, he is my shepherd, and he shall fulfill all my purpose? saying of Jerusalem, she shall be built, and of the temple your foundation shall be laid. And he goes on into chapter 45 describing what Cyrus will do. And he says in verse 3, I will give you the treasures of darkness and the hordes in secret places, that you may know that it is I, the Lord, the God of Israel, who call you by your name. God says, I'm going to call this man Cyrus, and he will redeem my people from Babylonian captivity, and he will send them back into their land. And he says this a hundred years before Cyrus is even a twinkle on his parents' eyes. So that all will know that God is the God of history. And when he says, Behold, my servant will do these things, we can have absolute confidence that he will bring it to pass. As we continue on, we have this second major division of this last half of the book, God's message of comfort, not only in the person of God, but in the person of his servant. This last half of the book is 27 chapters, and it mirrors the amount of books that are in the New Testament. We said as we were going through this that it's divided into three sections of nine chapters. which are punctuated with the words, There is no peace, says the Lord, for the wicked. Each one of these divisions is ended by these words. There is no peace, says the Lord for the wicked. There is no peace, says my God, for the wicked. And that's how we break up these divisions. But the middle section is the greatest revelation of the Messiah and his substitutionary death for sinners. Anywhere in the Old Testament. There is no place in the Old Testament where we see such a revelation of the Messiah. And it's in the second servant song in Isaiah 49. If you turn to Isaiah 49 Where we find out that God will not only redeem Israel, but explicitly He says, My servant Will redeem the ends of the earth. He says in verse 6, it is too light a thing that you should be my servant. To raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to bring back the preserved of Israel, I will make you as a light for the nations, that my salvation may reach to the ends of the earth And we've been told this, we've been seeing glimpses of this throughout the book of Isaiah, but here explicitly we are told the redemption of Israel is a redemption that all nations will be a part of. And that's good for you and I who are Gentiles. At the very center of these nine chapters We have this 15 verses that are known as the fourth servant song, and we took a long time working through the fourth servant song. We went through it very, very slowly. It's like the epicenter of all of God's plan for redemption. And it's really a marvelous God kind of puts this in bold print for us. If you notice that there are three main sections of this last half of Isaiah, chapters 40 through 48, chapter 49 through 57, chapter 58 through 66. The center one is 49 through 57. The center chapter is Isaiah 53. The center stanza of the center of the five stanzas is Isaiah 53, 4 through 6. And the center verse is verse 5. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace And with his wounds we are healed. What is God doing by making it so clear this way, by making this design? He's saying, pay attention. This is what I am doing. My servant will be a substitute who will bear your sins. How will Israel's sins be dealt with? How will your and I sins be dealt with? In the Messiah, in my servant. He will bear our iniquities. It's like God puts us in bold print by doing it this way, putting it in the center of the center, of the center, of the center, so that we say, oh, I see what you want me to notice here. This is what you're doing. In light of what the servant of the Lord accomplishes, we have this glorious open invitation that comes in Isaiah 55. In verse 1 of Isaiah 55 he says, come, everyone who thirst, come to the waters. And he who has no money, come buy and eat. Come by wine and milk without money and without price. Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? God invites all people to a feast, a rich feast. But the only prerequisite for this feast is that you have no money, that you have no way to pay That you realize that you're helpless, that you're bankrupt. He says, come, you who have no money And find the answer for your soul's need in Christ. It's interesting as well. It doesn't say just come and get water and bread, and you'll have your you'll have what you need. He says, you'll have wine and milk and rich feasting, more than your soul needs, is found in Christ. In this section, we are given great comfort through the suffering servant. the Son of God, the Messiah. In this last one we see him not as a suffering servant, these last three, or these last nine chapters, 58 through 66. We see him not as a suffering servant, but as the anointed warrior. So God's message of comfort comes out in three primary areas in these last nine chapters. We're going to go through these. fairly quickly since we just went through them over the last couple weeks. But the ultimate culmination of God's salvation Results in a transformed heart for his people. God 's redemption does not merely pay the price for our sins and leave us as we were. It changes our hearts to hearts that love righteousness. One of the key indications that you can see a person has been born again is that their loves change. They love the Lord. They love his word. They love to do his word Isaiah 59, see if I can find this here. I've skipped a few. 20 through 21 says, and the Redeemer will come to Zion, to those in Jacob who turn from transgression, declares the Lord. And as for me, this is my covenant with them, says the Lord. My spirit that is upon you, and my words that I have put in your mouth shall not depart out of your mouth, or out of your mouth, the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring, says the Lord, from this time forth and forevermore. When the nation of Israel is transformed by the work of the anointed warrior, they are not just merely forgiven. Their hearts are transformed. And their lives become different. Even their mouths are full of the word of God. What did Isaiah say when he saw the holiness of God? Woe is me, for I am undone, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. But when God finishes the transformation, his word will be in their mouth, because their hearts have been transformed. The ultimate culmination of God's salvation results in transformed hearts for his people. The ultimate culmination of God's salvation also results in a rebuilt Jerusalem. As the capital of the Messiah's earthly kingdom. Although they went into captivity and Jerusalem was sacked and the temple was destroyed when God Brings about this salvation, the ultimate end of it. It will result in a rebuild Jerusalem as the capital of the Messiah's earthly kingdom. Verses 9 through 11 says, For the coastlands shall hope for me, the ships of Tarshus first, to bring your children from afar, their silver and gold with them, for the name of the Lord your God and for the Holy One of Israel. Because he has made you beautiful. Foreigners shall build up your walls, and their kings shall minister to you. For in my wrath I struck you. But in my favor I have had mercy on you. Your gates shall be continually open continually day and night, and they shall not be shut, that people may bring to you the wealth of the nations with their kings led in procession. God is going to transform hearts. He's going to transform the city of Jerusalem. And he's going to transform the people of Israel to become witnessing servants that God had originally called them to be. We saw this last week as we're looking at Isaiah 66, verse 19. Where he said, I will set a sign among them, and from them I will send survivors to the nations, to Tarshus and Poole and Lud, who draw the bow, to Tubal and Javan, to the coastlands far away. That have not heard my fame or seen my glory, and they shall declare my glory among the nations. When Isaiah began this great work in Isaiah chapter 1, the people of Israel were just like the nations. But God says, I am going to work a work. I'm going to bring them to redemption through my servant. And I'm going to transform them. I'm going to change their hearts. I'm going to bring a redemption that makes them the witnessing servants. God is the sovereign ruler of history. He is the Holy One of Israel. He has declared his intentions to redeem and to radically purify the people of Israel. And he's going to do this through the substitutionary death of the servant of the Lord, so that his glory and his salvation will go to the ends of the earth. Their response and your response, our response, must be to return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. When they see him and they respond in that way, they return and rest in Yahweh, they will experience that salvation. It is a call not just for the nation of Israel. Because he said the Messiah's light will go to the nations. And it's a call for all mankind to return and rest in Yahweh. The question is, have you, will you? What does it mean to return and rest in the Lord? To return is the idea of to repent, to say, I am turning from my ways, I am returning from my, I'm turning from my sins, and I'm going to put my trust In the Lord alone. I'm going to put my trust in His salvation. My sins have separated me from God. My sins are a dark spot that I can never cleanse away. But the Lord says Come, let us reason together. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as snow. How? Through the servant who bore our sins, who was crushed for our iniquities. The chastisement for our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this glorious book. We thank you for our glorious Savior that it proclaims. Father, we pray that you would be magnified and forever this book would not be a closed book to us , a locked book to us, but a book that brings us much encouragement and confidence and hope. A place where we go to to evangelize, and a place where we go to to find courage. I pray, Father, for the peace of Jerusalem. And we long for that day when your people, Israel. Will return and rest in you, for you alone are salvation. Father, we pray until that day that we would be faithful, that we would be witnessing servants That we would be a holy people. That we would take the gospel of Jesus Christ to the far corners of this earth And that the waters, or that the glory of the Lord will cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. Father, this is our prayer. I pray, Lord, for any who may be here tonight that do not know Christ as their Savior, who've never repented and found life in him, I pray that today they would do that. And we ask this in Jesus' name, amen.