Were quoted in the New Testament by whom? Anyone remember? Paul, exactly. And it was quoted in Romans 11. In Romans 11, if you remember Romans 11, it is specifically describing and teaching the fact that there is a future for national Israel. There it is abundantly clear that Zion is being used as a metonymy for the entire nation of Israel. He says here in verse 20, and a redeemer will come to Zion, and to those in Jacob who turn from transgression, declares the Lord. Specifically, what is being addressed is God's eternal redemption. for the nation of Israel that will take place at the end of the tribulation period, as is described in Zechariah chapter 12. Zachariah chapter 14 and a variety of other Old Testament and New Testament passages, but probably none more clear than Romans chapter 11. It's a vital passage for understanding this. So when we enter into chapter 60, We encounter these words, you and your. I don't know if you notice that as we were reading, how many times you and your are mentioned. In the entire chapter, it's over 50 times. You and your are found. And the question is, you and your, who? Who is that being referred to? Well, the nearest antecedent would be Zion. From chapter 59, verse 20. And that's consistent with in the Hebrew the grammar is actually in the feminine form as if you were speaking about a city. But then in verse 14, we find it clearly identified. If we were to finish reading to verse 14, you would have noticed that the you and your is referring indeed to Zion Verse 14 says, The sons of those who afflicted you shall come bending low to you, and all who despised you shall bow down at your feet. They shall call you the city of the Lord, the Zion of the Holy One of Israel. John Oswalt is a leading commentator on the book of Isaiah. He has actually a two-volume commentary, a more technical commentary on Isaiah, and then he has a third additional commentary which is a um applicational commentary which I've used throughout our study. And he says this, chapters 60 through 62 show Israel's final destiny as the restored people of God. in whom the reality of God's salvation is displayed to all the earth. So he's saying this is the message of not only chapter 60, but chapter 61 and 62 as well. Now the question is, there are three major ways that we can interpret this. There is the historical interpretation. This views seeing everything described in this chapter as a description of Israel's return from Babylonian captivity. And people who take this. View would say this is all fulfilled when Israel returned from the Babylonian captivity. But they would say it's a hyperbolic description. It's hyperbole. But the problem is that this would be hyperbole indeed. It's to the point of hyperbole to ridiculousness, especially if you read down to verse 17 and 18 where it says. The end of 17 says, I will make your overseers peace and your taskmasters righteousness. Violence shall no more be heard in your land. Devastation or destruction within your borders, you shall call your walls salvation and your gates praise. Now, if you know anything about the history of Israel since their return from Babylonian exile There is no possible way that that could be a description, even hyperbolically, it does not fit with the history of the nation of Israel. You just have to watch the news today and know that that That cannot be the case. Nothing even comes close to that for Jerusalem since their return from the Babylonian captivity. So the next interpretation would be a spiritual interpretation, and probably it's the most common interpretation of this passage of scripture. Zion would be spiritually interpreted to refer to the church. Zion does not refer to Zion, the city, like Jerusalem. Zion is another name for the city of Jerusalem, even though it is expressly described here as a city with walls and gates and a temple. in this passage. They would say it is all spiritually describing the status of the church. Many commentators would hold this opinion. Adam Clark, the 18th century theologian, said The subject of this chapter is the great increase and flourishing state of the Church of God by the conversion and ascension of the heathen nations to it. So he's saying this is all about the church and the Gentiles coming to the church. And while that is true that we as Gentiles have been brought into the church. I say that's not what this chapter is about. The direct context of Isaiah 59, as we've already seen, which was quoted by Paul in Romans 11, describing a future return for the nation of Israel is one reason why I think that's not the case. Also, if you continue to study this chapter, It speaks of the obedient Gentiles in distinction from the subject of the prophecy. There's the obedient Gentile nations, you have the nations of the surround that come, but they are distinct from Israel. They're distinct from Zion. So it wouldn't make sense to call we have the coastlands in verse 9 and the foreigners in verse 10. And verse 14 describes the nations. And they're not the subject. They are other than the subject, the you and the your. So this shows that he is speaking to Israel As Israel. Israel as the nation. So the the interpretation that I take is the eschatological interpretation, and this sees the description of the city of Jerusalem. During the millennial reign of Christ, when Jesus returns and he physically reigns over the earth from the capital city of Jerusalem. And if we've gone through the book of Isaiah, we've seen this a few different times as we've been studying different passages, but probably one of the clearest is all the way back in Isaiah chapter 2. I remember going through Isaiah 2 and describing that this was setting the stage for what would be seen later in the book when there would be descriptions of the the city of Jerusalem during the millennial kingdom. In Isaiah chapter 2, verses 1 through 3, really it goes all the way down to verse 6, but It says that that the word that Isaiah the son of Amaz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem, it shall come to pass in the latter days. that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established as the highest of the mountains, and shall be lifted up above the hills, and all the nations shall flow to it. And many people shall come and say, Come, let us go to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways, that we may walk in his paths. For out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. Now when we we come to Isaiah chapter 60, We see a city that is being described. It's described as a city that has walls, a city that has gates, a city that actually has neighboring nations to this city. And the description of Jerusalem in chapter 60 actually refers to a city with a temple. If you look at verse 13. He describes the city as having a temple. He says, The glory of Lebanon shall come to you, the cypress, the plain, and the pine, to beautify the place of my sanctuary. And I will make the place of my feet glorious. And so we see here him describing the sanctuary and the place of my feet. Now you might not think, well, why the place of my feet? What does that refer to? It's a description for the Ark of the Covenant. The Ark of the Covenant is often described as a place where God would rest his feet, where he would meet Obviously, God doesn't have feet. God is a spirit. But where he would come and his presence would meet with the nation of Israel. Well, this is even described in 1 Chronicles. Chapter twenty-eight, verse two, and it says, Then King David rose to his feet and said, Hear my people, my brothers and my people, I had it in my heart to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the Lord. and for the footstool of our God, and I made preparation for building. So he describes the footstool, the place of rest for the presence of God, there in the temple above the Ark of the Covenant. And he says so he describes it as a sanctuary, he describes it as a place of his feet, and he actually later describes all sacrifices being accepted on the altar. Verse 7, I'm sorry, not later, but earlier. In verse 7 it says at the end, they shall come up with acceptance on my altar. And I will beautify my beautiful house. The house that's being described there would be the temple. What the reason I bring this up is when we read about the New Jerusalem in Revelation 21 and 22, the New Jerusalem will not have a temple. It will not have a temple. It's specifically described in Revelation 21, 22 that the temple is the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb. So there is no temple in the New Jerusalem. This city, however, is described as having a temple. And sacrifices are being made. It's interesting. Nine chapters of our Bible are given to a description of a temple That has never yet been built on this earth. A very detailed description of a temple that has never yet been built on this earth. Anyone know where that is that's found? Ezekiel 40, yeah, 40 through 48. It's a description, a detailed description of the temple that is often described as the Millennial Temple. Very detailed description. If you read it, you can actually, there's actually some YouTube videos that are really good that show the architecture based on the detailed descriptions that are provided there. It describes sacrifices that will be offered and the prince, which probably I Possibly refers to the resurrected King David. I think that probably makes the most sense based on some things we read in Jeremiah chapter 34. Who will rule over Jerusalem under the King of Kings, Jesus? So we see that this fits the description then that we would find in Ezekiel chapter 40 through 48. But maybe you're wondering Why why such a description about a city? Why is this passage in here about the city? city of Jerusalem. What's so special about the city of Jerusalem? And when we're reading our Bible, the temptation is is to come to passages like this and look for applicational points. and not really drill down and understand what is the teaching of this passage. And there's going to be things here that really have maybe very little immediate application to our lives, but are very important for us to understand, and God has put it in His Word for us to understand for a reason. And we see that Jerusalem is being described here, or Zion is being described here, and the Lord has an intimate, long-lasting relationship with Jerusalem. God chose Jerusalem as the place where his temple would be and where his name would be permanently attached. In Psalm 132, verses 13 and 14, it says, For the Lord has chosen Zion. He has desired it for his dwelling place. This is my resting place forever. Here I will dwell, for I have desired it. Now, if you were to study your Bible, you would find many, many references to Jerusalem It's first mentioned in the Bible when Abraham returned from rescuing Lot and the others that were taken in the battle, and a king named Melchizedek. Comes with bread and wine for Abraham's soldiers and the captives who were being returned. And Abraham pays a tithe to Melchizedek, who is described as being a priest of the Most High God. and a king of Salem, which is Jerusalem. He is a king of Jerusalem. The next time we see, and of course Melchizedek is a type of Christ. Melchizedek is a type of Christ, as Hebrews, as we went through Hebrews, tells us very clearly. Next we see Abraham in Genesis 22, directed by God to offer his son Isaac upon one of the mountains of Moriah, and the the temple As we'll find out if you're to read through the Old Testament, is built on the mountains of Moriah, there in Jerusalem. And we find that God is zealous for Jerusalem. God is zealous for Jerusalem. And Zechariah Oh, we'll get to that verse in a little bit. No, actually, I I don't have this in my slide. You're gonna have to actually look at the Bible. Zechariah chapter 8, verses 2 and 3. I might even have it in your notes though. Thus says the Lord of hosts, I am zealous for Zion with great jealousy, and I am jealous for her with great wrath. Thus says the Lord, I have returned to Zion, and I will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem, and Jerusalem shall be called the faithful city. and the mountain of the Lord of hosts, the holy mountain. Now this is interesting because again, this is written in the book of Zechariah. Zechariah is. A post-exilic prophet, one of the last prophets in our Old Testament, before the 400 silent years, before the return of Christ. But this is after the Babylonian exile. after they've returned from Babylon. Zechariah says, God says in the book of Zechariah that God is jealous for Zion. And that he will return and dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. Jerusalem shall be called the faithful city. And the mountain of the Lord of hosts, the holy mountain. Now when you think again about the history of Jerusalem, that has not yet happened. In history, that has not yet happened. So when we come to, when we began the book of Isaiah, oh probably Seventy lessons ago, probably a year and a half ago, as we're looking at the book of Isaiah, the first chapter, we came across some intering interesting descriptions about Jerusalem in that very first chapter. I don't know if you remember this, but Isaiah chapter 1, verse 21 says, How is the faithful city become a harlot? It was full of judgment, righteousness lodged in it, but now murderers. And then if we skip down to verse 25, it says, and I will turn my hand upon thee. And purely purge away thy dross, and take away all thy tin, and I will restore thy judges as at the first. And thy counselors as at the beginning. Afterward thou shalt be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city. Zion shall be redeemed with judgment, and her converts with righteousness. Again, as we look at what happened with the Babylonian exile, what we see here in Zechariah after the return from the Babylonian exile, he's describing something that is still yet. future. And when Christ comes, it has still not yet happened. And is describing something that is still yet for future. That's why in Zechariah chapter 14 , we looked at this last week in our study of chapter 59 of Isaiah. Verses 3 and 4 says, then the Lord, this is speaking about that very end times at the end of the tribulation period. When the nations will gather around Jerusalem to destroy Jerusalem, it says, then the Lord will go out and fight against those nations. as when he fights on a day of battle. On that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of Olives that lies before Jerusalem on the east, and the Mount of Olives shall be split in two from east to west. by a very wide valley, so that one half of the mount shall move northward and the other half southward. Now you really can't see it in this picture, but that's a picture of the mount from the Mount of Olives looking over Jerusalem. And I kind of whited it out so you can see the text there. It hasn't yet split. That hasn't yet happened The prophecy of Zechariah 14 is yet future. And this corresponds perfectly to what we read in the New Testament, in the book of Acts. When Jesus is about to ascend up into heaven to the Lord, where does he ascend from? The Mount of Olives. To the east of Jerusalem. So if you're looking at, I mean the Mount of Olives is technically in Jerusalem. It's just to the east of the temple, right there is what you're looking at at the temple from that platform. And in Acts chapter 1, verses 11 and 12, Jesus has ascended from the Mount of Olives into heaven to his Father. And two men dressed in white meet the disciples, and you just picture them looking and going. And there's the disciples. And two men gather catch their attention and they say, Men of Galilee, why do you stand here looking into heaven? That's what they're doing. They're just What just happened? They're looking into heaven. This Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven. Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away. And as Pastor explained recently, that's about a thousand yards. Thousand yards? Yeah, thousand yards, yeah. So about a thousand yards from the temple area. So he's describing The fact that Christ will return, these angels are saying Christ will return as he ascended. He is going to return to this very place. Where did they get that from? Well, obviously the Lord told them that, but that's what Zechariah chapter 14 tells us. That's what Zechariah 14 makes very plain to us. So it becomes very clear that Jerusalem has a special place in the plan of God. It's the place where the temple of God was chosen, where God chose to build, have the temple built. It's the place where our Lord was crucified. It's the place where our Lord ascended from, and it's the place where he is going to return to And it's the place where his international capital will be when he comes to rule and reign on the earth in righteousness and peace. for the millennium, for that thousand years that is described specifically in Revelation chapter 20. But that's what is being described here in Isaiah chapter 60 The return of Christ to Jerusalem to establish peace and righteousness and justice, to rule the world with a rod of iron from Jerusalem From his capital city here. And now we find that there are instructions given to Jerusalem. I think specifically it's referring to the residents of Jerusalem, the nation of Israel, kind of autonomy for all of Israel. But he's addressing Jerusalem. And there are two commands in this passage. And they form the two points that we're going to look at this evening, and we're not going to get them all done tonight. But the first is arise and shine. Arise and shine. He says, arise, shine, for your light has come. In verse 1. The second is in verse 4. Lift up your eyes all around and see. So you can say the two commands are shine and see. Shine and see. So God calls Israel here or Jerusalem to arise from the dust of despair and to shine. Remember last week when we looked at Isaiah 59? Remember that the first part of Isaiah 59 is an accusation where God accuses and condemns the nation of Israel as being desperately wicked. That they are depraved thoroughly. In verses 7 and 8 of Isaiah 59, he says, their feet run to evil, and they are swift to shed innocent blood. Their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity. Desolation and destruction are in their highways. The way of peace they do not know, and there is no justice in their paths. They have made their roads crooked. No one who treads on them knows peace. And if you remember, when we looked at that, we said this was quoted by Paul again in Romans chapter 3. As he makes the case that all the world, Jew and Gentile, are condemned and guilty before a holy God. This is followed up in Isaiah 59 with intense confession and repentance. Where we remember if we looked at Isaiah 59, there were all of those references to us and we, beginning in verse 9. Therefore justice is far from us. And righteousness does not overtake us. We hope for light and behold darkness and for brightness, but we walk in gloom. And there is this confession That we are not righteous. We are so wicked. We are so depraved. We desire light, but we can't even find it. We walk in darkness. We grope like a blind man, like a man who has no eyes. We are depraved. And we can't even figure out how to live righteous lives. Then, beginning in verse 14 to the end of the chapter, it's a description of how God heard their confession. and he himself will save them. It's a description, really, of how God in Christ is going to save them. He is going to be their salvation. With his own arm he brought him salvation, that he brings salvation to the nation through the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, but also through his return. through his his coming again. In light of that, you might say, the confession, the condemnation The Lord says to the nation of Israel, because of the salvation that I have accomplished, arise. Arise out of the dust. And shine. My salvation has come upon you. Arise and shine. Don't be dejected. Believe my promises and shine forth as I have commanded you. The light that they are called to radiate here is the glory of the Lord in the person of Jesus Christ. It's the glory of the Lord in the person of Jesus Christ. He says, Your light has come in verse 1. Then he says, And the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. When you think of Jesus in his first coming. John 1. 14 describes him as the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. Now, this is in Christ's earthly ministry, he veiled his glory, as we shall see. But his his truth and his teaching was that of the Father, and it radiated from him in his teaching. That's why they could say, never a man spoke like him. And Peter could say, you alone have the words of life. That's why they could say he spoke with authority and not like A lot like the scribes. Jesus could say, I am the light of the world. He who follows me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. He promises grace. What we find here in this passage is a literal light, the light being described as the glory of the Lord. When you think of the glory of the Lord in the Old Testament, we think of the Shekinah glory that came down over the tabernacle and over the temple when the Lord was present there. But in Jeremiah chapter 3, we have this amazing passage of scripture that says, in the future The glory will be of a different nature. Jeremiah chapter 3, verses 16 and 17. It says, And when you have multiplied and been fruitful in the land , In those days, declares the Lord, they shall no more say, the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord. It shall not come to mind or be remembered or missed. It shall not be made again. At that time Jerusalem shall be called the throne of the Lord, and all the nations shall gather to it, to the presence of the Lord in Jerusalem, and they shall no more stubbornly follow their own evil heart. He's describing a time when the fact that the Ark of the Covenant is gone and is missing and has been missing isn't a big deal because the Lord himself is present. The glory of the Lord is present in Jesus Christ. And there's a transformation that has taken place. The Shekinah glory will be eclipsed by the glory of the Lord radiating from Jesus Christ himself. The glory of the Lord is described as a radiant light. You think of when Moses went up on the mountain and received the Ten Commandments. And he came back down, and his face shined because he had been in the presence of the Lord so much so that the people said, Don't come near us, we're afraid. And Moses had to put a veil over his face. Because he was reflecting the glory of the Lord to such a degree that the people were afraid to approach him. In Jesus' earthly ministry and his first coming, he was and is the eternal Son of God. But his glory, the outward manifestation, I should say, of his glory was veiled. But we do see it. briefly in Matthew chapter 17 verse 2 and it says and he was transfigured before them. The them is Peter, James, and John when he went up on the mount, and there he speaks with Moses and Elijah on the Mount of Transfiguration. And his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white as light. The glory of the Lord. was revealed to Peter and James and John. And Peter speaks about it in 2 Peter chapter 1. And when the disciples, those three disciples, saw this awesome glory, they were stupefied and they fell down. Later in Revelation chapter 1, when the Lord comes to his beloved disciple, John, and he sees Christ in his glory in Revelation 1. 16. John describes that his face was like the sun shining in the full strength. Have you ever been driving down the road and the sun is setting right in front of you? And it's just blazing, and you can can't even s look at the road because the sun is so bright. He says, that was the face of Christ. And John says, I fell down at his feet as though dead, because of the glory that he had seen. In Jesus Christ. This is the same Jesus that he walked the earth with for three years and ate at the same table with. But his glory was veiled. When he comes a second time, his glory will not be veiled. And it will be for all to see. And his divine glory will radiate for all to see. And it's a glory. That speaks of several things. It speaks of of his purity, of his holiness. And so when the nation of Israel here is commanded to Arise and shine, for your light has come. He's not saying you have your own internal light. He's saying reflect the light, radiate the light that you have in your presence. Which is Jesus Christ's light. And He's calling them to purity. He's calling them to holiness. Something has happened for this to be possible, for the glory. of the Lord to shine upon them. Because if you remember, if we go through the book of Isaiah, the nation of Israel is a sinful people, just like you and I. Something has happened. There are rebellious people. It's their sin that caused them to go into captivity. Something has happened to change them. And that something is described in Zechariah chapter 12 as an outpouring of the Spirit of God when Christ returns. And they look upon him whom they have pierced, and they weep for him as one weeps for an only son. And they are converted. They are born again. This is the conquest of sin and rebellion and pride by the warrior Jesus Christ when he comes in his glory. It says here, it says, For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and thick darkness the peoples, but the Lord will arise upon you, and his glory will be seen upon you. and nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising, or to the brightness that has risen upon you. When Israel is transformed, they are called to radiate out purity, truth, and justice, the truth of God. And it's attractive. It has like a magnetic appeal so that the nations of the world are drawn into a relationship with God. When the Lord transforms Zion into the likeness of his own glory, Zion then begins to transform all the nations into the likeness of her own. This thick darkness of the people of the world will make the glorious light of the glow of the glory of God shining from Jerusalem all that more beautiful, all that more appealing, all that more magnetic for them. The nation of Israel will become what God has always intended the nation of Israel to be, and that is to be witnessing servants. Remember back to Isaiah 43. 10, God says, that I have made you to be my witnesses, my servants, that my glory will be known to all the world. He says, I will do this again. The radiant city of Jerusalem will become a place of pilgrimage. For rulers and for the nations. In Isaiah chapter 2, we looked at verses 1 through 3, but if we continue on reading from verse 3 in Isaiah chapter 2, we see this again. All the nations shall flow to it, to Jerusalem, and many people shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways, and that we may walk in his paths. For out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. He shall judge between the nations, and shall decide disputes for the many peoples. And they shall beat their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nations shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. O house of Jacob Come, let us walk in the light of the Lord. This is what this chapter is speaking about. When nations come to their light and kings to the brightness And God calls Israel to not only shine, but here very quickly, he calls them to lift up their eyes and see in verse 4. This same phrase, lift up your eyes and see, is found in chapter 49 of Isaiah as well. And it's a call to believe the promises that God has given to his people. Although their sin and rebellion has caused them to be dispersed around the world, God is going to do a great thing And there are two things that are described as being brought to Jerusalem in this passage of Scripture. First , Their exiled sons and daughters will be brought from afar. He says in verse 4. Lift up your eyes all around and see. They all gather together. They come to you. Your sons shall come from afar, and your daughters. shall be carried on the hip. Verse 9 reiterates this and describes the coastlands hoping for the Lord and coming on ships of Tarshus to bring your children from afar. Now in our generation, as we've seen, we've seen amazing things take place in the last 70 years. We've already seen an extensive return of the diaspora. In these last seventy years, but even so, millions of Jews live all around the world. There are roughly 15. 7 million Jewish people in the world today. Less than half of that. Live in Israel. So the majority of Jews in the world do not live in Israel. I remember being shocked to learn when we were living in Tanzania That I spoke to a friend of mine who was a missionary in Israel and I was talking to him about some things, and he said, Where do you live? I said, I live in Arusha, Tanzania. He said, You have got to be kidding. There is a small group of Jewish bel of Jews that are still practicing Jews in Arusha, Tanzania. Who were Yemeni Jews who fled Yemen because of the persecution upon the Jewish people, and they had been living secretly in Arusha, and we're trying to get them back to the Holy Land. Mind-boggling. I had no idea. And they had blended in with the Maasai tribe, took on Maasai names, but they carried on their Jewish practices. in Erusha. Remember when we studied Isaiah 49 in verses 20 and 22, it says The children of your bereavement will yet say in your ears, The place is too narrow for me. Make room for me to dwell in. Then you will say in your heart, Who has borne me these? I was bereaved and barren, exiled and put away. But who has brought up these? Behold, I was left alone. From where have these come? Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will lift up my hand to the nations and raise my signal to the peoples, and they shall bring your sons in their arms, and your daughters shall be carried on their shoulders. God says, the exiled people of Jerusalem, of Judah, of Israel, I know them and I will bring them back to this land And he's describing that here. The second thing is tribute that is to be brought to Jerusalem. We don't have time to go through all of this this evening, but the riches of the world are described as being brought to Jerusalem. And he says in verse 6, a multitude of camels shall cover you. The young camels now that may sound like a curse, but it's not. It's actually a good thing because the camels were where they all the goods were transported on. So you might say, A lot of semis will be coming in and ships will be coming in. A multitude of camels shall cover you. The young camels of Midian and Epha, all those from Sheba shall come. And again, I just find this so fascinating. Midian and Epha. Midian is the f was um Firstborn, uh, uh uh his firstborn is Epha, but they're both found in Genesis 25. They're descendants of Abraham through his wife Keturah. After Sarah had died, he remarried and he had children through Keturah. And although these were initially friendly to the Israelites, you can think of Moses ' wife Zepporah with the daughter of Jethro, a. priest in Midian. Eventually they joined with the Amalekites and the Moabites and became enemies of Israel. And here they're described as coming bringing gifts. He also describes Sheba. You think of Sheba, again you think of The Queen of Sheba, you think of Yemen, modern-day Yemen. What is Yemen today to Israel? Enemies. At war. These nations and tribes that are described here are enemies to this very day. And he says there's coming a day when they will come and they will bring gifts to you. And they will come bearing your children. Oh, yeah, the Yemeni Jews in Arusha being brought back to the land. And we're seeing the beginnings of this, but there's going to come a fullness of this. But what's so exciting is not just that, but the end of verse 6, and they shall bring golden frankincense and shall bring good news. The praises of the Lord. These who were enemies, these who were worshiping false gods, who even to this day are worshiping false gods, Will become worshipers of the one true God. And they will come not as enemies, but they will come as worshipers. And this is what God is describing here. Spend some more time in this. We don't have time to. Two quick points of application. God is sovereign He is sovereignly ruling all human history. He has chosen for his own purposes the nation of Israel and the city of Jerusalem to be identified with his holy name. And he will accomplish his glory. It is to there that Christ will return, as the angels told the disciples. And it is there that he will establish his earthly kingdom. And that's why we should pray for the peace of Jerusalem. We should pray, your kingdom come. We should pray that this comes speedily when He will rule and reign over this world in justice and in righteousness. Secondly, although the events described here speak of a future day, it's important to remember that the message of Romans 11 Which says that although the temporary fall of the nation of Israel is riches to the world, we have been grafted in because of the rejection of the nation of Israel. when that re is reversed, when they are grafted back in, he describes it as a restoration that will be even greater. Romans 11, 12. We have been grafted in by grace to the glorious promises of God in Christ Jesus that were given to Israel. But similarly, we have been grafted in not just to the promises, but to the the responsibilities that have been given to the nation of Israel. That's why Jesus said, you are the light of the world. A city that is on the hill cannot be hidden. Let your light so shine before men that they might see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. Paul said in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, But if our gospel be hid. It is hid to them that are lost, in whom the God of this world has blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ who is the image of God should shine unto them. For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord and ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness. Has shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. We are called to proclaim the message of salvation. And we are called to proclaim it in purity and in holiness because our God is holy. Last point. Christ is coming again. Let's live expectantly. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you for these promises, this glorious passage of scripture. Would you thrill us with your sovereign rule over all things? And Lord, would you help us to shine as we are commanded to do? In Jesus' name. Amen.