We are continuing on in our study of the book of Isaiah. Remember that the theme for Isaiah is return and rest. Return and rest in Yahweh, for he alone is salvation. We've been away from the book of Isaiah for a few weeks now, and you're probably like That was nice actually. A little bit of a time away. But now we're coming back and we're hitting into the home stretch. We're in Isaiah 59, nearing the the last uh decade, you might say, here, of chapters, getting to the 60s But uh if you remember the the the layout of the book of Isaiah, there's a a single word theme that describes the first thirty-nine chapters, and that single word is ruin. The single word that describes the last 27 chapters is redemption. And those last 27 chapters begin with a message of comfort. And it's that message of comfort that God is unfolding. Throughout the remainder of those twenty-seven chapters, we have, first of all, comfort through theology as we see who our God is. And so his promises are true because he is able to deliver on his promises. Then comfort through soteriology as we learn about the suffering servant and what He did to bring us salvation. As we just read over in these last verses, we were memorizing all the times where we were told that he bore the sins of many. We see that the suffering servant died to bear our sins. And this last division is comfort through eschatology, and the word eschatology just means the study of last things. And as we're learning about God's unfolding of salvation, not only uh in uh in our redemption, but also in the ultimate redemption of the nation of Israel and So we're coming to Isaiah 59, and we're going to try to get through a good bit this evening. But I think it shouldn't be too difficult for us to do so. There's three main divisions to the chapter of Isaiah 59, and it begins with God bringing a damning charge. of radical depravity. There is a radical depravity in the nation of Israel. But it's the same depravity that we find in all humanity. He begins by saying, Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened, that it cannot save, or his ear dull that it cannot hear. But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he does not hear. For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with iniquity. Your lips have spoken lies, your tongue mutters wickedness No one enters suit justly. No one goes to law honestly. They rely on empty pleas. They speak lies. They conceive mischief and give birth to iniquity They hatch adder 's eggs. They weave the spider's web. He who eats their eggs dies. And from the one that is crushed, a viper is hatched Their webs will not serve as clothing. Men will not cover themselves with what they make. Their works are works of iniquity, and their deeds of violence are in their hands Their feet run to evil, and they are swift to shed innocent blood. Their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity. Desolation and destruction are in their highways The way of peace they do not know. And there is no justice in their paths. They have made their roads crooked. No one who treads on them knows peace. Now you may have recognized several of those verses from a New Testament passage of Scripture from Romans chapter 3. Paul takes several Old Testament verses to make the case that all are guilty before God. And several of those Old Testament references come from Isaiah 59. And he is making the case that there is a radical depravity, a wickedness that is deep into the core of all humanity. And he's saying here basically that there is a separation that has taken place between God and man. And so in our our notes here we have mind the gap. This is talking about the the uh the tube in London where they have that's the sign up, mind the gap so you don't fall between the subway and and the the the the walkway there. But mind the gap is what he's describing here. There is a gap, a chasm, a gap that is infinite Between man and God. Our sins have separated us from God, and there is no way for man to bridge that gap on his own. But the reality is the people were were charging God with a powerlessness to save. They said, God, the reason you have not answered our prayers, the reason you have not brought about these messianic answers to prayer or promises that you have given to us is because your arm is shortened. When you hear something like that, you can picture a man with a crippled arm. And he doesn't have the power and strength to do what he would normally be able to do. And so he says, Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened. It's not that I don't have power to do what I need to do. There's another reason. If you remember back in chapter 58, they said, Why have we fasted and you don't see it? Why have we humbled ourselves and you take no knowledge of it? They're saying, God, why are we doing all these things, seemingly very good things, and you don't seem to answer our prayers? And they say it must be that you just don't have the power to deliver, that you are unable to bring about a deliverance Then they also say, maybe it is that you don't hear our prayers because your ear is too heavy. Now we don't use that phrase in English. It's an idiomatic expression. We would say someone is Dull of hearing or hard of hearing. They're basically saying, God, it it's either that your hands are too short, you don't have the power to do what needs to be done, or you don't hear us when we pray. Because your ear Is not working properly. And God says neither of those are the case. Now it may be in our lives at times you may have noticed periods in your life where you feel like, why does it seem like that God doesn't answer my prayers? Why does it seem like I am not getting through to God? And there can be many reasons for that. One of which maybe God is Purifying you. He is testing you. He is strengthening your faith. It may be that God is working a plan that you don't understand. And so He is trying your faith. You think of Paul when he prayed for the thorn in the flesh to be removed three times, and God said, No, but my grace is sufficient for you. And in this you are going to find Humility, which will then enable me to work in you in a greater way. So God may be answering in a way that is different than we intended But another reason that is brought out in our text here is because our iniquities have made a separation between ourselves and God. There is a s there is sin that we are harboring in our hearts and we are refusing to deal with, and God says, until you deal with this, I will not answer your prayers. And that is exactly the charge that he brings against the nation of Israel at this point. Their sins have separated them from God. There is a gap between their sinfulness and God's holiness. It's not that God is powerless But that God is holy. And as a result, they are unable to come before the presence of God. In Jeremiah chapter five we read of this. He says, They do not say in their hearts, Let us fear the Lord our God, who gives rain the rain in its season, the autumn rain and the spring rain, and keeps for us the weeks appointed for the harvest. Your iniquities have turned these away, and your sins have kept good from you. God says the reason why I'm not bringing blessing upon your land, it's not because I am powerless to bring blessing, it's because your sins have been multiplied and they have and I have not desired to bless you. Your sins have kept away the good. The gap that is between God's holiness and man's sinfulness is an unfathomable gap. This is really something that we could use and we do often use in evangelism. It's been used For hundreds of years to describe the holiness of God, that God is is unapproachably holy and our sins have created a chasm, a wide chasm that we cannot cross. No human righteousness can bridge the gap to God. God is so holy that even the holy angels don't dare look upon him. We read of the seraphim in Isaiah 6, covering their eyes in the presence of God with their wings. The Old Testament temple architecture was designed to illustrate that separation between the holy God and sinful mankind. but also the seriousness of that separation. The only person who could enter into the Holy of Holies was the high priest. No gentile could come in, no priest could come in, no Jew could come in, only the high priest And that one day of the year on the Day of Atonement. And he couldn't come in lightly, cavalierly. He had to come in with blood from the sacrificial animals and sprinkle them on the mercy seat. God is unapproachably holy. He's already told them in Isaiah 57, if you remember verse 15, where he said that he is high. And lifts it up, speaking of his transcendence, that God is exalted, and that he lives in the high and lofty place, the high and holy place. And the fact is that our sins create an inseparable or impenetrable barrier from the presence of God. The problem that brought the nation of Israel into captivity. If you think about why they were sent into captivity in Babylon, it's sin God tells them again and again through the prophets, your sins have caused this. And the reality is that when they came back from the Babylonian captivity, their sin continued to mount up and mount up the sin problem. Had not been dealt with. And that's really why we come to Isaiah 53 and we read about God's answer to man's sin problem in the suffering of his servant. But this reality isn't true just of the nation of Israel. It isn't that they are somehow more sinful than the rest of humanity. The fact is That is not at all the case. This is the universal problem of humanity. And that's why Paul in Romans chapter 3, he makes the case that this is what the Old Testament teaches, that all Gentiles and all Jews are. Guilty before God. There is not a single man, woman, boy, or girl that is able to approach God, but all are guilty and condemned. In 1 John chapter 1, verses 5 and 6, he says , Oh yeah. This is the message we have heard from him and proclaimed to you that God is light and in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. God demands holiness. Now in beginning in verse 3 of this chapter, God is making a case. It's not that my ear is dull of hearing or my arm is too short. But the fact is that your sin has separated you from me. And he now he begins to make the case. He begins to show that this is the reality. Your depravity is pervasive. He def it says it he it defiles their whole being. In verse three He gives two illustrations to reveal the pervasiveness of their sin. First, he says, your hands are covered in blood, and it extends to the fingers. And then he says, your lips speak lies, and it extends to the tongue that mutters wickedness. The implication is that their entire being is guilty and characterized by wickedness. Now you may say, well, I've never murdered anybody, Aaron. That's not my problem. But Jesus said that in Matthew chapter 5, that if you're angry with your brother, It's the same guilt. If you say to your brother, you fool, then you have violated this commandment not to murder, because you have murdered in your heart. Think of us as a nation. You say, well, maybe Israel is worse than than our nation. As a nation, we are no less bloody than the nation of Israel. We can think of the murder rates. In our country. We can also think of the abortion rate in our land. With roughly a million abortions a year that take place. And we've made it illegal right for a mother to murder her pre-born child. On top of this, lies permeate our lives. They permeate our society. Our marketing and business system is driven by lies. We lie to hide blame and guilt. We lie to get what we want. Students lie and cheat to get scholarships and better grades. We are a people that can be characterized by these accusations. An honest businessman will struggle Because everyone else is cutting corners. Everyone else is doing shady business. It defiles our whole being. And he says it defiles the whole society. In verse 4, he says, No one enters. suit justly. The accusation is against the legal system. The wickedness of the nation is revealed by the universal corruption. That's found in their judicial system. No one is repeated twice. No one enters suit justly. No one goes to court honestly. And you say, wow, they must have been pretty bad. Do you realize in America we have 40 million lawsuits filed a year? 40 million. And reveals that there is deception, personal injury, and selfishness that reigns supreme in our land. Sadly, most divorce cases are filled with lies and half-truths and greedy attempts to get more from someone that they once pledged. To love until death do us part. It's not just the nation of Israel that is being condemned. But it is us. The depth of the depravity is expressed in two repulsive pictures in verses 5 and 6. He describes it as hatching adders' eggs. Their deception is like they're hatching an egg and inside comes out a viper. Death, poisonous viper. And he describes here the corruption injustice is like these viper eggs. And no matter how you respond to this corruption. It's destructive. If you decide you're going to eat the egg, some people eat eggs. I don't know about snake eggs, but you eat the egg, you die. You step on the egg, you're going to crush it, and out comes another viper. He says there's no solution to the wickedness and the deception and the corruption that reigns supreme in your land. In verse 15, if you go forward just a little bit, you'll see he says at the in the beginning of verse 15, he says, truth is lacking. And he who departs from evil makes himself a prey. Have you ever felt like that? You, as a Christian business person, you depart from evil. And you make yourself a prey, you become vulnerable because you choose to do the right thing. You choose to pay the taxes that you must pay. You choose to work hard and save and you become you get behind others who who are deceptive and are hatching vipers' eggs in their behavior. It's descriptive of a corruptive society that if you choose to do justice, no matter how you respond to injustice, you'll be destroyed. Secondly, I could give an illustration of this just this past week. One of the men in Tanzania called me and he'd purchased a piece of property to farm and he went to farm it. And he came back and he said, there was someone else farming it. I said, well, did you not buy it? He said, I bought it and I have all the documents and the paperwork. But the previous owner sold it to someone else now. I said, well, how did he do that? He said, he paid a bribe to the same guy that signed all my documents so he could sell it to another guy and make twice as much money. And he said, and I went over his head to the land authority, and they said, yeah, you'll win the case, but it'll cost you more than a land is worth to fight the case. Whether you step on it or swallow it, there's no solution. This happens all too often. Secondly, he compares it not to s not to viper eggs, but also to spiders' webs. He says their webs They weave these spiders up. You can picture someone weaving a story in a court case, weaving a lie, preparing false witnesses. Preparing people to say things that are not true. And he weaves us spider's webs, and really much of our our legal system is based on this. And he says it's so disgusting that it is unable to provide any covering, and even if you touch them, you'll be stuck in its sticky web. And there is no good that comes from it. The depravity is so deep that they pursue evil with an eagerness. He says in verse 7, their feet run to evil, and they are swift to shed innocent blood. Their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity. Desolation and destruction are in their highways. We can think of this reality as that they're quick to do evil Even if it's not murder that's being described here, but destroying and harming an innocent person, they're quick to do what is evil. The ultimate reality is that although they may desire peace at some level, selfishness and deceit and violence and corruption and evil makes it impossible for them to discern the way of peace. In our culture, it's retail theft or it's pornography or drunkenness or tax evasion. It's at every level. And that's why Paul can very easily pull these verses out of Isaiah 59 and in Romans 3 say, this is the condemnation of the entire world. And at the end of that string of Old Testament quotes, he says this. Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law. so that every mouth may be stopped, and the whole world may be held accountable to God. For by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight. Since through the law comes the knowledge of sin. Every mouth is stopped. Every human being is guilty before God. There is not a just man on earth that does good and sins not. We have all fallen short of God's holy standard. We are all guilty. So what is the response to that? Well, that's what we find in verses nine through fifteen. The response that is needed is a response of humble confession. Humble confession. And beginning in verse 9, we begin to see that taking place. The fact is, in this humble confession, they reveal we are powerless. to save ourselves. We are powerless to live righteously in such a way that we are are able to approach God in our own righteousness. This first section of this chapter, verses one through eight, has been filled with second and third person pronouns. You, yours, they, their. That's the whole nature of the first eight verses of this chapter. However, if you look at beginning in verse 9, there is a switch that takes place. And it's now its first person plural, we, us. Repeatedly. Beginning in verse 9, he says, Therefore justice is far from us. And righteousness does not overtake us. We hope for light and behold darkness. And for brightness But we walk in gloom. We grope for the wall like the blind. We grope like those who have no eyes. We stumble at noon as in the twilight. Among those in full vigor, we are like dead men We all growl like bears. We moan and moan like doves. We hope for justice But there is none for salvation, but it is far from us, for our transgressions are multiplied before you, and our sins testify against us, and our transgressions are with us, and we know our iniquities. Transgressing and denying the Lord, and turning back from following our God, speaking oppression and revolt, conceiving and uttering from the heart lying words. Justice is turned back, and righteousness stands far away, for truth has stumbled in the public squares, and uprightness cannot enter. Truth is lacking And he who departs from evil makes himself a prey. It seems here in these verses that the prophet Isaiah joins in confession. With the humble remnant of God-fearing believers. What's amazing is that Isaiah doesn't say they. He says we And he says, I am just as guilty. I am just as condemned by these accusations. I am sinful. Remember when Isaiah stood before the holy God and he got a vision of God and his exalted holiness, and he said, Woe is me, for I am ruined. I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the peep midst of a people of unclean lips. And he said, it's not just them. It's me too. My sinfulness is great. And so Isaiah joins in confession, acknowledging his own guilt and the guilt of the people. The attitude here is an attitude that is inward. introspective in a proper way, and it's humble. There's no attempt to justify their behavior. It's no attempt to deny the accusations that God has made. It's a simple, humble acknowledgement of their desperate depravity. Maybe as I was reading these things, you might have been tempted in your heart to argue with God. Say, no, that's not true. There are some people like that, but that's not true. That's not true for most of us. I'm a pretty good person. I'm not so bad. I'm not like that. Then you are like the young man who came to Jesus and tried to justify himself before the Lord and saying, I have perfectly kept the law since my youth. And Jesus pinpoints his greed and his selfishness. And he walks away guilty and sad because he will not repent. This is the first step for all who will be saved. For all who will know the forgiveness of God, the first step is acknowledgement. I am guilty. I am condemned. I am depraved. And I must begin with an honest confession that doesn't argue with God, but simply pleads for mercy. This is what Jesus said in Luke 18. You remember the story in Luke 18? When you have the Pharisee, I thank God that I am not like this man. And the tax collector who comes, stands afar off, and he says, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat on his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. And Jesus said to him, or said about him, I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the self-righteous fasting twice a week, paying tithes of all his goods, Pharisee. Because he humbly acknowledged his sin and he cried out for mercy. And Jesus said, for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled. But the one who humbles himself will be exalted. This is the response that is needed. It is a humble repentance. God, I am guilty. It's vitally important if you think back to Isaiah 57, the verse I mentioned already, where it talks about God being high and lifted up, who habits Inhabits eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell in a high and holy place. Then what else does it say? But also with him who is of a contrite and lowly spirit. Wow. The high and holy God dwells in an exalted place in his holiness, but for the one who is broken over his sins, who humbly confesses and acknowledges his sins, God says, I will revive him. And I will dwell with him, and I will give him forgiveness. And here God gives an illustration of what this type of contrition and lowliness looks like in verse in chapter 59. In verses 9 through 15, they humbly acknowledge that justice and righteousness are far from them Remember that Jesus taught that apart from a righteousness that exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees. He says, unless your righteousness is greater than those of the scribes and Pharisees, who were the most righteous in the land. He says, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Wow. Unless you are more righteous than the most righteous, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. And then that same chapter he said that if you want to be righteous, you must be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. Wow. Wow. That's a that's a high bar. The standard that God requires is perfection Not only are we far from God's righteousness, but we are incapable of attaining it. That's why he says we are groping around like blind men looking for the wall. 's But he said it's worse than that. We're not just blind men, because a blind person maybe could be healed. But he said, we are like men who have no eyes. What do you do with a guy who's got no eyes? Nothing. You can't give them glasses. There's nothing that can be done. There's no hope. They're as good as dead, he says. And that's what we must realize spiritually. We are as good as dead. We are like blind men who have no eyes. that unless God gives us sight, unless God gives us life, unless God gives us forgiveness, there is no hope. Paul said in Ephesians 2. 1, and you were dead in your trespasses and sins. He didn't say and you were sick, and you were on antibiotics. He says you were dead. That's how serious it is. They growl like bears and moan like doves, and I think the implication here is that they moan and growl in their helpless condition. They realize there's nothing that they can do. They're utterly helpless to work salvation for themselves, and they need a savior. The seriousness of our sin is that we have rebelled against not just our fellow man, but that's true, but that we've rebelled against our Creator. And that's what he brings out in verses 12 and 13. He says, for our transgressions are multiplied before you, God. We have sinned against you. Then in verse 13, that transgression and denying the Lord and turning back from following our God. Think of David when he was Confessing his sin with Bathsheba, he didn't say, I've sinned against Bathsheba, which he did, and I've sinned against Uriah, which he did, but he said, Against you, you only have I sinned and done this evil in your sight. God, my sin is great. And I deserve whatever you give to me. The painful reality is that we have all lied to the Lord. How many times have we promised God one thing and done the exact opposite? I will never do that again, Lord. I promise I will do this. How many times have we lied and gone back on our promises to God? We've turned our back on Him and rebelled against His holy commands, and what is worse, we have done it from our hearts. The beautiful thing is that Isaiah confesses with humility. And he acknowledges the true state, not only of himself, but of the nation. When we come to verse 15, we realize that God Himself brings salvation and vengeance. For the people of Israel. Now, what's interesting here, there is an eschatological focus in this passage, and it's important for us to see that One of the ways that we can see it pretty clearly, there's an interpretive key that helps us understand the time frame of this passage, and it's found in verses 20 and 21 of this chapter. It says, and a redeemer will come to Zion, to those in Jacob who turn from transgression, declares the Lord. And as for me, this is my covenant with them Says the Lord, My spirit that is upon you, and the words that I have put in your mouth shall not depart out of your mouth or out of the mouth of your offspring, or their children's offspring, from this time forth and forevermore. You may recognize that. It's loosely quoted in Romans chapter 11, verses 26 and 27. And if you know your Bibles well, then you know Romans 11 is a chapter written to answer the question, is there a future for the nation of Israel? Not just for individual Israelites, but is there a future for the nation of Israel? And Paul answered unequivocally, yes, with the very strongest Greek language. Romans 11 declares beyond any reasonable argumentation that God is not done with Israel as a nation. And where does Paul find his support for that? In Isaiah fifty-nine. He quotes Isaiah fifty-nine, twenty, and twenty-one. He does so In Romans 11, if you read here, he says, Lest you be wise in your own sight, I do not want you to be unaware of this mystery, brothers. A partial hardening has come upon you Israel, meaning national Israel, until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. So God has got a full number of Gentiles that will be saved. And when that comes in, then the partial hardening that is upon the nation of Israel will be removed. And in this way all Israel will be saved, as it is written, written where Isaiah 59, 20 and 21. The deliverer will come from Zion. He will banish ungodliness from where? From Jacob. And he will this will be my covenant with them, who? National Israel, when I take away their sins. As regards the gospel. They are enemies for your sake, but as regards election, they are beloved for the sake of your forefathers, of their forefathers, for the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. And he points back to Isaiah 59, and he quotes Isaiah 59, and he says, there is a future for the nation of Israel, and God will save them. So this simply tells us when we come to this last part of Isaiah 59 here that what is being described here is eschatological. It is referring to the last times, the end times of events. The events that are being described here refer to God's future redemption of the nation of Israel, politically and spiritually, and his vengeance upon the nations that have rejected him and opposed his people. These events that immediately precede the millennial kingdom are being described here. The result will be that the remainder of the nations that are not destroyed by his judgment Will see, and he says in verse 19, and fear the name of the Lord from the west and his glory from the rising of the sun. We see this is God saying, I'm going to save not only the Gentiles, but I'm going to save my people. And they're going to come to that place where they are humbled and they are broken over their sins. But before we get to that, we realize that God marvels at the depth of depravity and the absence of anyone to stand and save. He says in verse 15. The Lord saw it, he saw their wickedness, and it displeased him that there was no justice. He saw that there was no man, there is none righteous, no, not one. And he wondered. That there was no one to intercede. And his own arm brought him salvation, and his righteousness upheld him. It's interesting, the word wondered here is found in Isaiah 63. I would encourage you, if you write notes in your Bible, put a cross-reference next to Isaiah 59, 16, and write 63. 1 through 6. Isaiah 63, 1 through 6. That same word wondered is found in Isaiah 63 as well. But it's translated there, appalled. Look at verses 3 of Isaiah 63, and you'll see the similarities. We'll express, we'll look into this more in the weeks ahead. But he said, I have trod in the wine press alone. And from the people no one was with me. I trod them in my anger, and trampled them in my wrath, their life blood st spattered on my garments and stained all my apparel, for the day of vengeance was in my heart, and my year of redemption had come. I looked, but there was no one to help. I was appalled. Here's our word, marvel. I was appalled, but there was no one to uphold. So my own arm brought me salvation, and my wrath upheld me. We see this is a very clear cross-reference to what we find here in Isaiah 59. And there's this uh a bit of anthropomorphic language that's being used to describe this. Obviously, God doesn't wonder. God doesn't marvel. See, people have said, has it ever occurred to you that nothing has ever occurred to God? That's a true statement. Nothing ever occurred to God because he's known all things. God didn't marvel and wonder like Oh, I can't believe that. But it's it's he's using anthropomorphic language to help us understand the the shocking nature of the depravity that we have in our being. And so when we come across anthropomorphic language, it isn't that this is helping us to see God in a visual sort of way, but it rather helps us express Express the invisible attributes of God in a way that we can understand it. And he's saying, God marveled. God was shocked. God was appalled at the true depravity and the absence of anyone. Not a single person. Who was righteous and able to save. So what does God do? Does he wipe his hands of the whole mess and let us all suffer in hell? No. God himself clothes himself for battle to win for his people a salvation that they were powerless to accomplish. God works salvation himself, he says, his own arm. Romans 1:16 says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. It's on the cross that God deals with our sin that separates us from Him. And He does it in righteousness. Notice how He talks about in the end of verse 16. And his righteousness upheld him. He put on righteousness as a breastplate. God did not set aside his righteousness in order to save us. In righteousness, God saved us. And at the cross, we find God's righteousness and his mercy Meeting together. I was reading today in my prayer time from Psalm 85, verse 10, where it says, steadfast love and faithfulness meet, righteousness and peace. Kiss each other. That's a picture of the cross. God doesn't abandon his righteousness to give us peace. In righteousness, he makes peace. And he does that through Jesus Christ. It's these things we've been learning in Isaiah 53, which says things like this, but he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. But it's not just salvation that's described here. It's also God's vengeance that's being described. Not only did Jesus come to accomplish salvation to all who would receive him , in humble repentance and faith, but he is coming again to judge the world. And that is clearly being described in these verses. Revelation 19, 15 describes the coming day of vengeance when Jesus Christ will judge all those who have refused to repent. And it says, from his mouth comes a sharp sword. with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. Jesus is going to come in judgment on that day. Zechariah chapter 14 is a beautiful passage of scripture. I love the book of Zechariah, and I was telling my wife, This past week, I'm like, when I'm done Isaiah, I want to do Zachariah. She's like, oh, it might be too much Old Testament. But uh I I love the book of Zechariah. He says here, behold, a day is coming for the Lord when the spoil taken from you will be divided in your midst. For I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to battle. And the city shall be taken, and the houses plundered, and the women raped, half of the city shall go out into exile, but the rest of the people shall not be cut off from the city. Then the Lord will go out and fight against those nations as when he fights on a day of battle. If you continue to read Zechariah chapter 14, you realize this is a future event when Christ himself steps foot on the Mount of Olives as it is described in Zechariah 14, and he saves his people politically, and he saves them spiritually. As they look upon him whom they have pierced and they weep for him as one weeps for an only child, and they realize that their Redeemer is the one that they had crucified. And God says he will accomplish salvation for all who will repent. The Spirit of God brings salvation from the rising of the sun to its setting. The word wind in verse 19, at the end of verse 19, is the word that the same word that's translated, spirit, in verse 21. I believe the description here is that the Spirit of the Lord is going to do a mighty work in the nation of Israel to bring them to repentance. But not only that, but all who see the mighty work of God, the work of Christ as he comes and he redeems and he saves his people from the east to the west, all who are left who are not destroyed on that day will fear him. From the east to the west. That's what Zechariah chapter 14, verse 16 describes. Then everyone who survives of all the nations that have gone that have come against Jerusalem shall go up year after year to worship the king. the Lord of hosts and to keep the feasts of booths. This is the testimony of what God is going to do when Christ comes again. And all who survive fear from east to west And this is the beginning of what is known as the Millennial Kingdom. Those who survive that judgment come and become part of the millennium. And they fear before God and they worship him. Just two chapters earlier at the end of Zechariah chapter 12, God said that he will pour out his spirit on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and they will look on him whom they have pierced and weep for him as one weeps for an only child. God will bring a great national revival to Israel as he works redemption for them by defeating the nations that have gathered their armies against them. And the beautiful result is found in verse 21. He says, as for me, this is my covenant with them, says the Lord, my spirit that is upon you, and my words that I put in your mouth. Shall not depart out of your mouth, or out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring, says the Lord, from this time forth and forevermore. An eternal generational transformation that God works through his spirit When the Lord comes in power and in vengeance to work salvation So a couple points of application from this chapter as we come to a close. Remember back to the beginning, one possible reason that God does not hear and answer your prayers is because your sins have separated you from God. We cannot harbor our sins and expect God to hear our prayers. It's not the only possible solution, but it definitely is one. And when we find that our prayers are not being answered, it is something that we should examine in our own hearts. God knows your heart and mine, and he declares all of us to be guilty and condemned. Not a just man on earth who does good and sins not. It is absolutely vital that you and I acknowledge that we are utterly depraved and powerless to save ourselves And then and only then will we receive mercy. God is high and lofty. He dwells in the high and holy place, but also with the lowly and the contrite of spirit When we humbly confess our sins, He is quick and faithful to save Fourthly, here you must look to God's gift of salvation in Jesus Christ alone. His work on the cross is the demonstration of his power to save. There is no other Salvation. And the beautiful truth is that Jesus is coming again. He is coming again to redeem the nation of Israel. He's coming again to judge his enemies. He's coming again to gather his saints. Let us pray toward that end. Let us preach the gospel faithfully. There is a fullness of the Gentiles. This is our window. This is our time to proclaim the message of salvation to all who will believe. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the beauty of it. Thank you for Christ our Savior. Thank you for that you loved us, even though we are depraved and we have chosen rebellion time and again. Lord, I pray that you would sink these truths deep in our hearts. And if there are any who are lost this evening, that you would draw them by your Spirit to yourself. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen