Well, I would like to invite you to turn with me this evening to Acts chapter 8, if you would. Turn with me to Acts chapter 8. Tonight we'll be in Acts chapter 8. And uh before we read our scriptures this evening, I'd like to go to the Lord in a word of prayer and ask for his blessing on our time together. So shall we pray? Father, we thank you for the glorious gospel of the Lord Jesus. We thank you, Lord, that you have revealed your love to us in the cross of Christ. And Lord, I pray that as we in these next few moments give our attention to the teaching of your word and specifically to the gospel message. I pray, Father, that your Holy Spirit would meet with us in this place, that he would give understanding, that he would help us to comprehend the truths of the cross. And Lord, I pray that your spirit would move among us and that, Lord, if there is anyone here under the sound of this preaching. that has never turned to the Lord Jesus and put their faith in him alone to be their Lord and their Savior. I pray that tonight your spirit would move powerfully in their heart tonight. And that you would save them. Lord, I pray you would meet with us now. Give us understanding in your word. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. My goal for the message tonight is very simple. I would like to do two things tonight in our time together. First, I want to explain the gospel very clearly. to us tonight. The gospel is the central message of the Bible. It's the most important message. That you will ever hear preached from the Scriptures. It is indeed the message to which all the Scriptures are focusing our attention Paul said that the gospel is the power of God unto salvation for all who believe. So I want you to understand this message tonight. The second thing I want to do tonight is to explain the purpose and the significance of baptism. What is baptism What happens when a person is baptized? And possibly equally as important, what does not happen when a person is baptized? So you've turned in your Bibles to Acts chapter 8. Acts chapter 8. We will see in this account a man identified as the Ethiopian eunuch. come to place his faith in Jesus Christ and consequently be baptized. This is the third of nine accounts in the book of Acts where the gospel is proclaimed. Believed and then confessed through baptism. I want you to see tonight from the scriptures that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. And that God appointed him to be crucified for you and for me. So let's begin reading. We're going to start in Acts chapter 8, verse 26, and I'm going to read the entire account. And then we'll come back with some reflection on this passage. Let's begin in verse 26 of chapter 8. Now an angel of the Lord said to Philip, Rise and go toward the south, to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is a desert place. And he arose and went, and there was an Ethiopian, a eunuch, a court official of Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasure He had come to Jerusalem to worship and was returning, seated in his chariot, and he was reading the prophet Isaiah. And the Spirit said to Philip, Go and join this chariot. So Philip ran to him and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and asked, Do you understand what you are reading? And he said, How can I unless someone guides me? And he invited Philip to come and sit with him. Now the passage of Scripture that he was reading was this. Like a sheep he was led to the slaughter. Like a lamb before his shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth In his humiliation justice was denied him. Who can describe his generation? For his life is taken away from the earth. And the eunuch said to Philip, About whom, I ask, does this prophet uh say? About himself or about someone else? Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning with the scriptures, he told him the good news about Jesus. And as they were going along the road, they came to some water, and the eunuch said, See, here is water. What prevents me from being baptized? And he commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him. And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord carried Philip away, and the eunuch saw him no more, and he went his way rejoicing. But Philip found himself at Azuth, and he passed through the preach uh and he passed through and preached the gospel to all the town until he came to Caesarea. This account teaches us that God sovereignly uses human means to bring people to an understanding of the gospel. God sovereignly uses human means to bring people to an understanding of the gospel. I'd like to begin with this passage by just considering the characters involved. Who is this person, Philip? Well, Philip is also known here as Philip the Evangelist or Philip the Deacon. He is not to be confused with Philip the Apostle, one of the twelve. Philip the evangelist was a Greek-speaking Jewish believer. And one of the seven leaders in the Church of Jerusalem. He began his evangelistic ministry among the Samaritans along with the apostles Peter and John. And he, like the apostles, had the ability to heal and to cast out demons, as recorded in Acts chapter 8 and verse 7. Now let's consider this other man who's described as the Ethiopian eunuch. This man was a high-ranking official from the Kingdom of Ethiopia. which was located just south of Egypt along the Red Sea. He was an official in the court of Candace queen of the Ethiopians. In this particular culture, the king of Ethiopia was considered to be a child of the sun god. And therefore he was too sacred to actually govern the kingdom. So it was actually his queen who held this dynastic title of Candace. and functioned as the one who governed the kingdom on his behalf We are told that this Ethiopian man was responsible for the queen 's treasure. Now this is significant. This is a a high office to hold, to be responsible for the king the queen's treasure. In American culture This position would be regarded as the Secretary of Treasury, or maybe the Ministry of Finance. This was a man of great authority, with wealth and no doubt intelligence. And the scripture indicates that this man was also a worshiper of God, the God of Israel. He traveled to Jerusalem, possibly to attend a religious festival, and now he was on his way back to Ethiopia. And he was taking a desert route that ran from Jerusalem 50 miles down to Gaza. right along the Mediterranean Sea, the same Gaza that is occupying the attention of our news articles today, the same general location. And then further south, as you try, you would have to travel through Egypt and finally come down to the kingdom of Ethiopia, which is at that time located in the area surrounding the Sinai Pen, what is the Sinai Peninsula today, that lower half of the Red Sea. Now in this account, we see God supernaturally working behind the scenes to help this Ethiopian come to an understanding of the gospel. Look at verse 26 in your Bible. God sent here an angel of the Lord to Philip and said, Rise, go toward the south and to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. It's likely that there was a caravan or a wagon train of chariots assembled for this trip down to the kingdom of Ethiopia. So once Philip gets to the point of departure here, the Holy Spirit then gives him further instructions. As to the very chariot to which he is to ride on, verse 26, he says, go over and join this chariot. Now folks, this is remarkable. God is essentially saying to Philip, okay, you see that chariot over there? That's the one I want you to ride on. It's remarkable. So Philip runs over to this chariot, and what does he find? Well, verse 30 tells us. He hears this distinguished Ethiopian official reading none other but the Isaiah scroll, the prophet Isaiah, the same book of the Bible that's in your Old Testament. And he asks him a very reasonable question for anyone reading or studying the book of Isaiah. Do you understand what you're reading Isaiah is one of the greatest theological books of the Old Testament. It is, of course, composed of 66 chapters. It is on par with the Epistle of Romans in the New Testament with its theological depth and breadth and complexity. For those of you who are visiting tonight, our family pastor, Pastor Aaron, has been working through this very book for now going on two years, I believe. It's not a light read, let's just put it that way. Now remember, this Ethiopian official is no doubt well educated. He was a man of status and wealth. But here's something I really want you to focus on. I really want you to catch this. Notice his humble response to Philip. Verse 31. Look at this. He said, How can I, that is, how can I understand unless someone guides me? How teachable a spirit is that? And he invited Philip to come up and to sit with him for the remainder of the journey. And what we discover is that this Ethiopian was struggling to understand the greatest chapter in the book of Isaiah. And I would argue the greatest chapter in all the Old Testament. It is none other than Isaiah 53. Now how do we know that? How do we know I mean they didn't have chapter divisions back then, right? How do we know that this Ethiopian was struggling with the interpretation of Isaiah 53? Well He quotes a portion of these scriptures for us. Like a sheep he was led to the slaughter. Like a lamb before its shears is silent, so he opens not his mouth. In his humiliation, justice was denied him. Who can describe his generation? For his life was taken away from the earth. Now the Ethiopian's question was this: Who are these verses talking about? Is Isaiah talking about himself? Or is he talking about someone else? And then verse 35 says that Philip, and this is a glorious statement, Philip opened his mouth. And beginning with this scripture, he told him the good news of Jesus. Philip explained to this Ethiopian the gospel from Isaiah 53. And this Ethiopian would become the first recorded convert from the continent of Africa. Now please listen closely to me tonight. In the next few minutes, I would like to explain to you as best and as clearly as I can. the gospel of Jesus Christ from this same passage in Isaiah, Isaiah 53. That Philip used to show this man the truth about the Savior. and the salvation that God has provided for mankind 2,000 years ago on a road to Gaza. Now, I want to admit to you first off that I am not Philip. I am sure he was much more eloquent, much more knowledgeable than I am. And I um am fairly confident that you're not from Ethiopia. And I'm actually very thankful that tonight we're not sitting on a dusty road in a chariot heading down in that particular area of the world right now. So there's some breakdown. It's not exactly a parallel situation. But the most important realities remain the same. Listen to me carefully. Just like that Ethiopian man, you two are going to meet death. You are going to die one day. And you also are a sinner, as I am. And in two thousand years The character of God has not changed. He is holy. His law has not changed. His judgment on sin has not changed. And most gloriously, in 2,000 years, the message of the gospel has not changed. Jesus Christ was as powerful and mighty to save that day as he is today. And so as I share with you in the next few moments, The gospel from Isaiah 53, I want to ask you this. Will you listen? As eagerly and as humbly with that same teachable spirit as the Ethiopian did Let's turn to Isaiah fifty three. I know I'm gonna read quite a bit of scripture tonight. We read that portion in Acts 8, and now I would like to read Isaiah 53 in its entirety. Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of a dry ground, he has no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and as one from whom men hid their faces. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him smitten stricken by God and afflicted, but he was pierced for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him the chastisement that brought us peace. And with his wounds we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted. Yet he opened not his mouth. Like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that is before its shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away. And as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people? And they made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich man in his death, although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth. Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief when his soul makes an offering for guilt. He has seen His seed he has prolonged his days, and the will of the Lord will prosper in his hand Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous. And he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore, I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong. because he poured out his soul to death and was numbered with the transgressors, yet he bore the sin of many, and makes intercession for the transgressors. This is the fourth servant song. In this passage of Scripture, God foretells the suffering of his Son, Jesus Christ. who will come to earth and be crucified. I would like now to point out five gospel truths. From Isaiah 53, five gospel truths from Isaiah 53. First, you must understand that every person is guilty of sinning against God. All have sinned. Look at verse 6. It says, all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord laid upon him the iniquity of us all. This is exactly what the New Testament teaches. Romans 3. 23 says, For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. God has given a law and he has shown us what is good and holy and pure. It is a reflection of his own character. And God has given us in that law commands. Such as, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet, or commit adultery, or murder. Or worship any other God. And all of us have fallen short of God's law. All of us, as it were, are moral criminals. We have all sinned. And the scripture teaches, the New Testament teaches that the wages of this sin is death. This is not just referring to physical death, but it's speaking of both physical and spiritual death. Separation from God in a place of eternal judgment. This is the consistent message of the Scripture. Secondly, I want you to see from Isaiah 53 That through Christ, that though Christ suffered unto death, he himself was innocent. Jesus was sinless. Look at verse 9. It says, they made his grave with the wicked and with the rich man in his death. Although, now notice this next phrase, he had done no violence, and there was no deceit. In his mouth. The Lord's servant, the Lord's son Was sinless. This is the testimony throughout the New Testament. 1 Peter says he never sinned. Nor ever deceived anyone. Paul said that Christ knew no sin. Even Pontius Pilate, who would deliver Christ up to be crucified, testified. I find no fault in this man. Jesus Christ never fought an immoral thought. He never committed a selfish action. He was and is the perfect reflection of the pure and holy character of God. Because he is the second member of the Trinity, the Son of God, God in flesh. To see him is to see the Father. He never sinned. And yet, astoundingly, we read in verse 10 now of Isaiah 53 that it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. The scripture says later in this passage, he was smitten by God and afflicted. Why is it that God would willingly put his son to death Death is capital punishment. Why would God render capital punishment upon his son who never sinned? Well, Isaiah teaches us that on the cross God willingly put his innocent son to death and then he tells us why. This is the third observation that I'm making from Isaiah 3, Isaiah 53. On the cross, Jesus Christ became the substitution, what we call the penal substitution for sinners. When Christ died, he was dying in place. Of sinful men. This is the heart of Isaiah 53, and it is the heart of the gospel. Just listen to these passages taken right out of this portion of Scripture, verse 4. Surely he has borne our griefs. And carried our sorrows. Verse 5: He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him Was the chastisement that brought us peace. You see, Christ was suffering in the stead of sinners, in the stead of you and me. Verse 7, he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people. Verse 12, He poured out his soul unto death and was numbered with the transgressors, yet he bore the sin of many. The New Testament states that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. That little word for is very important. It speaks of substitution. Christ died in the place of you, in the place of me. The scripture says that in this is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and he sent his son to be the propitiation, that is, the wrath-bearer. The one who would absorb the wrath of God against sinners and against sin. Christ stood, or I should say, hung in the place of sinners. And absorbed the just wrath of God that we deserved. The truth of the gospel is that on the cross Christ died for us. It was our sin that was laid on him. He bore our guilt and our shame. He absorbed the wrath of God and he paid the penalty that we deserve for our sin. Christ was penalty. Our substitute on that cross. The fourth gospel truth that we see from Isaiah 53 is this: the death of Christ Listen to me carefully. The death of Christ is sufficient to make sinners righteous. The death of Christ is sufficient to make sinners righteous. God is satisfied with the death of his son. He is all that a guilty sinner needs to be right with God. We see this truth pulled out in verse 11. Out of the anguish of his soul, he shall see and be satisfied. By his knowledge, catch this. The righteous one, my servant, makes many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities. This verse is teaching that through the death of Christ God is able to make a sinner righteous in his sight This is the glorious doctrine of justification that we read of in Galatians and Romans and throughout the New Testament epistles. God is able through the death of Christ To provide the righteousness that you and I need to stand before God without fault, without sin, pure and blameless. And on top of that, to have his favor All because of the death of Christ. This is called the Great Exchange. The doctrine of justification requires that your sin be imputed to Christ. And Christ's righteousness be imputed to you. Now, how does that work? Well, on the cross, God laid your sin on Christ. Remember, Christ had never sinned. He had no sin of his own to account for. He was bearing the sin of the world. He was bearing your sin. This is the message of John 3. 16. For God so loved the world, the world, that's you, that's me, that's this Ethiopian. That he gave his son. On the cross, Christ took all of your sin. Not 80%, not 99 %. He took 100% Of your sin, all the sin that you have committed, and all the sin that you will commit, it was all placed on him. And on that cross, God Meted out his sentence, the sentence that you deserved was laid on Christ. And the requirement of the law, which is death, was paid in full by Christ on your behalf. Now that deals with your sin, but remember, in order to be accepted by God, you must stand before God righteous. So where do you get a righteousness that God Himself would be satisfied with? Well, it can't be anything less than his righteousness. Because actually anything less of his righteousness is no righteousness at all. God provided the righteousness of Christ through his son. And just as he laid all of your sin on his son, when you come to faith in Jesus Christ, God imputes all of the righteousness of his son to your account so that God looks at you in Christ. And he doesn't see your sin. Your sin was dealt with. It's not just swept under under the rug. It was dealt with entirely. Paid for at the cross, but now he looks at you with the righteousness of Christ imputed to you. And he declares you justified. And that is how the righteous servant is able to make many righteous. We find the doctrine of justification declared in Isaiah 53. How glorious a thing is that. Fifth and finally, Isaiah fifty-three affirms the resurrection. of Jesus Christ from the dead, signifying that God received this sacrifice as the sufficient payment for our sins. Now you might ask, where does this chapter indicate that God's servant is going to rise from the dead? Well, look with me at verse 10 and verse 12. Verse 10 says this, yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. When his soul makes an offering for guilt, he shall see his offering. Now listen to this. He shall prolong his days. Now let's identify these personal references here. He is referring to God the Father. His days is referring to the servant, to Jesus Christ. Now, look at the order here. He makes an offering for sin, and because of that, God is going to prolong his days. Well, let me ask you a question. How is God going to prolong the sir the servant's days if he's dead? He's going to resurrect him from the dead. And his days will be eternal. The expression prolonging of days is in reference to eternity and eternal life. Isaiah the prophet is saying in effect God is growing to prolong the servant's days because he made his soul an offering for sin Now look at verse 12. It says, Therefore I have divided I I will divide him a portion with the many. And he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he's poured out his soul to death. This verse is speaking of the exaltation. Of Jesus Christ after his death. I am going to exalt him because he gave his soul as an offering for sin. You see, not only is the resurrection, but the exaltation of Jesus Christ is pointed to in Isaiah 53. And this is the gospel message. To summarize, it is this. You are a sinner. God is holy. There is a punishment for sin, and that is death. Ultimately, separation from God in hell. But God loved you so much that he gave his son, Jesus Christ, who died in your place. who was buried, who was risen again, and today sits at the right hand of the Father. And if you will turn to him and believe upon him as your only Lord and Savior, God will declare you righteous. That is the gospel from Isaiah 53. It's the same gospel that Peter taught this Ethiopian man on the road to Gaza. Well, let's tie this up. Let's look at our final point now Let's go back to Acts chapter eight, if you would. Acts chapter eight. Here we are again with Philip and the Ethiopian. Let's begin in verse 6. It says, and as they were going along the road, they came to some water. And the eunuch said, See, here is water. What prevents me from being baptized? And he commanded the chariot to stop. And they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him. This Ethiopian's baptism, as I said, is one of nine instances in the book of Acts where an individual or a group of individuals is baptized. In each occurrence, this is the order of events. First, a person hears and believes the gospel. That's step number one. And then we find them being baptized Now let me give you some examples. We have Acts chapter 8, verse 12, it says, When they believed Philip as he was, uh excuse me, but when they believed Philip as he preached the good news, about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. So we see here in Acts 12. Some of you may not even have to turn the page in your Bible that the order in which the events occurred was they believed the preaching of Philip, and then they were baptized. Let me speak for a moment what baptism is intended to communicate. It communicates two things, and this is very important. First. It symbolically declares the believers union with Christ. When a person hears the gospel and they put their faith in Jesus Christ, Christ's death is applied to them. They are united with Christ in his death, burial, and resurrection. And the waters of baptism symbolize that union with Christ in his death and resurrection. Baptism does not wash away our sins. As we sang tonight, nothing but the blood of Jesus Christ does that. Baptism is not necessary to be saved. The thief on the cross died before he could be baptized. But Christ said to him, today you will be with me in paradise. However, Christ does command baptism for all who would profess to believe in him Baptism is a visible symbol of an unseen spiritual reality. Pastor Lehman has used this illustration before. It's much like a wedding ring. A wedding ring symbolizes a reality. I'm not married because I wear a wedding ring. I wear a wedding ring because I'm married. And taking this wedding ring off doesn't make me less married, nor does putting it on make me married. What makes me married is that I have a covenant relationship with my spouse. We have entered into a covenant with one another. And such is the case of baptism. Baptism does not save you from your sin. It is a symbol. of your union with Jesus Christ, of that relationship with Jesus Christ. It is the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ that that delivers a sinner from the penalty of sin, as we saw from Isaiah 53 Secondly, baptism is a personal confession of one's faith in Christ. When someone is baptized, they are saying to everyone, I have believed the gospel. I believe that Jesus Christ died on that cross. He was buried, and he rose again for me. And I'm trusting in him, and I'm going to follow him as my only Lord and Savior. It's a public confession of one's faith. I want to turn now to some very brief application before we close and then observe three individuals confessing their faith in Christ tonight. My first application for us is this. It's very possible that there are people here tonight who maybe you're visiting or maybe you've come here on a regular basis. And you have not yet believed the gospel. And as Pastor Aaron reminded us this morning, you have not placed your entire weight. On the death of Christ for you. The scripture says that you must do two things in order to be saved and it's really just one thing from two different vantage points. You must repent and believe. You must repent of your sin and believe the gospel. Jesus said, repent and believe. Repentance, the very idea, the term repent is connotes the idea of a change of mind or to turn. It's an about face. I say to the teens, It's like doing a 180. It's like I realize I'm going the wrong direction and I turn around and I go the other direction. God is saying to you tonight, you must repent. You must turn from your sin. And come and trust in nothing but the death of Jesus Christ and his resurrection on your behalf. Not your good works, not your church attendance, not How other people think of you, none, nothing that you can contribute but the death of Christ alone And I call you tonight, if you are here under the sound of my voice and the Spirit of God is convicting you and working in your heart, you need to respond. You need to say like this Ethiopian eunuch did, yes, I I believe this I want Jesus Christ to be my Savior. I'm willing to confess Him and to believe upon Him. Have you been listening with a teachable heart tonight? Or are you hardened against this message? This is the only message of salvation. This is the only offer of eternal life. It's right here. Jesus says, I am the way, I am the truth, I am the life. I plead with you tonight, hear this message and believe it. And the Lord promises, Jesus promises, the one who comes to me I will in no wise cast out, for whosoever will call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And finally, tonight, I want to speak to believers. If you are here tonight and you would confess Jesus Christ as your Lord, but you have never been baptized. I urge you, this is a matter of obedience. Christ has commanded you to be baptized. We are to go into all the world. and to proclaim the gospel, to make disciples, and to baptize in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. You need to publicly confess Jesus Christ as your Savior. May the Lord stir your heart to obedience in this matter if you have not been baptized. And finally, I want to say that it is the mission of the church. to be led and guided by the Spirit of God to take the gospel to all the world. We have a beautiful example in Acts chapter 8 of one individual. sensitive to the leading of the Spirit of God and sharing the gospel with another individual. That led to his salvation. May we apply this this week. Be sensitive to the Spirit of God. Be looking for opportunities to share the gospel. And and speak of Christ. Tell of the good news of Jesus like Philip did. Let's pray.