Have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to Hebrews chapter 9? Hebrews chapter 9 One of the most dramatic events in human life is the reading of a last will and testament. You find it often in shows, movies, plays. Shakespeare masterfully captures this tension. in his famous play, Julius Caesar. In this play, Mark Anthony gives a powerful speech. And which he cleverly changes the opinion of the mob concerning Julius Caesar. He begins by saying that he is there to bury Caesar, not to praise him. But praise him he does. Mark Anthony persuasively convinces his audience that Caesar was not the tyrant that they thought him to be. After offering several counterarguments, he pulls out a piece of parchment with the seal of Caesar upon it. and proclaims that he has found the will of Julius Caesar. He opens it carefully and dramatically And reads it. And it says that Caesar has left to every citizen 75 drachmas, as well as his gardens and orchards and walkways. Caesar had made all of the people the heirs of his fortune. This morning we come to a passage in Hebrews that refers to the eternal inheritance. That our Savior has left for his people. The book of Hebrews is a persuasive sermon that declares that Jesus, the Son of God, is much better Than anything Judaism had to offer. The original recipients of this letter were Jewish followers of Christ who were beginning to experience renewed persecution. And as a result, some of them were apparently considering abandoning Christ and going back to Judaism. And so the pastor who wrote this book exhorts them not to go back. And throughout the book of Hebrews, he provides many reasons. One of the key reasons they must not go back is because Jesus is the mediator of a new and better covenants. We find the declaration of the central truth three times in the book of Hebrews. Let me point this out to you. Look with me at Hebrews chapter 8. And verse six. It says, Now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry, by how much also is he, he is the mediator of a better covenant. Which was established upon better promises. And then if you look ahead to chapter 12 and verse 24. It says, and to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better things. Than that of Abel. But here in our text this morning, we come to chapter 9 and verse 15, which says, And for this cause He is the mediator of the New Testament or the New Covenants that by means of death For the redemption of the transgressions that were under the First Testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. Now, the word that's translated testament here in verse 15 is the same Greek word that is translated covenants. Throughout this epistle. And so this is a reference not to a book or the New Testament, which is what we think of, and we think of New Testament. But it's a reference to the new covenant that was inaugurated through the ministry of Jesus Christ. A covenant, as I've said to you before, is a binding agreement which provides an established basis for interaction. Between its parties. Here we read that Jesus is the mediator of this new covenant What does this mean? Well, a mediator in the ancient world and still today is a person who acts in the role of an intermediary or arbiter between two parties, especially in disputes. Now, under the old covenant, the mediator was Moses. But Jesus is the mediator of a better covenant. In Hebrews 7. 22, we read that Jesus was made the surety of a better covenant. That is, he is the pledge that God's new covenant will be fulfilled. And in 1 Timothy 2 and verse 5, we read, For there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. But what was required for Jesus to be the mediator of this new covenant? The repeated answer in our text this morning is his death. In verses 15 through 17, you will see a reference to death in E. And in verses 18 through 22, you will find the word blood no fewer than six times. You see, the only way that sinful people like us can be reconciled to a holy God is through the death of Christ. Once again, we're going to be recovering some material that is difficult to follow and perhaps does not seem relevant to you and may even seem distasteful to you. But what we are considering this morning is the most important issue in the world. And that is your eternal standing before God. The book of Hebrews speaks of an eternal redemption, of an eternal inheritance. But the question that we should be asking ourselves is, are you a recipient of eternal redemption? Can you claim the promise of an eternal inheritance? Do you know what it is to enjoy the blessedness of knowing that your sins are forgiven? All of this is based on the death of Christ. I'm going to speak to you this morning on the necessity of the death of Christ. And we see here that Jesus is the mediator of the new covenant through his death on the cross. Would you notice with me first of all, the death of Christ was necessary for the salvation Of old covenant believers. This is what we find in verse 15. And for this cause, he is the mediator of the new covenant. That by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the First Testament or the First Covenants They which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance Notice how verse 15 begins. It says, for this cause or for this reason, for what reason? Well, the previous verse verse Verse 14 says, How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works? To serve the living God. Because Jesus offered his life as a sacrifice for our sins, he has become the priestly mediator of this new covenant. And this is true of all the redeemed, even those under the old covenants. One of the most common theological questions That people ask and that I've been asked often is, how were people in the Old Testament saved? That's a very good question. The Bible teaches that we're saved through Christ's substitutionary death on the cross, and yet they lived before the time of Christ. Before that supreme sacrifice for sin. So how could they be saved? One of the most significant verses in the New Testament answers that question. is right here in Hebrews 9. 15. One of the reasons this issue is addressed here is because the author knew that some of his readers may have assumed that if the eternal redemption came through the new covenant, then what about those living under the old covenant? Were they forever lost? Notice that verse 15 states that Jesus died for the redemption of transgressions that were under the First Testament or First Covenant. That's a reference to Old Testament people. Notice that verse 15 speaks of transgressions. There are different words in the Bible for sin. Transgression has the idea of stepping over one of the boundaries that God has established. It speaks of a deliberate sin. The penalty for Old Testament transgressions was death. The Bible in the Old Testament gives at least 22 offenses that were to be punished by death. I'm just going to read through all 22 of these in rapid fashion without any commentary. Just listen to this list. Murder, kidnapping, adultery, homosexuality, incest, bestiality, drunkenness by a priest persistent disobedience to parents, striking parents, human sacrifice, false prophets, profaning the Sabbath, sacrificing to a false God, occultic practices persistent rebellion against God's ordained authority, violence which causes a miscarriage, neglect that leads to death, rape, the unauthorized touching of temple furniture, cursing parents. Blasphemy, false testimony in a capital case. This is why Ezekiel 1820 says, The soul that sinneth, it shall die And later in this book of Hebrews, in Hebrews 10, 28, it says this, he that despised Moses ' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses. That is, when they had a trial and there were two or three witnesses that says, yep, this person did, one of those sins that I just mentioned That person died for their transgressions. So what hope did anyone have under the old covenants? Now I suspect that many of you would be thinking, well, what they could do was just offer a sacrifice for those sins, but you would be wrong about that. The sacrifice system that we see in the Old Testament was for sins of ignorance, not for deliberate transgressions. This is why David says in Psalm 51, after his adultery and his murder of Uriah the Hittite, He says, thou desirest not sacrifice, else would I give it. He's saying the law does not prescribe sacrifice for the sins I've committed. He goes on to say the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart. The only thing that an Old Testament person could do when they transgressed God's law was to beg to him for mercy and show through their contrition and sorrow that they truly had a change of heart about their sin. But for many people their sin resulted in death. You see, the only hope that they had, and the only hope that we have is in the substitutionary death of Christ for us. This truth is found throughout the Old and New Testaments. The last phrase in Isaiah 53 predicted the coming Messiah would be numbered with the transgressors, and that he would bear the sins of many and make intercession for the transgressors. Earlier in the same chapter we read, all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. And Jesus' death, he identified with us as transgressors He bore the curse of God. You see, our sin is not just that every once in a while we sin without realizing it or without intending anything bad. You know, we're really kind of innocent people. But sometimes we forget all the rules and we just mess up a little bit. No. If you're honest with yourself, you will know that you sin often deliberately. You know it's wrong and you do it anyway. You transgress God 's law. And that type of sin deserves death. So how is God just? Well, it's because someone died in your place. For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Old Testament saints look forward to a coming Redeemer. New Testament saints Look back at the atoning work of Christ for us. Yes, those Old Testament saints may not have known all the details. that we are privileged to have recorded and explained in our New Testaments. But they were still saved essentially the same way. Let me show you this from our text this morning. Notice what it says in Hebrews 9. 15. It says of those who were saved that they were It says that they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. Notice first it says that they were called. So first of all, we see here that Old Testament saints were saved by grace alone. This is a reference to the effectual call that we often read about in the epistles of Paul. This is not an invitation. This is a summons. This is the kind of call that we find clearly revealed in Romans chapter 8. Some of you will recall this because a couple years ago we went through Romans chapter 8. Let me read for you, and you can turn there if you would like as well, but Romans chapter 8, verses 28 through 30, these are famous verses. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. For whom he did for know, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called, and whom he called, them he also justified, and whom he justified, them he also glorified. We have this unbroken chain of redemption. And it's all rooted in the grace of God. These people, these Old Testament saints were called. It was the Lord who initiated salvation. For everyone who has ever been saved, whether they lived in the Old Testament times or under the new covenant. 1 John 4:19 says, we love him. Because he first loved us. And secondly, would you notice with me that these Old Testament saints were saved by faith alone? It says here in verse 15 that they received the promise. Of eternal inheritance. Now, if someone promises you something, you either are going to believe that promise or you're going to reject that promise. In other words, to really receive a promise is to what? To believe that promise, to receive it by faith. Sometimes Christian people think that people in the Old Testament were saved by works, by keeping the law, by offering sacrifices But people during the New Testament times were saved by grace through faith. This is a false dichotomy. Salvation has always been by grace alone. Through faith alone. Let me show this to you. Turn with me to Romans chapter 8. Excuse me, Romans chapter 4. We were just in Romans 8. Now we're going to look at Romans 4. Says in verse one, Romans four. What shall we say then that Abraham, our father, as pertaineth to the flesh, hath found? For if Abraham were justified by works He hath whereof to glory, but not before God. For what saith the scriptures? Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt. But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness. even as David also describeth the blessedness of the man unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works, saying, Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord will not impute sin. I'm going to stop my reading there. It continues on to make the same point. That all believers, whether it was Abraham or whether it was David, in the Old Testament times, they were saved by faith alone, not by works. And thirdly, Old Testament saints were saved by Christ alone. You can look with me one chapter earlier, Romans chapter 3. This is the other significant text that refers to the salvation of Old Testament saints. In Romans chapter 3 and verse 24 it says, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. whom God had set forth to be a propitiation, look at this, through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission or forgiveness of sins that are past. That is referring to the Old Testament saints. Through the forbearance of God. Declare, I say at this time, his righteousness that he might be just and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. So these remission of sins that are past are sins that were committed during the Old Testament era. You see, the sins of Old Testament saints were not atoned for by those Old Testament sacrifices Hebrews 10 4 says that it's not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sin. No, these sins were put as it were on credits until Jesus would come to earth and die on an old rugged cross. You see that death of Christ brought about redemption both retroactively and proactively. That is, those who were before the cross and those who were after the cross. Because only Jesus could pay the debt that we owe. So, first of all, we see that the death of Christ was necessary for the salvation of all believers, both in the old and new covenants. Secondly, would you look with me now at Hebrews 9, verses 16 through 17? We see that the death of Christ was necessary for the bestowment of our eternal inheritance. You notice at the end of verse 15, it speaks of this eternal inheritance. Well, how does that come about that we're able to claim that? Look at the next two verses. It says in verse 16, For where a testament is, there must also of necessity be the death of the testator. For a testament is a force after men are dead, otherwise it is of no strength at all while the testator liveth. Now verses 16 through 17 are going to explain why it is necessary that Jesus die in order for us to obtain our eternal inheritance. Now there's a great debate among scholars about how we should understand this word that's translated in our King James Version here in verses 16 and 17 as testament. The Greek word that's used here is the same word that was used earlier in verse 15 and throughout this book that has the idea of covenants. It's the common Greek word for covenants. But we do know from Greek literature that this word can also be used to refer to a last will and testaments. And so you will see that Bible translators have to determine how they're going to render this, and some of them Whether they be modern or ancient, will render it as covenant all the way through, saying, it's hard to believe that he would use this term in a different sense in the same passage. So they render it covenant all the way through. And then others will say, no, here it has the significance not of a covenant, but of a last will and testament. And so some of you may have that rendering in your Bible. Now, the King James Version and most modern versions do render this word as testament or will. And I think that that is right. And the reason for that is that this Greek word we know was often used to describe what we today would call a will. And also, it doesn't seem to me to make sense to render this as covenant here because verse 16 says that the covenant requires or this testament requires the death of the one who made the covenant, and that's not true of a covenant And so I see this here in verses 16 and 17 as the author kind of cleverly using the same term But using it in a different sense. We do this all the time with English words. We have a word that sounds the same and maybe even spelled the same, but it refers to different things in a different context. And I think that is what we find here. One writer put it this way: in verse 15, we have the theological argument for the necessity of Christ's death. And in verses 16 and 17, we have the legal argument for the necessity of Christ's death. Now look at me at verse 16. For where a testament is, or where a will is, there must also of necessity be the death Of the testeter or the death of the one who made that will. No inheritance is given to anyone until it is legally established. that the person has in fact to die. This is not hard for us to understand. We still have death certificates today. We have certificates that authenticate that indeed this person has died and they can be given to different institutions to the insurance company because the insurance company is not going to pay out benefits until they are assured that person has indeed died. Notice that verse 17 continues this explanation. It says, For a testament is a force after men are dead, otherwise it is of no strength at all while the testator. That is, a will takes effect only after the person who has made the will has died. Or to put it another way, the will is not in force while the person who made the will is yet alive. The point is, we could never enjoy the wondrous inheritance that God has prepared for us unless Jesus died. That eternal inheritance that is promised in verse 15 is ours only through the death of Christ. 2 Corinthians 8 9 says, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that you through his poverty might be rich. This is the beauty of our Savior. Through his poverty, we have become rich. By his stripes we are healed. Through his death we gain eternal life. The death of Christ was necessary for the enjoyment of our eternal inheritance. And that brings me to our third point. The death of Christ was necessary for the forgiveness of our sins. This is found in verses 18 Now the author of Hebrews is going to draw a parallel between the beginning of the first covenant under Moses and the new covenant that was inaugurated with Christ. And the point he's going to make is they were both inaugurated with blood. Look with me at verse 18. Whereupon neither the first testament or first covenant was dedicated without blood. Now verses 19 through 20 are a summary of what occurred in Exodus chapter 24. So I would like to ask you to keep a finger here in Hebrews 9 and turn with me, please, to Exodus chapter 24, and we'll begin looking at verse 3. Exodus chapter 24 Twenty-four pleas. It reads, and Moses came And told the people all the words of the Lord and all the judgments. And all the people answered with one voice and said, All the words which the Lord have said, we will do. That is, they affirm that they will abide by the first covenant. And Moses wrote all the words of the Lord And rose up early in the morning and built an altar unto the hill, and twelve pillars according to the twelve tribes of Israel. peace offerings of oxen unto the Lord. And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar, and he took the book of the covenant and read it in the audience of the people, and they said, all that the Lord have said, we will do, and be obedient. And Moses took the blood and sprinkled it on the people and said, Behold, the blood of the covenant which the Lord hath made with you concerning all these words. Let me ask you, would you like to be at that ceremony? Would you like to have animal blood sprinkled on you? That sounds crude to us. But we must remember that it symbolizes something very significant. So I'm going to invite you, please, to turn back with me to Hebrews chapter 9. And verse 19. Let me read this verse. For when Moses had spoken every precept to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of calves. and of goats with water and scarlet wool and hyssop and sprinkled both the book and all the people Now if you were to look carefully at Hebrew at Exodus chapter 24 about this ceremony, you would see that Moses in the Exodus 24 account does not mention anything about the blood of goats or the use of water or scarlet wool or hyssop. This does not mean that the author of Hebrews got it wrong or that he somehow embellished the biblical account. No. It means that the Lord either revealed these details to Moses. or the author of Hebrews had access to information that we do not have today. But what's important to note is that nothing of this additional information contradicts the account in Exodus. Hebrews simply provides a few additional details that are consistent with other purification rituals that we find in the Old Testament. Now verse 20 here is a quotation of Exodus 24 and verse 8. Notice what it says in verse 20 here. This is the blood of the testament which which God hath enjoined unto you. The wording almost sounds similar to The Lord's table, and what Jesus said in the upper room. The author of Hebrews is making a point that since the Mosaic covenant was ratified with blood, We should not be surprised to find that the new covenant was also ratified with blood. But in this case, it was not with the blood of bulls and of goats, but with the precious blood. of Christ. Now in verses 21 and 22, the author mentions that blood was not only used in the ratification of a covenant, but also and many other purification ceremonies. Look with me at verse 21. Moreover, he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry. This once again is a summary of dozens of purification rituals that we find in the Old Testament. Exodus 29 and verse 12 describes one such ceremony. And thou shalt take of the blood of the bullock, and put it upon the horns of the altar with thy finger, and pour all the blood beside the bottom of the altar. We also read in other passages that blood was sprinkled upon the garments of the high priest before the tabernacle, before the veil of the sanctuary, and of course on the mercy seat on the Day of Atonement. Now verse 22 summarizes the point the author is making Under the first covenant, almost everything was cleansed or purified with blood Now he's very careful to say almost everything, because not everything, but almost everything was cleansed with blood. There are a few exceptions. For example, In Leviticus chapter 5 and verse 11, we read that the very poor who could not even bring, not even afford to bring uh Turtle doves or pigeons for a sacrifice could bring a cereal offering made of flour, and that would serve as a substitute for a sin offering But the exception proves the rule. Why is it that the Old Testament is filled with blood? Have you ever noticed that? You ever read through the book of Leviticus? There's blood everywhere. One writer put it this way: the old covenant rested on a sea of blood. But what was the point of all this blood that was shed? Well, the last time we were in the book of Hebrews together. I gave about a five-minute explanation, demonstrating hopefully to you from the scriptures. That the term blood is used in Scripture as a symbol of death. It is true that the life of the flesh is in the blood, and a lot of people quote that passage. Leviticus 17, 11. But that is referring to the fact that the blood that's within the being that's alive, it's the life of the flesh. But when that Blood has been spilled out of a person or an animal, it signifies death I mentioned how that in Hebrew the word for blood is in the plural often to designate blood that has been shed in a violent way. And here we find a passage with a lot of blood in it. In verses 16 through 20, the word blood is found six times. And in verses 15 through 17, death is found three times. But every reference to blood here is to cause the reader to draw a connection between blood and death that was mentioned earlier in this paragraph Jesus had to die and shed his blood so that a holy God could forgive our sins. It's important for us to understand that blood in and of itself is not magical Sometimes Christian preachers and teachers have become so taken with the blood of Christ that you might get the impression that it was blood that saves and not his death. But that would be wrong. If only blood was necessary for atonements, then Old Testament animals could have been bled and yet kept alive. This practice is still used in some cultures today as it was in ancient cultures. But the blood symbolized the death of the sacrifice And of course, Jesus, to fulfill this Old Testament typology, had to die a death that involved the shedding of blood. And that's exactly what he did when he died on the cross. And the blood that flowed from his wounds at Calvary were the fulfillment of all those animal sacrifices through the centuries and signified his death. in place of sinners. I mentioned to you before that the Old Testament Sacrifices were designed to teach important lessons. One of those lessons was the cost of our sin. Just imagine. That you send and you were an Old Testament believer and you bought you brought to the priest this this lamb, this beautiful lamb without any spots. And you place your hands on top of the head of that animal and you confess your sins, and as it were, you imputed your sins to that animal. And then that animal was slaughtered right in front of you. You saw that it was, it died because you sinned. And its blood was shed. And that red blood was a graphic depiction of the cost of your sin. Now we read in verse 22 this famous expression, and without shedding of blood is no remission. The Greek word that is translated shedding of blood is only is used here for the very first time in all of Greek literature. And so some scholars think that the author of Hebrews has coined this word to convey the idea of blood that was shed as a result of violence. And this is the climax of this section dealing with blood. And when it speaks, of course, of remission, this is just another word for forgiveness. Without the shedding of blood, that is, without the shedding of our Savior's blood, there would be no forgiveness of sin. And let me show you how this builds in this chapter. In verse 7, we read that blood provides access to God. It speaks in verse 7. of on the Day of Atonement, the high priest would enter into the Holy of Holies with blood to sprinkle on the mercy seat. Blood provides access to God. And then in verse 14, we read that blood purifies the conscience. It purges our conscience. It says in verse 14, from dead works to serve the living gods. In verse 19, we read that blood consecrates the people. And in verse 22 and verse the first part, we read that blood purifies almost everything. But here we read this climactic expression that the shedding of blood brings the forgiveness. of sin. But once again I must add it's not the shedding of any blood that accomplishes our forgiveness. was the precious blood of Christ who laid down his life so that we might be forgiven. So you see, it was necessary that he die. There was no other way that he could bear the curse, the penalty of our transgressions. There is no other way that we could grasp that eternal inheritance that is promised to the people of God. And there is no other way that we could find forgiveness of sin. But through the shed blood of Jesus Christ. Without his death, we would have no hope of redemption. That is true of Old Testament saints and New Testament saints. Without his death, no believer can ever claim an eternal inheritance, and without the death of Christ, no one could ever have the assurance. that their sins were truly forgiven. Now I would like to close with a few words of application I've said this before, but I want to say it again. Everyone here, everyone in the history of the world, either has been completely forgiven of their sins. Or they have not been forgiven at all. It's all or nothing. This is what the Bible teaches. And I think instinctively we kind of push back against that. I think many of you might think, you know, I think a lot of my sins have been forgiven, perhaps, but not all of them. Or or or some of my sins have been forgiven because I've tried really hard. But the reality, according to Scripture According to the analogies that we find in the book of Hebrews and explicit teaching elsewhere in the New Testament, your sin is either completely forgiven or it's not forgiven at all. It's one or the other. The Bible teaches that the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. You might ask yourself, well, then how could I know? How could a person know if their sins have been forgiven? Well, the Bible clearly answers that question. You don't have to wonder and scratch your head. Could turn many places to answer this question, but I want us to look at some statements that we find in the book of Acts and several sermons that are found there. So turn with me, please, now, if you would, because I want you to see this with your own eyes to Acts chapter ten. Acts chapter ten. And verse forty three This is in the midst of a sermon coming to the end And Peter says these words. To him give all the prophets witness that through his name, that is the name of Jesus, whosoever believeth in him. Shall receive remission of sins or forgiveness of sins. Whoever believes in the name of Jesus Will receive the remission of sins. Now turn with me ahead to chapter 13. Chapter 13, verses 38 and 39. Now we have the preaching. of the Apostle Paul, the first sermon that we really have recorded of his in a place called Vesidian Antioch. In verse 38, he says, Be it known unto you therefore, men and brethren, that through this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins. And by him all that believe are justified from all things, which from which he could not be justified by the law of Moses. Moses. The old covenant did not bring justification. It was through the death of Christ and through our faith in what Christ has done. that we are saved. Now turn with me ahead now to Acts chapter 26. Acts chapter 26 and verse 18. This is Paul giving the third account of his testimony of salvation And these are words which the Lord Jesus Christ spoke to him. Some of you have a red letter Bible. If you do, you have this in red. Look at verse 18. to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light and from the power of Satan unto God that they may receive forgiveness of sins and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. So do you see this? We've looked at three passages, all of which have said that our sins are forgiven. When we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, when we believe that He is who He claimed to be the Son of God, and that He died as a sacrifice for our sin. And we trust in him and him alone, not in our own good works. Not that we did half of it and he did the other half. No, he did it all. Because we could never make atonement for our sins, because we are sinful people. And God will not receive any sacrifice that we might offer. So let me ask you again, are your sins forgiven? Have you put your faith in Christ? Are you trusting in the fact that he died on the cross for your sin? Is that your only hope? But what exactly does it mean to believe? To believe doesn't mean that you simply nod your head to a few facts. The Bible says the devils also believe and tremble. It's not a bare, okay, I guess that's true, that says Theologians, preachers through the centuries Have tried to further divide this saving faith into three components. First of all, to believe means that you have heard and understood the good news of the gospel. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. You have to hear the good news. You have to understand the gospel. That's why we send out missionaries. That's why we evangelize. Because people will not believe unless they hear. They have to hear the message of the gospel. That's the first components. Number two, it means to believe means that you've come to fully agree with that gospel. It means you recognize that you are a hopeless sinner. But Jesus died for you. This is why anytime I hear someone give their testimony, they start out by saying, Well, you know, I've tried to live a good life and I I've done I'm doing my best, they're going down the wrong roads. Those are the words, the confessions of a lost person. A saved person knows instinctively that they are hopelessly Lost, that they were hopelessly lost, that they are sinner, and there's no way that they could save themselves. But the third component of what it means to believe is that you are trusting or relying or committing in the sacrifice of Christ alone. It means that that is where You are trusting everything in. So can you say that you have put your faith in trust? in Jesus Christ that you have saving faith. Can you claim these promises? Can you claim this eternal salvation that the author at Hebrews speaks of, this eternal redemption? Can you claim this because you are trusting in Christ and his death for you on the cross alone? Can you say, with the words of the hymn writer Horatio Spafford, it is well with my soul? He says in that great hymn, all the bliss Of this glorious thought, my sin not in part, but the whole is nailed to the cross, and I bear it no more. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, O my soul. Do those words resonate with your hearts? Or do you think them just a bit much, a bit hyperbolic? Just religious speak, my friends. This is what born-again people believe and they glory in. That all of our sins have been forgiven. And the only way you can live a Christian life is when you have that assurance. That your sins are gone, that the wrath of God is not abiding on you, but that the Spirit of God dwells within you and you walk in his way. Can you say with confidence, your sins are forgiven? If you cannot, would you seek the Lord today Would you trust in him today? Would you speak to me Pastor Aaron, Pastor Nick, we have nine deacons here. We have many other people as well who would be delighted to open a Bible and answer your questions and explain to you more fully. What it means to repent and believe the gospel. Would you do that today while the Lord is convicting your heart? You have heard the gospel. Now would you embrace it? by faith. Let's close in prayer. Father, I pray that you would help us to never get over Our great Savior. I pray, Father, for those who may be here this morning who are yet lost in their sins, trusting in their own righteousness, I pray that they would see their need. of the Savior, that only he can die in their place. And only through him can they find forgiveness of sins. Father, I pray that this would be the profession of everyone here today. Father, help us to have that blessed assurance that Jesus is mine. Thank you again, Father, for this time we've been able to spend together Together. In Jesus' name we pray, Amen