Abra Bibles, please, would you join me in John chapter 8? Passage that we read a moment ago The renowned 19th century artist Gustave Dore lost his passport while traveling in Europe. When he came to a border crossing, he explained his predicament to the guard, gave them his name, and they'd heard of him He hoped that they would let him pass, but they did not. They said that anyone could claim to be some famous person So they were at an impasse. And finally one of the officers said to him, Well, if you truly are Gustave Duray, you should be able to prove it He gave him a pencil and a pad of paper and asked him to draw some people that were standing in line over there. And so he quickly, in just a matter of a minute or two made a very convincing rendering of them, and they knew certainly that he was who he claimed to be. Jesus' identity is at the heart of the Christian faith. It is also at the heart of the opposition to Jesus, both when he was on earth and still today. In John chapter 8 and verse 12, Jesus makes the famous declaration, I am the light of the world. And the rest of this chapter records the intense discussion that Jesus had with the religious leaders concerning his identity. Today we're considering the next stage of that debate that covers verses 21 through 30. At the very center of this paragraph in verse 25, we find the Pharisees asking this question, who are you? And that really is what this paragraph is all about, and what this chapter is all about, and what this book is all about. Who is Jesus? The reason that John has recorded this discussion that at times seems redundant and repetitive. is because he wants the reader to ask him or herself, who is Jesus? Now are you if you were with us this last Sunday, you may recall that I mentioned this chapter is filled with language. that points to Jesus' divine identity as the Son of God. For instance, in John chapter 8 and verse 12, he says, I am the light of the world. The I am language that he uses there is to remind his hearers and his readers of when God revealed himself of the burning bush to Moses. And Moses said, Whom shall I say has sent me? And God says, Tell them I am has sent you This I am statement expresses that God is the self-existent, immutable creator of the universe who is worthy of our trust. It is undoubtedly the origin of the personal name of God, Yahweh. John records in this gospel seven metaphoric I am statements like I am the bread of life, I am the light of the world, I am the door. I am the Good Shepherd. I am the resurrection of life. I am the way, the truth of life. I am the vine. We have metaphors. And every single one of these is a declaration of deity. But also lesser known is that in the Gospel of John you have seven absolute I am statements. Where Jesus doesn't really complete the I am, like I am this. He just says, I am. And of those seven statements that are sprinkled throughout this gospel , Three of them are found here in chapter 8. The most famous one is found at the very end of this chapter when We find the culmination of this heated discussion where Jesus says, before Abraham was, I am. And his listeners knew what he was saying because they picked up stones to stone him. The other two absolute I am statements in this chapter are found in the paragraph we're considering this morning Once found in verse 24, where Jesus says, unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. And again in verse 28 , When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He. These two statements reveal the divine identity of Jesus Christ. So I'm going to preach to you this morning from this paragraph on this truth that only those who believe that Jesus is the Son of God will be saved. And I have two main points I would like you to consider with me. The first one is this. Jesus reveals that he is the only savior for sinners. Look with me at verse 21. So he said to them again, I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sins where I am going, you cannot come. This verse should sound familiar to you because he says almost something identical to this in the previous chapter. Turn a page back, if you would, to John chapter 7. Verses 33 and 34. Jesus then said, I will be with you a little longer, and then I am going to him who sent me. You will seek me and you will not find me where I am you cannot come So he's repeating himself here. Jesus is warning these people that their day of opportunity of hearing him audibly And of seeing him and asking him questions is about to come to an end because in about six months Jesus will die on an old rugged cross. And then Jesus says that some of these people who are listening to him this day would seek him, and yet they would die in their sins. Now, what does it mean that they will seek him? Well, there are some different interpretations of this. Some say that it means that these leaders will go looking for Jesus to arrest him But they won't find him because he's gone. I don't think that's convincing because it was these very leaders that would conspire to murder him. They would know that he was gone. Other scholars say that it means that the Jewish people will continue to look for a Messiah, but they will search in vain because the Messiah has already come and gone. That is certainly true, but I don't think that's what Jesus is saying here, because notice what he says. He says, you will seek me. You will seek me, not the Messiah. And so I think that Jesus means that at some time in the future, some of these people that were hearing him that day after his death and resurrection would seek him, but they would not find him. That is, they would not find forgiveness. Why is it that they would not find forgiveness? Doesn't the Bible say that if you seek him, you will find him? This should sound familiar to you because I addressed the same thing about four weeks ago when we were in chapter 7. It is true that those who seek him will find him if they seek him with all of their heart, if they seek him with a spirit of repentance and faith. What Jesus is referring to is people who seek the Lord not because they want the Lord, but because they want to get out of a mess that they're in. Every day in the world, I am sure there are thousands and thousands of people who call out to God to help them because they're in a great crisis. But in many cases, those individuals don't really want the Lord. They don't really want to deal with their sin. They don't really want to turn from their iniquity. They don't want to change their lifestyle. They want God to help them out of a difficult situation. Every pastor has witnessed this. I certainly have, in the 25 years that I've been here, people come here in desperation. They have a child that is dying or a child who has died. They have a marriage that is failing. They've just been diagnosed with cancer. Some crisis has come into their life. They haven't been to church in 12 years. Some crisis has come to their life. They come to church. They're seeking answers. And of course we are happy to have them and we share the gospel with them and we counsel with them and we talk with them. But so often when their crisis levels out, they leave never to return again. Because they didn't really want the Lord. They just wanted Him to help them out of a difficult situation. And I think this is what the Lord is referring to, that some of these people That heard his voice that day, that sometime after his death and resurrection, in some crisis, they would seek the Lord, but there was no repentance in their hearts. They didn't really want him. They just wanted out of some crisis. Notice what he says at the end of verse 21. He says, where I'm going you cannot come. He doesn't say they will not come or they may not come. He says they cannot come. They do not have the ability to come. He's talking about coming to heaven. Why would they not join him in heaven? Because the opportunity for them to repent of their sins was closing, and they were still responding in unbelief. You cannot presume that the Holy Spirit will convict you of your sin And bring you to faith. You see, no one gets saved apart from the work of the Holy Spirit And sometimes people will play this game where they say, you know, there is there is something to be said for the gospel and for Christ. And I think what I'm going to do is I'm going to live life on my own terms. And then the very end of my life, I will come and I will trust in Christ, and then I can have the best of both worlds. But you cannot gain the system with God. It will not work. Are there some people like the thief on the cross who get saved at the last hour? Yes, they are, but they're exceedingly rare. Most people become hardened in their hearts. And they have no desire for Christ at the end of their life. Now notice how these leaders respond to this warning. The answer is they ignore his warning. Look at verse 22. So the Jews said, will he kill himself? Since he says, where I'm going, you cannot come. They didn't really think he was going to kill himself. This question expects a negative answer. They didn't really think Jesus was going to commit suicide. They're saying this with a smirk on their face, just like they said in the previous chapter. Where is he going? Is he going to go preach to the Gentiles? They're indirectly insulting him. The Jews generally considered suicide to be evidence that a person was insane or wicked or both. The first century historian Josephus said that the lowest hell was reserved for those who took their own life. So they're insulting Jesus. And Jesus explains why they don't understand him in verse 23. He said to them, you are from below, I am from above, you are of this world, I am not of this world. He's saying he's from a different realm. They are understanding what he's saying from an earthly, fleshly perspective. They don't have spiritual insight or illumination and understanding. And so they're not grasping his meaning. And so Jesus patiently repeats his warning once more in verse 24. Look with me please at verse 24. He says, I told you That you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. Now, if you've been following along, this is the third time that we've encountered this phrase today, to die in your sins. What does that mean? I mean, everyone dies as a sinner. We're all sinners. So what does it mean to die in your sins? Well Jesus is probably adapting language from the prophet Ezekiel. In chapter 3, it speaks of a person who is warned But continues in unbelief. And the prophet says this person will die for his iniquity, that is, for not heeding the warning. So for a person to die in their sins is for a person to die without ever turning from their sins and finding forgiveness with God. It's to die in unbelief. This is the greatest tragedy That a person can experience to die without Christ I want you to notice that in verse 21, the word sin is singular. Die in your sin. But then in In verse 24, it is plural. Undoubtedly, in context, the sin singular in verse 21 is a reference to unbelief. Their ultimate sin in rejecting Christ was the sin of unbelief. Unbelief Is behind every sin that we commit. Did you know that? Every act of disobedience Every feeling of malice and hatred, every attitude of lust, every greed, every theft Everything, if you trace it back, is ultimately because you don't believe what God has said. You don't believe that God is really there. And that he sees what you do. Because if you truly had a sense of his presence, if you really believe that, you wouldn't have done that, you wouldn't have said that And if you really believe that God's way was best, you wouldn't have disobeyed what you know to be wrong. But because you think in this circumstance your way is actually better than God's way, which of course is unbelief. You've chosen to sin. This is why strengthening your faith With large portions of the Word of God is so necessary for the Christian life. Every Christian, every true person of faith, every day to some degree struggles with unbelief. And maybe in small ways that you're not even aware of. What we desperately need is to strengthen our faith and remind ourselves of the presence of God. and what he has said and what he has warned us about and what he has commanded and what he has promised. Because faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. But then what does the plural refer to? Well, it refers to all those different sins that would come out of unbelief, like in this case, sins like blasphemy and murder eventually. So to die in your sins, in summary, is to die without a Savior. You see, there's only two ways that people pass into eternity. They either die in their sins or they die in Christ. This is true of everyone here in this building right now. Unless the Lord returns, every single one of us will die someday. And we will die either trusting in Christ in a state of grace, or we will die in our sins, and we will face the judgment of God. What is it that they must believe? Jesus says here that I am He. This is again a reference to Exodus 3. 14 in the sacred name of God. But the Lord, I think, is also alluding to Isaiah 43 and verse 10, which says, You are my witnesses, declares the Lord, and my servant. whom I have chosen, that you may know and believe me and understand that I am He. And then verse 11, I, I am the Lord, and beside me there is no Savior. There are a few truths that a person must understand and believe in order to be saved. One of them is that Jesus is indeed the Son of God, God in the flesh. Jesus was not just a great teacher and a marvelous example. He was the great I am, the Savior of the world. So first this morning we see that Jesus reveals that he is the only savior for sinners And second, I want you to see that Jesus reveals that he is the crucified one who will be exalted. Look with me, please. At verse 25. But once you notice how these people continue to respond to Jesus' warning. In verse 25, they said to him, Who are you? Jesus said to them, just what I've been telling you from the beginning. They say to him, Who are you? Now I want to give you the sense of this question, the way we would say it today, and that is, who do you think you are? That's what they're saying. They picked up on the fact that he's using language that would seem to imply that he is God. And so they say to him, Who do you think you are? They are angry at this suggestion. And Jesus' response is, just what I have been telling you from the beginning. He's not Adjusting his message. He's not saying something new. This is what he has been saying to them for years And then we come to verse 26. He says, I have much to say about you and much to judge, but he who sent me is true, and I declare to the world what I have heard. from him. Jesus says he's not trying to hide anything. He's not reluctant to speak to them. But much of what he has to say to them would be by way of judgment because they are responding in persistent unbelief. And I want you to notice that Jesus hints here at the fact someday that he will be their judge. In John chapter 5 and verse 27, we read something that perhaps you've never thought of before. Maybe you've always thought of at the final judgment, it is God the Father who will judge everyone. I want you to know that that's not true. According to John chapter 5 and verse 27, the Father has delegated all judgment to his Son. It is Jesus Christ who will be the judge of all mankind. And Jesus here is alluding to this fact that someday he will sit in judgment of them These men who are making judgments about him at this moment. That brings us to verse 27. They did not understand that he had been speaking to them about the Father. When Jesus spoke of the one who had sent him, they didn't realize he was speaking of the Father. We see here once more this reality that even biblically educated men without the Spirit of God are often ignorant of the true meaning of Scripture. And so once again, Jesus patiently clarifies his message. And now we come to the key verse in this section, verse 28. So Jesus said to them , When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am he, and that I do nothing of my own authority, but speak just as the Father taught me. Jesus predicts the cross will reveal his true identity. John of all gospel writers is fond of using terms with a double meaning. Let me give you an example. In John chapter 3, we read that famous word, born again. That word can just as well be translated born from above. So scholars debate, is it Should it be rendered born again or born from above? The answer is yes. They're both true. The same is the language that he uses here in verse 28. When he speaks of Christ being lifted up, you might ask, is he talking about him being lifted up on the cross? Or does he mean that he is going to be exalted? The answer is yes. He's referring to both. He's using both senses of that phrase. John very likely is borrowing this idea from the prophet Isaiah. In Isaiah 52 and verse 13 we read Behold, my servant shall deal prudently. He shall be exalted and extolled and be very high. And John uses this language in that very famous passage in John chapter 3. He says, And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. And we'll see this phrase again in John chapter 12 at the very end of his public ministry. Verses 32 and 33, Jesus says, When I am lifted up from the earth, I will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. He was going to die a death of crucifixion, being lifted up from the earth. It doesn't mean that everyone will be saved. But it means this message will be available to all people. What do you think of when you think of the cross? You know, we We have never in real life seen anyone crucified. We have kind of a romanticized notion Of the cross. The death of Christ on the cross was the most barbaric, degrading, and humiliating form of death imaginable. This is why the church was very slow to adopt the symbol of the cross. It wasn't what early Christians used as a symbol. Because it would be like having a symbol of an electric chair around your neck or a lethal injection. It was a brutal form of execution This is why, in that great passage in Philippians 2, which speaks of the humiliating humiliation of Christ, the last phrase there And his descending is that he died even that he was obedient even to the death of the cross Not just any death, the death of the cross. Now, when we think of a cross, and when most 21st century Americans think of the cross, What goes to our minds is how incredibly painful it was physically. And it was very, very painful, and it was intended to draw out the agony for a long period of time. But in the first century, when people thought about the cross, they thought about the shame that was brought about through the cross. that it was the most humiliating and shameful way that a person could be degraded imaginable. So the cross was a very sad reality, but in another sense It was our Savior being exalted and lifted up and extolled and made very high. After his death would come his resurrection, and then his ascension, and then his session at the right hand of the throne of God. And all of this was Jesus doing the will of his Father. He was indeed God in the flesh, the great I Am. But this verse, verse 28, raises an important question. It seems to imply that these religious leaders that were debating with him this day He says, then you will know that I am he, and that I do nothing on my own authority, but speak just as the Father taught me. So is Jesus predicting here that his adversaries would, after his death and resurrection, come to trust in him and be saved. I don't think it's a guarantee that all of them would be saved, certainly, but any who would be saved would be convinced by the revelation of the cross. You see, the cross was not just a place where atonement was made. It was a place where there was true revelation about the identity of Jesus Christ as the Son of God. This is why Paul says, for the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. I want you to notice that the death of Christ on the cross was not some horrible accident, but the divine will of the Father. He says, I do nothing of my own authority, but speak just as the Father taught me. And then we come to verse 29. And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do those things that are pleasing to him. This is a precious verse, especially that last phrase. You see, Jesus was not just The sinless Son of God, who never broke God's law, but he was the beloved son who always did what pleased his father. You see, you can have a child who doesn't break the rules, but it doesn't necessarily mean that they're always doing what pleases their parents. But Jesus did what was always pleasing to his father, and the most pleasing thing that he ever did was to die on the cross. Now we come to verse 30, which is something I've been thinking about all week because we have a very surprising Response mentioned here. Look at verse 30. And as he was saying these things, many believed in him. How are we to take that? Perhaps John is conveying that even in this period of intense opposition, many believed in him. In this case, then we have an example of the power of the gospel. But before we jump to this attractive interpretation We must recall that John at times speaks of those who believe, but not with saving faith. We saw that in chapter 2 at the end of chapter 2. He performed many miracles, and it says that many believe in him. It says, but Jesus did not entrust himself to them. Literally, he didn't believe in them. It was a superficial faith. It wasn't a true faith. We see the same thing in chapter 6 after the feeding of the 5,000. The great multitudes are following him, but then he preaches about the meaning of the gospel, and they go away never to follow him again. And the rest of this chapter would seem to indicate that this was a false profession of faith. I'm not going to preach from this passage because I've got to save this for the next time, but look with me at verse 37. So Jesus said to the Jews who believed him. Who had believed him? If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. They answered him, We are offspring of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say you will become free. Jesus answered them, truly, truly I say to you that everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever. The sun remains forever. So if the son sets you free, you will be free indeed. I know that you are the offspring of Abraham, yet you seek to kill me because my word finds no place in you. I speak of what I have seen with my father, and you do what you have heard from your father. And a few verses later, what is he going to say to them? You're of your father, the devil. Now, I'm tempted to look at this and think, well, maybe he's talking to a different group of people here. But it says in verse 31 that he spoke to the Jews who had believed him. So what does it mean in verse 30 that many believed in him? The only way I know to make sense of this Is that they had a false faith. They believed in him as perhaps this is a Messiah that will bring us Glory and power. Maybe we can get behind this man. He does make sense in some things. He does speak like no one has ever spoken before But it wasn't repentance, and it wasn't a true and living faith They were looking for a political savior, but they weren't looking for someone to save them from their sins. And they certainly didn't believe that he was God in flesh. And so their opposition grows throughout the remainder of this chapter. Because only those who see Jesus as the Son of God, the Savior of the world, the sacrifice for sinners, will be saved. I want to make a few points of application this morning before we conclude. Number one , We must understand that only those who believe that Jesus is fully God can be saved. Sometimes I've talked to people, perhaps you have as well, who would say, you know, I don't really think doctrine's that important. I'm not into all those nuances of meaning and you've got to believe this and this. You know, I think if someone loves Jesus, that's good enough. But then I always, when they say something like that, which has happened many times, they always say, so who is Jesus? You see, now we're in the realm of doctrine. It's impossible. To separate faith from truth. Who is Jesus? If a person believes that Jesus is just a great teacher or just a great prophet, or just a miracle worker or wonderful example. They may be many things, but they're not a Christian in the Bible sense of the word. Because the deity of Christ is at the very heart of what it means to be a Christian. I think many of you probably know that one of the earliest symbols for Christianity was the fish. It was a way that Christians could communicate in an oppressive culture to other Christians that they were Christians. So you could put it on your on the the door of your house or on your place of business and other Christians would say, oh, I know what that means. He's a Christian. Other people would just say, oh, the guy must be into fish. He's got a fish there. Why did they choose the fish? Well, the Greek word for fish is ichthus. And each letter in that Greek word is like an acrostic that stands for another other Greek words that have great theological content to them. What it stood for was Jesus Christ, Son of God, Savior. It was like a creed of the early church, the essentials of what Christians believe. And it was all about the identity of Jesus Christ. You see, a Christian is a person who believes that Jesus is the promised Messiah, that he is the Son of God, that he is the only Savior that God has provided. That's what it means to be a Christian. So is this what you believe? Are you trusting in Christ alone? That brings me to my second point of application. We must recognize that just because a person claims to believe does not mean that they necessarily have been truly born again. In a country like America, where Jesus is a part of our cultural religious heritage , It's very easy to claim to be a Christian. Can I be more specific? It's very easy to claim to be a Christian in conservative Carroll County. You go out the store and you tell people you're Christian or you wear something that would in some way Suggest that you're a Christian, you'll have other people come up to you because there's a lot of professing Christians in Carroll County. You don't have to have a lot of courage. You don't have to be a hero in Carroll County, Maryland to say, I'm a Christian. But how many people does that mean that they have in their background just some Christian traditions. Does their claim to trust in Christ have any impact on the way they live their life? Does it influence their values, their behavior, their goals, their way of life? Or is it just another label? that they have that kind of describes themselves as a person. My point is I fear that there are millions and millions of Americans who are Christian in name only. They don't have a saving faith. They don't have clear evidence that God has done a transforming work of grace in their life. They live like every other lost person, except they might have some merchandise or something on their bumper sticker or something that says that they're a Christian. And on the day of judgment, their false faith will be exposed, and Jesus will say, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of iniquity. The third thing I want to say is that we must never fail to preach and teach a crucified Savior. That is, that we must glory in the cross. Paul says in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 2, for I have decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. I want you to know that it's not a coincidence that we have a large cross right here. When we were designing this building, we weren't saying, you know, what could we put up there? No, it was going to be a cross, and it was going to be a big cross. So that everyone who would come and hear, that would be your focal points. The cross of Christ. We preach a crucified and risen Lord as the only hope of humanity. Because at the cross our sins were forgiven and our Savior was exalted And so in our preaching and in our teaching at Calvary Baptist Church, we are always going back to the cross. We are always going back to Christ. Did you know that a lot of people would rather hear other things I'm not going to say there's a correlation, but there might be. A lot of churches today don't have crosses inside. And I don't want to make this a mark of spirituality. There's no command in Scripture that says thou shalt put a cross up in the sanctuary. Let me be clear about that But I do know that in a lot of churches, there's a man-centered gospel that is preaching, preached, where they go through the passage of Scripture. And they don't bring out what that passage is really intended to communicate, but they cherry-pick different ideas and phrases and personalities. in order to portray a message that people really are interested in hearing. And you know what people are really interested in hearing about? Their and how to make their life better and how to have a better marriage and how to have how to be a better parent and and how to have a how to get ahead in your career And how to help deal with conflicting relationships. And how to invest your money more effectively. People love to hear things like this. You may say, how do you know? Because whenever I touch on anything like that, it's actually in the text, people love it. They tell me about it. My friend, what we need the glory in is the cross and in Christ. Because that's what it means to be a Christian You know, in light of eternity, when you're in heaven someday and you've been there for a few years, I trust, you're not going to be saying, you know, I really wish I had some more Some more teaching on how to better invest my money. If only I had more information like that when I was on earth, that will not enter your mind, my friend. In fact, it will seem laughable to you. So if you come to Calvary Baptist Church, you know what you're going to hear, you're going to hear, I trust the word of God, and you're going to hear a lot about Jesus. And a lot about the cross. Because that's what the Bible is all about. And that's what Christianity is all about. And that is what we desperately need to hear, whether we always recognize it or not. The message of Christianity is unique. Allow me to be politically incorrect for a moment. It's absolutely unique. You ever thought about this? You know, the world tries to tell us and and all educated and sophisticated people in the world today. subscribe to a theory of pluralism, and that is that all religions are equally good and equally valid, and they all worship the same God. It's sort of like a mountain, they go up different sides of the mountain and different paths, where they all reach the top, and that's the way it is. You call your God this, I call my God this, but it's the same God, it doesn't matter. And it's great because everyone wins and everyone's right and nobody's wrong, and it seems really tolerant. Except it's nonsense. Because we're not worshiping the same God. You ever thought about the fact that Islam and Hinduism and Buddhism and Judaism, they don't have a crucified Savior? They don't have an answer to man's sin. You can ask them about it. How can your God forgive sin? You will hear silence. They have no answer for that. They have no risen Lord. They have no sacrifice for sin. They have no cross. Only Christianity. Only what God has revealed in His Word. We are the only people that have this life-giving message. And we must not be embarrassed about the exclusivity of it. Because it's the only message that will save. It's the only message that will keep people from dying in their sins and facing eternal judgment away from the presence of the Lord. And so we must never cease to preach and to teach that there is only one way, and that is through the Lord Jesus Christ. And we must never be embarrassed about the cross and about the shed blood of Christ and those things that the sophisticated people of the world are embarrassed about and think as archaic. No, my friends, this is the faith once delivered to the saints by God, and we must never move from it because it's our only hope. It is the gospel. It is our Savior. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for giving us a great Savior. Who came, lived a perfect life, and died a substitutionary death for all who would trust in him. And we thank you, Father. That because of his death, we can live forever. And I pray, Father, for those who might be here this morning who have never put their faith and trust in Christ I pray that today would be their day of salvation and that you use something that was said from your word to convict them and to resonate in their hearts. until they come to bow the knee and trust in Christ. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.