If you would turn your Bibles with me to Luke chapter 10. Luke chapter 10 Uh looking forward to the opportunity this morning to open up this passage of scripture. Looking at Probably one of the most well-known parables that Jesus ever spoke, the parable of the Good Samaritan. If you've ever raised children. Then you know that young children often go through a very exhausting phase. It's where they seem to have an unlimited capacity for asking questions And sometimes it just can be overwhelming the amount of questions that a child can come up with. Why is the sky blue? How do fish breeze? Where do birds sleep at night? Why does grandma's face have so many wrinkles? Questions after question after question after question, and it seems like when you answer one question, it just gives birth to fifteen or twenty more additional questions And sometimes it can be to the point where it is exhausting. Asking good questions, however, is one of the ways that we grow. And that's why God gave our children this insatiable appetite for asking questions as they grow and they learn. But asking good questions can literally be a matter of life and death. If you have ever been to the doctors and had him explain a procedure or surgery or a treatment that is needed, you know that the the most important thing to do is to not nod your head politely and then leave. The most important thing you can do is to ask good questions. What does this mean? What are my options? What do I need to do? The right question can literally save your life. And today we come to a passage in Luke 10 that is centered around two questions. The proper understanding of the answer could literally mean the difference between eternal life and eternal damnation. It is literally that important. Now, you probably are very well familiar with the parable here, the good Samaritan. And that actually makes my job easier and harder. Easier because I don't have to explain all the details. You know the details. You've heard it before. But harder because you know all the details and you think you know it all. And so that makes my job that much more difficult. And I honestly I will say I think Most of the sermons I've ever heard on the Parable of the Good Samaritan actually miss the main point And if I were to ask you, what is the main teaching of the Good Samaritan, the parable of the Good Samaritan, I bet most of you would say something along the line: well, we're supposed to love sacrificially, even those who are our enemies. And that's true, and that's a sub-teaching, but it's not the main point. And so I think it's very easy for us, if we're not careful, to miss the main teaching of this parable. There's a question and answer that is going on between Jesus and a lawyer. And when we think of a lawyer, don't think of a guy who's in court. Think of one who is an expert in the Jewish law, the Mosaic law, the Old Testament. He is a student of the law. He has given his life to studying it and technically adjudicating how it would apply to practical everyday life. And we only read this morning from verse 29 and following because we didn't have space in our bulletin to put the entire passage in. But the actual passage begins in verse 25. And I'd like to read these verses here because they set the stage for the entire parable. Beginning in verse 25 of Luke chapter 10, he says, And behold, a lawyer stood up to put him to the test, saying, Teacher What shall I do to inherit eternal life? He said to him, What is written in the law? How do you read it? And he answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. And he, Jesus, said to him, You have answered correctly, do this, and you will live. But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor? So now we have the two questions that set the stage for the parable that Jesus gives. And essentially, the first question is the question that governs the entire passage, the entire parable. The question literally is, teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? That is the main point of this parable. How do we gain eternal life? Notice the context of this question. The lawyer here stood up in order to put Jesus to the test. He's asking Jesus a question, and kind of the hope is that he can trip him up or he can back him into a corner or that he can show maybe his own academic prowess by stumping Jesus. He's asking the right question, the most important question, but he's not asking it with the right motive. He's asking it to make himself look good. It is the most important question that can be asked. And it literally reads in the Greek, by doing what? Shall I inherit eternal life? So the emphasis on what do I need to do to inherit eternal life? And that is A great question. And he asked it to the right person. There is no better person that has ever walked the face of this earth than Jesus Christ to ask this question to. Remember, Jesus is not just a great teacher, but Jesus is literally the way, the truth, and the life. He is the life. And so asking a question about eternal life to the one who is the way, the truth, and the life is the appropriate person Remember Simon Peter in John chapter 6 said, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. Jesus said, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give them eternal life. And they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. Twenty-six times in the Gospels we have instruction about eternal life It's quite literally the very heart of Jesus' teaching. It is the heart of the gospel, that the center of the gospel, eternal life. And it's a question that everyone needs to ask. But unfortunately, too few people ask this question. Multiple times during Jesus' ministry, he was asked this question, probably because he was talking about eternal life on a regular basis. And so people said, hey What do I have to do to have eternal life? Remember the rich young ruler, and just a few chapters later in Luke 18, he asked this question: What do I have to do to inherit eternal life? Think of Nicodemus that came to Jesus by night, and he didn't ask the question because he never got a chance to, but it was the question that was in his heart. Jesus stopped him short before he had a chance to ask the question and said, let me address the issue. This is what you need to do to have eternal life. You must be born again. But Satan likes to keep us from that question. Satan is like a magician. who uses flight of hand to keep our attention focused on something other than what's actually happening. Something other than what is most important. Have you ever watched a magician, an expert in sleight of hand? They are masters of keeping your attention focused over here when what's really important is taking place is over here. And your attention's there, and you're like, you're not gonna fool me. Oh, you're not gonna fool me. All the while they're fooling you. Satan is a master of doing that. In our lives as well. He keeps us focused on our health, our family, our finances, our career, having your best life now. He even keeps us focused on the moral teachings of the Bible. And he uses those to distract us from the things that are most important so that we don't pay attention, we don't stop to think. What must I do to have eternal life? We anesthetize our souls with stuff with our material possessions, with houses and cars and motorcycles and boats and entertainments and investments and vacations. We have entertainments of all variety, movies, music, concerts, adventures. You know the word amusement. It's an interesting word. The uh in the front is a negation. And to muse means to think or to ponder. Not to ponder. We amuse ourselves. We do these things. We have these entertainments. We have these hobbies so that we We do not think. We do not ponder the most important things. We amuse ourselves to death. We fill our lives with adventures and drugs and alcohol and sex and noise, just plain noise. How many homes have the TV on from morning till night? Some all night long. While everyone is sleeping. Some go to sleep with a TV or a podcast on, so there's no time to hear the conscience and the voice of the Holy Spirit asking the most important questions. What must you do to have eternal life? But notice how Jesus answers. He asked the right question to the right person, and notice how Jesus answers. He asks him a question. I love what Jesus Jesus is the master. He knows people's hearts. And so he doesn't get into a collegial debate with him. He just turns it back on him. You're a lawyer. You know the law. What does the law say? How do you read it? And he puts it right back on him. And I really think that fit right w perfectly well with what the lawyer wanted to do anyway, because that wasn't the essence. He wanted to get into a quibbling debate about The next point. But the lawyer answers remarkably well. I don't know how you would answer. But he remarked he answers remarkably well. He quotes from the Shema in Deuteronomy chapter 6, saying, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strengths. and with all your mind. And then he goes and he takes a section from Leviticus 19, 18, and he adds that on to it. And that part says, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. That's exactly how Jesus answered when he was asked, Master, what is the great commandment? He said, The first and great commandment is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and the second is like unto it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. It's the right answer. It's a good answer. But interesting, Leviticus 19, 18, that talks about loving your neighbor as yourself. I want to read you the full verse because this is where the lawyer wanted to go to. It says, You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself, for I am the Lord. Do you see where the lawyer was going? The commandment is in a verse that talks about not holding a grudge against your own people. So he's saying, my neighbor. Who is that technically? Is it just the sons of my own people? Do I just have to love my own people and I can hate those that are Gentiles, that are Samaritans, that are not my people? Because that seems to be what the verse is saying. And so he wants to get down to this quibbling detail. But you know, Jesus' answer may shock you. Because he answers well, and then Jesus tells him, do this, and you will live. How would you answer if someone said, What must I do to have eternal life? When you give tracks, we have the track rack out there in the lobby, and we have tracks, and I and I know that if you were to open up most of them This is not how most of them would answer this question: what must I do to have eternal life? If you were asked, what must I do to have eternal life? you would probably begin by talking about Christ on the cross. But what does Christ do? He says, what does the law say? Now do it. Wow, that's a little different. It seems kind of surprising. Why did Jesus point him to the law instead of to the gospel? Do you ever wonder that in this passage? Well, Jesus was preaching the gospel. The first step in receiving the gospel, which is the good news of Jesus Christ, is to see that you are justly condemned before God by his law. His law condemns you and leaves you no room for escape. Colossians 3. 24 says, the law is our schoolmaster. to lead us to Christ. And the idea of the word schoolmaster was in the Greco-Roman world a slave who was a tutor of a young master, and his job was to make sure that he had the proper education, to make sure that he went to school, he went and got his classes. so that he would not be truant. You know how kids are, they're the same in every generation. His job was to see to it that he got to school. The law was the schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. But without the law, why do we go to Christ? So Jesus Takes him to the law. The fact is, you and I are not pretty good people who've made a few mistakes. The fact is we are more sinful than even we realize. Romans 3, 19 and 20 says, Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped. And the whole world may be held accountable to God. Now it says this, for by the works of the law no human being, not even a lawyer, Not even a self-righteous lawyer. No human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge. of sin. So what is Jesus doing? He's saying, this is the law, go do it. And the whole point is to say I am very guilty, and I am condemned by the law of God, and I can't keep the law. Notice he says here, Paul says that by the works of the law , No human being will be justified in God's sight. That's an absolute statement. No human being will be justified by obedience to the law because it's not possible. The law condemns and reveals our sins, but it offers no hope of salvation. But how does the lawyer respond? Look with me at verse 29. That's where we began our reading this morning. He said, but he, the lawyer, desiring to Justify himself, said to Jesus, and who is my neighbor? Well, what did Paul say in Romans 3. 20? By the works of the law, no human being will be justified in God's sight. And the lawyer saying, I desire to be justified I'm going to quibble over details. It's the same word, same Greek word there, justified. This is the reality that all of us are forced to do. Whenever we come up against the law of God and we feel the sting of its conviction, we are forced to do one of well, we could do a third thing, but we tend to do one of two things. Either lower the demands of God's law Or overestimate our ability to keep it. So we lower the demands. He says, well, who is my neighbor? You know, I mean, if I know who my neighbor is Then I could probably say I can I can handle this. But if I could throw throw out those people over there, then that 's gonna help me a lot. We're low He's lowering the standard. So that's why he comes up with this question, question number two, and who is my neighbor? It may seem like a funny question, but again, remember what Leviticus 19, 18 says. You shall not take vengeance or bear grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself, I am the Lord. So instead of seeing this as a passage that rebukes our selfishness, the rabbis sought to limit, they sought to bring God's righteousness down, sought to limit the scope of this command. By saying that neighbor only refers technically to those who are of the people of Israel. That's why you remember what Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount said. You have heard it said. You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. Like, well, where did that come from? From this teaching. From Leviticus 19, 18. And he says, No, but I say to you, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. He continues on after saying that. I say to you, love your neighbor. and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his Son to rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. He says, what does the Father do? He's kind to the wicked and the good, and you are called to do the same. He then completes his teaching in Matthew 5 with this most amazing statement. I think it's probably one of the most shocking statements in all of the New Testament. He says, Be perfect as your neighbor is perfect. No, he doesn't say that. He says, be perfect as your father in heaven is perfect. What's the standard? Perfection. Whose perfection, you might say? God 's perfection. That leaves an awful lot of us out. Like all of us in this room, and I'm not just saying that because you're worse than others. It leaves us all out. The problem with this lawyer was deadly serious. In Romans 10, Paul says, Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them, the nation of Israel, is that they may be saved. For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge, for being ignorant of the righteousness of God. What does that mean? They didn't understand how awesome God's righteousness is. How utterly separate God is in his holiness. How untouchably holy he is. Being ignorant of God's righteousness and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's righteousness. What does that look like? Repentance. Have mercy on me, O God. They didn't submit to God's righteousness, but instead they tried to make their own righteousness For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. This lawyer and all who seek to earn salvation by religion are ignorant of the righteousness of God. God's righteousness is not like ours, just a little better. It's an entirely different category. And we are all condemned by it. You know, oftentimes when I'm talking to people about the gospel and I bring up their sin problem, the common response is what? I'm not so bad. Yeah, I I know. Nobody's perfect. Well, there's the problem. Jesus said, be perfect. As your father in heaven is perfect. The standard is perfection. So when you say, and it this is an attempt to minimize the law the righteousness of God, to bring down God's righteousness by saying Nobody's perfect. Well, yeah, that's true. That's only half the story. We're just a whole lot less perfect than we realize. We're a whole lot more sinful than we like to consider. But instead of falling on his knees and repenting and asking God for mercy, the lawyer decides to quibble over this fact: who is my neighbor? How can I bring down God's standards to a way that I think I can attain to it? And that's why Jesus tells this parable of the Good Samaritan. He tells this parable to expose the man's self-centered hard heart. He thinks he's pretty good. He thinks he is righteous. He's really not concerned about gaining eternal life because he thinks he already has. And he's saying, You're far from it. And the standard is far greater than you realize. This parable is primarily intended to answer the first question, what must I do to inherit eternal life? And it does it by exposing our sin and making us aware of our need for grace. So we have this parable. We have, first of all, a tragedy on the road to Jericho. Jesus describes the man, most likely a Jew, because he's coming from Jerusalem and he's traveling down to Jericho, which is part of Israel. It's a lonely, winding stretch of road. It descends about four thousand feet in elevation, going down to one of the lowest places on earth Jericho is very, very low. And it goes through ravines and it goes through some very barren mountain passes. I've traveled on this road a few times, and every time I have, I've thought about this parable, and I thought, yeah, I wouldn't want to be caught by bandits on this road. Every time I've done it, I've thought, I'm glad I'm in my rental car today. And also thought, I hope it doesn't break down. Because there's a lot of room for bandits. Even to this day, it's a very dangerous section of road. The victim here is a man, probably a Jewish man. He's traveling from Jericho or from Jerusalem to Jericho. And on the way, he's robbed, he's beaten, he's left half dead on the side of the road. And into this story, we have three men that come. The first is a priest. He's likely traveling back to his home in Jericho from Jerusalem, possibly after completing his priestly service. Jericho was one of the allotments for the priests, so that's where they would have lived. He's probably traveling to his home, possibly had finished his allotment as a priest. And as a man of God, one who offers sacrifices on behalf of the people of God, surely this man would know the commands to love your neighbor as yourself, and he would stop, and he would offer comfort and help, and he would minister to him. But if he were to touch him and discover that he was dead, now that's a conundrum. Because what does the Bible say? Leviticus 21, we read Leviticus 18:19. Leviticus 21, verse 1, what does it say? And the Lord said to Moses, Speak to the priests, to the sons of Aaron, and say to them, No one shall make himself unclean for the dead among his people. Aha There's my way out. So we have two commands, and they seem to be contradictory. Love your neighbor as yourself, even your own people. Don't make yourself defiled, even for the sons of your own people. So we have two commands, a command that commands love, and a command that is full of ceremony. Which one of these commands is weightier? Obviously this one. What does he choose to follow? This one. Ceremony one. Love got kicked out. At this point, we find him he doesn't just continue down the road, he crosses and goes to the other side of the road and continues his journey. You know, you don't want to be my smell You don't want to be contaminated by anything. And so he passes on the other side and gets out of there. After all We're not told his motives. There could be those bandits still on the wayside waiting to waylay him. At this point, another character comes into the story. We have a Levite. Now when you think, I thought priests were Levites. Yes, they are. Priests are Levites, not all Levites are priests. So when you think of the tribe of Levi, the descendants of Aaron, Levi, then Aaron, Aaron's descendants became the priests. The rest are the Levites. The priests were responsible for making sacrifices in the temple. The Levites would be the water fetchers, the cleaner-uppers. Things like that. They did the more manual labor. They were, you might say, in the hierarchy of service. They were a little lower, but they were still considered significant religious people. Here comes a Levite. Surely this man will be the one that will help him. After all, what did Leviticus 21:1 say? He says, speak to the priest, the sons of Aaron. So this command, Leviticus 21, 1, doesn't have anything to do with the Levites. He's no longer encumbered by this problem. But what does he do? Same thing. Crosses to the other side of the road, continues on. Does not show compassion. Both of these religious men had crossed the other side and went on their way, and they failed to obey the law of God, which commands us to love our neighbor as ourselves. They represent really the true self-centered heart of even the most religious person. They had failed to love God with all their heart And they left a wounded man. They hadn't even loved God with all their heart. Because here's a wounded man who's created in the image of God. He is part of God's chosen people, in fact. And they have no compassion on them, and they skip by. So the next thing that happens is rather startling, and I think it it we miss it. It says, but a Samaritan. Now this is a plot twist. This is a significant plot twist. If you know your Bible, you know this story. It's not very surprising to us. But Perhaps the the lawyer thought the next person to come down was going to be a Galilean, since Jesus is a Galilean, and the Galilean is going to step in and he's going to save the day. But the Galilean didn't come down. It was a Samaritan. Some of the shock of this is lost on us because this parable has actually become such a part of our culture. that we think of Samaritan as meaning a good person. You know, I remember talking, teaching on John 4 about the woman at the well, the Samaritan woman at the well. in Tanzania and I said, What do you know about the Samaritans? And all the Tanzanians said, They're good people. No, that's not the point. They're the enemies of the Jews. They they hate each other. Oh, I thought they were good people Well, it's because the parable of the good Samaritan had so infiltrated their thinking. I mean, what think about it. We have organizations like Samaritan 's Purse. We have Samaritan hospice care, Samaritan health care. We have good Samaritan laws. So when we think of the word Samaritan, we're thinking, oh, good people. It's not what the lawyer would have thought of. He'd have thought, my enemy. In fact, you'll notice later on when Jesus asks him, which of the three was neighbor to him. He doesn't even say Samaritan. He says, I suppose the one who showed him mercy. He wouldn't even say the Samaritan. He couldn't even get his himself to say that. He'd probably be like, this. No, he couldn't do it because he hated the Samaritans. I think we we miss that sometimes when we go through this because we are we're so used to it. Remember even last week when Pastor Lehman was preaching on John chapter 8, verse 48. Remember we had the Jewish leaders. Who were in an antagonistic battle with Jesus. They're having verbal sparring. What do they say? Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon? That's how they thought of the Samaritans. The Samaritans are the enemies. Samaritans were religious half-breeds. They were Jews from the northern kingdom who intermarried with Gentiles from a variety of different backgrounds, and they they co-mingled Yahweh worship. with pagan idolatry and say that they have this mixture of Yahweh worship that is half pagan, half real. And they began to worship on Mount Gerizim, not on Mount Sinai, I mean Mount Moriah, and their temple they actually built on Mount Gerizim. So just 130 years before the events that take place here, a Jewish king, a Maccabean king. defeated the Samaritans and destroyed their temple because they were so angry with them. So when he says Samaritan, just think the worst enemy you can think of. Along comes a Samaritan. This poor Jewish man lying on the side of the road half dead was passed over by a priest and a Levite, but along comes his stated enemy. And he has compassion on this poor man. Notice how this Samaritan loved his neighbor. First, he entered into the pain of this poor Jewish man. It says that he saw and had compassion. The word compassion in the New Testament is most frequently used in reference to Jesus Christ, when he saw the multitudes and he had compassion on them as sheep that have no shepherd. It's actually found in another parable in Luke chapter 15. Probably either the most familiar parable in the Bible or the second most familiar parable in the Bible, depending on where you rank this one. The prodigal son. Remember the prodigal son? He's been in the far country. He's been feeding pigs. He's emaciated. And he's coming back to his father. Clothes tattered, smells like pigs, totally emaciated, and his father sees him a long way off, the father representing God. And the Bible says the father had compassion on him. and ran to him and embraced him and kissed him. This Samaritan had, that's similar Compassion. He saw him as someone needing help. And his heart went out to him. Secondly, he went to him. He didn't cross the road and try to ignore him. He actually went to him. Thirdly, he bandaged him. And I don't know if you're thinking about this, but most of the donkeys of the first century did not have a first aid kit. So where did he get the bandages from? His clothes. He probably ripped his robes, ripped some of the linen garments that he had brought with him, and he bandaged up the wounds of this man. Fourthly, he treated the wounds with oil and wine. The wine would have acted like a primitive antiseptic, and the oil would soothe and would help in the healing process. But again, where does that come from? That was his for his journey. And at sacrifice, he used it on this man. Second or fifth, he gave his own transportation. It says that he put the injured man on his own animal. So either the Samaritan had to walk Or perhaps even worse, he had to get on the donkey or the horse that he was riding and hold him because he was too weak to stay on himself and be such close contact with his wounds. Either way, it was a costly sacrifice. Sixth, it says he took him to an inn and he cared for him. You can imagine this was a significant delay in his plans. He's going places. He's got stuff to do. And now, because he's caring for this man, his plans are delayed. He spent time with him. We know that he spent the night with him because the next morning he's speaking to the innkeeper. He cared for him. Perhaps he was up through the night taking care of him. But he also made continuing provision for him. He paid him two denarii, which is the equivalent of two days' wages, probably a couple weeks worth of of care at a facility like this. And then he said, You know me. I travel through here often. When I come back, if there's anything else, I'm opening up an open tab for him. Wow. He doesn't know why this guy got jumped. He doesn't know anything about this man. And he says, whatever you spend extra on him, I will pay. That is remarkable love So Jesus turns the question on this man, from who is my neighbor to who proved to be a neighbor? He's trying to limit his responsibility. He says, no, look who the neighbor was. The enemy. Jesus' parable in question turns the table on his lawyer and left him with only one answer, the one who showed him mercy. So Jesus exposes the depth of the command by this parable. He's saying, do you understand how vast, how deep the command is to love your neighbor as yourself? This is not just like, yeah, I'm pretty good with people type thing. I don't have too many enemies. No. He's saying love your neighbor, even your enemy, as you love yourself. Now, a lot of people look at this command and say, well, my first responsibility is to love myself. No. That's stupid. That's nonsense. The fact is, we love ourselves inherently. This is the modern therapeutic method that says you need to first love yourself and then you'll be able to love others. No, you love yourself automatically. We take care of our food and our clothing and we make sure we're comfortable and we want the nicest cars, the nicest house. We take care of ourselves. We love ourselves. We're self -ish. We're self-centered. Jesus says, you already love yourself. You don't need to be commanded to do that. You do that naturally. Now love others like you love yourself. Put them ahead of yourself. Oof. Well who? Everyone you have opportunity to? Wow. That's challenging. Jesus exposes this command by saying, if you were on the roadside beaten and helpless, how would you want others to treat you? Would you want them to hide behind religion? Obligation? Busy schedule? Would you want them to hide behind ethnic differences? Long-seated deep hatreds? Or would you want them to come and have compassion on you? Well, if that's what you would want, go and do likewise. When Jesus said, go and do likewise, he wasn't telling the man that if he truly, perfectly, and continuously loved his neighbor as himself, then he would inherit eternal life. That was not what he was saying. He was exposing and revealing the deep sinfulness of this religious lawyer. And he's exposing our selfishness. The law demands perfect obedience all of the time. And therefore it can never make us acceptable to God. Remember Galatians 3. 10? It says, For all who rely on the works of the law are what? are under a curse. For it is written, cursed be everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law to do them. We like to cherry-pick those things that we're good at. And we don't even do those perfectly, but we like to cherry-pick those things. He says, if you're doing that, you're under a curse. James two ten says, For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point. He's become guilty of all. It's like a pane of glass. The law is like a pane of glass. You take a rock and you throw it through the pane of glass. Someone says, well, I only threw one rock. It's not that big a deal. It's only a little bit shattered. No, it doesn't work that way. The law is shattered. You're guilty. And the fact is we don't just throw one rock. We throw a barrage of rocks every day against the law of God. We are not not perfect. We are sinful and guilty and condemned. And he says, whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become guilty of all. So, what is the point of this parable? Well, I only have two points of application, but the first I think is most significant, and it is the driving point that Jesus is trying to make by telling this parable. The parable of the Good Samaritan calls you to repent and receive the love of God in Christ Jesus by faith The whole point of this parable is intended to answer the question, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And the answer is, you can't do anything but fall on your knees and ask for mercy. You remember the poor tax collector that beat on his chest and said, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. And Jesus said he went away justified. Where the other who touted all his fasting and his praying and his giving and his doing, he went away in his sins If only the lawyer had responded with humble repentance and faith in Jesus, this story would have been a different story. But it can be for you. If you would bow the knee and repent and ask God for mercy. The compassion of the Good Samaritan for the helpless victim actually is like a picture of The compassion of Christ for us. We are helpless victims, but we're not helpless victims, I would say. We are complicit sinners. Just as the Good Samaritan had compassion, Christ has had compassion on us. He saw us in our helpless condition. We were helpless, but we we have added to our guilt. We have brought this misery upon ourselves. Unlike the man who was beaten and robbed and left half dead, we have brought the guilt and the condemnation and the damnation upon ourselves by our sins. But yet he had pity on us. He saw us and he had compassion, and his heart was moved for us. Just as as the Samaritan sacrificed for his enemy to a much greater degree, Jesus sacrificed his very life to save us who were his enemies. Think about this. The Samaritan, he risked his life to stop and help him. Because who knows where the bandits are? They could be right around the corner. They could be hiding in the cave that's right on the side of the road. So he risked his life to help him. But Jesus didn't risk his life to help us. He gave his life to save us. He came willingly giving of his life for us. And just as the Samaritan came near to the man in need, so too, and again to a much greater degree, Jesus came near to us. And he humbled himself and became, found himself being fashioned as a man with a human body, human weaknesses. And the Bible tells us that he was tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. This is the message of the gospel. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Jesus said, my sheep hear my voice and I know them and they follow me and I give them eternal life. Will you confess that you're not not perfect, but that you're a sinner? Condemned, guilty, and needing a savior? And bow the knee and believe in Jesus Christ. Christians, those of you who have already done that, This parable teaches us, I think, secondarily, to show costly love. It calls us to love as we have been loved. To love as Christ has loved us. Jesus perfectly fulfilled the two great commandments, to love God with all of his heart, soul, mind, and strength, and to love his neighbor as himself. Before Jesus died on the cross, he said to his disciples, A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also are to love. The fact is, the gospel ought to so overwhelm us when we realize how greatly we've been loved by God that it commands us and it compels us to love one another. As we have been loved, the gospel calls us to lay down our lives, not just for our friends, but even for our enemies. To give of ourselves to those who don't deserve it. Are you loving your neighbor this way? You don't know my neighbor. That's the point. The gospel compels us to love even those that are unlovely, that are difficult to be around. Do you love your wife or your husband in such a way that it costs you anything? Are you loving your fellow church member at a sacrifice of your time and energy and money and even pride? A few years ago I read a gripping story about the book. About the you've probably seen or heard of the movie The Bridge Over the River Kwai. But the true story behind it is in a book called To End All Wars by Ernest Gordon, one of the Japanese prisoners of war. Or the American Prisoner of War in a Japanese prison camp. And he described the prison camps that were there and the dog eat dog self. Focus of these prison camps as everyone is trying to just survive. And how a few Christians began to sacrificially love others and share the gospel with their fellow soldiers. sacrificing even to the point of death, several of them died because of the sacrifices they made. And it began to revolutionize The prisoner of war camp, where people began to get saved, and the gospel began to transform their lives. So now they were caring for and sacrificing for one another. But the true nature, the true test of that came when these men were being shipped by rail car and they stopped, their car stopped, and a Japanese train came through, and a bunch of Japanese soldiers who were wounded in battle. were inside that car and they were many of them dying with terrible wounds and maggots coming out of their body. And the American soldiers opened up their packs and took their canteens and began They pushed back the jet past the Japanese guards and began to minister to the Japanese soldiers who were a few months earlier their enemies. And began to love their enemies, their neighbors as themselves. The gospel transformed these men The gospel transforms us. But first we must realize that we are in need of a savior. and that Christ is the good Samaritan who rescues sinners. And we must repent and ask for mercy and receive his grace. Have you done that? And if you have, have you let the gospel transform your life? To love those that God calls you to love. Let's pray. Our Father, we praise you for your love. There is no God like you. A God who loves rebel sinners and sends his only begotten Son to be a sacrifice for us. Lord, I pray, if there are any this morning, Who are still trying to bring down your righteousness to their level or raise up their righteousness, that you would bring them To a place of brokenness and repentance before you, that they would come to understand the righteousness of God that is awesome and unapproachable. And Lord, that they would not like this lawyer, but they would come and bow the knee and plead for mercy. God, I pray that you would open blind eyes, soften hard hearts Humble the proud. And bring to yourself those that are lost. And Father, I pray for those of us who Have bowed the knee and have come before you in brokenness and contrition. Lord, help us to love as we have been loved. to put no boundaries on the demands of your love for us, because there were no boundaries on your love to us. Father, I pray you transform our lives through this truth. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.