If you have your Bibles, please, would you turn with me to John chapter 11? John chapter 11 A professor in an evangelical seminary once gave an assignment to his advanced Greek class. These young seminary students were to do an in-depth analysis of the parable we know as the parable of the Good Samaritan. This was a major project. They were to provide their own Greek translation. They were to do a structural analysis. They were to write a sermon and a comprehensive commentary on the passage. One ministerial student did all of this, but he did some extra credit too. He hired a friend of his who was studying to be an actor to play the part of the victim in the Good Samaritan. And so he had fake blood and fake bruises and he lay down on the sidewalk. in front of the seminary building and as the seminary students were coming with their major projects on the Good Samaritan, they walked around this person who obviously needed assistance because they were hurrying to their class. They may have had brilliant insights in their papers, but they missed the main point of the parable. Which is to be compassionate like Christ. This morning we come to a passage where Jesus demonstrates that he is indeed the world's greatest example of compassion. We find him described as a man of compassion often in the Gospels, about a dozen times. On three occasions It says that when Jesus saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion. We read of Jesus having compassion for a man with leprosy in Mark chapter 1, and he healed the man We read of him coming upon a funeral procession in a little village of Nain, where a widow woman had lost her only son, and he had compassion for her and raised her son from the dead. Every time Jesus was moved with compassion, it wasn't just a feeling he did something about the situation. He healed the sick, he cast out demons, and he raised the dead. This morning we see the compassion of Christ for the grieving sisters of Lazarus, Martha and Mary Let me remind you of where we are in our study of John's gospel. Jesus is coming to the end of his earthly ministry in a short time Jesus would be crucified outside the city gates of Jerusalem. The religious leaders have been plotting for over a year to arrest him and kill him. But they have been unable to because his hour had not yet come. But now his hour was coming soon. So Jesus receives word that his good friend Lazarus is seriously ill. He delays two days But then he comes, and now it's been four days since his death. He returns to Bethany near Jerusalem And he comes to a scene of intense mourning for the death of this prominent man Lazarus. If you were not here last week, you may not understand why people were all around mourning when it's four days after his funeral. And the answer is because it was the Jewish custom to have a lengthy period of mourning where family and loved ones stayed with the bereaved for many days after their death. So Jesus returns to this family. They were not only followers of his, but close personal friends of his. When he visited Jerusalem, this is where he invariably stayed. Jesus has returned to raise Lazarus from the dead, which is the seventh and final sign or miracle presented in this gospel as evidence that Jesus is who he claimed to be. the Son of God. But before Jesus raises Lazarus from the dead, he comforts the grieving sisters of Lazarus, Martha and Mary. This is a very powerful revelation of our Savior. He could have just come in, come straight to the tomb, and raised Lazarus from the dead. But he takes time to speak individually with both Martha and Mary and to comfort them We read of his interview with Martha in verses 17 through 27 of this chapter, and now he comes to Mary in verses 28 through 36. What we see in his conversations with these two grieving women is his compassion for people in sorrow. Now the word compassion is not in our text this morning, but we do find several clear references to his emotional response in our passage. I don't know of another passage in the Gospels. Where we see so many references to the emotions of Jesus. Look with me, if you would, at verse 33. It says when Jesus saw her weeping and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in the spirit. And greatly troubled. And then verse 35, Jesus wept. And then again in verse 38, then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb. So Jesus' emotions are greatly stirred on this occasion at this scene of intense grieving. And I think what we discover in this passage this morning is both beautiful and comforting, and that is Jesus' compassion for people in sorrow. John is presenting a beautiful picture of our Savior. And he is showing his readers that Jesus is worthy of our trust. One of the great struggles that people face in life is they discover that many people are not worthy of their trust. They might betray them, fail them, let them down, and the person they loved and trusted hurts them deeply. And often people in this type of scenario find it very difficult to love and trust anyone What John is presenting here is that Jesus is worthy of our love and trust. He is a man of sorrows. He is a man of compassion. He is a man who understands the deepest pains of the human hearts. I want you to see first of all that Jesus cares for his people in their sorrow. Look with me please at verse 28. It says, when she that is Martha had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, the teacher is here and is calling for you. When Martha finished her conversation with Jesus, she went to get her sister Mary so that she could also speak with Jesus privately. When she comes to Mary, she's seated in their house. She's receiving those who have come to mourn with her. We know that traditionally Uh being seated in a chair was the posture of grief and people would gather around those who were grieving. Martha comes into the house and she whispers in her sister's ear, the teacher or the rabbi is here. and is calling for you. By the way, this would have been considered countercultural for a rabbi to meet with or instruct a woman, but Jesus often did things that were contrary to social norms of the day. Now we have no record that Jesus told Martha to invite her sister Mary to come, however, we must remember that John is providing a concise statement of these conversations. It doesn't mean that he's recorded every single word that was said. And so I have no doubt that she was following our Lord's instructions when she came to her sister and said, come. The teacher is calling for you. And notices Mary's response in verse 29. And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went to him. Martha didn't have to tell Mary twice. She was quick out the door to see the Lord. John explains that Jesus is still outside the village of Bethany. Why didn't Jesus come to the house? I suspect it's because he wanted to talk to these two sisters privately, and the house was filled with mourners. where he would not have been able to really have a private conversation with them. Now look with me please at verse 31 When the Jews who were with her in the house consoling her saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. The people in the house do not know why Mary has gotten up and left. But they follow her. They assume that she's going to the tomb to weep. They weren't going to stay in her house when she is not there because they have come to comfort her. This is not an unusual or strange situation. I see this all the time as a pastor when we have a funeral here like we did yesterday. And the immediate relatives of the deceased are here. I will sometimes instruct them and tell them. If we have like a luncheon downstairs or we're going to go to our cars to go for the burial, that everyone will follow you. If you stay upstairs and we're having a luncheon, no one else will go downstairs. They will stay up here. So would you be helpful for us and lead the way and everyone will follow you? But if you stay here to talk to a few people, everyone will stay here. This is what people naturally do. And this is what is happening here. Everyone gets up and they follow Mary. Now Mary is the more emotional of the two sisters. We always read of Mary at the feet. In Luke 10, 39, Mary is at Jesus' feet listening to his teaching. And here in John 11, she is at his feet as one with a broken and contrite heart. And in the very next chapter in John chapter 12, she will be at his feet, anointing him, preparing him for the day of his burial. However, we should not assume, as some people do, that Mary was the more spiritual of the two because she happened to be more emotional and more reflective in her personality. Notice she says the same thing to Jesus that Martha did when she first met Jesus. She says, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. This is what she says in verse 32. And this is why scholars think that Martha and Mary must have been saying this to one another while they were waiting for Jesus to come. Because they both say the exact same thing when they see Jesus. They're saying, if only the Lord would have come earlier, he would have healed our brother. Interestingly enough, these were expressions that were at the same time an expression of faith and of unbelief. They had enough faith to believe that Jesus could have healed their brother. But they apparently didn't have enough faith to believe that Jesus could raise him from the dead, certainly not four days out. Now what we see, and I want you to see in Jesus' conversation with both Martha and Mary is that Jesus cares for his people individually. In the previous chapter to this one, in John chapter 10, we have a beautiful declaration that Jesus makes. He says, I am the good shepherd. And in that passage, he says that the good shepherd calls his own sheep by name. This is not just a detail that was part of shepherding in Judea in the first century. This analogy pictures something that's very precious indeed. And that is that God, the God man, knows you by name. And he cares for you. He knows your thoughts, your fears, your sorrows. He knows the things that you struggle with better than anyone else. He doesn't just care for you as part of a large group of people But he doesn't know who you are. He's not like a politician who's giving a speech in an arena to 60,000 people and they're all cheering and supporting him, and he says, I love you all. But he doesn't know them. He doesn't know their names. No, Jesus knows His people. He knows our hearts. He knows our sorrows. He knew the sorrow of Mary and Martha. He knew they were two very different individuals, but with aching hearts, and he comes and he ministers to them. There's an old gospel hymn. That's very accurate. It has these words in it. I know many of you know it. It says, does Jesus care when I said goodbye to the dearest on earth to me? And my sad heart aches to it nearly breaks. Does he care? And then the answer is, oh yes, he cares. I know he cares. His heart is touched with my grief. When the days are weary and the long nights dreary, I know my Savior cares. These are not words of sentiment, but words of revelation that are anchored in the Word of God. I want you to know that there is no other concept of God that is found in the various religions of the world that corresponds to this. The God of Hinduism and Buddhism is not a personal God. The God of Islam does not care for you as an individual. He doesn't love you. You won't read things like Allah is love. This is the unique revelation that we find in the Word of God. And it's most beautifully manifested in the person of Christ, who is the expressed image of his Father. Jesus cares for his people on an individual and personal. basis. Secondly, Jesus is deeply moved by his people in their sorrow. Now we never read of Jesus' response to Mary's word. Because it seems that their personal conversation has come to an end because now the the crowd of mourners that got up from her house and started following her have arrived to where Jesus and Mary are located. Look with me in verse 33. When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in his spirit. and greatly troubled. In this verse, we have two things. We have the cause of our Lord's emotional reaction and a description of his emotional reaction. What caused Jesus' emotional response? It says when Jesus saw her weeping, which is a reference to Mary. And the Jews would come with her also weeping. This is a reference to her friends and distant relatives. And also something that may seem very strange to you, and that is professional mourners. Professional mourners. Now in our Western culture. This seems very strange. It seems very artificial and very phony. But there are still millions of people in the world today that at their funerals There will be professional mourners. That is what I mean by that. I mean people who are paid money to wail really loudly This happens in many cultures in Africa, in many cultures in the South Pacific Islands, and in many cultures still in the world. It used to be much more common in the ancient world. I'm not suggesting we revive this, by the way. But this was a culturally appropriate way of expressing grief. We have an ancient Jewish writing where a rabbi says that even the poorest Jewish individual, poorest Jewish family, must provide at least Two flute players and a wailing woman at a funeral of a loved one, that is their obligation. Well, I've said to you before that Martha and Married appears to be a very wealthy family. So I suspect that they had a whole choir of wailing women and many flute players. And there was this intense expression of grief. And what was Jesus' reaction to the scene of mourning? Well, we have two descriptions in verse 33. It says, first of all, he was greatly or deeply moved in his spirits. And he was greatly troubled. Let me take the second of these very quickly. Greatly troubled just expresses an intense emotional reaction. The bigger question is what is meant by he was deeply moved. The Greek word that's used here was originally used in classic Greek centuries earlier for like the snorting of a horse. It's translated in the King James Version as groaned. It's found only a handful of times in the Bible. And so it's hard to get a real handle on exactly what this word means. We know it expresses a strong emotion, but scholars have a difference of opinion as exactly the meaning of this word. Some suggest that John is just heaping up terms to express our Lord's grief. And their evidence would be this. He sees the people grieving. We read in verse 35 that he is weeping. This is simply another expression of his grief. And so John piles up these descriptors to talk about the intense emotion of grief that Jesus is expressing at this point. But others would differ with this interpretation. They would point out that most often this word that's translated deeply moved has the idea of anger or frustration or indignation. And so many versions, both ancient and modern, translate this phrase, he was angered in his spirit. And I do think that this translation probably better captures the meaning of this word. Jesus was angered by what he saw. But then the question becomes, what was it that angered him? Two options, two primary options have been given over the centuries by preachers and teachers. And that is, number one, Jesus was angered over their unbelief. Jesus saw Mary and Martha and the others crying intensely, and he's angry because they didn't believe that he could raise Lazarus from the dead. But I would say to this that Jesus never rebukes Martha or Mary in his conversations with them, and so I don't think that this was the source of his anger. Now, I believe that Jesus was angry at our great enemy, death, and the pain and sorrow that it causes to humanity. As Jesus saw his dear friends Martha and Mary weeping inconsolable and others crying. He became angered at death and the pain and distress that it brings in our life How much sorrow and grief does death cause every day on this fallen world? We tend to think of death And in some ways, rightly so, is just the way it is with human beings. What do they say? The two things you can count on, right? Death and taxes But I want you to know that when God created Adam and Eve, he did not create them With the intention of them dying. Of course, he knew and ordained in one respect that they would die, that they would sin, that they would fall, and that through the fall of mankind and the redemption of the Savior. There would be glory given to his name. I understand that. But my point is he intended that human beings live forever. Not that they die. And so death is like a great intruder into our lives. We feel a sense that things are not the way they should be when a person dies. And you know what? That instinct is right. Because we were made to live forever, not to have one parting after another with loved ones. And this is why Jesus is come. One of the things he has come to do is to abolish death, to conquer death. This is why he said a few moments earlier, I'm the resurrection and the life. This is why Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 15, 26, the last enemy to be destroyed is death. And in Revelation chapter 21 and verse 4, God says that he will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be any mourning, nor crying, nor pain, for the former things have passed away. Jesus is about to show his disdain for death and his power over death by raising Lazarus from the dead. And we have a hint to this in verse 34. And Jesus said, Where have you laid him? They said to him, Come and see. Where have you laid him? This is like a man who's going to do something about it. John is hinting to his readers that a resurrection is about to occur. Jesus' compassion for his people and their sorrow is demonstrated by his care for them individually and by his anger at death, and thirdly, Jesus sympathizes. with his people in their sorrow. Look with me, please, at verse 35, this very brief verse, Jesus wept I think just about every kid is taught in Sunday school that this is the shortest verse of the Bible. There have been children, I know, in the history of the world that have been told by their moms that they had to go to their rooms and memorize a verse before they could come out. And they quickly came out and said, Jesus wept. Technical fact If you go by Greek letters, it's not the shortest verse in the Bible. There's another one that's shorter, but it is the shortest in English translation. Now this verse is very significant, though it is short. Let me first of all mention that this word used for weeping is different from a word that's translated weeping in verse 33. In verse 33, when it refers to the the crying of Martha and Mary and the professional mourners, it's a word that has the idea of wailing. crying out loud vocally. The word here describing Jesus' weeping is not that You could render it. He burst into tears. There were tears streaming down his face. As he comes here. Three times in the Gospels we read of Jesus weeping. In Luke 19, 41, when Jesus drew near and saw the city, it says that he wept over it. Jesus wept for the people of that city because he knew that in 40 years the city would be judged by God. The Roman general Titus would come and level the city and thousands of people would be killed and many of them would perish eternally because they had rejected Christ when he came. And Jesus, secondly, in the Garden of Gethsemane, the night before his crucifixion, he prays, if it be possible, let this cup Pass from me. And the writer of Hebrews says in Hebrews 5. 7, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears. And the third occasion is right here at the tomb of Lazarus. Now again, we have this question: why was Jesus weeping? What caused him to respond this way? And again, there are different theories for this. Some say Jesus was weeping because he was angry, just as he was deeply moved and I said that that was a word I think that could be expressed that he was angry, that now he is weeping because he is angry. Some people, when they're angry, they weep. I am not convinced by that argument. I don't think that's why he's weeping. Others would say that he was weeping because of his love. for Lazarus, his friend who has died. This is how the bystanders interpreted his weeping. Look at verse 36. So the Jews said, see how he loved him. But others would object to this and say, why would Jesus be crying over the death of Lazarus when he knew in a few minutes he would raise him from the dead? And so I think the best answer is that Jesus is sympathizing or entering into the sorrow of Mary and Martha. Not that he was acting. It was genuine sorrow. He was touched by their sorrow because he loved them. This is the most common view of preachers and commentaries over the centuries, and I believe it to be the correct one. John Calvin says he shows by his strong emotion of grief and by tears that he is as much affected by our ills as if he had suffered them in himself. We see here that Jesus is indeed a man of sorrows. and acquainted with grief. Jesus was no stoic who remained indifferent to suffering and pain. No, Jesus was a is a man full of compassion. and sympathy. This is not some mere sentimentality. This is what the Bible reveals about our Savior. This is a very important thing. This isn't like a bonus. This isn't like icing on the cake. This is true. This reveals part of his true humanity. Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 15 says, For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. But one who was in every respect and has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. What should be our response to the fact that we have a sympathetic high priest? He says, let us with confidence draw near to the throne of grace to help in time of need. The fact that we have a sympathetic Savior should draw us to come to Him and prayer and bring our burdens to him because He knows us and He cares for us. A poem that beautifully expresses the sympathetic nature of Christ was written in 1764 by Michael Bruce. He says our fellow sufferer yet retains a fellow feeling of our pains and still remembers in the skies his tears and agonies and cries. And every pain that rends the heart, the man of sorrow has had a part. He sympathizes with our grief, and to the sufferer he sends relief. With boldness, therefore, at the throne, let us make our sorrows known and ask the aid of heavenly power to help us in the evil hour. We have a sympathetic high priest. He's not putting on an act. He's not like some politician who's trying to act like they really care for you when they don't care about you at all. He knows you better than you know yourself. He knows your heart. He knows that your faith is weak, and he cares for you. John records two responses to Jesus' weep, and in verse 36, some people saw in his tears that Jesus indeed had a tender heart of love. And in verse 37, we have a response that's very similar to what Martha and Mary had said. The if-only response, if only had come here, maybe he could have kept this man from dying But no one is saying, no one here is exclaiming, maybe yet he can raise him from the dead John is showing that both believers and unbelievers, everyone around that tomb, that there was not one person they expected that Jesus had the power to raise this man from the dead after four days. Because he's building up and he wants his reader to see how stupendous and how amazing this miracle is. that this man Lazarus, whose body was already beginning to decay, will now come back to life. And it will demonstrate that he is indeed the resurrection and the life, the one who has come to conquer death. Let me briefly make some words of application as we close this morning. Number one Jesus, our Savior, is fully human. Do we realize that? We as conservative Bible-believing Christians are very quick to defend the deity of Christ And indeed we should. He is God in flesh. And the Gospel of John emphasizes this truth more than the other three Gospels. We see him revealed as the Son of God, as the great I am, as the creator of the universe. But John also reveals that he was tired and he was thirsty. And that he wept. Because John understood that the Savior he's presenting in this book is 100% God. And 100% man. And sometimes people think that by diminishing his humanity, we're being really spiritual, but we're not. We're being completely unbiblical. If our Savior was not one of us, 100 % human, then he could not be the sacrifice for our sin. And he would not be a sympathetic high priest. He would not be able to understand what it's like to be tired. and to be sorrowful and to be cast down and discouraged, he would have no experience with this, but we have a great high priest who does have this experience. And can sympathize with us and help us. John reveals that we have a great Savior that's worthy of our trust He is not only the omnipotent creator of the universe, but he's our tender-hearted older brother. Yes, that's a biblical description. who cares for us and has compassion for us and will help us in our time of need. Second application is it's not wrong for us to show grief, but it must not be an expression of hopelessness or unbelief. Sometimes people think that weeping or crying is never appropriate. This is especially true with men. That are told a real man never cries. Well, I want you to know that Jesus was the bravest, the most courageous man who ever lived, and he wept. There are times it's appropriate to weep. A third application is this. The more you become like Christ, the more you will have compassion for others in need. We learn early on appropriate expressions of grief and sorrow. To people who are grieving or people who are suffering or going through difficult times. We say things like, I'm praying for you, or maybe we'll quote a verse, or your family is with me in my thoughts and prayers. But the reality is if we could take an x-ray of our souls most often, there's no compassion here at all Oh, we're mouthing the right things, but it doesn't touch us. We're not bothered. We're not carrying a burden for them. We haven't entered into their grief We read the request on the prayer sheets and we say, wow, it must be really bad to have stage four cancer. It must be really bad to have lost your spouse. It must be really bad to have those things, huh? I guess I need to pray for them. But we are hearts are not moved so often. We're really moved about our concerns. But not about the concerns of others. The more we become like Christ and we grow in our sanctification, the more our hearts will be actually moved and touched. By the difficulties that others face. And finally, I want to say that God can use our weeping as a testimony of God's love and compassion for lost sinners. I said a moment ago there are times it's appropriate to weep, and one of the times that's appropriate to weep is over lost souls. The most effective evangelist in the 1800s was undoubtedly Dwight L. Moody. He was somewhat of an enigma to many people. He was not much of a scholar. No one ever came away from his sermons thinking, wow, what profound insight into the scripture. He was not very eloquent. He often had grammatical mistakes in his sermons. And yet people were saved in large numbers by his preaching. Why was that? It is because he reflected the love of Christ when he preached the gospel. He cannot speak of hell without weeping. At the end of almost every sermon, he would weep as he pled for sinners to repent and believe the gospel. And hundreds of thousands of people were saved through his ministry. Dwight El Moody said, no one should ever preach on the topic of hell without a tear in his eye. God can use our sincere emotional response to touch the heart of others and help them consider the truth of the gospel. May God give us the heart of our Savior. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for giving us a great Savior. We thank you that he cares for us in our weakness and in our sorrow and in our grief. We thank you that he is not stoic and unconcerned, but he is sympathetic. A man of sorrows. And we thank you that such a Savior is worthy of our trust. He's worthy of our praise. He is worthy of our prayers. I pray that you'd help those who are here this morning who have yet to put their trust in him to see what a great Savior is presented in Scripture and to come to trust in him today. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.