Turn your Bibles, please, to John chapter thirteen. Charles Wesley is regarded by nearly everyone as one of the greatest hymn writers in the history of the church. He was raised in the home of a Church of England clergyman. He was one of nineteen children. And he lived for, in some ways, in the shadow of his famous brother John. They both went to Oxford University together. They both went into ministry. They both went as missionaries to Savannah, Georgia for a time. And they both came back to England and were saved in a similar way within a week of each other. On May 17, 1738, Charles Wesley was converted listening to a preacher, and he says, Of that moment my great burden fell off in an instant, my heart was so filled with peace and love. That I burst into tears. Two years after his conversion, he wrote one of his most enduring hymns, Jesus, lover of my soul. In this famous hymn, Wesley captures the reality of Christ's love for him. This is one of the unique traits of Christianity, that you can have a personal relationship with God. The truth that I'm preaching on this morning is about as basic and simple as it can get. In fact, we have a children's song that I'm reminded of. Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so. The Bible does tell us that, and we're going to be looking. At a text this morning that reminds us of Jesus' love, especially for his own, his disciples. Today we begin the second half of the Gospel of John. The Gospel of John can be divided into two big halves. You have the first half, which has been called the Book of the Signs Focused on the seven miracles of Jesus, and then the second half, the book of the glory, that focuses on his death and resurrection. We began our study of the Gospel of John in April of 2024, so it's been two years. And I suspect it's going to be another two years before we finish this book because we're halfway through. This morning we're coming to the beginning of events that are recorded that took place in the upper room the night before Jesus was crucified. This is sometimes known as the farewell discourse or the upper room discourse. It's a portion of God's word that covers chapters 13 through 17. It's a special section of God's word that has been treasured by believers for many centuries. The Puritan Thomas Goodwin called these chapters a window into Christ's heart. And I think he was right. Let me talk to you very quickly about the structure of these chapters. You can think of it as like a house with a front port of a front porch and a back porch. You have chapter 13, which is the events preceding his teaching. That covers chapters 14, 15, and 16. And then chapter 17 is this great high priestly prayer, which closes this section out, and it's kind of like the back porch. This portion of God's Word is beloved for many reasons. Let me mention three of them very quickly. Number one, this is our Lord's last teaching. For three years, the Lord has been teaching and training these men. How many lectures have they heard? How many sermons have they listened to? We don't know, but I'm sure there are many more than what we have recorded in Scripture. But this was the last one. Jesus is speaking to them with the knowledge that tomorrow at this time he will be dead and in a tomb. And so his instruction has the flavor of a dying man speaking to his loved ones. Secondly, this is our Lord's unique teaching. There's nothing else like it in Scripture. We have here a record of 155 verses, and only four of those verses. are found in the other three Gospels. Here the Lord would share many things with his disciples that he would not speak to them about on any other occasion. The material here is unique and advanced. For instance, he is going to teach them in the upper room discourse a great deal about the doctrine of the Holy Spirit. Some of the most important passages in the Bible on this doctrine are found in these chapters. He has not touched on this before in his discussions with them, but now he's going to reveal this to them. This instruction in the upper room discourse has been called like a bridge from the gospels, which are primarily narrative to the epistles which are more instructive. It's kind of like a hybrid. It's a bridge leading from one type of literature and revelation to another. And thirdly, this is our Lord's most intimate and personal teaching. He opens his heart to them in a way he has not done before. In the first half of this gospel, there is a lot of contention and opposition. The people reject him, and the rulers conspire to murder him. But now Jesus is in the upper room. He is with his disciples. And he comforts them with the assurance that his love for them will never end. So there's going to be a big shift in the tone of the gospel and in the way I preach this truth because For the remaining chapters, most of the application will be for believers, because Jesus is talking to his disciples and not to unbelievers. In chapters 1 through 12, we find a reference to some form of the word love nine times. And this covers a period of some three years. But now in chapters 13 through 17, we will encounter a form of the word love 30 times, and this covers a period of time of about three hours. So you can see that love was our Lord's intense focus during this time in the upper room. This first verse in chapter 13 really introduces this five-chapter portion of God's Word. And here Jesus reveals his love for his disciples. And what I want us to understand is that Christian disciples need to know that Jesus loves them. This is foundational and basic. And we might think it doesn't even really need to be taught or emphasized, but it does. This is something that we must have an assurance about. That no matter what, Jesus loves us. I'm going to show you four ways that Jesus' love is demonstrated. in this opening verse. First of all, Jesus's love is demonstrated in his unselfish focus on the needs of his disciples. Look with me at verse 1, please. Now, before the feast of Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them. By mentioning the Passover, John is alerting his readers of the chronology of this week that we've come right up to the beginning of the Passover. If you'll look with me at chapter 12 in verse 1, the previous chapter, it begins this way, six days before the Passover, Jesus therefore came to Bethany. So John here is alerting his reader on the passage of time. That event took place six days before the Passover. This is the night before the Passover. This would have been on Thursday. John likes to mark the passage of time. Some of you are very have a very keen sense of time. You keep a very strict calendar, and there's some people perhaps here this morning that you do not keep a keen sense of the passage of time. Things just happen to you, right? They're not scheduled. Well, John was in the former camp. I tend to be more like John, to be honest with you. I'm very, you can ask my wife, I'm very aware of the passage of time. John marks the life and ministry of Christ through Passovers. He tells us in chapter 2 of his first Passover that Jesus observed with his disciples. And then again in chapter 6, another Passover. And now in Chapter 13, the third Passover. This is the greatest evidence that we have that Jesus' ministry lasted for about three years. There are some scholars who think there was another Passover in there and that his ministry was more like three and a half or four years, but most scholars think there were just three Passovers. And his ministry lasted for about three years. But this Passover was different than all the Passovers that had come before. Because all of the previous Passovers that had been observed by the Jewish people for hundreds and hundreds of years all pointed to this Passover. When Jesus would be the Lamb of God who would take away the sin of the world. Notice how John further qualifies this Passover. He says, when Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father. It's this Passover where Jesus will die. Jesus was not ignorant of his approaching death. John makes this point very clearly in his gospel. Throughout the Gospel of John, we read of his hour That his hour had not yet come, and then now that his hour has come. This is a reference not to a specific 60-minute period of time, but for the period of time of his death If you know anything about John, you know he likes the number seven. And so we have seven signs and we have seven sayings. And here we have seven times he makes a reference to his hour. In chapter 2 and verse 4, Jesus says to his mother, My hour has not yet come. And in chapter 7 and verse 30, it says they were seeking to arrest him, but no one laid a hand on him because his hour had not yet come. And in chapter 8 and verse 20, we read that no one arrested him because his hour had not yet come. And then in chapter 12 and verse 23, just earlier in this week, We read, the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. And then a few verses later, Jesus says, Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say, Father, save me from this hour? But for this purpose I have come to this hour. And now in chapter 13, verse 1. This is the hour that he will depart out of the world. And finally, in chapter 17, in this great prayer, we read, he prays, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your son that the Son may glorify you. This is the beginning. This night is the beginning. of what the Gospel of John has been driving towards and focusing on throughout its these chapters Later this night, Jesus will be arrested. And then he will face six trials throughout that evening. And then in the morning he would be condemned to die, and he would be beaten with 39 stripes, and he would be led to Calvary, where he would be nailed to a cross. And there he would experience the crushing weight of guilt and shame that he would bear for sinners. And he would face three hours of darkness as his father turned his face away from his beloved son. The point I'm trying to establish is that although Jesus knew that he would soon face the most agonizing death that any human being has ever experienced, His concern here is not for himself, but for his disciples. That's a beautiful thing. He wants them to know that he loves them. And that he will not fail them. This is how Jesus demonstrated his love. Secondly, I want you to notice that Jesus' love is specially demonstrated. To his own people. It says in verse one, having loved his own There's a lot in those four words. Here that we see that Jesus loves his own people with a special and unique way. Perhaps you would object and say. What about John 3. 16? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. One of the most famous verses, if not the most famous verse. That of course is true. God does show his love to every human being. He has given them all the gift of life. He makes his son to rise. on the evil and the good, and he sends rain on the just and the unjust. Have you ever noticed that when it rains, the rain does not stop at your property line? It extends to your unbelieving neighbor. Your unsaved neighbor enjoys a multitude of blessings from God, even though They may be unaware of it and not give him praise or thanks. Theologians call this common grace. Simply put, God is good to all. But that's not all that the Bible teaches. He also has a special love for his people. for his children. And this should not be incredibly difficult for us to understand because we all show special love to our own children, right? You provide for them, you discipline them, you pray for them in ways that you do not do for other children They're special. They're your children. And you share your hearts with them And you tell them things. And you teach them things. And you invest time in them in ways that you do not do other children. Because they're your children. The Lord is going to reveal this truth. Especially in his great high priestly prayer that ends this time in the upper room. And chapter 17 in verse 6, he says this, I have manifested Your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Jesus here praying to his father. says this about his disciples. And then in verse 9, he says these words, I am praying for them, I am not praying for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. Jesus does not intercede for those who are lost. He intercedes for his own people. Jesus has a special love, and we see that evident here in the way Jesus gathers his own in the upper room and he opens his heart to them. And he teaches them profound truth. And he shows them his love. Thirdly, Jesus' love for his own does not mean that he exempts them from difficulty I'm going to take a little time to get to that, but I want to demonstrate that this point is in our text. I find this in that little phrase, who were in the world. John describes the Lord's disciples that night as those who were in the world, writing many decades later He says that they were in the world. The Greek word for world here is the word cosmos. You've probably heard that word before. We have forms of it in English words like cosmopolitan or cosmetics. and many other. John likes this word, and he uses it far more than any other writer in the New Testament. In fact, he has this term 78 times in the Gospel of John For instance, if you were to add off the number of times this is found in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, the other three Gospels, the total of those three books combined is 14. But he has it 78 times in this gospel. But what is important to understand is that he uses this word in different senses. This is true in every language in the world where we use words. The same word, but it has a different connotation or meaning in a different context. For instance, we read in John 3. 16, for God so loved the world. But then John writes in 1 John 2. 15, do not love the world or the things that are in the world. Wait a minute, is this a contradiction? God loves the world, and then we're told that we're not supposed to love the world? How can that be? He's using the word world in a different sense there. This word world can refer to planet Earth. It can refer to the human race that is all of humanity And it can also be used of human beings, the world system that is in rebellion against God. This is something that John emphasizes in his writings, and especially in the Gospel of John. The world from the beginning of time has always been antagonistic against God and his plan and his rule. It has always been that way. In every culture and in every time period of humanity, the rulers of the world take counsel against the Lord. And again says anointed, as it says in Psalm chapter 2. We read in 1 John chapter 2, he succinctly summarizes the the world and its values in these memorable ways. He says, talks about all that is in the world, the desires of the flesh. the desires of the eyes and the pride of life. What is he talking about? He's talking about the fact that people in the world Fallen people naturally live for self. They're egocentric. They're narcissistic. Don't think of others. Think of yourself. Think of your own happiness. And people the world naturally live a sensual life. That is all that appeals to the senses, what I can touch, what I can taste, what I can see, what I can hear. And they seek to entertain themselves and comfort themselves and please themselves with their senses, as if they're nothing more than an animal. And then the pride of life. Notice the word pride there. It's talking that this term is used to describe the pride that comes from the possession of things. It's talking about status. It's talking about having the house and the car and the clothes that when people see you, they say, that's an important person. That's a person that is successful. That is a person who has done very, very well in life. We know about this very well in the United States of America. This is what we call materialism. Living as if all that there is is things. And we're in this mad race to accumulate as much as we can. I'm getting ready, my family and I, to move a little closer to the church. And we've lived in our house there in Damascus for 24 years. And it's amazing how much stuff you collect over 24 years. And so for the last few weeks, every single day I'm going through and I'm taking stuff. And I'm putting it in a pile that I take to the dump. We accumulate so much We have much bigger homes than our great-grandparents could have ever imagined. And we have two and three and four-car garages. And then we have our outbuildings and our sheds. And you know what? That still isn't enough for our stuff. We have to rent storage units. Right? It's a huge industry. They're building storage units everywhere. They can't keep up with demand. Because though we have much bigger homes and much bigger garages and much bigger sheds, than people have ever had in the history of the world. It's still not enough because we never have enough stuff. And we all know instinctively that it's foolishness, that you can't take it with you. That most of the stuff you'll never even use. But we still live that way. This is worldliness. This is the way fallen people instinctively think. This is why John says in 1 John 5. 19, the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. So John here in this preface to this whole incident in the upper room, he says that his disciples, that Jesus left them in this world, in this hostile world. And yet he's expressing here his love for them. We would think in our wisdom that if he really loved them, right, he would take them with him. He would take them to heaven immediately because this world is a horrible place in many respects. He's going to tell them some very serious things about the opposition of the world. The upper room discourse is not a pep rally where he tells them a bunch of platitudes and things to inspire them, but he doesn't really tell them the whole truth. No, he tells them, listen, there's going to be people who are going to think they're serving God when they kill you. That's what he says in chapter 16. Look with me at chapter 15, verses 18 through 20. If the world hates you, know that it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. And then we know this last verse of the discourse, chapter 16, verse 33. He says, I have said these things to you that in me you might have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart, I have overcome the world. Do you see how Jesus describes the world? We can look at more. He uses this term world 40 times in the Upper Room discourse He says it's going to be a place of hatred, of opposition, and persecution, and eventually death. And all of those disciples, Judas, of course, is about to be expelled. We'll see that later in this chapter. And John, who wrote this gospel, though he was tortured and exiled, did not die the death of a martyr. He died in the city of Ephesus. But all the other disciples would die for their faith. And yet Jesus here is expressing his love for them. We tend to think instinctively that if you love someone, you will remove all difficulty, all pain all stress from their life. This is how parents tend to parent in the West We even have a term for it. It's called helicopter parenting. We helicopter in and rescue them lest they ever have any difficulty or problems. I live on the street and there's a bus stop about 200 feet from my house. And I have to time it when I get out in the morning because if I don't, I'm stuck at that bus stop. And we live in a small little cul -de-sac And the kids, of course, cannot walk a hundred feet to the bus stop. You can't get out of the development in the morning because the entire entrance is crowded with cars of parents who drove their kids 100 or 200 feet down to the entrance. So that they're right there next to the bus stop. Didn't used to be that way Jesus does not parent his disciples this way. He promises them that in the world they would face tribulation, hardship, suffering. But his plan for them and his plan for us is not that we have an easy, comfortable, affluent life But that we would become more conformed to our Savior. We have to stop allowing the prosperity gospel and the spirit of the age to influence our thinking I run into so many Christians who are disappointed with God because of the suffering and the pain and the difficulty they have faced in life. Because they somehow assumed that when they came to Christ that He would make sure that none of that thing none of those things would happen to them. And it hasn't worked out that way. And so they feel that God has not been fair to them. He hasn't kept his promises to them. But he says here in his word, in the world you will have tribulation. It was right there all along. His plan is that through your suffering and your difficulties and your disappointments and you will have them in life. That you would come to trust in him more. And that in your suffering and in your pain, The sin, the self-love, the self-indulgence, that it would be burned out of your life so that you would trust in him more. The Christian life is not about self-indulgence, it's about self-denial. All of God 's children suffer And his beloved son was no exception. He died on the old record cross. But I want you to notice that Jesus ended, he ended this discourse with a note of triumph. He says, in the world you will have tribulation, but take heart. Don't be discouraged about that tribulation, because I have overcome the world. I have conquered the world. And so we don't live our lives in despondency because our Savior has conquered the world. But now we move on to the most significant display of our Savior's love for his disciples. And it's found in this very last phrase of verse 1, he loved them to the end. Notice the repetition of the word love. Having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. What does it mean that he loved them to the end? Well, this expression grammatically can be taken two different ways. It could mean that Jesus loved his disciples to the very end of his life, that is the duration of his love. And indeed, that's what we have a record of. Jesus is 24 hours away from his death, and he is loving his disciples here in the upper room. He's still demonstrating his love to them. And he's going to in just a moment wash their feet, which was a demonstration both of humility and love. And I want you to know that he demonstrated his love for them that night, even though they didn't deserve it. And Luke 22, we have a record of the upper room and uh the communion there. And we read something that we don't read in any of the other gospels, and that is that the disciples were having an argument about who was the greatest. And it had to do undoubtedly with the way they were seated around the table because they wanted to have the positions of honor closest to Jesus. And so they're like jockeying for position. They want status. They want power. Jesus in their minds is getting ready to come into his kingdom. establish his kingdom. It could be tomorrow that he's going to proclaim that he is king and I'm going to get in on the ground floor and I want to be his right hand man and I want to have all that power and adulation and fame. And so they're fighting there at the table, arguing about who is the greatest. I should have that place. And what has Jesus been teaching them for three years? The first shall be last, and the last shall be first. Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. He's taught them again and again about humility, about putting others first, about putting God first. And here at the very end, they still are failing in this fundamental way. And this would not be the end of the failures that night. They would go out into the Garden of Gethsemane, and Jesus would call on his disciples, his own, to pray for him. But what would they do? They would sleep. And then Peter would come to the Lord and say, I want you to know, I'm not so sure about these other disciples. They're probably going to fail you, but you know, whatever happens, I I'm going to be with you. I'm not going to deny you. I'll never leave you. And then of course, when the soldiers come, they flee into the night, the Bible says. The disciples supposed to do. They don't stand with him. It's every man for himself. And then bold, courageous Peter. When he's a suggestion is made by a little maiden girl, not Pilate Not some great interrogator, but a little maiden girl. He denies that he knows the Lord three times And you know what? Jesus knew all these things would happen. And he still expresses his love for them. He still shows them that he loves them. What he's doing here in the upper room is he's comforting them. with his steadfast love. He promises them things like in my father's house are many rooms He reveals to them that he will not leave them as orphans. No, he will send another comforter, the Holy Spirit, to be with them and to comfort them. And he will pray for them in their midst. What a powerful thing that must have been to hear the Lord of glory praying that God would keep them. What a profound impact that must have had on them. And then, of course, the next day, Jesus would demonstrate his love for them by going to the cross. And dying for all their sins. The sins of that night, the sins of yet in the future, the sins of the past. in our sense. And he would say in the upper room discourse, greater loveth no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. But this expression, he loved them to the end, could also refer to the manner of his love, to be grammatical adverbially. Could be he loved them completely or fully or perfectly. And so which understanding of the word end is correct? Well, you know what? John likes to use words with more than one ending, with more than one meaning to refer to both things. Remember he did that with this word born again that can also be translated. born from above, and he used it with the term he will be high and lifted up, referring to the cross, but also referring to his exaltation after the cross. And here he's doing again when it says he loved them to the end. He cleverly uses this term to express the fact that Christ loved them up to the very end, up to this very last breath and beyond. He loved them perfectly. completely and fully. This Greek word that's translated end can have the idea of the end of ends, which ironically is another way of saying forever. Nothing can separate the love of Christ from his people. I want to make quick application here. Just two things. Number one, Christian disciples should have absolute confidence that Christ loves them with an everlasting love. This is what Jesus wanted his disciples to know that night. And this is what you and I need to know. So often we think this way. We think that Jesus loves me or God loves me based on my performance, on how I'm doing today. And so if I'm having a good day and I had my devotions and I had a good time of prayer and I didn't get frustrated on the road when I was driving to work. Then he loves me and he's smiling on me. But on the other hand, if I'm having a bad day then it means he really doesn't love me. Let me remind you that Jesus expressed his love for his disciples. Even though they were failing miserably. They were filled with pride and self-confidence and a desire for greatness and power, and yet he still shows them that he loves them. It is true that our sin hinders our fellowship with God. We don't feel close to Him. But it has not changed the objective reality of our relationship with him. Just like your child might disappoint you. And might frustrate you and even anger you with their behavior, but their status as your child does not change They're still yours. It's the same with us Because not even our sin can separate us from the love of Christ. Because God shows his love for us and that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. This is a truth and a foundation that's essential for believers to have in their life. That Christ's love for me is unending. No matter what happens, no matter how much of my life crumbles , what unexpected disasters come into my life. And things that I thought would never change will change. This one thing, this foundation will not change. That Christ loves me with an everlasting love. And then this finally, everyone should be able to answer the question, am I a child of God? The question in answering that, to help you answer that, is found at the very beginning of this book in the preface. In John chapter 1, verses 11 through 13, listen to this. It says, He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. who were not born of blood, nor of the will of flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God's You must receive and believe to be saved. So have you been born again? John in this first epistle gives all these different tests that we can look at our lives to see if indeed we have been born again. And something else that I think is very important that's found many places in Scripture, and that is, let me ask you, do you love the Lord Jesus Christ? Because the Bible teaches that every Christian does. Every Christian loves the Lord Jesus Christ. In 1 John 4. 19, it says that we love him because he first loved us. This is the evidence we have in our life that he first loved us because we love him. Oh, we fail him so often, but we still love him. We love to sing his phrases. We love to worship him. We love to be with people who also love the Lord Jesus Christ. We love to exalt his name. We find nothing more satisfying than to hear about our great Savior. This is true of all Christians. So if you're here this morning and you don't have a love for Christ , These hymns that we sing about Jesus strike you as strange and odd, and there's nothing in your heart That agrees with those things, my friend. You are lost. You have never truly been born again, because all of those who have been born again love the Lord Jesus Christ because we know that he's first loved us and he loves us even though we are not worthy of his love. And so I invite you to come and seek him today. If indeed you don't love the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's close in prayer this morning. Father, we thank you for this great truth. Thank you for our Savior. Thank you that He loves us with an everlasting love. I pray that you would help us, Father, to be faithful and following Him all of our days. And to be his witnesses, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.