As you open your Bibles to Matthew chapter 26. Matthew chapter 26 One of the classic books written on the death of Christ is entitled The Suffering Savior. This volume was written in the 19th century by the renowned German preacher Friedrich Krumacher. He was one of the few evangelical scholars in Germany during an age of skepticism. This book, Krumacher, traces the final 24 hours of Jesus' life until his death on the cross. These messages are filled with profound scholarly insight, but communicated in a warm devotional flavor. Tonight I'd like to begin a new series of messages that borrows Krumacher's title, The Suffering Savior. Like us to consider the most significant day in human history. The day our Lord was tried and crucified. I'd like to begin our study as Jesus and his disciples leave the upper room and arrive in their favorite retreat, the Garden of Desire. The last time I spoke before the Lord's table, we spoke of the Last Supper. After that supper was ended and the Lord gave his farewell discourse, also known as the Upper Room Discourse The disciples and Jesus walk to the Garden of Gethsemane. I'd like to begin reading in Matthew chapter 26 at verse 30. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives. And I'll stop reading there right now. This would have been not hymns from a hymn book, but hymns from the book of Psalms. We know that they would have sung from a section of the Psalms. known as the Halail, Psalms 113 through 118 This word means praise. These songs were traditionally sung at the Passover. And perhaps That final psalm would have been Psalm 118. This would have been sung antiphonally, with Jesus, the leader of the twelve, singing a line. And then the disciples repeating it. Many of the phrases in the psalm must have prepared the Lord for the events that were about to occur. His suffering that would begin in just a few hours. In fact, some of the things written in the psalm would be fulfilled. in a very short time. Just imagine how the disciples in the upper room with his disciples singing the song of benediction from their Passover meal and how these words must have strengthened our Lord. Words like, I called upon the Lord in distress. The Lord answered me. And set me in a large place. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear. What can man do unto me? Or the stone which the builder refused Is become the headstone of the corner. This is the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. Or this is the day which the Lord hath made, we will rejoice And be glad in it, a reference to the resurrection. And then bind the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar. As Jesus walks with his disciples into the Garden of Gethsemane, he makes three predictions that would be fulfilled in the near future. He first of all predicts that all of his disciples would be offended this very night. Look with me at verse 31. Then Jesus said unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night, for it is written, I will smite the shepherd. And the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad. This was both a warning and a prophecy. The term offended doesn't mean that they were emotionally insulted or upset, but it speaks of a spiritual stumbling, something that you trip over The Lord predicts that they will not respond properly to what is about to occur. And then the Lord quotes from Zechariah 13, verse 7, as a prophecy that is about to fulfill in just a matter of hours. But even in this shocking disclosure, there's comfort for the disciples. You see, the disciples would be able to reflect back on what he said that night and realize That this was not some unforeseen disaster, but the plan of God prophesied centuries before. Indeed, the disciples would be scattered when Jesus was arrested. And then Jesus predicts his resurrection. Look with me at verse 32. But after I am risen again, I will go before you into Galilee. The Lord is quick to remind his disciples that his death would not be the end. His death would be followed by resurrection. It's interesting to know that the Lord rarely spoke of his death without mentioning his resurrection. He mentions that he would meet them in Galilee, which must have been a comforting thing because most of his disciples were Galilean. This would have brought them a sense of familiarity and comfort about the unknown future, at least from their perspective. Now look with me at verse 33. Peter answered and said unto him that is Jesus, Though all men shall be offended or stumble because of thee, yet will I never be Offended. The Lord predicts that Peter would abandon his Lord. In fact, he predicts the this of all the disciples. Peter's pride is clearly revealed because he's insulted by this prediction. And we see his arrogance on full display because he says, you know, I can't vouch for the rest of these guys. But I'm here to tell you that I am not going to flee into the nights. I am not going to stumble no matter what comes. And then the Lord brings his third prediction in verse 34. Jesus answers and said, Verily I say unto thee that this night before the cock crow thou shalt deny me thrice There's a sense in which the Lord is doubling down here. Yes, you will not only flee from me, but unlike the other disciples, you will deny that you know me. This was the second time in this evening that Jesus gave this warning to Peter in the upper room, according to John 13, verses 37 and 38. Jesus for the first time warns Peter that this night he's going to deny him. But Peter is filled with pride and a sense of self-sufficiency, and he's ignorant. of how weak he truly is. And so Peter pushes back again, verse thirty five. Peter said unto him, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples, it's very easy for us to be amused by Peter and to laugh at his blunders. But it's important to remember that usually when Peter was speaking and saying outrageous things, he was also speaking what the other disciples were thinking. And that was true here. They're all saying, oh Lord, we're fully committed. We're not going to, I mean, if it comes down to losing our life or following you, we're going to follow you. They are ignorance of their own weakness, and Peter is of course the leader of the twelve, and he is the most conspicuous example of this arrogant ignorance. But now, after the hymn has been sung and these prophecies have been given, Jesus faces the greatest crisis of his life. Because his hour has now come. And verse 36. We come to the disciples who are walking and talking along the way with Jesus. It says in verse 36, then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane. And he said unto the disciples, Sit ye here while I go and pray yonder. And what is going to transpire in the next ten verses? As we see our Lord in agony, as the reality of what is about to transpire comes home to him We often struggle, I think, to understand exactly what is taking place because we have difficulty balancing the truth that he is a human being and he's the Son of God. But what we see here is that the Lord is going to show profound sorrow. during this evening before his arrest, and then the trials that will follow throughout the night. Gethsemane means oil press. Olive oil had for centuries been produced here. from the abundant olive trees in the area. This grove provided the sacred place where Christ would be pressed in spirit like no other The Bible actually records more about the suffering of Christ in the Garden of Gethsemane. than it does about his suffering at the cross. Often in movies and books and even in sermons, preachers will elaborate and go into great explanations in detail to talk about the physical suffering of Christ at the cross. But that's something the gospel writers do not do. But what they do talk about is this great internal emotional struggle that took place the night before his crucifixion In the Garden of Gethsemane. I suspect that Jesus was the most joyful human being who ever lived. The Bible says in John chapter 3 that he was continually filled with the Spirit, and one of the fruits of the Spirit is joy. This would explain why little children instinctively came up to him. They love to come to people who are joyful and positive. And that's the way Jesus was. But here in this incident, we're going to read of his profound sorrow. And I want us briefly tonight to consider what that means. I want to preach to you on Jesus' sorrow in the Garden of Gethsemane. And to begin with tonight, I don't want us to look so much at the verses here in Matthew 26, but at two prophecies that Jesus would experience profound sorrow. at some time in his life. So would you turn with me now to that very famous chapter in the Old Testament, Isaiah chapter 53. Isaiah 53 is the most famous prophecy of the cross that is found in the Old Testament. There are five stanzas of three verses each. It actually begins at the end of chapter 52 and includes all of chapter 53. The prophecy that we are examining tonight is found in the second of these stanzas that begins in Isaiah 53 and verse 1. It says, who hath believed our report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant. And as a root out of a dry ground, he hath no form nor comeliness. And when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. If I had to summarize the stanza in one word, it would be the word reject it. Look especially at verse 3. You'll notice that the key word In this verse, verse 3 is the word despised. It's found at the beginning of the verse and at the end of the verse. The word despise has the idea of not valuing something. It's the word used to describe Esau despising his birthright. He didn't really care about having the blessing of God. And we read that Goliath despised David. He disdained him, it says, for he was but a youth. I bring up these examples to make a point. The world did not value the Lord Jesus Christ. Those crowds that filed by the cross that day at Calvary. Did not understand what was taking place there. They did not esteem him. Instead, they despised him What do people do when they're not quite sure what to make of the situation? Well, they tend to want to hear from the experts, from the leaders of the community. And the religious and civil authorities all join in rejecting the Son of God. John describes the rejection of the Jewish people this way. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. This rejection is certainly one of the reasons he's described as a man of sorrows. But now I want us to turn to another passage that is Very likely a prophecy of Christ's sorrow at the cross. Turn with me if you can find the book of Lamentations, which is kind of like an appendix on the book of Jeremiah. Book of Lamentations, chapter one, and verse twelve The prophet Jeremiah is lamenting, is grieving over the destruction of Jerusalem. And in his descriptions He is giving prophecy to the sorrow of the Son of God. Look with me at Lamentations chapter 1 and verse 12. He says, Is it nothing to you? All ye that pass by, behold and see. If there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow, which is done unto me, wherewith the Lord hath afflicted me in the day of his fierce anger. It's interesting to note that Jeremiah was known as the weeping prophet, and so it is appropriate that he would make this description. of our Savior. Some of you may recognize that this text is part of Handel's Messiah. Many scholars believe it's the prophecy of the cross. Some do not, because this is not specifically mentioned in the New Testament. But it certainly seems to fit, and Bible scholars have for many centuries thought it was a depiction of the cross. First of all, notice It seems to depict that the people who passed by the cross didn't really understand what was going on. It says, Is it nothing to you, all ye that pass by? The Roman authorities made certain That Jesus was crucified at a place where there would be much foot traffic, at a very public place with people coming and going into Jerusalem on the Passover, the busiest day of the year. that many thousands of people would witness his agony and his suffering. That was not an accident. It was intentional. And we read in the Gospels that many of the people hurled insults at Jesus. Why would they do such a thing? Well, it was part Of the way you responded to someone who was being crucified. It was like they were public enemy number one, and sort of the patriotic thing to do was to hurl insults, to add to their agony, because this person is a rebel, an outlaw who is a danger to the community. And so people mocked Jesus as they passed by, not understanding what was occurring. Secondly, we read here in Lamentations that Christ's sorrow was the greatest that any human being could possibly experience. It says, if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow. Now perhaps originally they were the words of Jeremiah, but Jeremiah did not experience the word. Experience the greatest sorrow in the history of humanity. I believe that that was reserved for the Lord Jesus Christ. And then we read that Christ experienced the fury of God's wrath unlike anyone else. It says, Wherewith the Lord hath afflicted me in the day of his fierce anger. And so we have two prophecies, one in Isaiah, another in Lamentations, that predicts the sorrow that Christ would experience in the events surrounding the cross. But now I want us to consider the extent of Christ's sorrow, and that is the description of his sorrow at Gethsemane. So please turn back with me now to Matthew chapter 26, please. Matthew chapter 26. There are seven descriptions of the Lord's suffering of the garden that are found in the New Testament. And I'm going to be using we're not going to be turning there, but I'm going to be quoting and mentioning and referring Two different descriptions found in Mark's Gospel and Luke's Gospel here in Matthew, and also one reference from Hebrews 5. It says in Mark chapter 14, verses 32 and 33, it mentions that he began to be sore amazed. In other words, this was the beginning of a new phase in our Lord's ministry. Christ in the upper room was a picture of composure. Do you remember how he began his address in the upper room? He said to his fearful disciples, let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. He would go on to say a few moments later, peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. And here they were, they've heard this news that one of them is going to Deny the Savior, the other 's going to betray him. He's saying that he's going away. They are very fearful. They sense that something momentous is about to occur. They don't know what it is. But in the midst of this, they have this rock, they have the Lord Jesus Christ who is a picture of peace. But now, just a short time later, when they come to the garden. The great weight of what is about to occur comes crushing down upon him And he began to be sore amazed. The idea of this expression is that of a shocking surprise, sort of like when someone tells you the news That a loved one has just unexpectedly died, and that person's color drains from their face, and sometimes they will pass out. Because the news is so shocking to them. That's the idea of what is being conveyed here. The second description from that passage in Mark is, and very heavy. These words describe a person who is confused, shocked, and stunned. It also reflects a certain restlessness and turmoil of soul The third expression is found in Luke 22 and verse 44. It says, and being in agony. This word agony is really a loan word from Greek because the Greek term there is agona. It was a word used in athletic competitions when athletes would expend a great amount of energy And they would be so disciplined and so intense about winning their prize that there would be suffering that was involved. And this is a reflection of the fact that there was a mighty contest that was taking place this very night. And Jesus would come out victorious. Adam failed in the Garden of Eden. But Jesus the second Adam would be victorious in the Garden of Gethsemane. And then we read that he sweet, as it were, great drops. We will never know for sure, but there's a debate among scholars about what this is conveying There's some that think, and it might very well be true, that he was under such intense pressure and stress and suffering. That blood vessels were bursting in his skin and as he sweat, it was mixed with blood. That is possible But you'll notice the expression as it's rendered here and in other versions as well, he swept as it were great drops of blood, which could be a reference to the fact that he was Perspiring to such a large degree that it looked like there was a wound because there was so much fluid that was flowing off of his brow. We don't know for sure, but what we do know is it describes the incredible strain that he was under. You might recall that later this night during the trials We read of them standing around a fire and lighting a fire because the Bible says it was a cold night. But here Jesus is sweating profusely, not because it's a warm evening, but because of the incredible pressure that he is under. And then we read in Hebrews 5. 7 that he cried out to his father with strong crying and tears. This reveals the intensity of his sorrow that night. He was crying out like a desperate child to his father, asking for help. And now I want to read this description found in Matthew 26 and verse 36 and 37. Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane, and saith unto his disciples, Sit ye here while I go and pray yonder. And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. Again, we see, as in an earlier gospel, Matthew revealing that this was the beginning of a new phase. It was like a darkness had come down upon him, and his normal expression of peace and joy and composure vanishes. All the sorrows that he had ever felt combined were nothing like the dark weight that fell on him this hour. And that brings us to really the ultimate expression of his heart in verse 38. Then saith he unto them that is his disciples. My soul is exceeding sorrowful even unto death. Tarry ye here and watch with me. It is as if the Lord could not keep these thoughts bottled up inside. And so he tells the inner circle of disciples. We all know people, especially children, who when they are sick or feeling poorly, they exaggerate. And they think they're going to die every time they have a serious illness. Jesus was not like this. He was not being childlike. He was not being, he was not exaggerating. He was not reflecting some cowardice of character within him. He's respect he is reflecting the truth. His sorrow was so profound He could have died, but the Lord, we know, sent an angel in Luke's gospel we read of this to strengthen him That is why Bible scholars are not being extreme when they say he experienced the greatest sorrow that any human being has ever faced. There truly was no sorrow like unto his sorrow. And what wonderful consolation we find in this You see, often when we think of great people, people who seem to live a charmed life, who seem to be elite, we think that they could never identify with the struggles of the common man. With the problems that normal people face. And perhaps you have thought at times that Jesus could never sympathize with your sorrow. And your overwhelming sense of weight and darkness and turmoil of soul, that Jesus would never know what that is like. But here we read in the gospel record that that is not so. That because the Son of God became As it were, the Son of Man, because he took on him human flesh, and because he faced the sorrow in the guard of Gethsemane, he is able to sympathize with us. He is able to understand us in our hour of crisis. He is able to be our sympathetic high priest who intercedes for us Because he experienced that turmoil of soul that we often face in life. Some preachers of the past have said that every Christian at some time in their spiritual journey Will face a Gethsemane. And that that believer can find great assurance in knowing that their Savior has walked before them through that dark valley. What a wonderful, reassuring truth this is. But now I want to conclude briefly with this idea. Why was he so sorrowful? Why was he the preeminent man of sorrows in the Garden of Gethsemane? Let me first of all say what it was not. He was not sorrowful, I think, for his impending death. If his sorrow were just his response to the fact that he would die soon, then he had less fortitude than many lost people who have died with composure. Whatever Jesus was, the gospel records reveal clearly he was not a coward. He was the most courageous man. Whoever lived, he faced the most brutal form of death with courage. And after he left this struggle in the garden He goes forth to meet those who would arrest him with confidence and with boldness, even to face his betrayer and his judges that night. So his sorrow was not due to his impending death. I think, first of all He was anticipating, bearing the guilt of sinners. He knew this day would come. But he didn't know what it was to experience guilt. Now all of us here know what it is to feel guilty. We have had experiences like that since the time we were a little child when we did something we knew that we were not supposed to do and that was there was this internal judge in us that said, that is wrong, and we felt guilty about it. And it's something that we experience if we're honest on a regular basis throughout our lives. But Jesus Had never experienced one shred of guilt in his heart. Because he always did those things that pleased his father. He was the sinless Son of God. But now he would become the Lamb of God who would bear the sin of the world. He who knew no sin would become sin for us. He would drink the cup that was full of the wrath of God. And I think that part of that cop was this experiential sense of guilt, though he himself was not guilty. I think that's part of what was so repulsive to him to consider of what would happen in just a few hours. But thirdly, I think his sorrow was due to the thought that he would soon be abandoned by his father In the darkness of Calvary. He had never been separated from his father. We cannot begin to wrap our minds around this, but from eternity past. He had always had sweet communion with his Heavenly Father. Unbroken fellowship. For eons and eons and eons of time. But now that close, intimate fellowship was about to be broken. And the Father would turn his back on his beloved Son as he bore his wrath for sinful people like us. This was the reality that caused him profound sorrow. on this night. That re raises this question: why did Jesus endure such suffering and sorrow? Do you know the answer? There are several biblical answers, but one of those answers is so that we might be safe. He became the man of sorrows, that we might be the children of joy. He was abandoned by his Heavenly Father that we might be able to claim as a promise, He will never leave us nor forsake us. Man of sorrow, what a name. For the Son of God who came, ruined sinners to reclaim. Hallelujah. What a savior. Let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for what it reveals of our great Savior. And of the price he paid for our salvation, I pray that we would glory in this tonight. And Father, that you would bring joy to our hearts. In all that our Saviour has accomplished for us. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen